Afternoon
03 04 1927

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

Here is a printed card of radio instructions which reads, The speaker is to speak in a conversational tone. He must not shout, he must not get too far away from this little microphone — "Little Mike," as they call it — and he must not strike the pulpit because this fellow objects to being jarred. 

The thought occurred to me that probably in a short time instructions will be given advising the speaker not to speak too loud because the natives of Australia or the natives of Africa, listening in, haven't the same kind of ear-drums as ours, and you may hurt them. 

Such may be the developments of science. 

THE SAINTS BETTER UNDERSTOOD 

I have been interested in the proceedings of this conference. I am delighted to see this magnificent audience, notwithstanding the rain storm. It takes more than xain to keep the Latter-day Saints from a conference. We have heard of those who criticize this work, and we have seen all through our lives the opposition that has been manifested to it. This opposition, however, is being overcome by the gradual growth and spread of intelligence and knowledge regarding us, so that we are becoming better understdod and appreciated. 

PERSISTENCE OF THE CHURCH 

From the very beginning the world has been at a loss to account for "Mormonism." Only the other day we had in the President's office a distinguished visitor.  He said he had been at our tabernacle, enjoyed our services, noted the class of people; and what he had heard and seen, including his observation of the developments that were being made here by the Church, and the people of the Church, had impressed upon his mind the thought that there was something more to this than he had ever imagined. 

In the days of the prophet, when he was laying the foundations of this great work, he had few friends indeed. On every hand he met ridicule, contumely, hatred, persecution, mobbing, tar and feathers. All through his life such was his portion and you can easily understand how painful it was to endure it. Surely he did not get much out of it in a worldly way, and yet he stood firm, and accomplished the work which the Lord gave him to do. It was said in his day : "This man Joseph Smith is something of a marvel. He is a leader. He carries people with him, but when he dies, that will be the end of 'Mormonism.' " Well, he was martyred with his brother; the Saints were driven, and a new leader — Brigham Young — took hold of the reins. 

I recall very well, as a boy in Brigham City, working in the hotel, when, noted travelers stayed there — railroad builders — such men as Stanford, Huntington and others of that class. I heard them discussing this very point. I was only 19 years of age, but I kept my ears open. They marveled at the wonderful capacity of Brigham Young as a leader, but they concluded — and that rather surprised me — they concluded that when Brigham Young should die, that would be the end of the whole thing; it would all go to pieces. 

Well, it will be 50 years this very year since Brigham Young died. We have had five presidents since that time. President Grant being the fifth, and still this thing called "Mormonism" persists. Not only so, but it is greater today than it ever was. It is more powerful, has more influence. It is richer, it is stronger in faith, and more potent in every way for good, for righteousness, than ever before since the day that the prophet had the first great manifestation from heaven. 

THE POWER THAT LEADS AND GUIDES 

What power is it that brings you here? I never saw a congregation like this anywhere else in the world. Religious congregations which I have attended elsewhere are very largely composed of ladies, not men. Our good sisters more naturally take to spiritual longings and spiritual life than men do. In religious circles everywhere else the ladies predominate. But look at this congregation. Here you see strong, virile, hard-headed, forward-looking, determined men. They know what they are about. They are cultured, they are well read. They have traveled as missionaries more than any other people have traveled. So that I say they are better informed, more cultured, and have had more advantages of education which comes from travel than any body of men that can be picked in any state or territory of all the United States. Hence they are not the kind of people who can be misled. They are not misinformed. On the contrary, they know what they are about. 

What power, then, what mysterious power is it that has led and guided them and that still leads and guides them and holds them together as they are held? Let me tell you what it is. I will read from the book of Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84 : 

"And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of Gcd. 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is. manifest. 

"And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto man in the flesh." 

That is what holds these people together — the power of the priesthood. And in the administration of it we have seen and do see the power of godliness; not a form of godliness, mind you, but the power of godliness. Paul said that in the latter days men would be "having a form of godliness but denying trfe power thereof;" but what I refer to is the power of godliness. Have you ever seen it manifested in your lives? We heard of it this morning from the leader of the Church as manifested in the healing of the sick. We see it in the temples of the Lord; we see it in the sick rooms; we see it manifested in presidencies cf stakes, bishoprics of wards. 

In all the leadership of the priesthood you see that same power of godliness. This is a little different from the overruling and general  of God that is over all nations and peoples. "He hath made of one blood all nations for to dwell on the face of the earth and fixed the bounds of their habitations." That is the overruling power of God in all nations. We can trace it readily in this nation from the days of Washington, and even before, down to the present day. The power of God is with this nation. But this power of the Priesthood, that the Lord defines in this scripture that I have read, is just a little different. It is the power of godliness, of godly lives. It is the power of godly men and godly women, through the ordinances of the Priesthood made manifest; and everyone shares in it. 

WE HAVE THE WORDS OF ETERNAL LIFE 

If I should ask you high priests, seventies, elders, priests, teachers and deacons, who hold the priesthood, to arise, it would be seen that practically every one here holds the Priesthood, which, as I have read to you, contains and holds and reveals the key of the knowledge of God. That is what the world lacks, that is what they haven't got. 

President Ivins told us this morning about those people who have passed resolutions against us, and who say there is going to be a great apostasy, there is little or no tithing paid, and all that. Why, I have heard that sort of stuff all my life. It is not worth listening to. They say "These 'Mormon' people will get rid of all that foolishness, and those visions and the Book of Mormon, and prophets, and they will come over to us." Come over to you! What in the name of common sense have you to offer? Husks — merely a form of godliness — no power in it; never was, never will be. It isn't there. We are sorry for you, brothers. We would be glad to help you. We have no ill will, no ill feelings; but when you talk of our leaving what we know we have, and going over to you — oh, please don't mention it. We can say as Peter said to the Savior, when many could not stand the strong doctrine that the Savior laid down. I will quote : 

"From that time many of his disciples went hack, and walked no more with him. 

"Then said Jesus unto the Twelve, Will ye also go away? 

"Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. 

"And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God." 

That is what we have here — "the words of eternal life," the power of godliness made manifest to men in the flesh. Do you see that power of godliness made manifest anywhere else in the world? Look around you and see if you can find it. I haven't seen it elsewhere, but I do know it is here. I see it here every day of my life. I have seen this power made manifest in the mission field very often. 

THE MISSIONARY AND HIS FLOCK 

Only the other day I received a letter from a young missionary in a foreign country, and he told me he had often heard the elders who returned from missions say that about the hardest part of their mission was to leave their field of labor. He said : "I never believed them, but last night we held a meeting at which Elder So and So was presiding, and now I know it is true." 

This elder had been released to return home. He had built up a little branch of some twenty members in the two or three years that he had been there. They were his flock. They had partaken of his spirit. He had brought them from darkness into light. For, let me tell you, darkness covers the earth today, spiritual darkness, in the absence of the knowledge of God. People do not know it, but darkness covers the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people. This is a light shining in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not. They do not know it, but it is here just as truly as the Savior said it would be. And so this young man, when bidding adieu to his little flock, told them how he had been called on that mission; how keenly his parents had felt to see him leave home, because of the tenderness and love in their hearts for him : how it had taken of his means very considerably to go there and stay two years and more; and what joy he had had, notwithstanding all the sacrifices, in bringing that little flock into the fold. 

They had partaken of the Priesthood and the key of the knowledge of God, and now he was to leave them. They had in their hearts boundless gratitude towards him. They were in tears;he was in tears with them. That was the spirit of sacrifice and the spirit of godliness, the power of godliness, made manifest before that people. I mention this to show that it exists in the mission field and here at home, where we work for it, just as strongly as it ever did in the history of the Church. 

THE PRIESTHOOD THE POWER THAT LEADS 

Let me read just another portion of this same revelation. By the way, this revelation was given in 1832, when some of the first elders had returned from short missions and were telling of this very kind of experience to the prophet, and he inquired of the Lord and received this revelation: 

"For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling (don't forget that, brethren) are sanctified by the spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. 

"T he y become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of \braham and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God. 

''And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord  ror he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my father; ' 

I "^ww 6 tha l r t ceiv , eth u m l Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therelore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him. 

hood" And thiS acCOrding to the oath and covenan t which belongeth to the priest"Therefore all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved." 

That is the power that leads and governs this Church if the people want to know it. That is what brings you here; that is what holds you together. That is what impels us to go on missions and <Wve of  lives to the work. These people say, "We will call these 'Mormons' over and they will come to us." I think of the words of Hamlet in the play : "Could you this fair mountain leave to feed and batten on this moor?" I don't think so. They won't get many. 

THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD PARAMOUNT 

Now, my friends, just one word and I close. I am glad to know of the great work that is done by the Boy Scouts. Splendid! I hope it will be kept up. But I would like to say to you presidents of stakes and bishops — bishops especially, for they preside over the lesser priesthood: In all the fine work of the Boy Scouts, don't forget the deacons' quorums, nor the teachers, nor the priests. We approve of the good work that is done in other directions. "If there is anything lovely, of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." They are a part of our religion. But let it be understood now and forever in our hearts that the paramount thing is the power of the priesthood of the Son of God, the knowledge of God; for the Savior himself said : "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." 

A man is spiritually alive who has that knowledge. We have it and we can keep it if we will magnify our callings. Therefore, magnify the Priesthood, glorify the priesthood from the president of the Church down to the last deacon. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters, I have enjoyed greatly the proceedings of this conference; the valiant testimony of our President, and the splendid analysis of present-day conditions by President Ivins this morning, and the declaration of unshakable faith by President Nibley, this afternoon. I bear testimony to the truth of that which has been spoken. 

AN EVIDENCE OF THE GENUINENESS OF THE WORK 

It is an evidence of the genuineness of this work, that we can gather here in large numbers, from conference to conference, to hear taught the same, simple principles. They must be true, otherwise we would not be satisfied to come here, time and time again, to hear expounded the few, easily understood truths of the gospel. If a man eat good wholesome food regularly, his body is kept in good condition and he feels well; physical happiness is his. If he has access to truth, accepts it and practices it regularly, he becomes spiritually contented. So I feel that these great gatherings, continually growing in numbers and importance, form a mighty evidence of the correctness of the latter-day work, established through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Prophet. 

I am glad to know that obedience to the principles of the gospel is not beyond my reach. A few principles, relatively, constitute the gospel of Jesus Christ; they are given for the definite purpose of bringing happiness and joy to man in this life and in the life hereafter, it is possible for a man to obey all of them. The Lord has so ordained it that, in giving his spiritual laws, they are within the easy comprehension rind full power of all honest men and women. 

WE SHOULD PRACTICE ALL THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL 

I should like to impress upon the Latter-day Saints that we must, as a body of worshipers, receivers of the Latter-day truth, accept and practice as best we can all the principles of the gospel. I observe a tendency to make a selection of the principles of the gospel, and to say: "This one I like and shall practice; that one I am not so thoroughly converted to, and I shall not practice it." The object of the gospel, human happiness, may be won only if one practices completely the set of laws and principles which we call the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Let me draw a comparison from the physical world. The white light that comes from the sun is made up of many colors, varying from violet, through all the colors, to deep red. If we take all these colors and mix them carefully, pure white light appears, but if one color is missing, the resulting light is impure. Even so with the great spiritual spectrum; only when all the principles of the gospel are practiced with all our might, are we able to win for ourselves the spiritual contentment and happiness which should characterize the private and public lives of Latter-day Saints. 

OUR DUTY IN SERVING THE DEAD 

As I have said, the Lord has not given us more laws than we can understand and obey. We are told to care for ourselves, that we may increase in righteous stature; we are to render service to our fellowmen; and we are instructed to help open the gospel door for those who have passed into the other life without having accepted the gospel. I desire to say something about the commandment to devote a part of our strength and means to serving the dead who have not heard or accepted the gospel. The principle of salvation for the dead is one of the most effective in tempering human character, in making men unselfish, and in enabling them to walk in the paths laid out for mankind by the Savior. Moreover, the doctrine of salvation for the dead unifies all the other principles of the gospel. When we consider that this gospel principle implies that the Lord, in his mercy and love for his children, has made it possible for every soul who loves and will obey truth to receive salvation, we begin to glimpse the unspeakable love, and the fulness of the blessings that the Lord has for his children. All that we do within the Church, whether for ourselves or in preaching the gospel to the living, can be interpreted in terms of this great fundamental principle which holds together all the other principles of the gospel. "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." We have been told by the Prophet Joseph Smith that without our dead we cannot be saved; or, as he stated it "the salvation of our dead is essential to our salvation." We have believed this doctrine, we believe it today, and as a result we have become a  temple-building people, the only temple-building people in all the world, today. There are thoughtful men who declare that the great blessings that await this people may be, after all, an effect of our possession and use of sacred houses dedicated to the Lord in which holy ordinances for the living and the dead are consummated. 

OUR NEARNESS TO THE SPIRIT WORLD 

Ninety-one years ago today the ancient Prophet Elijah stood before Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland temple and delivered to this generation the keys of salvation for the dead. Since that event the spirit of that work has been poured out upon all nations and there has been developed a new feeling with respect to our ancestors. Men are beginning to look into the other world; and never before has the spirit world seemed so near to us as at the present time. It seems as if President Nibley's suggestion may be carried even further than perhaps he intended — that we shall soon be able, even by mechanical means, to come so near to the veil that separates the living and the dead as to be absolutely certain, through the use of every human sense, that the vast spirit world lies about us. I speak into this microphone and by some mysterious process my words are spread throughout space, through an unknown world, which yet is known — a world that I cannot touch, and yet just as real as the world I know by touch and by every other sense. Two months ago, I picked up the newspaper of that day, and read on the front page that that forenoon a person in New York had called up London, and another in London had answered his New York friend over the radiophone and that others had conversed over the instrument, through space, during the whole of that day — perhaps the most eventful day of the period since our last conference. Such developments, discoveries and new powers won by man, bring us nearer to the unseen world in which I have no doubt the dead live, among other beings of whom we have only slight knowledge. The world no longer argues, as in the past, against life hereafter, because fact crowds upon fact, and the logic of men is convincing, that there must be life after this, and that that life is not greatly different from the life we have lived on this side, so far as the utilization of the laws of righteousness is concerned. 

THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE DRAWN TOWARD THE DEAD 

In yet another way has the spirit of the age been drawn toward the dead, for, since the memorable visit of the Prophet Elijah, men and women by the thousands have given themselves to the discovery of the genealogies of the world. Thousands of volumes have been published, dealing entirely with the records, names and salient, vital data pertaining to those who have lived upon the earth, giving us exactly the identification needed for our work in- the temples. I look upon this as one of the great gifts to our people, for, though we are one of a city and two of a family, we are nevertheless so many that we touch, practically, every family within the civilized parts of the world from which we have come. The necessary work in genealogy has been done for us, to a great extent. 

Brethren and sisters, assembled in this great conference, I believe the Lord requires of us that we all set our houses in order in this respect, that each man and woman, every family, set about to secure, just as completely as may be possible, a record of their dead, so that thereby the genealogies of the human family may be gathered and increased in number, and we may have ample material with which to labor in the temples of the Lord. Such work is not difficult to do. It may be done by any man or woman. The intricacies of arranging names in systematic genealogies may be done by those who are experts in such work, but every man and every woman in Zion may gather names, later to be fully arranged, and should give some little time to such work. With respect to gospel principles, perhaps none is more important in developing spiritual power and strength than that which pertains to the salvation for the dead. Whether we are near a temple or far away from it, we may be able to give some little time to the important work of gathering the names of our dead and arranging them for use in the temples. The Church maintains the Utah Genealogical Society, which upon request will give ample help in such genealogical endeavors. Likewise, to prevent duplication of temple work, even if we increase in numbers, the Church has provided and completed, since our last conference, a Temple Index, which permits every person who goes into a temple to assure himself that the person for whom he is workinghas not been served before. 

THE SPIRIT OF ELIJAH RESTING UPON THE PEOPLE 

Thus, within and beyond the Church, the spirit of Elijah is operating and is resting upon the people. I trust that this spirit may enter even more completely into the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, that they may continue to be a temple-building people, that we may use our temples more abundantly, that we may provide ways and means, by earnest effort, through which such work may be done. I feel assured in my own heart, from my own experience and the experience of my friends, that those who give themselves in wisdom and with propriety to this work will round out their spiritual experiences, enrich their lives, and find a new and abiding joy in all duties pertaining to life under the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

TESTIMONY 

I know that this afternoon is a precious one. Many should be heard here today, before this great congregation. I am happy to have had this privilege of bearing my testimony to you, and of speaking briefly upon an important gospel principle. I bear witness to the existence of God, the Father of our spirits; to the divinity of Jesus Christ, his Son; to the divine mission of ^Joseph Smith, and to the truth of the faith that brings joy and happiness to faithful members of the Church. I know this work is true. God bless us and establish us in the testimony of the truth, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.. Amen. 

Jessie Williams sang a solo, "The Voice in the Wilderness." (Isaiah 40.) 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and Former President of the Eastern States Mission .' 

My brethren and sisters, in view of the announcement made by President Heber J. Grant this morning, in regard to my being released from the Presidency of the Eastern States mission, I think it is quite likely that the parents, the brothers and sisters and friends of those who are now in the Eastern States on missions, would be glad to receive word from that mission as to the general welfare of their sons and daughters. I am happy to report to you that it is a general time of health with us, that all is well with your kindred and that the Spirit of the Lord is a common heritage, it seems to me, to all those who are now engaged in the work of the Lord in the Eastern States. 

I wish to express my gratitude unto the Lord and to the authorities of the Church that I have had the opportunity of laboring during the past five years in that mission. It has been a time of great joy and satisfaction to me to be conscious of the esteem and friendship of the five hundred young people with whom I have come in contact since I began my labors in the Eastern States. To receive the friendship and feel the supporting influence of their confidence has produced in me a joy unspeakable. While I acquiesce fully in the release that has come to me, and recognize the wisdom of it, you will have to forgive me if I confess also that I received the word with some degree of personal sadness. I feel honored in the selection of my successor, and I wired that word to the secretary of the mission last night, and congratulated the mission upon the appointment of Elder Henry H. Rolapp, and I pray for a continuation of the esprit de corps, may I call it, of the mission. I am very sure that the mission force will give to him all the loyalty and the support they have given to me, and that the work of the Lord without let or hindrance will continue to expand even as it has in the 

P ast - ^ , . . . 

The Eastern States, in my judgment, is one of the noblest missions 

in the world. Within its boundaries are thirty-three millions of people; and of the cities in the United States that have a population of four hundred thousand and over, of the fifteen such cities, eight are within the boundaries of the Eastern States! I am happy in the reflection that there has been continued growth ill the work, that each successive year in the five of my administration has been greater in its success than in the one that preceded it. During the time of my labors there has been an increase of four chapel buildings in the mission; that is, it will be four when the one under construction at the present time is completed. I was very happy before leaving New York to secure for the Manhattan or New York branch of our mission more adequate quarters, and more worthy of the chief branch of our mission. We secured quarters in the Carnegie building. We have now a beautiful hall with suitable classrooms in it to assemble the classes of our Sabbath school, and also obtained one of the smaller halls for mid-week services for the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association and the Relief Society, so that we will be more suitably located hereafter than in the immediate past, at least, in that important branch. 

We are expending in the mission about eight thousand dollars yearly in rental for halls. This has been an increase in this item from three thousand dollars yearly to eight thousand. We have been successful in obtaining better halls and more of them, but of course at considerable increase of expense. 

Among the outstanding features of our work in the Eastern States during my administration has been the holding of five mission schools. These schools have brought in about one-third of the whole mission force at a time to each school for intensified training during four solid weeks, and if I could take time to recite the curriculum of these schools you would agree with me that the training is both intensive and comprehensive. 

It has been my pleasure to write thirteen new tracts for the mission since the opening of my administration; and these have not only been used in the Eastern States mission, but other missions also have taken up some of them in their work, and altogether, year after year, the work has grown. I am extremely happy to be conscious of the fact that we quit service on a "rising market." 

There is one circumstance that I shall take the liberty of referring to a little in more detail. In New York City alone, that is, in greater New York, there are two millions of the House of Judah, and for the last several years I have been wondering how we could make an approach to those people, attract their attention, and have the material to present to them that would place in their hands the great message that God has for that branch of the House of Israel. In very many of the revelations to the Church, where the Lord sets forth this latter-day work, you will find this phraseology often employed when referring to the preaching of the gospel — "first unto the Gentiles, and then unto the Jews." That occurs quite a number of times in the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants; and, of course, being in the midst of so large a population of the Jews, one's thought would naturally go out to them with a desire to get some word of our message over to them. Well, during the past six months, it seems to me that the way has wonderfully opened up in that direction, in the city of Binghampton, Broome county, New York, a name that will be familiar to many of you who are acquainted with, the history of the Church, for it is territory in which the Prophet Joseph Smith operated during the translation of the Book of Mormon, and also in the early movements of the Church. It is only about twenty-three miles from this city that the Colesville branch was organized, which was the first community unit to begin the great work of the gathering together of our people to the west. . It was the Colesville branch that as a body, and by cooperative methods of mutual assistance, moved through the states of New York and Ohio, halting for a while in Kirtland, and then continuing  journey through Indiana and Illinois, and so on into Missouri, and to the western borders of that state, and made the first settlements in Jackson county, Missouri. Well, in Binghampton, near where this stream of western migration started, came our opening for an approach to the House of Judah. There is in that place a converted Jew, who is converted to Christianity, but not to our gospel, the true Christianity. He accepts Christ as the Messiah of the Jews, and he publishes a magazine entitled The Redeemed Hebrew. He received a paper from a Jewish Rabbi, in Canada, in which the Rabbi set forth his reasons for rejecting Jesus Christ as the Messiah, and concluded that it would be sin for him, and disloyalty to Jehovah for him to accept Jesus of Nazareth as the Messiah. The article was published and an invitation extended to Christian ministers to answer the Rabbi, an editorial note stating that the paper which should most completely answer the Rabbi would be published in the magazine. It may be a bit out of good taste for me to say it, perhaps, but the paper which I submitted to the magazine was accepted and published as a reply to the Rabbi. After the first article was published, I thought it needed a little amplification, and so I sent in a second article, and that, too, was published. Then it seemed to me that we had just reached the threshold of the subject, and there was just a fine opening made for proclaiming our message, God's message to the Jews, as we may gather it from the Book of Mormon; for, as pointed out by President Anthony W. Ivins this morning, the outstanding feature of our Book of Mormon scriptures is, that the book shall be a witness to the Gentiles and especially to Jews, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and the very Eternal God, manifesting himself to all nations. That is found, as you all know, on the title page of the Book of Mormon, which the Prophet Joseph Smith declared was not his composition. He found it engraven on the title page of the gold plates. 

When I sent this third article to the editor of The Redeemed Hebrew he informed me that it made thirteen pages of his magazine; and as he expected to devote the whole magazine to that paper, he said he could publish sixteen pages nearly at the same cost as thirteen, and would I supplement what I had written with something further. I did so. When that was published it made eighteen pages instead of sixteen; but he refused to select the part to be cut down, and I did not have the heart to sacrifice any part of it, so the eighteen pages were published. 

In the supplemental matter I sent to him, I used what I have before used as a theme, I think in this tabernacle; namely, "A Prophetic Page of the Book of Mormon." I am sorry that we do not have here one of the older editions of the Book of Mormon, because then I could conscientiously tell you that all the prophecies that I referred to were upon one page of the Book of Mormon, but in our more recent editions, in dividing the pages into two columns for each page, that particular group of prophecies are distributed over two pages. But it only makes sufficient matter for one page, and I think I may still say that it is a "prophetic page of the Book of Mormon." You will find it now in your current editions on page 101 and page 102; in the older editions it occupied page 122. Of course, I shall not have time to enter into a discussion of all these prophecies of this page— there are five of them; but suffice it to say that the first prophecy predicts, that many shall believe in the Book of Mormon; and, second, that they shall carry the words of that book unto the remnants of the land, meaning of course, the American Indians, descendants of the Nephites and the Lamanites of ancient times; and third, that the remnants of those ancient people shall know their origin, that they are descendants of Israel; the gospel shall be declared among them, that they shall believe it, the scales of darkness shall fall from their eyes, and before many generations pass away, they shall become a white and delightsome people. Then we come to the prophecies that are germane to what I want to tell you. It is declared on this prophetic page: 

"And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered also sJiall begin to believe in Christ." 

That is a subject that I have had under consideration during many years, and I have made a considerable collection of utterances from prominent Jewish Rabbis that indicate a marked change of mental attitude on the part of leading Jews towards Jesus of Nazareth. I think perhaps one of the most striking of these utterances, and one that indicates the whole shifting of thought on the part of Jews toward the Christ, was uttered March 25, 1901, by Rabbi Isador Singer, Doctor of Philosophy, in New York City. He said : 

"I regard Jesus of Nazareth as a Jew of the Jews, one whom all Jewish people are beginning to love. His teaching has been an immense service to all the world in bringing Israel's God to the knowledge of hundreds of millions of mankind. The great change in the Jewish thought concerning Jesus of Nazareth I cannot better illustrate than by this fact. When I was a boy had my father, who was a very pious man, heard the name of Jesus uttered from the pulpit of our synagogue, he and every other man in the congregation would have left the building, and the rabbi would have been dismissed at once. Now it is not a strange thing in many synagogues to hear sermons preached eulogistic of this Jesus, and nobody thinks of protesting. In fact, we are all glad to claim Jesus as one of our people." 

About a year ago Rabbi Wise of New York, in Carnegie Hall, the hall that is near to ours now in the Carnegie Building, before a record crowd in his lecture room declared that : 

"Jesus of Nazareth was a man, not a myth, as I had been taught in my earlier manhood Jesus was; that is, he existed," said the Rabbi. "I accept this despite the information I had been led to believe earlier in my life, a notion that Jesus was a myth, and never existed. I tell you, and I will repeat these words to every Jew in the world if need be: Jesus was, and we must accept this fact at once. Shall we not say that this Jew [Jesus] is soul of our soul, and that the soul of his teaching is Jewish, and nothing but Jewish? The teaching of Jesus, the Jew, is a phase of the spirit which has led the Jew Godward." 

I could continue to read to you many excerpts of this kind, more than twenty such excerpts are written in the third article of The Redeemed Hebrew, that I told you about. It merely tends to show that the Jew is "beginning to believe in Christ." He has not yet accepted  as the Son of God, as God manifested in the flesh, the Redeemer of the world, and the one who fulfills the Messianic prophecies of the Old Testament. There is nothing in this movement that indicates belief of Jesus in that way; but there is much that proclaims the fact that the Jews are "beginning" to admire, they are beginning to accept as a great religious teacher this Jesus of Nazareth; to respect him. Ultimately that respect will turn to love, and love will turn to acceptance of him as the Son of God. There will be some, at least, of the House of Judah who will begin to react toward this message, this proclamation, that our Book of Mormon makes as to the Deity of the Christ, "the Eternal God" manifested in the flesh. 

The second part of this prophecy is that not only shall "the Jews which are scattered begin to believe in Christ," but "they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land;" that is, begin to gather to their promised land, to Palestine. 

I remember that the British Consular reports of 1856, said that less than fifteen thousand Jews were in all Palestine. Twenty years later this number had increased to sixty-five thousand. Then came the Zionite movement, under the leadership of Dr. Herzal, supplemented later by the influence of Israel Zangwell, a Jewish writer of some note, and what is known as the "Zionite movement" received an impetus, and began to grow in the minds of the Jews until there began what we may now call the modern gathering together of the Jews in Palestine. The gathering is continuing. Millions of dollars have been subscribed by that people to establish their exiled brethren in the land of their fathers, and the ambition is to resume the national history of the Jewish people. That movement has grown until it has attained large proportions, and very wide interest in the world. This prophecy, then, is in course of fulfilment — "The Jews that are scattered are beginning to gather in upon the land of their forefathers, to the land of Palestine and to Jerusalem!" 

We may pause here to ask what is the motive power, what is behind all this movement — this change in the mental attitude of that people towards Christ; — this gathering together of the Jews in Palestine ? This is the explanation of it: In the Kirtland Temple, in 1835, Israel's great prophet, Moses, appeared to Joseph and Oliver Cowdery and delivered to them the keys of the gathering of Israel and the restoration of the Ten Tribes from the land of the North. In 1840, in pursuance of this work, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, an apostle of this new dispensation, a Jew, by the way, was appointed by the Prophet Joseph to a special mission to the Holy Land, to Palestine, to dedicate that land for the gathering of the Jews to Jerusalem, and to bless the Jews with a disposition to return to their land and to their city. The mission of Orson Hyde is well known to the Latter-day Saints; how, under very great difficulties, trials and hardships, he made his way to Jerusalem, went to the summit of the Mount of Olives, and there wrote out a prayer that God put into his heart, dedicating the land of Palestine for the return of the Jews, and for the renewal of their national existence. That prayer — and it is a most wonderful prayer — has been published many times in our periodicals. It is published also in the History of the Church, which is derived chiefly from the office journal of the Prophet Joseph. Orson Hyde, returning from his mission when in Alexandria, also wrote to the Millennial Star of the then current date and there made a rather wonderful prediction. He said in substance that it was by political power that Judah had been broken and scattered abroad, and that it would be by the exercise of political power that Judah would be restored; and furthermore he declared that England would be the leading national power that would befriend Judah, and aid him in the re-establishment of his people in the land of Palestine. This was published in the Millennial Star of 1842, and may be found by those curious enough to seek for the source of this information. 

That is the source of the power underlying the development of this great work. God is moving underneath all these facts — this changing of the mental attitude of Jews towards Jesus — this latter-day gathering of the Jews to the land and this city of their fathers. 

It is interesting to note that the predictions of Orson Hyde, the man set apart to perform this special mission, in behalf of Judah, are being wonderfully fulfilled. The defeat of the Turks in the World War was by British forces under the English General Sir Edmund Allenby. The official entrance of General Allenby into Jerusalem on the 11th of December, 1917, and the subsequent course of England in respect of Palestine; the fact that Great Britain now holds the administration of the affairs of that land tfnder the appointment of the League of Nations, — this fills out the story of Elder Orson Hyde's mission, and prophecy. The policy of England in respect to its administration of the affairs of Palestine as foreshadowed in the declaration by Lord Balfour when, on the 2nd of November, 1919, he said officially, and with the approval of France, Italy and President Wilson of the United States : 

"His Majesty's Government view with favor the establishment in Palestine of a National home for the Jewish people, and will use their best endeavors to facilitate the achievement of this object." 

England has ever since consistently pursued that policy; and is now pursuing it. 

I regret that I have taken more time than I should have done, but I think these matters of sufficient importance to have entered upon the record of this conference, and I wish to say, my brethren and sisters, that I cannot but regard the opening that has come to us in the Eastern States to furnish material by which we may approach our cousin Judah with the message of the Book of Mormon, as an opening of the way by the inspiration and power of the Spirit of the Lord. I may not have made that very clear to you, but I feel it in my own heart, and I pray that God will bless this branch of his people, the Jews, and that the time will come when we shall have larger access to these people in the proclamation of God's message to them. I hope so, and pray for it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President Southern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, as the President of the Church was delivering his sermon this morning, I thought, What a great spiritual comfort and sustaining power it is to the Latter-day Saints to hear him speak in the spirit of testimony, and truly his testimony is invaluable to the Church. In Atlanta a few years ago we accepted an invitation for President Grant to speak in a Unitarian Church. At the close of his sermon the minister said : "Mr. Grant, I wish I had your earnestness, your testimony, and your faith." I felt that that minister voiced the feeling of millions of people in the earth whose religious beliefs are vague and therefore not very comforting. 

In the 133rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord sets forth the mission of the Church. He says : 

"And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity — 

"To prepare the weak for those things which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord's errand in the day when the weak shall confound the wise, and the little one become a strong nation, and two shall put their tens of thousands to flight.! ' i 

"And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his Spirit." 

And are not the elders preaching in plainness and in simplicity? They are preaching in the power of the spirit of testimony. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand. And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds." 

When your sons come into the mission field, I meet them in a spirit of love and sympathy, for I feel that these young men need sympathy and love. I believe that the Lord prefers mercy, prefers executing mercy rather than judgment. As I stand before these splendid young men, I have no doubt of their ability to preach the gospel. I believe in them, for in my heart are the words of the Lord, which are as follows : "For the power is in them wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." And when the Lord says the power is in them, who shall doubt the ability of these young men of Israel to preach the gospel, if they magnify their calling ? 

Recently I honorably released a young man, and he told me some of his history. He said: "I am the fifth son of a family to have filled a mission, and it has cost my father, who is a poor farmer, over eight thousand dollars to keep me and my brothers in the mission field." This case is by no means uncommon, but it shows the background of this missionary work; a background of sacrifice and sacred devotion to the work of the Lord. And shall we forget this sacrifice? Who would not be willing to help these fine young men, brethren and sisters ? When they come into the mission field, I look at them and try to think of their fathers and their mothers who have reared them, and I say to myself : "With the help of God, it is my duty to continue this noble work and to help the parents develop the power that God has given their sons, as ministers of his word, to preach the everlasting gospel." 

To the testimony of my brethren I add my testimony : I know, by the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, our Redeemer and our Savior, the Son of the living God, the resurrection and the life. By the same power I have been favored with a testimony that Joseph Smith was a man sent from God, a messenger of the Almighty, a choice being raised up by the Lord to complete the glorious work of having all dispensations merge into this, the dispensation of the fulness of times, that God "might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth;" and prepare the world for the second coming of the Son of God: and this testimony I humbly bear, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WM. J. HENDERSON 

President of the Pamguitch Stake and Recently Returned from a Short-term Mission in the Southern States 

My brethren and sisters: I feel thankful to our heavenly Father, and to the brethren who preside over the Church, that I have had the wonderful opportunity and experience of a short-term mission in the Southern states. I am on my way home from that mission, where I have been laboring as a missionary since last October. That mission is a wonderful field of labor. The leading thought in my mind, almost continuously, in laboring with the young men sent out to preach and teach the gospel in that land, was, What a blessing it would be to the elders and to the people of that mission and other missions, if men of experience could be constantly associated with them. I am thoroughly convinced that it was through the inspiration of our heavenly Father that short-term missionaries were called into the field. The men needed to carry forward short-term missions, especially in the Southern states where I have labored, would be the busy, the active men, men who are doing things, who have their fingers on the financial pulse of the country, as well as affairs spiritual. The mission needs the professional men — the doctors, the lawyers, the educators, the financiers, men who measure up with the general practical conditions as we find them. 

There are some wonderful cities in the South, which have been making rapid progress during the last few years. There are men in the South with keen minds, up-to-date, who are doing things, men of intelligence, approachable, willing to listen. If we send missionaries who are qualified to take up the principles of life and salvation with this class of men, it would be a great strength to that mission. It would also be a source of great strength to the young elders. They need , sympathy, someone to help them to get started in this great work in which we are engaged. 

I have in mind one small city of 42,000 people. I was told, by a member of the Chamber of Commerce, that the payroll of that city was three hundred thousand dollars a day. I was also in Birmingham, Alabama, where a member of the Chamber of Commerce said that the payroll of that wonderful city was four million two hundred thousand dollars a week. The south is filling up with wonderful industries from the north. They have all of the latest modern improvements in these great cities. They have spent millions of dollars for water systems, and for other improvements. Many of those wonderful cities are modern, up-to-date in every respect, and forging ahead with marvelous rapidity. 

We have an excellent membership in the South. Many choice men and women who have received the testimony of the elders. They have a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They are devoted to the work, are giving their time and their talents to' the cause, willing to serve, and assume responsibility. It is a great work. The training that our boys and girls are getting in the mission field is admirable. We can scarcely conceive of the worthy training they are receiving", but they need the help of more of our men of ability, who have had greater experiences in the gospel. I am hoping and praying continuously that men of this class may be separated for a short time from their business cares, and see their way to give a few months of their time to assist these young men in carrying forward the testimony that we have received of this wondrous latter-day work. I am sure that it will profit them, their families, and their associates. They will get more out of it themselves than they will be able to give to others. That has been the experience of our missionaries; and we feel indebted to our heavenly Father for the blessings that have come to us. 

I have often heard people say : "We have made a sacrifice to go on a mission. I have made a sacrifice to send my son, or my daughter on a mission." It never appealed to me as a sacrifice at all. It has always appealed to me as a glorious privilege and opportunity to be called by the servants of the Lord to preach and teach the gospel, and to administer in its ordinances. I have proved it a great privilege and a blessing. I have received more personal joy in preaching and teaching the gospel and mingling and associating with our young men in the mission field, than I have ever received in any other way. 

I pray that the Lord will move upon the hearts of our busy men throughout the Church, to be anxious to fill a short-term mission, and assist in carrying on this work and labor. You have no idea of the wonderful good that you cart accomplish, and the encouragement that you will be able to give the younger missionaries. And they need encouragement. When our boys and girls are started out properly and rightly in the mission field, they become strong men and women, and are able to accomplish a great amount of good. They develop, grow, and increase in power and ability to a remarkable extent. That is my testimony of the wonderful improvement and advancement that our sons and daughters have made in the mission field. For this reason and others, I do pray that the mission presidents throughout the United States will be blessed in the future more than in the past with the presence of men of ability, and experience, who can do, greater service in carrying forward this latter-day work. 

I have received many testimonies in regard to the truth of this latter-day work. I know that it is true. I know that the testimony which the young men and women who are called into the mission field have received through their parents is supplemented and developed as soon as the responsibility comes to them. It will grow, and they will make good, if they have the proper care and training, in starting out in the mission field. I pray God to bless us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Lord now victorious." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Can you beat that in any land or any clime? [Referring to the wonderful rendition of the anthem, just sing.] There will be a concert given here Tuesday evening by the choir. The admission price is twenty- five and fifty cents, and we owe it to the choir to give them a rousing reception. I think our music today very superior indeed. I rejoice exceedingly in it. 

Brother David K. Udall will come to the stand on Monday morning to offer the opening prayer. Brother Udall has been appointed president of the Arizona Temple. The Temple will be completed within a few weeks, but will not be dedicated until after the October conference. It will cost us about three quarters of a million dollars. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Carl K. Conrad, president of the Nevada stake. 

The conference adjourned until Monday, 10 o'clock a. m., April 4, 1927. 


