Afternoon
06 04 1927

The closing meeting of the 97th Annual Conference session was held on Wednesday, April 6, 1927, at 2 o'clock, in the tabernacle, a large congregation being in attendance. 

President Heber J. Grant presided, and announced that the congregation would sing the hvmn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

After singing, prayer was offered by Elder George H. Brimhall. The congregation sang, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

During the noon hour,- 1 called upon Brother Richard R. Lyman. He is detained at home by sickness. He asked me to convey to the conference his love and blessing. I do so cheerfully, because I know of the depth of his feeling and regard for you, my brethren and sisters, and for the work of the Church. 

I know that the few moments which remain, the short time in which to conclude this conference, are very precious, and I shall be grateful indeed if I may leave just a thought, prompted by the proper spirit, as a contribution to the great work of the Church. I have been thrilled and inspired, as I am sure you have all been, by -the testimonies which have been given and the splendid remarks which have been made. 

INTELLIGENT RESPONSE TO THE SPIRIT OF THE SPEAKERS 

I have studied with some care the various congregations which have assembled during the conference. I have looked into the faces of these men who sit near the stand, many of whom I have the honor to know. I have seen in their countenances the impressions which have been made by the inspiring discourses, and I have noted that throughout the building on all the occasions when meetings have been held, great interest has been given to the proceedings. It is apparent that those who have gathered have responded to the spirit of the speakers and to the great truths to which utterance has been given. 

THERE ARE THE WAYWARD, THE CARELESS, THE INDIFFERENT 

As I have observed these congregations I have continually thought of an imaginary congregation which, perchance, might be assembled in this great "building. I have thought, and I regret that my belief is that it is true, that this building could be filled with another congregation of members of the Church made up of those who are indifferent, who are wayward, who are careless and negligent, and whose hearts and spirits do not respond to the message of truth as do yours. I have thought of these men and women who have come from good families, whose fathers and mothers have in some instances been the very pillars of the Church, and I have wondered, if such a congregation were assembled, just what we would say to them and just how we would endeavor to reach them with these great truths which are embraced within the gospel of Christ. 

OUR OBLIGATION TO INTERPRET THE GOSPEL TO THE NEGLIGENT 

These who are wayward and indifferent are scattered all through the stakes of Zion and the wards of the Church. Unfortunately there is scarcely a single family where there is not some problem, in which there is not someone who does not think and feel quite as the faithful think and feel, and to whom it is difficult to give interpretations of the gospel that may appeal. I would like to say that while I regard our GENERAL CONFERENCE  work to be the proclamation of the gospel abroad to the peoples of the earth, that men may know of the truth and be persuaded to come to the fold of Christ, nevertheless, I fully believe that our obligation to take and interpret the gospel to those who have in some measure at least departed from the faith, is of almost equal importance, and 1 appeal to the men who preside over the stakes and the missions and the wards, and who administer in the various organizations of the Church, to do all that lies within their power to make the organizations of the Church reach this great multitude of good people who are worth reclaiming, in whose blood courses that tendency to faith that comes from Jgood ancestry. I sometimes think that it is infinitely more important to retain for the Church fine, intelligent men and women, whose fathers and mothers have been associated with the Church, than it is to secure others from distant lands. I believe that the message of the gospel will touch these people if we can but interpret it in terms that they can understand, and if we can induce them to open up their hearts to a reception of its great truths. 

CHANGES IN THE PHYSICAL WORLD AND THE WAYS OF THOUGHT 

Great changes have come to us in comparatively few years. Only a short time ago, within my own lifetime, changes of so tremendous a character and import have come as not only to have revolutionized the physical world, but in my judgment, to have very largely changed men's attitude and way of thinking. My grandfather came with the pioneers in 1847. He did not live seven years after coming here. 1 thought that if he were to return to this valley, and with nothing but mortal eyes and wisdom were to see the city and all that has here been made, it would be beyond his recognition. 1 wonder if changes comparable to that have not come about in. the ways and thoughts of youth. Surely they are not able to escape the influence of their environment. Men today worship at the altar of success pretty much in a godless way. We have come out of the world, it is true, but the world have come in among us. And they have brought to us their practices and their ideals. We are subject to their influence.- It is impossible to prevent men and women from responding in some degree to the influences which surround them. Science has revolutionized our lives. It affords us conveniences and utilities which we use, and we are not so dependent upon divine aid as once we were. 

A PIONEER EXPERIENCE SHE DEPENDED ON GOD 

I recall a few years ago visiting" with an old lady in the southern part of the state. She was then ninety-two years old. She had been a pioneer, and in my conversation with her she gave me some of her experiences. She said that during the early days she and her family were for weeks without food. "For one period of three weeks," she said, "we lived entirely on nettles." I said : "Nettles, what do you mean by nettles?" She said: "Just the common stinging nettles that grow by the ditchbanks." I said : "How could you do it?" "Well," she said, "some way or other we got along. We were so interested in the great work going forward, our faith was such that we managed." One day, however, she said her two little girls came to her and said : "Mama, can't we have a little bread? Right there I went upon my knees," she said, "and I prayed God that he would grant a little bread to those two children. No sooner had I arisen -from my knees than a knock came at the door and there stood a neighbor. In her hands she held two slices of bread and a can of milk. She said : 'Sister, I thought perhaps your little ones might need this, and I brought it to them'." She believed that her prayer had been answered. I do! She depended upon God.; 

JUST AS NECESSARY TO APPEAL FOR DIVINE PROTECTION TODAY 

But today we do not depend upon God for bread, at least we do not think we do, but we do depend upon him for the bread of life. We depend upon him for inspiration, and it is just as necessary, if we could only make our youth believe it, to appeal today for divine protection and guidance as it was in those early days to make appeal for the sustenance of life. 

NEED OF INTERPRETING THE GOSPEL IN THE LANGUAGE OF YOUTH 

Our boys and girls through their education have in many instances reached an independence of all these sacred things, the things which meant so much to their fathers and their mothers; and my observation is that one of the things most needed today is an interpretation of the gospel in the language of these boys and these girls, so that they may understand its vitality and its import to them. All the facilities of the Church, all the work that we can do, in my judgment, should be directed to the saving of these priceless assets of the Church and of the Nation, and of ourselves — our children. I want them to have a testimony which I know is the most valuable thing- that can come to them. I wish they all could have heard the testimonies that have been uttered in this conference. I feel sure that the impression of the spirit would have been helpful to them. 

TESTIMONY 

I bear my testimony that I know that this is the work of God. I wish I could deliver it to every young man and every young woman, to every wayward man and wayward woman in the entire Church. I know it just as confidently, just as surely, as I know any other fact that has entered into my life. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. All of my feelings, every sensation that I can interpret, bears witness of that truth to me. I know that it is the Holy Ghost that makes that knowledge certain. I know, too, that that knowledge will come to every honest man and woman and to every young man and woman who strives for it and who lives for it, but I GENERAL CONFERENCE  us all to help in every way that we can to bring that knowledge to the youth of our Church, and to all those who have fallen by the wayside. I am grateful for that knowledge. It brings into my life more comfort, more satisfaction, more hope, more that is worth striving for, than all else, and I am very desirous that I may live to be worthy of a continuation of that testimony, that it may grow and ripen arid strengthen within me. 

My grandfather was with the Prophet Joseph in Carthage jail. He was his intimate friend; he was his confidential secretary. He knew his thoughts, I believe, as well as one man may know the thoughts of another. He loved him. He was perfectly willing to give his life for the prophet. My grandfather has left his testimony that Joseph Smith was divinely chosen, that he was indeed a prophet of God, and I know that he did not lie, and I know that hundreds of other good men who knew this prophet have not falsified when they have g'iven their testimony of his divine work. 

God grant that the testimony of this latter-day work may come not only to the great hosts of faithful Saints who, from season to season, gather here to hear the word of the Lord, but to these hosts of worthy men and women who should be saved, who have strayed from the path of truth. I feel for one to consecrate my efforts to their reclamation and retention in the fold of Christ, and I know that could you speak here you would join in such a dedication. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, that you may carry forward this great and wonderful work to its glorious destiny, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to find myself in full accord with all that has been said in this important conference, and earnestly do T desire to add my testimony to those which have been borne, and to speak of one or two items, that have already been referred to, which have been weighing very heavily upon my own mind for more than a year past. I believe that this representative gathering of Latter-day Saints is an opportunity for the messages that have been delivered by the President of the Church and his associates to be carried, in the spirit of these instructions, to the various stakes of Zion. 

MEETING THE TESTING TIME 

I wish to read a few verses from the 115th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The Lord said to his Church, in 1838 : 

"Verily I say unto you all : Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations; 

"And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, 

may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it 

shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth." 

I have felt that the Lord had in mind the very perils that are 157  the world and are endangering the faith of some neglectful Latter-day Saints, when he spoke of" finding a place of defense for us, a place where we may escape not only the physical dangers that will be in the world, but those storms of a moral character that are far more disastrous to people than physical destruction or physical injury-. It has been said during the conference that as a Church we are enjoying a period of peace. I rejoice that after nearly a century of struggle and effort, contending against all kind of opposition, we have at last won the right to exist, a right conceded now by men and women generally in the world. Reference has also been made to a condition of prosperity that is with us. I rejoice in that. I would not change the prosperity of the people, nor would I stir up strife. I welcome peace, it gives us a better opportunity to deliver our message to the children of men. But the thing I am concerned about is not so much what the world thinks about us just now as it is our own status with reference to keeping the commandments of God and how to meet the perils that are before us. I am not a pessimist, and yet seeing and feeling things most clearly, I want to be one of those watchmen upon the towers of Zion, with my brethren, who detect the storm that is coming and give a fair warning, and point out not only the danger, but the way to avert that danger. Therefore, I feel that we have probably reached, in the Church, in this period of our peace and prosperity, a testing time for us. If you will read the history of the past, no dispensation of the gospel has ever had so hard a time to maintain itself as during the period of its own peace and prosperity. Indeed, there is no gospel dispensation that has yet survived its peace and prosperity. In the time of its trouble, people were united, and stood shoulder to shoulder and endured all things and kept the faith and died for the faith. I say, I am not a pessimist, nor do I believe that we will lose the faith, nor do I believe that the dangers which threaten us are going to overwhelm us, and yet I am conscious of the fact that mere membership in this Church will not save a man or a woman. It will require something else. I cling tenaciously to the promise made through the Prophet Daniel, as the Lord inspired him, looking down to our own period of time and predicting the rise of this Church, insignificant as it was, like a stone cut out of the mountain without hands, yet if shall roll forth until it will fill the whole earth, and it shall not be left to another people, nor shall it fail. I have a comfort in that; I have an abiding confidence that no matter what the difficulties are, the majority of this people shall survive even this peril, and that we shall demonstrate the thing that never has yet been done; namely, maintain the truth and defend it in peace as well as in times of trouble, and that the work shall go on victoriously until Christ shall come to receive it, and that it shall roll forth until it fills the whole earth, for it is the last dispensation and it shall not fail. But many of us may fail. That is my fear, that is my anxiety. 

THE TEMPTATIONS OF PEACE AND PROSPERITY 

In the time of our peace and prosperity, we may be tempted n> be 

GENERAL CONFERENCE  with ourselves. All over the world, I believe there is a growing spirit, even in the hearts of many leaders, to become careless, to become more or less accustomed to the new order of things that obtain. This, after all, is most threatening to the life, to the peace of the people and to the stability of even governments themselves. The statement of a poet is still true, that : 

"Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.^" 

We came out of the world to escape the evils of the world, but, as has just been observed, these world conditions have come to us. We are part of the world and the influences of the world and the practices of the world will naturally have their effect upon the lives of the Latter-day Saints. Is it possible that we ourselves are seeing so much of these things which a hundred years ago when this Church was brought into existence would have shocked us; the present moral status, the frequency of divorce, and many common practices that are heralded abroad throughout our own country that would have been revolting then — is it possible that these vices have been seen so much by us that even some of us begin to feel a little bit calloused and almost wink at them? I hope not. I believe that this body of people here assembled have no such feeling as to compromise or tolerate evil. We are tolerant of the sinner, b*ut we cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; and woe be to the man or woman, the leader in the wards or stakes or elsewhere, among the young people, who can wink at sin and compromise with it! 

THE TENDENCY TO INDULGENCE AND RELAXATION 

Woe be ,to him who contributes to the establishment or the perpetuation of a state or condition that contributes to the delinquency, to the sin, to the transgression, of boys or girls or men or women. So far as we are concerned we stand solidly against immorality; and let me say to you, my brethren and sisters, the culminating thing that shall come out of this tendency towards indulgence, towards relaxation, is immorality, and immorality is the plague of the world today, and that plague is threatening all about us, if it is not indeed creeping into the midst of Latter-day Saints. Therefore to our standards, men of Israel, which teach us to look upon virtue as precious as life itself, and that we (Would as isoon die as to lose our virtue. There is no cessation on the part of the enemy against this work. Though he may hot be conspiring to move mobs against us, nor to induce men to annihilate us, he is among the people with new means and ways, lulling them off to sin a little, to lie a little and to steal a little, and do other things with the promise : You will be beaten with a few stripes, but you will be all right. It is the doctrine of the devil which is intended to lead men gently down to hell, and we cannot be ignorant of it nor indifferent toward it. 159 

A WARNING AND A FOREWARNING 

When the Lord gave the Word of Wisdom he used this language in (the 4th verse of the 89th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto vou this word of wisdom by revelation." 

The Lord knew what was coming. He knew iback in Daniel's time. He could tell the nations what would arise. He knew the times of men's coming. He knew their habitations and their limitations and he could foretell them. God knew when he spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith that which would come : "Knowing," said he, "the calamity that would come upon the earth." He spoke to Joseph Smith and through him sent a warning to all the world of the danger that was threatening and offered the means of escape. But the Lord is very much like an earthly father. What can an earthly father do to his grown sons and daughters more than to teach them of the danger. He cannot rescue them against their will, if they are determined to sin and transgress the law of God and man. They presently shall Come into bonds and imprisonment and be subject to the execution of the law, and when the judge renders his decision it may be years or a life of imprisonment or even the execution of the man himself. The father would be willing to give his life to save his son, but he cannot do it, neither can he cancel the judgment of the court nor set aside the majesty of the law. So it is with our heavenly Father. All he can do is to warn us, point out the danger, show us the way of escape, and when we resist it all we bind God. We speak of binding the devil, and the devil will be bound and have no power over us when we resist him, but we may resist the Lord in the same manner and thus bind his hands so that he can do nothing for us, for he himself is ruled by law, he cannot set aside the majesty of eternal law, nor save men in their sins. In the 88th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants we read : 

'"And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. 

"That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still." 

So that God is rendered helpless in the case of a man or woman in this Church or out of this Church who resists him and who will not abide the law. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM GIVEN TO FORTIFY US 

Now the Lord gave us the Word of Wisdom to fortify us against the temptations of the day, giving us the power to resist, knowing that the man or woman who breaks the Word of Wisdom and uses tobacco, tea and coffee, will weaken his or her moral stability. So that GENERAL CONFERENCE  this other period that now has come, of other temptation that leads to graver sin and immorality, the individual has broken down his morale, his will and his power to resist, notwithstanding' the thing that he does is contrary to the will of God, has lost the power to stand when greater temptations come. God was steeling us and arming us and fortifying ns against the plague that is presently threatening us. 

ON MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE 

An article recently appearing in one of our magazines stated that the divorce rate is growing so rapidly that if it continues in the same increase in proportion to marriages, by the year 1936, there will be as many divorces each year as marriages in the United States. What will that do for the world or for the United States? It will destroy the family life, and when the family life is broken up and destroyed the government will be in peril. God's work can go forward only by men and women in the Church and in the state observing the sanctity of the marriage relationship. Side by side with us, in this and other states of the union we find forces tending to the destruction of family I life. In Russia and elsewhere there is a great rebellion, inspired by Bolshevism, which teaches the doctrine of companionship in marriage that may be changed and altered at will, and that the children are the property of the state. When these doctrines are spread abroad what is the antedote for them? It is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Latter-day Saints have that which teaches them to prepare themselves to come into holy places, and, over holy altars, receive each other by the authority that binds on earth and it is bound in heaven, in companionship as husband and wife, parent and children,! for time and all eternity. No planning for divorce here in our own ranks. The evidence of the safety in God's plan is manifested, for there are twice as many divorces among our own people who are married outside of the I temple as among those who enter into this holy place and receive each 1 other in this bond of union that begins to plan and to build forever and forever, and our divorce rate is 1/5 that of this country. If we want to escape the plague of divorce, if we want to escape the destruction of family life — and when this is gone faith is gone, and there shall come quickly other perils in the wake of it, until we shall be threatened with the destruction of our civilization — we must preserve the foundation upon which family life rests, eternal unions. We may be found fault with as being narrow and intolerant by some of our outside ] friends, but we stand for those things that are fundamental. We always shall stand for them, and we refuse to be absorbed by present world standards; we expect to be victorious in defending our own. And presently, showing by the lives of the Latter-day Saints the fruits j of these things, it will awaken surely in the hearts of righteous men a consciousness that here in "Mormonism" is stability, a stability that will save men, save the family, save the home, save the nation. 

OUR GREATEST ASSET IS OUR BOYS AND GIRLS 

When Brother Pratt and I were in South America we presented 161  of the achievements of the Church, and I said to Brother Pratt, and have said many times since, that the greatest product we have is not our material prosperity. What I wanted was a picture of tens of thousands of "Mormon" boys and girls, and we have them, who keep the Word of Wisdom, who never have used tea, coffee or tobacco, who are as pure, as clean and undefiled as the angels of God. I would never have discovered the match of these boys and girls elsewhere in all the world, although I would have observed individual instances, but not in community groups like they may be found here, the product of this Church. So that my soul turns towards them in a sympathy today, confronted with conditions that are strange and new. They need us. There is now a warfare which will require the closest cooperation on the part of the leaders with their people, on the part of fathers and mothers towards their sons and daughters. No wonder the Lord said that without this principle, which joins parents and children to each other for time - and all eternity, the turning not only of the hearts of the living to the dead, but of the living children to their earthly parents, in a union that will 'preserve the family —the whole earth would be utterly wasted. The great saving thing in the world today is this principle upon which family life is established in this Church. 

TESTIMONY j 

Now the Lord bless us, brethren, that we shall go home with an awakened interest in the new problems that have arisen, with a consciousness that the people, to whom Brother Stephen L. Richards, has just referred, who are in danger and in peril because they keep not the commandments of God, that we shall reawaken their interest in these simple and yet all-important saving principles. They are the only hope of the world and the only hope of this Church. I know that God is with us. We are not in the dark. The light is in the ship; the captain is inspired. He knows where he is going. God is at the helm and the storms may blow, they may become furious, but I declare to you as the Lord lives, that if the Latter-day Saints will only keep his commandments and accept of the plan he has offered, God is bound; his promise will be fulfilled, we shall come out victorious and shall be far more distinguished than we are today, if we can only weather the storm that is threatening. God help us to do so, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "How beautiful upon the mountains," was sung by Margaret Stewart Hewlett. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

Early Sunday morning, two weeks ago, I stood in the grove where Joseph Smith first saw the Father and the Son. I recalled my first visit to that place. Then I was filled with the spirit of. GENERAL CONFERENCE , peace and love. At that time I thought it was perhaps because I had pictured in my mind the beginning of that farm when my great-grandfather and his boys (one of them my grandfather) were clearing the land and building their house, using the crude methods of the year 1820. Since my first visit I have been there with members of the Church, and they have expressed the same feeling I had then, which feeling has possessed me on each visit to that place. I have been there with those not of our faith and they have mentioned an unusual feeling of peace. Last Summer a group of Protestant ministers visited the grove, and on leaving, one of them said, speaking of Joseph Smith: "He certainly chose an ideal setting for his vision, if such a thing- could be." Another answered, "Yes,, there is certaini}' a peaceful influence here. One could almost imagine such a thing to be possible." 

I thank my heavenly Father that in my soul I believe in the testimony of Joseph Smith. I would like to dwell upon that thought, if time would permit, but 1 am limited and have another thought I wish to leave with you, God being my helper, and I sincerely pray that he will bless me that I may give advice that will have his approval. 

I am a son of the soil. I love the farm. I love to dig and plow and plant. I continued in that occupation until called from it by the Church into the position I now occupy. Where in any line of work or endeavor may we find such an opportunity to commune with the living God? Let me call your attention to the fact that from the very beginning there has been a relationship among God, man and the soil, making man dependent upon the soil for his very existence, and upon God for peace and happiness. When God placed man on the earth, he planted a garden eastward in Eden and placed man in it. Through transgression he was driven from that garden and was compelled to eat his bread by the sweat of his face. Father Abraham was led to a land of promise and Israel, his chosen people, established in this land of plenty. Through transgression, they were taken into bondage and finally because of their sufferings and pleadings, God took mercy upon them and led them out of bondage through Moses, unto the promised land, which he said had been prepared for them— a promised land for his chosen people. But when they chose to rely upon the words of men rather than the promise of God, they were required to wander in the wilderness forty years. With the exception of two, all. those over twenty years of age were deprived of enjoying the blessings faith would have brought them. 

We find in the history of this continent that when the word came to Lehi to preach to the people at Jerusalem and warn them of the destruction of that city, they believed him not and he was driven from their midst. Nephi, through his faith, was promised by the Lord that they should be led to a land of promise, a choice land, yea, a land choice above all other lands. And in this day, a promise has been given to this people that they should be led to a prom163  land, a land that should be their inheritance forever, provided they were faithful in keeping his commandments, and showed by their works that they were worthy to continue in that inheritance. 

The other day we had a statement made to us, giving figures showing the amount it has cost to keep missionaries in the field. I wonder how miany have stopped to realize that most of this vast amount of money has been taken from the soil. God has given it to us, for he has given us a choice land, "a land choice above all other lands," for where in all the world can you find a land more productive than that which has been given to us? I sometimes wonder if we fully appreciate this blessing which has come to us. I stood the other day and looked at those great trees around the home erected by Joseph Smith and his sons before 1820, on that farm where the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith and where the angel Moroni appeared on several occasions. They stand there today, as ornaments, as a comfort, for they bring shade and peace around that home, giving the impression that the builders had looked to the future. I wonder how many of us are looking to the future? How many of us are planting trees around our homes, are beautifying our homes? Are we farming, looking into the future, or just farming, impoverishing the soil, feeling that our inheritance is only temporary? There is in the world today a spirit of strife and selfishness and contention, and I am wondering if we are permitting this spirit to come into our midst. We should \k living for the future and the hereafter. As a people, we believe in co-operation, not that supposed co-operation that breeds hatred, strife, contention and ill-will, but that co-operation, that brotherly love and good-will, which leads men to reach the outstretched hand to those in need, to those who suffer, to those who hunger, to those who are ill. That is the proper co-operation, and we as Latter-day Saints believe in it and are expected to practice it. As I travel through the land, these thoughts come to my mind. We are establishing in some districts, dairy industries, creameries or cheese factories. Are we producing in abundance in order that we might have funds to continue our missionary work? Or, are we contending with one another? Are we feeling that the other fellow is o-etting more gain out of our product than he is entitled to? Are we leaving it for a few to carry the burden, increasing the overhead, or have we stopped to consider that the more we produce, the more we get, the more the manufacturer gets, the more the comjmunity gets? It is through co-operation and through producing in abundance that we are blessed and not through individual effort, which often breeds a spirit of contention and strife. In many of our sections we have been blessed with canning factories and packing plants, in which the products of our farms may be put into a condition to find market elsewhere. They are a blessing to us, and aiso a curse, for I am afraid many who have garden plots are depending upon the can for their food, forgetting the home garden. Many fail to plant in the Spring that they may harvest during the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Summer to provide their families and those depending" upon them with good wholesome food, fresh from the soil. 

Let us support the canning factories, let us produce that they may prosper, for when they prosper we are bound to prosper; but let us not forget that there is a means of prospering- in our own household and through the opportunities God has given unto us. We find the spirit of contention, not with the majority, but with the few, and unfortunately sometimes we let the disturbing element be the dominating factor. Let us co-operate in our labors, and keep in mind the community interests. We have sugar factories which have been a greater blessing to the farmers of this community than anything else that has come among us. All of these industries come to us to take the products of the farm and turn them into cash, and return that cash to us from an outside source, to provide means for our welfare and for the beautifying of our homes and to aid in the preaching of the gospel. All these are for our benefit and blessing, provided we acknowledge the hand of God and co-operate and work for the good of the community and forget our selfish interests. Selfishness has no place in this Church. We as individuals must, if we hope to succeed, if we hope to prosper, if we hope to have the blessings of God continue with us, look to the welfare of our brethren. 

When the pioneers came here, they could see nothing but wilderness, but that wonderful man, President Brigham Young, saw into the future, viewed the choice valleys and their possibilities, saw where water could be stored in the mountains until required and used as needed. God has provided for us abundantly and now we have discovered that he has provided something else for us, for we have the wonders of the world at our very door. People are coming in great numbers to rest in our scenic play grounds. Their impressions of us will be formed- through the appearance of our premises and by personal contact with us. Are we prepared to receive them? Are our homes and surroundings inviting' and attractive? Are our lives such that when they come into our midst they can see our good works and go away with a feeling of praise and good-will toward us as a people? My brethren and sisters, what a wonderful opportunity has been given to us, what a wonderfully blessed people we are in having been gathered together in the valleys of the mountains, with all these wonders about us, and preserved and protected to this day. And now God is opening the way through which we may preach the gospel to those who are in darkness, without expending our means for that purpose, just by living as he would have us live, by precept and example, and by the appearance of our homes and our farms. Let us realize that God has blessed us abundantly. Let us turn to him in faith. Let us co-operate with one another that his kingdom may be built up in the earth and his people blessed as he has promised they would be blessed in the latter days. 

Let me call your attention to two passages of scripture : 165 

"Verily I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you may learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people : Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the transgressions of my people — speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance as becometh Saints, to the poor and afflicted among them." (D. & C. 105:1-3.) 

"Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field." * * * "I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding; 

"And lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and' the stone wall thereof was broken down. 

"Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it and received instructions. 

. "Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep; "So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man." (Prov. 24:27-34.) 

God grant that we may receive and appreciate his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I have enjoyed beyond measure the faith-promoting stories and testimonies concerning this great latter-day work, the manifestations of the power of God, and the testimonies concerning the Book 

of Mormon. m , , . «  _ 

Eighteen hundred and ninety-four years ago— probably during the first week of April-our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ passed the last week of his mortal life. He had returned from a brief stay in Perca and at the close of the Sabbath arrived m Bethany with his disciples The following day, the first day of the week and known to us as Sunday, he entered the city of Jerusalem on an ass s colt. 

There were great numbers who had heard of his coming and he was hailed : "Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord." That day he returned to the little village of Bethany and the next morning— known to us as Monday— he evidently again walked to Jerusalem. Entering the temple, he found the Court of the Gentiles crowded- with those who sold animals merchandise and who exchanged money. In the majesty of his power, he drove out all the people doing business, and said unto them, "My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves." 

Again he returned to the little village of Bethany, and on the following day— according to those who have given deep thought and study to the life of the Master— he entered the temple once more for the last time, and here he delivered that remarkable series of reproofs to the scribes and Pharisees. 

In the evening, in the quiet little home of Simon and his lamGENERAL CONFERENCE  — Lazarus, Martha, and Mary — Mary anointed his feet, and it was then that he said that as long as his gospel shall be known the act of Mary will be remembered. 

The following day, Wednesday, he spent quietly with his disciples on the Mount of Olives, gave them his last personal instructions, explained to them some things he had said in the temple concerning the great events that would occur in the future and others that would occur before his second coming. 

On Thursday he asked his disciples to prepare for the Passover. Following the custom of the Galilean Jews,, he met in an upper room with his disciples, where he comforted their souls, administered to them what is known as the Last Supper, prayed to his Father to preserve and protect his disciples, and departed to the Garden of Gethsemane, where he was arrested. 

One of the outstanding features connected with the Church of Jesus Christ is that each person who has faith in God and who has sincerely repented of his sins and has been baptized for the remission of his sins, having had hands laid upon his head for the gift of the Holy Ghost, mlay know the doctrine, whether it is of God, or not. Thousands and tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints can testify that this is the truth, that by obedience to this gospel they have received an inward witness that Jesus is the Christ, that the gospel has been restored, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. This promise of a testimony is accorded to all people, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. 

Jesus had finished about two years of his ministry and was again laboring in his own province of Galilee, having been rejected in his own home of Nazareth. With his disciples he toured Galilee; then, calling the disciples together, he sent them out to preach the gospel, giving them special instructions to go not to the Gentiles nor to the Samaritans, but rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. While they were away, the messengers came from John who was in prison, asking, "Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?" That day the Master healed the sick, gave sight to the blind, made the lame to walk, and when the day was over, he said to John's delegates, "Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached." They, no doubt, returned to John, and John was satisfied. A short time after, the Master heard that his forerunner had been beheaded, and he exclaimed, "Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he." 

His apostles returned and accompanied him to the east side of the lake of Galilee. He there labored and taught the people for three days, and his disciples suggested to him that the people would better be dismissed to get food in the neighboring villages. The Master said that he could not send them away for fear some would 167 , and asked how much bread and food they had. The disciples answered that they had a few loaves and fishes. Jesus told the disciples to seat the people in fifties and hundreds. Then he broke the bread and blessed it and passed it to his disciples, who distributed it. Five thousand men, as well as women and children, were fed. One can imagine the excitement that followed. Here was a man who could give not only spiritual food, but could also feed their bodies. Well might they want to make him( a temporal king. 

He sent the disciples across the lake and .dismissed the multitude. In the night he walked across the water before his disciples had been able to land on the opposite side. They saw him but faintly in the early morning light and were sore afraid, but Jesus said unto them, "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid." Peter, impetuous, bold, and a leader, asked the Lord if he could come, and was told that he could. He started to walk on the water, but the waves were rough and he called to the Lord to save him. 

Landing at Capernaum, he 'was met by people who had hurried around the end of the lake. There he tried to impress upon them that his kingdom was not of this world, that he had given them bread to feed their hunger, saying, "Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto thee," and the multitude said unto him, "Lord, evermore give us this bread." 

The Master spoke so plainly that many of his disciples and followers discontinued following him. He then turned to his apostles and, addressing Peter, said : "Will ye also go away ?" and that good man responded, "Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ the Son of the living God." 

Jesus then moved away from Capernaum. The next we hear of him, he was on his way with his chosen disciples and probably a few of his close friends, in the direction of Caesarea Philippi. Perhaps he was dejected because of his inability to convince the people concerning his mission, and one of the gospel writers says that he went away to pray. No doubt the disciples stayed at a respectful distance. Then he returned and, addressing his disciples, said, "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" No doubt, each one answered the question in turn, "Some say that thou art Tohn the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets." It was a common idea that Elijah would come before the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and they were looking for him to come before the Messiah. It was also understood among the Jews that Jeremiah had in his possession the Ark of the Covenant, that it was hidden in Mount Nebo, and would be placed back in the temple before the coming of the Messiah. 

Then Jesus turned to his disciples and said, "But whom say GENERAL CONFERENCE  that I am ?" and then Peter, to whom the role of leadership had fallen, spoke — doubtless with the approval and concurring voice of his brethren — "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." I can imagine what a comfort that would be to his Master to know that his disciples at least knew that he was the Christ, the Son of the living God. No doubt this testimony had been given by the Father to those twelve chosen men who were to be Christ's special witnesses and who were destined to carry his work and the message of the gospel to what was then known as the civilized world. 

Addressing Peter, the Master answered, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven : and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven : and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

It is the desire and intent of c*ur Master, Jesus Christ, that all those who accept his doctrines and live according to his precepts, shall know his doctrine. At one time he declared, "My doctrine is not mjne but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

In Capernaum he said : "No man cometh unto me, except the father which hath sent me draw him; and I will raise him up at the last day." To all who sincerely desire to find the truth and understand and accept it this is a promise, for they will know the truth, and he will draw them as he promised, and they will receive the testimony that is the outstanding feature of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It is our duty to pray to the Father for this testimony. It is our privilege to receive it, and no Latter-day Saint of years of discretion need be without this testimony. In view of the great problems that are arising in the world, I appeal to my brethren and sisters to see that there is taught to their children in the homes the story of the life and mission of Jesus Christ; also the story of the Prophet Joseph, and the restoration of the gospel through his instrumentality, that there may grow into their hearts faith in the living God and a love for their fellow-men, that our young people will grow mighty in testimony and power to carry on this great work. 

I am thankful indeed for the gospel of Jesus Christ, for that testimony which has come to me. I am thankful for the privilege of laboring in the ministry, for the association I have with my brethren and sisters. May the Lord bless and sanctify this great gathering of Latter-day Saints that the influence felt here may go into all the homes of Zion, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 169 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

"Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were printed in a book! 

"That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever! 

"For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : 

"And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God : 

"Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me." 

Many times in my life, my brethren and sisters, I have read this wonderful prediction of Job s and have marveled at it, and have been very greatly impressed by it. I think that in my study of the Scriptures nothing- else has so much impressed me as has testimony. Nothing else in the history of the Church to which we belong has so impressed me as have the testimonies given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In reading his brief account of his life as given in the Pearl of Great Price, I turn back repeatedly and read over and over again, with added inspiration, the. wonderful testimony given in so simple a way concerning his vision. This good man, of whom I have read today, had been persecuted, he had been singled out and had suffered, and still he was able to testify, in an outburst, not of reason why, but to leave his testimony for the world, that notwithstanding all that had come, or that might come unto him, he knew that his Redeemer did in very deed live. And the Prophet Joseph Smith, strange as it might seem., inoffensive towards any human being, never having harmed his fellow-man, yet simply because of the fact that he recounted that he had seen a vision, that he knew that God lived, that he had been visited by him and by his Son, he was singled out for persecution. He was invited to retract, and was assured that should he do so persecution would cease. But he testified in the simple words that he knew that he had seen a light, and that in the light he had seen two personages whom he knew to be God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ; and furthermore, he knew that God knew these things, and he dared not other than to continue to testify of this truth. And so he did testify, my brethren and sisters, to the day of his death, and sealed his testimony with his blood. 

In regard to the matter of testimony, I have concluded that those testimonies which have impressed me most have not been accompanied by reason why. They seem to carry with them their own conviction, and I verily believe-, my brethren and sisters, that they were given by the power of the Holy Ghost, and that same Spirit has witnessed to my spirit that they are true. 

It is a remarkable thing, when you review the life of Joseph Smith and the great work he brought forth and the wonderful things that he testified of. We heard in priesthood meeting a reGENERAL CONFERENCE  of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, given by President Anthony W. Ivins, and of the wonderful things to which Joseph Smith attached his name — a document which set forth that there were once mighty cities upon this land, and those cities had not been discovered at that time, not even the ruins of them. He attached his name to the assertion that there had been a wonderful civilization upon this land, schooled in the arts and sciences, and he was even bold enough to affirm that the people worked in metal, of iron and steel. And he told of books written upon gold leaf, and that verily the book he translated was from engravings upon a book of gold leaf. And still Joseph Smith is not supposed to have known of the existence of anything in the world that would corroborate his statement at that time. We now find that those simple testimonies and statements are corroborated all the time by the findings of scientific men who are delving into the ruins of the country to the south of us, particularly. At last, steel instruments have been discovered on this continent, and they are attributed to the ancients who manufacured them and used them. 

The truth of these statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith has been borne in upon me, my brethren and sisters, as I have stood among these majestic ruins of Mexico and Central and South America. I have stood there and tried to imagine that the Book of Mormon was not true, but I have prayed that I might know of a surety for myself whether it be true or not. I want to tell you that in those solemn places, in those beautiful ruins, among majestic stones, larger than any I have ever seen in any other architecture of this modern day, I have had borne in upon my soul this truth that the Book of Mormon is true; that it is a new witness for God upon the earth, and that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of God. 

I have been impressed during this conference by the spirit of testimony. Tears have come to' my eyes more than once during this procedure because of the spirit of testimony that has come from the speakers to me. And I stand as a witness, my brethren and sisters, that these testimonies are true. 

We have spoken of the testimonies of great men in this Church. Now, the thought is, are they alone entitled to a testimony? Are they alone entitled to know whether there has been a restoration of the gospel or not? Are they alone entitled to know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ? I think not. I think that the Savior has given us ample reasons to assume, by reason of his teachings, that all men, if they will comply with the" conditions upon which a knowledge might come to them, may know of the truth of the doctrines that he taught, which are none other than the doctrines that Joseph Smith was an instrument, in the hands of God, in restoring to the people in this present day. They may know whether they be of God or whether they be of man. There are many people in the world — I know by contact with them — who would give a very great deal to be able to say that they know that the gospel is true; 171  they surely know, without shadow of a doubt, that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. In the face of all the confusion and conflicting ideas that there are in the world, today, I know there are many honest-hearted people who would give a very great deal to be able to say what has been said in this conference by those who have spoken in regard to these things. But they do not know. How may they know? "If any man will do his will," says the Savior, "he may know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." Are there any Latter-day Saints who are not in possession of a testimony in regard to these things? If there be such, I say unto them, as I have said to these men in the world, If you will put your lives in harmony with the principles of the gospel, as they have been restored in this age, and if you will humbly ask the Lord for a testimony concerning these things, he will bear witness unto you through the Holy Ghost, which you are entitled to have as a companion when you comply with the requirements of the gospel, in unmistakable terms, that the gospel is true, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. 

I admonish you, therefore, my brethren and sisters, to live humbly, to put your lives in harmony with the truth. We, as teachers, should possess this wonderful testimony, and we bear a wonderful responsibility in teaching it to our children, to our brethren and sisters, and to our friends in the world; for all of those people, way out there, are our Father's children and heirs unto salvation, if they will but comply with the requirements of the law. We have a knowledge of the law and the conditions thereof, and we should teach them. There is a wonderful responsibility resting upon a teacher, my brethren and sisters. To those who assume to teach, in such a way as to destroy the faith of the youth of Zion, I tell you there is a terrible responsibility resting upon them. There is nothing that I would rather my children have than an implicit faith in God. Learning, riches, an influence in the world, or in the affairs of the world, do not compare with the great blessings of an abiding faith, and I wish to instill that, so far as God gives me power, in the minds of my own children. And so far as he gives me power, I shall testify, before the world, with an endeavor to instil that witness into the hearts of my fellow-men. 

I realize that the time is past. I am thankful unto the Lord for the privilege to participate in his work. I am thankful for the opportunity of bearing my testimony to you. Of a surety I know that God lives, and I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. Of a surety I know that Joseph Smith was raised up to be an instrument in the hands of the Lord to restore to the world for the last time the great gospel of salvation. I know that the gospel is true, and, in the words of our beloved prophet, I know that God knows that I know these things, and I dare not other than testify of them. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

May the Lord add his blessings to us, and help us to live so that we may merit them and do good continuously upon the earth, that we may eventually be saved in his presence, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers and Auxiliary Heads of the Church, who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester O. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 173 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay % 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

George C. Smith, Sec'y. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst, Supt. Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The time has passed when we are supposed to dismiss, but there are a few things that I would like to say and I crave your indulgence while I do so. 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH IN POWER AND TESTIMONY 

When I was made one of the apostles of the Church we did not have twenty stakes of Zion. We now have ninety-six, and we have voted to divide the Jordan stake, which will make ninety-seven, and to divide the Los Angeles stake, which will make ninety-eight, and to organize a new stake to embrace Oakland and San Francisco and vicinity, making ninety-nine stakes of Zion, or a little more than five times as many as there were when I was chosen to be one of the apostles. . 

Anybody who thinks the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not growing, is ignorant, to say the least. Zion is growing in power, strength and testimony. 

REGRET NO TIME TO HEAR FROM MORE STAKE PRESIDENTS 

I regret that we did not have the opportunity of hearing from at least a dozen more of our stake presidents. There are a dozen men who were ordained as far back as 1924, who have not yet had the opportunity of speaking in General Conference. But it seems that we can never quite get through, although we have had an extra meeting of two hours in (this conference. In addition, Brother McMurrin, Brother Smoot, Brother Talmage and Brother Hyrum G. Smith are away. Somehow or other we never quite have time enough to hear from these presidents of stakes. Occasionally we hear from a few of them, but I would like to hear all of the ninetysix men, whom God has seen fit thus to honor, bear their testimony for a few moments before this congregation. I hope that we may hear from more of them next time. 

NEW STAKE TABERNACLE IN LOS ANGELES 

Speaking of the division of the Los Angeles stake, I have a tele175  from Leo J. Muir, the chairman of the tabernacle finance committee, it having- been decided to erect a tabernacle, to be utilized by both stakes after the new one is organized : 

"Reports received this morning from the ward chairmen indicate tonight's total will reach $125,000 pledged for the Los Angeles stake tabernacle." 

I can remember when there were not a half dozen Saints in Los Angeles. The Church will match this $125,000 which has been pledged locally, so that there will' be in southern California quite a fine building, as a further evidence of the "decaying of the Church." 

OURS AN AMERICAN CHURCH 

There is one thing that 1 desire to emphasize, and that is that we are engaged in an American Church, born in the land of freedom, born in fulfilment of prophecy. We believe and teach, and have taught from my earliest recollection that God has protected and fought on the side of America in all of the struggles we have had for liberty; that he was with Washington and his armies. We sustain and uphold the president of the United States and the officers of this great country. We rejoice in the wonderful response that has been made upon all occasions by the Latter-day Saints to calls for money and for men to fight the battles of our country, and in all things to sustain and uphold this country. 

TESTIMONIES AND WARNINGS ENDORSED 

I want to say that I endorse with all my heart the many splendid remarks that have been made here. I rejoice in the virtue of the Latter-day Saints as a people. I endorse with all my heart, however, the warnings that have been given here. I have the most supreme and absolute contempt for men who are guilty of proclaiming that virtue should not be maintained; that there is no sin in sexual intercourse. It is the doctrine of devils. It is an inspiration from the devil himself, and the men who defend things of this kind are instruments in his hands to try to destroy virtue and to wipe from the earth liberty and right, and all that is of real genuine worth to humanity. 

CALL TO REPENTANCE OUR SUPREME OBLIGATION 

I want to emphasize that we as a people have one supreme thing to do, and that is to call upon the world to repent of sin, to come to God. And it is our duty above all others to go forth and proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the restoration again to the earth of the plan of life and salvation. Appeals are coming from all over the world for more missionaries. The Latter-day Saints should so organize their affairs, and so shape their finances, that more will be ready and willing, especially those of age and experience, with a testimony and knowledge of the divinity of this work, to go forth, not only on short, but on long missions. Too many of us are gradually setting our hearts upon the things of this GENERAL CONFERENCE . We have so much to look after, so many business interests, so many important things, so far as dollars and cents are concerned, that we are neglecting the one great thing of all; namely, the proclaiming of the gospel, and making what people call sacrifices but what actually are the exact oppdsite. We have in very deed the pearl of great price. W e have that which is of more value than all the wealth and the scientific information which the world possesses. We have the plan of life and salvation. The first great commandment was to love the Lord our God with all our hearts, might, mind and strength; and the second was like unto it, to love our neighbor as ourselves. And the best way in the world to show our love for our neighbor is to go forth and proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, of which . he has ' given us an absolute knowledge concerning its divinity. 

God bless all of the Saints. God bless the president of the United States of America and his cabinet, and the governors of our states and the mayors of our great cities. And bless every honesthearted man and woman upon the face of the earth, and give to those who seek for it (and he will) a testimony of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. 

God bless and multiply the substance of the Latter-day Saints. May we cooperate for the advancement of the Church and for the advancement of this magnificent country that- God has given to the people who are located in it, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow." " 