Overflow
03 04 1927

FIRST OVERFLOW MEETING 

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 o'clock, Sunday morning, April 3, 1927. 

Elder J. Golden Kimball, of the First Council of Seventy, presided. 

The music was furnished by the Dutch choir, of Salt Lake City, Elder A. Van Roosendaal, conductor; Elder Tracy Y. Cannon at the organ. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Come, let us anew our journey pursue." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder John Q. Cannon. The choir sang, "All hail the risen. Redeemer." The solo parts were sung by Jane Van Roosendaal and Mrs. Vant Hof . 

ELDER RUSSELL H. BLOOD 

Former President of the French Mission 

I feel it a great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to stand before a general conference of the Church. This is the first opportunity that I have had since October, 1921, to attend a general conference of the Church and during the larger part of the intervening time I have been in Europe. 

It was my privilege to labor during the latter part of the time among the French-speaking people, and I can assure you that I bring back from those countries some of the fondest memories of my life. The French mission was reorganized at the commencement of 1924, at which time the French-speaking people of Belgium, and those of the French cantons in Switzerland, and the people of France, were united under one head. Up to that time there had been missionaries laboring in Belgium and Switzerland, and years ago missionaries had done work in France, but these countries had not been grouped together as a French mission, until 1924. 

I am sure that the movement that was taken by ]the authorities was the proper one. While our labors will perhaps be slow among the French people, for some time, because of the fact that they have not heard of the teachings of our Church and because missionaries have not been among them, yet I am confident that we have a great work to perform among those who speak the French language. 

I can say truthfully that there are no finer people to associate with than those in Belgium, in France, and in Switzerland. Some misunderstanding has arisen here in our country with respect to the French people, and some of us have been prone to criticize them for conditions that have been forced upon them; and, perhaps, also, for their attitude toward the people of the United States; but could you go, as I have gone, and as many others have, through the war-torn countries of France and Beligum, I am sure that you would then appreciate more fully the conditions under which they have been laboring in the past few years. There are four or five divisions of France which were completely devastated during the war, and these, by the way, were the agricultural districts. Not only were homes destroyed, but much of the land was damaged to such an extent that, perhaps, it can never be reclaimed. However, the French government is spending large sums of money in an effort to clear the shell-strewn land, and to remove the effects of war throughout this territory. Their homes, their means of livelihood, were taken from them, and then we, who have not been touched to such an extent, criticize them because of the fact that they feel they are overburdened and because they have expressed their feelings. I like the French people. I like the way they extend their hos-  pitality to all those who go among them, and especially to our missionaries. When missionaries go into their homes they are received, and the people listen to their message. True, it is entirely new to them and they cannot understand, as we do, some of the principles of the gospel, but we are making an effort to teach them, and they are earnestly investigating our teachings. 

There are no people more energetic than the Belgians, and while their country is small, they, too, have suffered under similar conditions to those that exist in France. Their country, also, was destroyed; their homes were taken from them; they had no place to go. Fathers and sons were taken out of the homes and the wives and daughters were left to "carry on." It is a pitiful sight, in passing through Belgium at the present time, to see the women working — working too hard — in the fields, working in the shops and factories, working along the canals and rivers pulling the boats laden with products and sharing their part of the labor in loading and unloading the boats at their destinations. These sights are very common. The women are working just as hard as the men to rebuild their beautiful and beloved little country, and we who have known their sacrifices, and witnessed their sturdy determination to rehabilitate their lands sympathize also with the Belgians for what they have passed through, and admire them for what they are doing. 

Switzerland was not touched as these other countries were by the war. It is a most delightful country, as most of you know. It is called "the playground of the world," and truly it is a playground, beautiful and inviting. There the people are a little more care-free than they are in the other parts of the French mission; and, being in general a Protestant country, they are less difficult to approach on religious matters. 

So, summing up the conditions as they exist at the present time in France, Belgium and Switzerland, I can truthfully say that I believe our missionaries will accomplish just as great a work among the French speaking people as has been accomplished among the British, the Norwegians, the Dutch, the Germans and those of other parts of the world, if we continue to work to that end; and, for one, I feel to encourage those who have the opportunity of going to France, or to the French mission to accept the call, and devote. their time, efforts and talents to the building up of the Lord's work in those countries. The gospel is for all mankind. It is not alone for the British people, although our first missionary labors in Europe were among them, but it is intended for other nations of Europe and for those in the far parts of the earth. 

It is interesting to note the change that comes into the lives of those who have accepted the gospel. It is interesting to note the difference in home life; the change of conditions; the better feeling that exists between father and son, between mother and daughter. There seems to be kindled in their hearts a new love for one another and for their fellow-men, and^truly that is the spirit of the gospel of Christ. 

It has been my privilege to watch these changes in the lives of some of those with whom I have been associated, and I declare unto you that the gospel is molding the lives of those who receive it and are living it. I believe that we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, should devote our time and talents to the advancement of the Lord's work, because, after all, we are here but a short period of time and it is our duty to give these glad tidings that we have received to others who have not been so fortunate as we have been in being born here in the valleys of the mountains. I feel and believe as did Nephi of old when he said, "I will go and do the thing which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.'' I believe that where the Lord has laid down a rule, where he has given a commandment, that in every case he provides the way by which we. his children, may fulfil these commandments which have been given unto us. So, is there any reason that, as Latter-day Saints, we should falter? Is there any reason why we should not heed the principles of the gospel of Christ? Is there any reason why we should not perform the duties assigned us by the authorities of the Church? I say there is no reason. I believe that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to observe the principles of the gospel in his life. I believe that it is the duty of every man, woman and child who has been baptized into this Church not only to keep the commandments of the Lord, but to strive also to give some new hope, some encouragement, to those who have not been blessed as we have been. 

When we are traveling in the world, we find that the conditions which exist among Christian people are appalling, i. e., we find such diversity of opinion with reference to the teachings of Christ. We find that different sects are teaching various doctrines, and the result is that the world at large is thrown into confusion. It is difficult for one who has not heard the teachings of a commissioned servant of the Lord to select the principles and doctrines that he should follow in his search for the way of salvation. It is the hope and purpose of our missionary work to give guidance, and point the way, to those who are seeking truth, and I am glad to say that so- far as my travels have revealed, our missionaries are accomplishing that purpose. There is no work in the world that gives a testimony of the gospel as does the missionary work. To go forth, bearing the Priesthood, to give a reason for the hope that is within us; to go out and stand for truth and for righteousness, against the evil forces which are constantly opposing, is a great privilege, a choice blessing. 

The missionaries in France are devoting their time willingly; they are working conscientiously. They know the obstacles before them. They realize that the French have not in the past received the gospel as have the other people in Europe, because they have not had these teachings as some of the other people have had them. Therefore the 



46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

missionaries are devoting extra time and additional effort for the furtherance of this noble work. 

I commend very highly the faithful and conscientious efforts of all those with whom I was privileged to labor, because they are men of true character — they are men who have the spirit of the gospel at heart. 

I had the pleasure of going to Palestine, about two years ago, and while traveling there many things occurred that have strengthened my testimony and increased my understanding of the great value of our teachings. On one occasion I entered the Church of the Nativity at Bethlehem — a church which has been erected over the birth-place of our Lord and Savior. I had two companions with me, and as we viewed with reverence the interesting things within the church, our attention was drawn to long strips of carpet and small mats which seemed to separate the floor space into various sections. We walked on through the church toward the back where we were conducted through a small door down a few steps to the manger, the very place, we were told, in which the Christ-child had been born. But our curiosity was again aroused when we noticed that an Arab, wearing the Mohammedan costume and armed with a rifle was standing guard over this sacred place, and it was upon inquiry that we learned the reason for this unusual condition. A few years previous to our visit the different Christian denominations who had been worshipping at the same time in this church had not agreed upon some particular topic of discussion and a battle had arisen; a real genuine fight in which several were wounded. As a result of this it was decided, perhaps unanimously, by these Christian sects, these pseudo-Christians, may I call them, to divide the Church into sections designating a particular section to each sect; and in order that there should be no further confusion or fighting they also decided to place an Arab guard, not a Christian, but an Arab guard, over the birthplace of the Savior. Imagine such a condition! How disgusting it seems to us to know of the necessity of having an armed Arab guard standing in that most sacred place to keep Christians from killing one another. 

That brings to mind the very thing that exists today throughout Europe, that exists generally throughout all the world — the lack of brotherly love and respect for the rights of others. Hatred often arises among Christian denominations — not love for their fellow-men; not the spirit of the gospel of Christ, but in their place antagonism, strife and contention. 

Now that my mission has been completed and I am back among the Latter-day Saints, I rejoice in the opportunity of meeting with you. I am happy in the knowledge that we, as a body, are united. We are making an effort to wipe out the differences that exist throughout the Christian world, by earnestly teaching the true gospel of the Lord; the gospel of good will and fellowship; the gospel of peace. True, we are having difficulty in winning our way and bringing people to the light of gospel truth. Perhaps, in numbers, we shall for a long time be in the minority, but we have the assurance that to us has been given the  and everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ. We know that the prophet, Joseph Smith, was a true prophet of God, and we know that in these, the last days, we are being directed by the Lord through his servants. This is his Church; we are his children and it is our privilege to receive the blessings which he has promised us, provided we are faithful and true to all the covenants we have made with him. 

I bear you my testimony that I know that this is the true work of the Lord. I know that we are living in a day and age when it behooves everyone of us to hold firm and steadfast to the principles of the gospel. I pray that the Lord may strengthen all of us, that he may give us his Spirit at all times to guide and direct us in all that we do, so that eventually we shall attain salvation in his kingdom. May God bless us all. May the spirit of this conference influence our lives, and may we carry to our homes the determination to go on in this work and to do the things which will bring us happiness and joy, not only in this life but in the life to come. I pray for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER EUGENE J. NEFF 

Former President of the Hawaiian Mission 

Last evening I had decided that I ,would come to conference early this morning, that I might gain entrance to the Tabernacle and hear the keynote of this conference given by the President of the Church, when a party, casually, informed me that I was to be one of the speakers here this morning. I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I desire an interest in your faith and prayers the few moments I may stand before you. I have stood before many large congregations, hut I have never stood before any that I did not feel reliance on the Spirit of the Lord to give me utterance. I have preached the gospel in the Hawaiian Islands, spending eight years of my life there. I have stood before thousands of tourists and aboard steamers, enroute to and from that land, the governor in his palace, and defended the word of the Lord before him. I have stood in large hotels before five hundred or more of their prominent citizens in a reception given to Prince Otoni, a Japanese who is the head of ten million Buddhists of Japan. I have stood in our conference assemblies in Honolulu, in our beautiful chapel there, where we have had a congregation as large, or nearly as large, as the congregation here today. I have also met with our Hawaiian people in a little grass hut, when only four or five of us would be gathered together, sitting on the mats and there preaching the gospel to one another. But, as I say, I never stand before a congregation of any size or kind but that I feel 1 reliance on the holy Spirit to give me utterance. 

I was pleased this morning to hear this splendid choir of the Dutch people. Like Brother Kimball, I am a descendant of the Dutch people, my father being one of the Pennsylvania Dutch, who emigrated to Utah in 1847. I am thankful also that God has made as one all nations of men, that he has gathered us from the north and from the south, from the east and the west, from the isles of the sea, and that all over the world he has sent his messengers of salvation, and the people have come to Zion. I regret, however, that some of those who have mlade such sacrifices to come to Zion, who have made all but the supreme sacrifice to come to Zion, have come only to apostatize. I also know missionaries who have spent years in the mission field bringing salvation to the souls of people who sat in darkness, who have returned home and neglected the chance of salvation to their own souls. 

As I said before, I have spent eight years in the land of sunshine and flowers, in the land of fair Hawaii, the land said to be the only place under the sun — the only part of the garden that was not touched by the curse on man. Those little dots,, as they appear on our map, in the Pacific ocean, really seem to be a part of the paradise which has not received the measure of the curse which some of the other nations have received. The gospel has been firmly established there. We have there the third largest mission in the Church, with fourteen thousand members, with baptisms exceeding all except two others in the Church. 

It was partly through the instrumentality of George Q. Cannon, I believe, the father of Brother John Ql Cannon, who offered the opening prayer, that the work was established there. 

The Lord has always been mindful of the seed of Lehi, and as early as 1842, the Prophet Joseph, by revelation,, sent Parley P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer, Jr., and Ziba Peterson on a mission to Missouri to bring the message of salvation to the seed of Lehi. While their mission was not altogether successful as far as conversion was concerned, yet it showed the deep interest which the prophet had in that chosen people, the seed of Lehi. 

Before the prophet's death he sent missionaries to the Society Islands, and they labored there and opened up that mission. 

Three years after the pioneers arrived here in Utah, in 1850, at the conference held in October of that year, Brigham Young called ten missionaries to go to Hawaii and open up the work there. Some people thought it was wrong to take the strength of their manhood out of the valleys at that time and send men to the nations abroad; they needed them here; they wanted to redeem this desert. Why should they go to Hawaii and other lands on missions, when it seemed that their services were most needed here in Utah, in redeeming the country from its barrenness ? 

In those days many missionaries went on foot over the plains third class on the boat, and second on the railroad— if there was any second. Things have changed since then, and today we go on beautiful, palatial ocean liners, with all the conveniences of the world, and we go first class. Not so with these first missionaries who went to Hawaii. They embarked on the voyage, and worked  way to the port of Honolulu, arriving- there and wending their way up through the narrow streets to find lodging for the night, and the next day repairing to Punchbowl Hill, or, some say, Pacific Heights; and there they knelt in prayer and dedicated the land of Hawaii and themselves to the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That was in 1850. Since that time there have been over eight hundred missionaries go to Hawaii. There have been many hundreds and thousands converted. Today we are reaching back and working for the forefathers of those people and are doing work for them, in the temple at Laie. Truly the gospel of Jesus Christ has reached out for the salvation and redemption of the Hawaiian people. 

Elder George Q. Cannon, who was the youngest of the first missionaries to go to Hawaii, went from Lahaina to Wailuku, going down the valley of Iao and to the city of Wailuku. As he crossed the Wailuku river, his foot slipped and he fell into the water. Discouraged he arose and intended to retrace his steps, but the Lord revealed to him that he was to go to the city of Wailuku and there the way would be opened up before him, so he continued on his way. Now it happened that a certain chief who lived in that city had a manifestation that a white man would come that day to him with the message of salvation. He related this to his little girl. As Brother Cannon came along, the girl saw him and ran to her father informing him that the white man had come. The chief went out and invited Brother Cannon into his home and Brother Cannon taught him the gospel. That was the means of opening up the work in that place. Brother Cannon learned the language and with the other elders went from city to city, and at Pulehu they performed the first baptisms. It was in this village that Elders David O. McKay, Hugh J. Cannon and E. Wesley Smith, in 1921, the latter then presiding in Hawaii, were visiting when they were led to pray. As they were praying under a beautiful pepper tree, one of the Hawaiian brethern had a manifestation. As they finished the payer, Elder McKay officiating, the native elder said to Brother E. Wesley Smith : "Did you see an arm extended while Brother McKay was praying?" Brother Smith answered that his eyes were closed and he did not. The other brethren seemed to sense an unusual feeling as if visitors from the unseen were present, and when they were leaving the place Elder McKay declared that the veil between them and the spirit world was very thin. Elder Cannon spoke up and said, "There was no veil." I believe that the spirit of his father was present upon that occasion, as he loved the people of those islands. I believe that he loves them today and that he is interested in them as much as he ever was. 

The first missionaries went from this section around to another little town on the east side of the island, and there they gathered in a grass hut one hundred people to hear the message of these strange white mem As they all sat around the mat and heard the voice of this missionary from Utah, they were transfigured before George Q. Cannon, and he saw ninety-seven of them become white, and three of them remained dark. He did not understand. He did not know why it was that three of them would remain dark and all the rest should become light. He received a partial answer to this manifestation when it was learned that ninety-seven of those people in meeting at this time joined the Church, became devout members, lived and died Latter-day Saints, while three of them never did. It is said that they will become a white and delightsome people. They are delightsome at present, and I believe they are going to become white. They are growing whiter from year to year. I have said to myself and to some of my intimate friends that I thought the Hawaiian people would become white and delightsome, through intermarriage. I do not know whether that is according to the doctrines of the Church or not, but they jhave married the oriental races and married white people on the islands to such an extent that today there are more half casts than there are pure Hawaiians. 

Possibly the natives appear light to us and dark to people who are not acquainted with them 1 . When we are laboring among them we do not notice their dark skin, we are one with them. We are not two nations but one nation in the work of the Lord. I remember that twenty-five years ago, on my first mission, when I first arrived in Honolulu, I saw the little ^Hawaiian boys diving for pennies dropped from the boat. I thought they were dark, but they do not look dark to me today. The Book of Mormon is the only record that reveals the origin of these people, although some people have endeavored to connect them with the negro, which cannot be done. 

During the time of the Johnston Army difficulty all the missionaries in the islands and in other lands were called home to Utah. Several thousand of the natives had joined the Church and for a while they were left without missionaries. The Church bought land at Lanai for the purpose of gathering the members of the Church there. Walter M. Gibson, an adventurer and an ambitious man, joined the Church and was sent to the islands as a missionary. He was to go to the Society Islands, but he landed in Honolulu and thought that place was good enough for him, so he stayed. He represented himself as an elder and had his certificate and other credentials to show and thus won the natives who believed him to be one of the leaders of the Church. He gathered the people together at Lanai and ruled over them with a high hand. He took advantage of their native simplicity and established himself among them with almost supreme power. A report reaching President Young of conditions, he sent Elders Ezra T. Benson and Lorenzo Snow, who were apostles,, and Elders Joseph F. Smith and William Cluff, down to the Hawaiian Islands to adjust the trouble there with Gibson. Elders Joseph F. Smith and William W. Cluff had been missionaries in the islands and were therefore acquainted with the people and their language, Elder Smith speaking it very fluently. When  brethren arrived they discovered that Walter M. Gibson had organized the members of the Church in various ranks, charging them for the Priesthood he conferred according to the importance of the office. He was also collecting their tithing and spending it as he pleased and thus he was becoming rich at their expense. The missionaries endeavored to get Gibson to repent, but he would not, and so they had to cut him off the Church. After laboring diligently and with much difficulty, they finally got the native Saints to understand that they had been deceived. The brethren predicted that Walter M. Gibson would lose his influence and power and would eventually die in the gutter if he did not repent. After this he rose in power on the islands for a while but eventually was forced to leave and went to San Francisco where the prophecy was literally fulfilled. Mr. Gibson -endeavored to convince the Saints that the missionaries were usurpers, and he said : "Hearken to them, if you will, but you know what I have done for you." Elder Joseph F. Smith who was spokesman for the brethren said in substance : "This man whom you uphold as a leader and a representative of the brethren in Salt Lake City is a usurper. He was not sent here. He has gathered you and has changed the ordinances and transgressed the laws of the Church," and finally the people were convinced. 

The people after they were convinced gathered again at Laie, where a gathering place was established and where the temple now stands. 

I rejoice in having had the privilege of laboring in Hawaii. These eight years have been the sweetest years of my life, and I long to see the interests of the Hawaiian people promoted. I want to see them grow, as I know they will grow under the able leadership of President William M. Waddoups. The work is growing there, and it is marvelous how many God has called together from that land. People today almost concede the Hawaiian people to the "Mormon" Church. I have never seen Chinese and Japanese — those who we claim are not susceptible to the truth- — intermarry with the Hawaiian race without their descendants becoming susceptible to the gospel, and we are bringing them now to a knowledge of the truth. 

I see my time is up. I pray that the Lord will bless the people through these sessions of conference, that we may be inspired of the Lord in gathering together to hear the word of the Lord. 

"Blessed is he who can play upon the harp of life the harmony of God, 

Who can see in lofty heights, and moonlit plains, 

And wooded dell, and flowing fields of grain, 

The love of his own Maker; 

Who can hear in song of bird and buzz of bee, 

In rippling rills and mighty cataract's fall 

The voice of his own Creator; 

Who counts himself as one small part of God's great whole, 

Yet forms a golden link in life's unbroken chain. 

Who sees and knows and feels God's presence everywhere : 

He has learned the harmony of love and life, 

Of God and man." 

Amen. 

A male chorus from the choir sang, "Rock of my refuge." ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am very desirous that what I may say to you good people will be under the influence of the Holy Spirit. 

I have been in the service for a long time. If I have ever been vain — and no doubt I have been — I think men are really more vain than women, and that is a hard blow! — I have no ambition at the close of my life other than to serve God and keep his commandments, give service, and do my duty. 

I do not know that I have ever had a greater desire in delivering a message to the people than the hope that the Lord will burn it into their hearts. After years of experience, I have learned that it is not what you say that counts, it is what you feel. It is not what the speaker delivers, it is what he thinks. If Latter-day Saints are to fulfil their destiny among the children of men, they must do their own thinking, and men and women and children in this Church, if they keep the commandments of God and are under the influence of the Holy Ghost, are entitled to inspiration, to revelation, to dreams and visions, for their own salvation. But that is as far as you can go, and any person who thinks he is living so close to God that he can direct this Church, unless he repents, he will apostatize, as surely as God lives. God never gave us inspiration and revelation to take the place of the prophet of the living God. 

I am a great believer in looking forward, not downward. I am not a believer in looking backward, except for wisdom and for the experience that others have had. With me it is the future. But I want to tell you there can be found a great vision in the past, and what Brother Neff has said about the brethren in the Hawaiian mission can be said of other men. When I think of men, I think of my father. He was a young man — they were all young men at the time of the great apostasy, when there was not a quorum in the Church, from the presidency down, that was not shaken — when Hyrum Smith, the patriarch, the brother of Joseph, whispered in father's ear, "You are to go to England for the salvation of the Church." 

One thing- I desire to get before you is this : Our people are sensitive to some things, they are full of criticism. God never created a man that could please all the "Mormon" people — and if any one ever tries to please all of them, he will fail. You cannot please all the people. The Savior did not please all. They crucified him and killed all his witnesses. And so it has been throughout history. Some people do not think you can write anything by inspiration and read it. But I want to ask- the people, after all the experience I have had, "How can you tell when you have the spirit — when you pray and when you administer? I have never been able to tell until it comes, and when it has come to me and I have thought I had it, some people did not think so. 

I have before me, in a written document, something I am going to say. You may not remember it, but I will say it anyway. I never wrote  book in my life and never will, but I have written thousands of things and pigeon-holed them and never read them to anyone else but myself. I want to advise this people, if the Lord ever does give you an inspiration, for heaven's sake write it down and remember it. If Joseph Smith the prophet had not done that, you would never have had some things contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. I have in my possession an inspired writing 'by my father that no one in this Church outside of a few of his family has ever read and no doubt it never will be in print. Why? Because it was given to Heber C. Kimball for his own good, for his own encourgement, and it would surprise you more than anything you have ever received, if I should stand here and read what God revealed to his servant Heber C. Kimball. But it was not for the Church. 

I am about to read something to you. You know I am a native. I guess I look like it too, don't I ? I was born in these valleys, up here on the hill, six years after the pioneers arrived. I do not remember much about their hardships and about the famine, but I certainly look like I had passed through the famine! I recall that the first thing these great men did, President Brigham Young and his followers, was to select their inheritances. Heber C. Kimball had the privilege of taking one of these city blocks. And now his posterity are a race of people that we think numbers more than two thousand. He went up on the hill, dug the rocks out, and built a stone wall around the block. And I was kept inside of it on Sundays. And I hate rock walls yet! 

I will read to you from a talk I made in San Francisco about four years ago. I have never delivered it or read it since. I desire to find out what you think about it. It is about "The Most Beautiful of Cities," and it begins with a quotation. 

Kenneth L. Roberts said : "There is frequently a peacefulness and tranquility about various ancient things like old furniture and old books and old clothes and old cities, provided they were good before they began to grow old, that tend to soothe the minds of those who associate with them." 

"The inhabitants of the youngest states and the newest cities are the ones that emit ear-splitting screams of wounded pride and injured innocence at the mildest and most justified of criticisms." "Mormons" may modestly advertise Salt Lake City as a wonder, or an enchanted city and it might sound by comparison with New York, Chicago, or San Francisco like a child's description of a new henhouse, which may or may not be an exaggeration. I read Brisbane's comments as he passed through Salt Lake and, being a native, I branded him as a poor humorist. 

I am told, in a mild-mannered way, that Salt Lake City would have had a population of 500,000 people, if 350,000 hadn't gone to California. We have a process of cleaning our city of all growlers and kickers. We smoke 'em out and then the atmosphere clears, the sun shines, the grass turns green and the flowers grow, and we honestly can claim Salt Lake to be— "the Most Beautiful of Cities." The following excerpts were taken from an article entitled "The West as I Saw Her." I read the article while in California, and if I had not written it down, I never would have had it, because I am like you people, I only hold a pint and I soon run out! The article was written by Shaw Desmond, Irish author and publisher, in the March number of Scribner's Magazine. The article is based on the writer's experience gathered during three visits to America in which he spent nearly a year, lecturing in the chief cities and covering some 50,000 miles: 

"There is a City of Dreams in America as little known, so far as 1 have read her guide-books, as one of Rider Haggard's Lost Cities of Africa. Nobody that I have met in America knows anything about this city, and this especially applies to those who say they have visited it. 

"It is easily the most beautiful city I have seen on the North American continent. I think it must be one of the most beautiful cities in the world, and the way to it in mid-winter is hard and cold and cruel; then, all at once, it burst upon me, 'my City Beautiful.' I was running into Salt Lake. Once more I, with whom the Indians had ridden along the invisible trail by the side of which the iron rails had been laid, seen by the eye of imagination, was looking at a tented wagon, at the 'prairieschooner' of the old days, about it a body of silent men, with mouths of leather and jaws of steel as they broke through the last pass in the mountains to find the land of promise laid out before them with the snow-capped mountains eternally sentinelling," [Do you feel that? I feel that in every fibre of my being] "inside which they were to build their city, the city to be the most beautiful of the cities of the continent. 

"Europe believes two things about Salt Lake and believes them periodically. It believes that every man there has at least four wives and that every now and then its streets 'run with blood.' (Europe still has confused ideas about avenging angels.) My first difficulty in Salt Lake was to find a 'Mormon.' " [They are hunting for them yet!] "A red-faced man in a wondrous uniform of gold and crimson with a badge in his hat looked like the real thing, but upon near inspection and conversation, turned out to be a Baptist and a red-hot Baptist at that. He had some mystic job at 'meeting strangers,' though I did not find that he 'took them in.' I rather think they had to be Baptist strangers. Salt Lake City is the city of shocks. I received shocks to every preconceived opinion I had ever had about the 'Mormons,' not only did I discover that plural marriages are unknown, but that it was quite impossible, save by a doubtful effort of imagination, to separate the sheep from the goats, that is to say, the 'Mormon' from the Gentile; and to you kind reader I leave it to decide which are sheep and which are goats." [And you have to have inspiration to separate them today. I am in favor of ear-marking and labeling them, so you will know them!] "I discovered a quiet respect for the 'Mormons' by their Gentile friends, a constant and ever-flowing tribute to 'Mormon' industry, 'Mormon' art, 'Mormon' initiative. The 'Mormons,' I discovered, were not '100' but '101' per cent Americans, obvious by their loyalty to the American , proud of their American citizenship, and proving it all by shedding their blood under Uncle Sam in the great war." [By the way, the Kimballs were just as loyal, for Heber C. Kimball had thirty grandsons in the world war. I am happy to say that not one of them was killed — and they did not run, either.] 

"I hold no brief for the 'Mormon' outlook," says this Irish poet, "but in a rather lengthy stay in Salt Lake, during which I was afforded unexampled opportunities of investigation free from 'suggestion,' I accumulated enough genuine data, checked from Gentile sources, to cause a revelation of the real 'Mormon,' whenever it is given to the world. I made hosts of friends at Salt Lake, where I lectured to all sorts and conditions of men and women, from the Chamber of Commerce to a lecture under the auspices of the University of Utah. I came to the city without expectations, I left it with the picture of its icy snows under the dawns descending, as I lay in my room with its glass walls, left with the memory for all time of its broad streets, of its giant organ, upon which my 'Mormon' friend permitted me to play, of its white 'Mormon' temple, its lake of the dead and the limitless sage and salt surrounding it. It remains for me a remembrance unforgetable." 

Did you ever hear a "Mormon" talk like that ? Did you ever hear a "Mormon" damn this country? Well, I want to advise them to quit it. Every "Mormon," son and daughter, ought to lift up his voice in praise to God that he led those great prophets and their people to a place of safety. Think of it for one minute, my father, among the rest, was driven from his homes five times! No wonder they felt to praise God and dedicate this place to his service. 

I have now come to what I want to burn into you, and I wish the Lord would give me the power to do it. 

A NEW GENERATION HAS ARISEN 

A prophet in the wilderness was still crying, but there were few to pay heed — there was scarcely anyone to listen — material force was in evidence in its might. It seemed so foolish to rely on so slender a thing as Divine support. 

It ought to be self-evident to a Pagan that arrogance and earthly power can vanish over night, all that is not built upon God shall fail. To trust to material standards of strength brings calamity; material force, as apart from God and opposed to him, cannot succeed. Why can't race-"Mormons" understand that? 

A new generation has arisen! The people seem so content, so free from all concern; but like the Jews, in the days of Joseph, they can be hurled from their high position into the bitterness of slavery. And we are going into slavery and bondage, and debt, as fast as we can go! 

We older men think our story should be told of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and the faith of our ancestors, and we write a book, preach a sermon or two, and think our task is ended. 

This new generation that has arisen have discovered over night that a new world has been born and that the United States of America is about to assume the responsibility of saving the world, and they are content and satisfied. 

At no time in the history of the Latter-day Saint people has there been greater danger for the new generation. The danger comes from ease, idleness, and luxury; as there never was a time when the people were spending their means as prodigally as now and ever reaching out after material things. 

The prodigal dollar seems to be swallowing all that is great and noble with some of the new and rising generation. 

To my mind many of the "Mormon" people are becoming content and self-satisfied. They show evidence of falling down in their spiritual efforts. I know it takes courage to say it. I know that if we say anything to criticize the "Mormon" people, they are disturbed. Well, they need to be disturbed! What they need is a little dynamite! It seems to me a great deal of that which has been gained by faith, adversity, sacrifice and years of hard work is being let loose of by the thoughtless and careless. 

Our fathers and mothers died for the faith and we are living on the faith of our pioneer ancestors : But behold! another generation has arisen, and in the very instant of our self-content the silence is broken by our -being hurled from our mighty purpose. 

Joseph Smith, the mighty prophet, was chosen of God to send forth the message of salvation to the children of men — he was martyred — but that was not the end. It was the beginning of this great work. 

President Brigham Young rightfully succeeded him, and his followers with him fled to the Rocky Mountains. 

Brigham Young led the way for the first treckers of adverturesome spirit in the year 1847, and he and his followers were the original builders in what Daniel Webster christened "The Great American Desert." 

On entering the Salt Lake Valley, Divine Intelligence at once manifested itself in all his deliberations. "This is the place." Why, to some people that has become a chestnut, a hoary chestnut! But it was inspiration from God. "This is the place." There beat in the heart of this great man — he was a master, a prophet of God — a great load of care, the destiny of his people! How I have suffered for just being the father of a family, the destiny of my children! . And here was a great prophet, with the destiny of a great people. 

One has to believe to understand the destiny, object, and purpose of this people. The leaders understood and believed; they knew; God revealed it to them. President Brigham Young and his followers said, We will make this barren waste bloom and furnish clean, unsullied wealth for thousands of poor people from all over the world, who have been crushed under the Juggernaut of our Christian civilization — we are going to plant them under the shadow of the Rocky Mountains, we will create an Eden out of the desert, we will lay out townsites, cities, and build churches and schoolhouses and raise wheat and vegetables. God's children shall be converted to the gospel of. Jesus Christ and be  land. They shall have a chance for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. They shall know their toil will bring them some returns, so that they can have a home and a hope for the future. 

It was a big thought, a great idea, manifested by Divine Intelligence. He was a prophet. He had a vision of the future. 

These great leaders did not want the land and water for themselves — they wanted men to be God's agents — stewards for God, and hold the land in trust as a sacred inheritance. This land was to belong to the lowly of the earth and to be saved for the hewers of stone and the drawers of water. 

When I think of my father, who had his inheritance, owned the land where most of the Capitol grounds are and away off to the left, I remember that he took these poor English people that had emigrated from Europe, and took them up on the hill, showed them a lot, and asked them if they would build a home, and they said they would, and it cost them $2.50! Heber C. Kimball and the brethren never speculated and made money off the people. Any charges to the contrary are false. 

These valleys in the mountains were to be made to bloom and blossom for the poor, whose hope is the land, that gave them birth and life and would receive them in its bosom when they died and made a safe return to their home. 

Just take the time to think of the thousands of acres of lonely, thirsty land waiting for centuries to be reclaimed from the ruins of ages. They saw in vision green fields, and farms, just as Josepk Smith prophesied it would be. "It is the place where you'll find all the' things your souls are hungering for. Where the people will own big farms, with green fields of wheat and grass, with purple blossoms and long rows of fruit trees and vegetables." Is that true? It should be true, and that was the intent and purpose of our leaders. My father pleaded with his family, almost as he would plead for life, to keep their inheritance. I am the only one of them on the block, and I am trying to sell, too! 

All will be most beautiful, in the Desert! Through those words I can get a vision. I have a moving-picture mind. It was a vision, a dream come true. Nobody was there to despoil their dream. 

A new generation has arisen. Think of your pioneer fathers and mothers who built better than they knew. Think of the men, women, and children toiling in sweat shops, with little food, families without money, without hope and without fuel, facing cold winters in these great cities, who have been gathered to a barren empire which our ancestors have transformed into an Eden — a land of liberty — a home for the oppressed of God's children, where they can have life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience. The stranger has found his way amongst us and many of us have "sold our inheritance for a mess of pottage" and are seeking elsewhere hoping for more ease, more idleness, more luxury. In this once lonely, sage-covered, wind-swept valley there should be erected a granite monument and written thereon this epitaph : ''Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul, May keep the path, but will not reach the goal, While he who walks in love may wander far, Yet God will bring him where the blessed are." 

Henry VanDyke. 

On that occasion, looking upon those people in the San Francisco chapel and I prophesied; (You know I am a son of a prophet.) and our young elder there, Joseph E. Larkin, wrote: 

"A prophecy made by President J. Golden Kimball of the First Council of Seventy, at a meeting held in the San Francisco L. D. S. chapel, March 16, 1924, and is, as near as I remember, as follows : 

" 'I prophesy that before many of you go to the other side you will have a burning desire in your hearts to return to the places where the leaders of the Church have counseled the Saints to settle, and you will give anything in the world to have a home there.' " 

Brethren and sisters, I am told that North and South America is Zion, but with all of its beauty and splendor and wonderful opportunities, there is no place in the world as safe for the Latter-day Saints as where God's servants had their inheritance. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Hark, hark, my soul," with Jane Van Roosendaal, Nellie Katwyk and Nellie Bruin singing the solo parts. v 

President Kimball announced that the audience had certainly appreciated the music rendered by the Choir, "I always feel to bless our singers.'; 1 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Arthur Barnes. 


