Morning
05 04 1927


ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

President of the Western States Mission 

Words fail me, my brethren and sisters, adequately to express my feelings, in attending this conference. 1 have been thrilled by the testimonies which have been borne in my hearing" by the presiding authorities of the Church. 

I am very grateful for the privilege given unto me to render service in the mission field. That service has brought into my life a joy that is more than pleasure, a joy that is greater than happiness. It is a privilege to attend the sessions of conference, held here, semi-annually, and to partake of the spirit of these gatherings, to worship with you before the Lord. "Man," says one great philosopher, ''is incurably religious. The desire to worship is inherent, inborn." 

We read frequently in the public press that there are some fifty million people in the United States identified with the various churches in this country; that there are between fifty and sixty million people who are not identified or affiliated with any church organization. There is, however, a tremendous amount of personal religion in the world. I find in my association with the people that are not identified with any of these organizations that they are deeply religious, many of them, that they think for themselves, and it is from this class that the majority of our converts, in the Western States mission, come. 

I asked a prominent clergyman in the state of Colorado, a short time ago, what his greatest problems were. He answered me that the three great characteristics of present-day church life are, our intense triviality, the uncertainty of our position, and our complacency, national, civic and religious. Said he, "We have sociability instead of sacraments, statistics instead of salvation." I assured him that we were not so situated, and stressed the fact that we were not uncertain with regard to our position on fundamental doctrines of the Church. The burden of our message to the world has been that God has spoken and that he has delivered his word and restored his gospel anew to the children of earth, in the nineteenth century. We have renewed the 117  that has come flown through the ages from the Master's lips, that if men will serve him and keep his commandments and yield obedience to the saving ordinances of the gospel, they shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God, or whether we speak of ourselves. 

I asked a lady a few days ago why she was not identified with any of the churches of the world, and she replied, "Because in my investigation of the various systems of religion, I have discovered so many theological contradictions." We invited her to make a thorough investigation of the claims made by the Latter-day Saints, and assured her that she would find no theological contradictions; but, on the contrary, she would discover that the Church is built upon a solid foundation; that it is built upon Jesus Christ our Lord and upon the foundation of apostles and prophets, the Savior of the world being the chief cornerstone; and that she would find peace to her soul if she would obey the commandments of God and the fundamental doctrines that are taught by the Church. She has later assured me, having come into the Church, that she has had greater joy in the few months she has been identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than in all her experience up to joining the Church. 

There is only one way that we may be satisfied of the truth, and that is through the power of the Holy Ghost, which is promised to every individual who obeys the gospel of the Master. The clergyman to whom I have referred made this statement: "Christ is the supreme issue confronting the world at the present time." Our declaration to the world is that they may know the Christ if they obey his gospel. Through the power of the Holy Ghost they may be assured of his reality, and the efficacy of his atonement in redeeming the world. He declared to his disciples that all power was given him in heaven and in earth and instructed them to go out and preach the gospel of repentance, baptizing in the name of the Father, and pf the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching people to observe all things whatsoever he had commanded them. He had said to his disciples that no man knoweth the Father save the Son. Neither knoweth any man the Son, save the Father, and him to whom he will reveal him. He invited men and women everywhere to come unto him, and to take upon themselves his yoke, for he said, "My yoke is easy, and my burden is light." Amplifying the statement of the Master, the Apostle Paul declared that no man, speaking by the Spirit, calleth Jesus accursed, and no man can say that Jesus is the Christ but by the Holy Ghost. 

We affirm that the Church which we represent out in the world, this Church, is the Church of Jesus Christ. He organized it; he owns it, and it is his\ and the organizations represented here today are the instrumentality through which our Father may promulgate the glorious truths of the gospel to the nations of the earth. 

1 bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know, as I know that I live, that these things are true, that God lives, that Jesus Christ, his Son, is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, and those who have been GENERAL CONFERENCE  with him are men of God and are the mouthpiece of our Father unto the children of men. 

Reference was made to the fact that some of the younger generation would deny the faith. I call to mind that we have in the Western States mission at least one who was associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo. I attended a meeting in a small town where he resides and listened to his testimony. I listened to the testimony of his son and his grandson, and his great-grandson, and every one of them testified that he knew that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. The man who had been an eye and ear witness to the power that rested upon the prophet of the nineteenth century was no more sure of his position than the youngest man who bore his testimony, because he had received that witness from the Holy Spirit. 

May God help us to appreciate our responsibility and to render service in the cause of Christ, that the world may be left without excuse in the day of judgment, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the Northcentral States Mission 

I sincerely desire that the few moments I occupy I may be inspired by that same spirit which has characterized this conference thus far. 

One of the ancient prophets, as he saw in prophetic vision the introduction of this great work, said that it was to be a marvelous work and a wonder. It is not only to be a marvelous work and a wonder in one way, but in every way. 

Another prophet, in speaking of the ministry of this great work, said that in the latter days the Lord would gather his Israel, one of a city and two of a family and bring them to Zion, where he would give them pastors after his own heart, who would teach them with knowledge and with understanding. 

When the Redeemer was in the world he chose twelve pastors. What was the status of these pastors? Certainly they were men after God's own heart. The Lord passed by men like Gamaliel who educated one of those pastors, and at whose feet one of those pastors listened and was taught; passed by Herod and all of the mighty men, so far as worldly wisdom was concerned, and went out into Galilee and chose ordinary fishermen. He took those twelve men away to the mount, and said to them: "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, and I give you power." That power which he gave those men afterwards concerned the whole world. Even the Roman Empire was shaken to its foundations, for they defied it when they had Peter and John before them as prisoners, and charged them that they should not preach Jesus Christ any more in Jerusalem. The simple answer of Peter and John was : "Shall we obey man or God ?'" and the Roman Empire said: "If ye do not obey man, we will incarcerate you with chains and ball." And they put them into prison, but that power which God had given them released them from that prison and they went back and said, W e are preaching things that we know; we 119  not preaching that which we have believed or which we think is correct. We are preaching that thing which we do know. They knew not only that Jesus was the Christ, but they knew that his doctrines were of God, by the same power that they knew he was the Christ. They knew that his doctrines contained the elements of salvation. 

Now what kind of pastors has the Lord raised up in this day and generation ? What of these forty thousand men who have been sent forth to preach this gospel from the beginning of this Church, in 1830? Where were they educated ? Where were they trained ? Whence came their knowledge? They were men after God's own heart, and one of the things that characterized these ministers was that they went out and declared the things which they knew. Not from book-learning; not from scholastic education, but by the same power that Peter knew, and they knew by the same power that Peter knew, and they declared as Paul did when he said, ""Brethren, I come not to you with the wisdom of men, nor the learning of the world, but with the revelations of Jesus Christ." And these young men and women have faith. They have been largely young men and women who have gone out into the world — men and women after God's own heart. And they have borne witness, and that witness has been effective because it has been inspired. 

Not long ago in our mission one of our young lady missionaries, only twenty years of age, was invited to dine with a sectarian preacher. As soon as the luncheon was over he proceeded to ridicule her and her religion. She was young in the field, and not able to cope with him and his learning, and after he had spoken at some length in ridicule of the message that she had been sent forth to proclaim, she simply gathered her wraps and hat, and stood at his door, and in the majesty of her young womanhood, and in the power of her calling, she bore testimony that she knew that Jesus Christ was the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. The wife pushed her husband aside and went over and put her arms around the girl and hugged her and said, "That is the kind of testimony; that is the spirit that will win the world." 

God has chosen pastors after his own heart, and he has planted in the hearts of those pastors an individual testimony that God lives. Is it not true all over the missions? Ask these mission presidents, if the young men and women who come to them, many times without this testimony, do not in a few months time stand up and say, "I know the Church is true." That is the thing the world needs today— men and women who know whereof they speak, and who are able to back up what they say by the prophecies and teachings of the prophets of God. 

One elder said not long ago: "We want to preach the things the Lord has revealed, and then go to these scriptures and prove that that is the thing he revealed in ages past." 

This is the work of God. He is gathering Israel from the nations of the earth, one of a city and two of a family, and he is bringing them to Zion. He is doing it by the very power which he introduced into this great work and planted in the hearts of the young men and women of Zion, who, I testify, will never fail to proclaim this truth to the GENERAL CONFERENCE . 1 have been associated with these young men and women to the delight of my soul, knowing that there arc no hotter men and women in all the world than these whom God has sent out to preach the gospel. 

1 bring' to you, my brethren and sisters, from the Northcentral States mission, the love, the faith, and a testimony of the integrity and the virtue of the young men and women who comprise that mission. God bless the Latter-day Saints. Send us more help. Men and women who do not know will know, if they come into the field and will live a godly life and follow the instructions of the brethren. They will know the truth and will be able to stand up with their brethren, shoulder to shoulder, and testify that they know this work is true. 

May God be mindful of his people ever, and bless them so that the testimony which they now have may increase and grow. May we be witnesses to the world, for this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in it, not to convert the world, but as a witness, and then shall the end come. May we make this witness ring"* from one end of the earth to the other, and fulfil the responsibility which God has placed upon us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of being a missionary, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am sure that all of the missionaries, at times, become more or less restless, and rather anxious about the advancement of the work in the mission field. At times we feel that the work is rather slow and that we are not quite accomplishing what we should accomplish. This feeling undoubtedly comes because of the love of the gospel that we have in our hearts and the knowledge that it is the gospel of salvation, and that without it men and women cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. Therefore, we are anxious that the gospel may come to the knowledge and understanding of all of the men and women of the earth. 

Recently I was approached by a gentleman who has charge of a radio station. He made inquiry as to whether we wanted to use a time on the Sabbath clay to deliver our message to the people by radio, reaching perhaps three million people. We have commenced that service at home and undoubtedly this kind of education, in the gospel of Jesus Christ, will be established in the different parts of the earth, so that all may have the. privilege of listening in and obtaining some understanding of the gospel we are preaching. 

The Lord is opening the way, and as we come to the large cities and are shut out of the buildings, and it is very difficult to get in touch with the people, the Lord is opening a way whereby we can reach them in their homes and explain the gospel to them. I am sure that we will never abandon the personal labor of the missionary, but we will some day reach more of the homes than we are reaching at the present time. 

This gospel is a strenuous one. It makes men and women work. It requires great service at the hands of people who belong to the 121 

Church, Jand if jinen and women want to find an easy church, an easy way to get religion, the Church of Jesus Christ is not the place for them. \\ e require service at the hands of the people, and the nearer men and women live up to the gospel precepts, the stronger and the better they are. We are not afraid for our young people who understand the gospel of Christ. We are afraid for our young people when they are ignorant and untrained in the beautiful truths and doctrines that we teach in our Church. We are convinced and have proof of the fact that if our young people will study and learn the beautiful truths of the gospel that there is no danger of their going astray or accepting other teachings. We are not withholding books from them. We are not keeping them from association with men and women. In fact we send them out by the thousands that they may come in contact with the trained and the untrained, that they may more thoroughly become familiar with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And just as surely as they will go out and study the gospel and acquire a knowledge of its principles and become educated in its service and acquire humility that they may have the Spirit of God, our young people will always stay with us and will grow up to be men and women who will serve God and keep his commandments. 

I am rather surprised, as I travel among the people, at their attitude in regard to Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I had the opinion when I was young that everyone believed in Jesus Christ, and that our great duty perhaps in a missionary line would be to preach Joseph Smith and his great mission. But we find that it is necessary in this day to preach Jesus Christ and him crucified. In fact that was the message and the admonition of the prophet to the first elders who went out into the world to preach the gospel. The instructions of today seem almost like repetitions of what has happened in the past. We read in the Hook of Mormon about Korihor and Nehor and others who went out and preached against the coming of the Savior, and told the people that he was not to come, and that it was not necessary to put faith in him, that in the end they should be saved in the kingdom of God. We know that we cannot be saved in the kingdom of God unless we acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Son of God, we know that he came upon the earth and gave his life that we might live again. 

May the Lord bless us and help us as a people to stand true and firm in the faith of our fathers. I trust that we will not give up our faith in our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. I trust that we shall never do anything that may cause us to lose our faith and so make us ashamed of the gospel or of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He is a prophet of God and restored to us the gospel of salvation. May we love our Savior, be true to his teachings and follow out his admonitions, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER WM. R. SLOAN 

President of the N orthzvestern States Mission This is truly an inspirational sight, my brethren and sisters, to stand in the presence of these mighty servants of our eternal Father, GENERAL CONFERENCE  I assure you I feel my weakness and my humility this morning as, perchance, I have never felt it before in all my life. 

I read an article in the February issue of Current History. The article is entitled "The Re-building of Pre-Historic America and American Art." The writer said most of us believe it was Columbus- who discovered America, but that facts are now available to prove that America had been peopled; that great cities and towns had flourished here, not only of tens and hundreds, but of thousands, many hundreds of years before the time of Columbus. 

As I listened to the remarks of President John M. Knight I was reminded of an experience which I had three years ago in his mission. Down in an Indian pueblo, — south of Albuquerque, New Mexico, I met an Indian by the name of Pablo Chito. He speaks English, Spanish and French and nine different Indian dialects. In my conversation with him I said: "Pablo, how do you account for these many tribes of Indians, and where do they all reside?" He said, "They are all residents of the state of New Mexico." "Do you mean to tell me that each of them speaks a different dialect and that not one tribe understands the language of the other?" He said that was true. I said, "Pablo, have you ever read the Bible?" He said, "Yes, I have." I said: "Do you remember the 48th and 49th chapters of Genesis, where old father Jacob called his son Joseph, and he with his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, met that good old Patriarch? Father Jacob crossed his hands and laid his left hand on the head of Manasseh and his right hand upon the head of Ephraim. Joseph, seeing the mistake of his father, went to correct him, and said, "Father, you have your right hand upon Ephraim, and Ephraim is younger." Father Jacob said, "Joseph, I know what I am doing. Manasseh's blessings shall be great, but Ephraim's blessings shall be greater. Ephraim shall become a multitude of nations." Then in the next chapter we read of his calling his twelve sons together, and he said unto Joseph : "Joseph's blessings shall extend above those of his progenitors. Joseph is a fruitful bough by a well, and his branches shall run over the wall, and they shall become a multitude of nations," etc. I said. "Pablo, have you read that?" He said, "Yes, I have," and he said, "I would like to tell you something, Mr. Sloan. Do you see that little house yonder?" As he pointed, he said: "That house was built four generations before Columbus discovered America. You think that he was the first man to discover America." Then he said : "Mr. Sloan, I have a diary that goes back twenty-three generations before Columbus discovered America, and there were many white men here before Columbus' day." This struck me with a force that I had never felt in my life before, -and I have tried * to analyze his statement. This man's diary goes back twenty-three generations before Columbus discovered America. I have done some little temple work myself and I have been figuring back to enumerate, if I could, just what a numerous posterity that would mean, and I have only gone back twenty-one generations. If you read that wonderful Book of Mormon you will see that there have been thousands and millions of people who have lived on the American continent, and Mr. Hampden, 123  his article in Current History, enumerates them as millions and millions of people. 

Just recently I received a letter from one of the missionaries in the Northwestern States mission in which he recounted this experience to me. He said : "President Sloan, we called on a man and left with him a Book of Mormon." I do not know why the missionary should have done this without any explanation whatsoever as to the contents of the Book of Mormon and as to its purpose. But he said the man took the book and as he read it he found that it spoke of a wonderful people which came from Jerusalem. They lived upon this continent for a few years and then they divided and subdivided, and conflicts arose, and a curse was placed upon some of these people and a dark skin was the result of this curse. This man thought to himself, "Can this be the negro race of people?" Then as he read further along in the book he found that some day these people were to become white and delightsome again, and he could not imagine that this would be the negro people. One day after reading from this book and thinking much about it he went to visit his daughter who lived just a half block distant from where he was then residing. He spent the afternoon and stayed all night at his daughter's home. During 'the night, after he had retired and fallen asleep, he had what you may call a dream or a vision, or what you will. He was taken into a valley through which a river of water was running. Trees were on both sides of the stream, and among the trees and on each side of the river were numerous tents of Indians, or tepees, or wigwams, as you wish to call them. The Indians were there in hundreds, going about their daily duties, etc. He saw nothing to this, however, except a large tribe of Indians. Then this part of the dream closed and he was carried over into his own home, into his own bedroom, and lying on a little center table near his bed was a copy of the Book of Mormon. He saw the book lying there and as he beheld the cover of it he saw a light emanating from the book, and it arose about twelve inches above the book. There it stood for a second or two and then gradually ascended clear into the heavens. He connected the two together and the next day he sought the elders. He said : "You did not tell me that the Book of Mormon was a history of the American Indians. Now I know it is. I know it is a record of God's dealings with those people, because he revealed it to me in my dreams last night." 

These experiences, the testimony of President Ivins and of the many other brethren who have spoken during this conference, have encouraged me in this work, and my knowledge of this truth that we are promulgating; and my desire and my ambition is to do more in the future, if God will give me strength, to further his purposes in the earth. 

We are working hard in the Northwestern States mission. We have a wonderful group of young men and young women. Only two weeks ago, Sister Powell, one of our girls twenty years old, and her companion were compelled to move their place of residence, and they secured a little home not far from where they had been living. When they went into the little home they found that the stove and the lights X ERA L CONFERENCE  to be connected with the gas. Sister Powell telephoned to the gas company office for them to send a man up to connect the gas. When the man received the call on the other end of the phone he said: "Who is talking, please?" She gave her name. "Your house number, please?" She gave her number. He said: "Will you tell me the business you are engaged in?" She said, "We are 'Mormon' missionaries working in the city of Portland." " 'Mormon' missionaries! This is quite peculiar," he said. "Only yesterday, as 1 have been investigating and studying and praying for light, and that God would bless me and lead me to the truth, a voice whispered to me and said, the 'Mormons' are going to call you up. And here you are calling me up as a member of the 'Mormon' Church. I am not going to send a man to connect the gas, but I am coming myself." 

My brethren and sisters, my time is up. I am happy to bring you the love and greetings of the missionaries of the Northwestern States mission, and in the words of the wonderful vision of the Prophet, recorded in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, 

"Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior.'' 

I bear you this witness, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is and was a prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon is God's revealed truth, and I believe a man can get nearer the Lord by reading that book than any other book in the world. I believe the missionaries today in the Northwestern States mission are nearer God than they possibly have been for some time, because they are reading that book today. They are praying about it, and God is answering their prayers. 1 pray that he shall continue to bles^ us. through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

Former President of the Uintah Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters: While 1 am greatly surprised now, I appreciate that President Grant has allowed me to enjoy in peace the meetings thus far. jl have listened and have been thrilled with the messages of this conference. 

Xot long ago in the city of W ashington I was invited to speak in one of the large churches of that city on the question of "What is 'Mormonism?' " At the close of the talk opportunity was given for the asking of questions. One gentleman prefaced his question with remarks about as follows: "At the time of the organization of the Church there were many Christian denominations in the world, hundreds of them, each trying as best it could. to teach the message of Christ. Your Church came as a discordant note, so to speak. You have been the cause of much trouble. Peace has been taken from some homes because of your message. Those who have joined your Church and lived their religion have suffered much persecution. Much dissension and discussion have come as a result of it, and your own people have suf125  much in being driven from the east to the west, and have become more or less an isolated people. Query: Why 'Mormonism' ? Why all of this turmoil and strife? Mas it been worth while?" 

I shall not have time this morning to answer in full that question, but I would like to call your attention to two or three of the points that I made in answering that gentleman. In the city of Washington, a year ago this last winter, the leading daily paper published for many weeks articles by the leading authors of the country under the heading, "What my religion means to me." I invited this man's attention to the fact that in every case except one these authors had said they had been compelled, during the course of their lives, to revise their ideas of religion; that they had been taught in the days of their youth that the God whom they worshipped was a personal being with a body and with limitations. As they went out into the world and began their study in the colleges, they discovered that if (there is a God he could not be circumscribed with limitations. They saw the evidence upon every hand of his power and of his evefywhereness and they were compelled, so they said, to change their ideas of the being whom they had worshipped, and were forced to accept God as a force or as an omnipresent power in all the universe. In many cases these authors for a time wandered without any religion, but came back to the conviction that there is some force, some ipower, some influence, and that power and influence they had learned to call God. But they rejected entirely the idea of a personal God. This gentleman recalled reading all of these articles. Then I said to him, we are told in the scripture, that to know God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent is life eternal. 

It is, then, of vital importance, is it not, to know him? The question carries its own answer. To know him is the greatest blessing that can come to a human soul. But the question is, how does "Mormon" philosophy solve the problem and reconcile the omnipresence of God and yet proclaim him a personal being? 

"Mormon" philosophy,! I say, has given an answer to that question. It has said, and does say, that God is a personal being, but that emanating from him is a light which fills the immensity of space. The light of the sun, the light of the moon, the light of the stars — the light of all the heavenly bodies. Radio proves the presence of at least something that permeates every known object, no matter how opaque the substance. There is found in all the universe a substance, which for lack of a better term we call ether, In the 131st section of the Doctrine and Covenants it is ( revealed to us that there is no such thing as immaterial matter. But all the forces and everything that is in existence (and we know that the ether is in existence) is but a finer matter. I am not saying what it is. I do not know. It only proves, however, that there is a force, a something everywhere, and whether that be the instrument by which the Spirit of God, the light that emanates from him, operates and fills the immensity of space, perhaps is yet to be discovered. Suffice it to say that there is such an instrumentality. This is in accordance with ^David's description of God, for he said, "If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there; if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; even there shall thy hand lead me. and thy right hand shall hold me." 

So "Mormon" philosophy answers the question that has puzzled the thinkers of the day, in revealing how God can be a personal God and yet be omnipotent. Emanating from him is the light which proceedeth forth from the presence of the Father to fill the immensity of space. Ancient scriptures abundantly attest the fact that God is a personal being, and this is supplemented by the revelations of this day which at once answer the question that 'God may be and is a personal being, and at the same time his power and presence and influence are felt throughout all the length and breadth of the universe. So that "Mormonism" has answered one of the great perplexing questions of the day, and that alone would justify its existence. 

Another question, and I must be brief: Next to the great and important question of finding God is to find out who is man, and to that question "Mormon" philosophy has given a definite and reasonable answer. No man who thinks can believe anything else than that man is a dual being. As we stand by the bier of a loved one, we know that something has departed. Evolution, if it were accepted as truth, explains only the body. That which we love, that which reasons, that which thinks, that which has ambition, that which distinguishes man and makes him a little lower than the angels, but much higher than the animals of the earth; that which is really man must be explained. So far as I have found, after extensive reading and earnest research, "Mormon" philosophy alone gives a reason and answer to the question, Who and what is man? He is composed of spirit and body which make up the soul, or the completed man, and that spirit did not have its origin by accident. It was and is the creation of our Father in heaven, and the material of which it is made is only finer matter, as explained in the 131st section of the Doctrine and Covenants. If it exists it is .something and is, therefore, matter. 

I could give you the explanations of Christian thinkers everywhere. I am sure if you were to "compare them with our answer and explanation as to the origin of man you would admit at once that "Mormon" philosophy has given an answer, not only consistent with logic, but consistent with the revealed word of God. We do not believe as Lyman Abbott, for instance, said, that it is possible when that first monkeyman stood up in the primeval forest, that God breathed into that body the soul that we inherit. We do not believe that. Every man has a spirit, is himself a child of God, created just as naturally and just as much in accordance with the laws of nature as is the body itself. We are all God's children. 

And so, in further answer to the question, Why "Mormonism?" Not only to reveal God, whom to know its eternal life, but to reveal man, his origin, his relationship to Deity, his wonderful mission here and hereafter. 

Another answer, and an answer that is worth while, given in no other philosophy, is the doctrine concerning home. Sometimes it has 127  said by ill-advised people that "Mormonisrn" is not conducive to good homes. O, how utterly foreign to the truth is such a thought! "Mormon" philosophy has revealed to the earth that home is the only unit, when properly /commenced and fully appreciated, that shall endure forever, and reveals to man the wonderful relationship that does and shall forever exist between man and wife, between father and mother, and children, and gives us a picture of what it really is to become one in God's great family. No more ennobling truth was ever taught to the children of men. 

Now we see why Elijah the prophet should be sent to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the earth be smitten with a curse, for it comprehends the binding in one of all the children of our Father into his great family. That alone justifies the existence of "Mormonisrn." I want to say to you that with all due respect to every other religion of the world, I do not believe there is any, other people who look upon the sacred relationship of home as we do. We believe that the binding together of man and wife, the sealing of the children to their parents for eternity, will ultimately bring into one fold all the children of God. 

In brief, then, Why "Miormonism ?" To reveal God, whom to know is eternal life. To reveal man — who he is, and what his relationship to Deity is, — and to proclaim to him how to organize the one unit — home — that shall endure forever. These are some of the reasons, in brief, for the establishment of the "Mormon" religion in the midst of the other religions of the world. This gospel is the power of God unto salvation, the means for salvation, endless joy, endless increase, happiness and progress forever, worlds without end. 

God help us fully to appreciate the biggest and best thing in all the universe, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HENRY N. MICKELSEN 

President of the Lost River Stake of TAon 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, somewhat like Paul of old said, probably one of the weakest or the least of you. I appreciate more than words can express my fellowship and membership in this great work. 

I have not had the privilege as some have had of being born under the covenant, but I have had the privilege of studying for myself. Therefore, in my mature age, I became a convert to this Church, and I can say, as the scriptures say, that the little seed which was sown within me has developed and grown. Wherefore we know, if that be the case, that we are not in error but are continuing in the light. I, too, with the rest of you, in another sense, make the same statement as did Paul : "But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man, neither did I receive it of men, but by and through the revelations of Jesus Christ." 

That is why we are all here. We have not received this gospel of GENERAL CONFERENCE . but through the revelations of Jesus Christ. Not perhaps through a direct message, hut hy the influence that he has left us. 

I always appreciate hearing someone speak concerning the Book of Mormon. That hook is the reason for my standing before you today. 1 believed it to be the word of the Lord, and in reading it, said to my wife: "If the Bible is the word of the Lord, there is no question in this world that this book is also the word of the Lord." As the Bible is the history of the hand-dealings of the Lord with the people on the eastern hemisphere, so the Book of Mormon is a history of his dealings with the people on the western hemisphere. One substantiates the other, and together they give us a strong testimony. 

1 bear you my testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price are true and from the Lord. No wonder we gather here as a host. No wonder men live and want to live worthy lives that they may continue to grow in this great work, that when we have finished our mission here we may take with us the intelligence which we have gained here. We should, therefore, be thankful to each other and continue to work in the Lord's cause, spending our means and living in such a way that our brethren who are not of our faith may see our good works and join with us. 

A young woman from New York City made the statement that it was foolish for the people in this intermountain country to build such a house as we are gathered in, that as far as religious worshipers are concerned it would be impossible for those who are residing in this city to fill it. And yet here it is filled to overflowing every conference. Why is it? It is because we all grow together in this Church. One is not greater than the other, only we respect, of course, our brethren who are over us in authority. But we grow together, we grow in intelligence, and we all take part. That is the reason that we are here today enjoying the Spirit of the Lord and the great testimonies that have been borne. 

It is my testimony that this is the work of the Lord, and that it will grow, and that we will be exalted in our Father's kingdom if we continue faithful and do our bit by taking part in this great organization. May the Lord bless us in our righteous undertakings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER COLEN H. SWEETEN 

President of the Curlew Stake of Zion 

My testimony has been greatly strengthened during this confer ence. In listening to the calls of our mission presidents for more mis sionaries, I feel very proud of the little stake that I have been asked t preside over, for we sense the responsibility of preaching the gospel not only to the world, but to the people who live in our stake who may not understand the gospel. The small stake that I preside over has but 1,250 people. A year ago we had eleven long-term missionaries in the field. When the call came from President Grant for short-term missionaries ten of our brethren volunteered. This is very pleasing to us who preside over that stake of Zion. During the last winter we have 129  fourteen long-term missionaries in the field and three short-term, missionaries. 

We quite often hear people, who are trying to criticise, say that our people are not sincere in their belief. I do not see how any person, with a sane mind, can say that, after listening to the report that Elder David O. McKay read to us yesterday of the time and money that have been spent by the members of this Church, and after knowing, as 1 know, of the effort our people are putting forth in our little stake to preach the gospel to people who do not understand it. I know that we are sincere, and I know that the gospel is true. I know that people who do not think we are sincere have never been humble enough themselves to ask their Father in heaven that they might understand the gospel. There is one truth that we cannot get away from, and it is this : We cannot understand the gospel without the assistance of our Father in heaven. We find in our organizations that wherever those in charge attempt to accomplish the work themselves, with their own power, without asking for the assistance of their Father in heaven, they fail. But wherever they are humble and pray for the assistance of our Father in heaven, he will always come to their rescue and help finish the work they are called to perform. If the people of the world who do not understand the gospel, and are always criticising, would get down on their knees with a prayerful heart and ask their Father in heaven to help them to understand the truth and the beauties of the gospel, I am sure that bur heavenly Father would come to their rescue. I know he has done this for me, and that he will do it for others. I know that the gospel is true, and that by trying to help others in this life we help ourselves. We always get more out of the effort of doing our duty than we put into it. May the Lord help us to perform our obligations here on the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALFRED H. BELLISTON 

President of the Juab Stake of Zdon 

President Heber J. Grant recently complimented a gentleman for having splendid terminal facilities. That part is not bothering me at present. I would like to have a self-starter. Elder Geo. F. Richards, in one of the meetings of this conference, said that it required greater intelligence to create an idea than it did to find words with which to express it. I have an idea that there is truth in that statement. 

I rejoice this morning in being numbered among this people, and in having the privilege of rendering service in this great organization, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a most wonderful organization. It has nurtured me from my infancy. It has provided for me all the facilities which I consider essential for my progress and development. I am not saying how well I have observed and taken advantage of the opportunities that have been afforded, but it has always provided a means for the exercise of my ambitions and for my development. I thank the Lord that in my teens I became interested in the Church and its doctrines and organizations, and received the beneGENERAL CONFEREM E  of its teachings; that early in my young manhood the Lord blessed me with wholesome surroundings and gave me the privilege and opportunity of associating with men and women of greater wisdom than 1 had, who were interested in my life and directed my footsteps in the ways of truth; that it became my privilege to perform a mission to the world, and that even before my return from that mission, several months, in fact, I was chosen a member of the bishopric of my ward. 1 have not been out of the harness since. As a representative of the third generation in the Church, 1 am happy today to say that the faith if still with the family and has not waned in the least from the days of my grandfather who embraced the gospel in his native land, England. 

A wonderful organization, I said. It has been an inspiration during this conference, as it has during many others that I have been privileged to attend, to witness the great body of men of intelligence, busy men, who give their time and their talents for the furtherance of this work, and to look into the faces of thousands who have been called to positions in this Church to minister for the people and teach them the doctrines of Christ, that they may grow in the fear of the Lord. I say that it is an inspiration at this moment to see such men as 1 see before me. We ,do not seek positions in this Church, but they come to us as a rule through faithfulness, and I doubt not that the majority of these brethren who are before us, received their appointments with reluctance, feeling their incapacity and inability to discharge the duties and responsibilities that would rest upon them in serving the people and administering in the various offices to which they have been called. 

As a parent I feel grateful to the Lord that provision has been made in the organizations of the Church to supplement the home and give proper teachings unto our children in the Sunday schools, in the Religion class and other organizations; that means are provided whereby they can be taught the ways of the Lord and be led to fear him and keep his commandments. It is wonderful when we contemplate these things how kind the Lord has been to us, how merciful he is to us. 

I feel that this work is growing. I wish I could report, as the brother before me did, with respect to the missionary work. I think it is a wonderful report that he has just given. I felt that we were one of the smallest stakes in the Church, but we have nearly three times the number of people that the brother who has just spoken has in his stake. It is something to be proud of for a stake with so few members to furnish as many missionaries as he reports has been furnished by his stake. I can see how, in the future, that can strengthen the wards in his stake. These missionaries coming back to the stake with their experience and the zeal that they acquire in the work of the Lord, in their missionary efforts, will repay ten-fold for all the sacrifices that are made now in sending them abroad. I think that this is one thing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that the world is jealous of, this missionary system, the strength it brings to the people. It was said recentlv in a convention by a certain man who had heard many from Utah express themselves that he wondered how it was that the men from Utah when assembled in conventions could express themselves so clearly. This 131  the opportunity to explain to this gentleman our missionary system, for practically all of the male members of the Church have the privilege in their early manhood of going out and proclaiming the gospel, thus developing themselves to become useful and efficient in expressing their ideas and views on different questions pertaining to civil life. I am proud today to be numbered among this people, and to have the pleasure of serving them in our stake. I trust that we may grow and be united in our effort to serve the Lord and accomplish his purposes. 

May God add his blessings unto all of us, that we may do our duty faithfully, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN 

President of the Alpine Stake, Recently Returned from a Short-Term 

Mission in California 

In the fall of 1925, when President Grant announced that he desired men of experience to proclaim the gospel to the world, I was sitting by my counselor, President Clark, and I suggested to him : ''There is an opportunity for you." He answered : "You have my consent." I thought that if I had his consent and could get the consent of the President, I should be delighted to go into the world and proclaim the gospel to the best of my ability. The President told me that if I could arrange' my affairs he would be delighted to have me go, and I responded to the call. I landed in San Francisco on the 4th day of January. I did not go in the fall, on account of the business interests that- needed to be adjusted before I left. I labored in San Francisco but a very short time, and then was called to labor in Oakland. From Oakland I was called to labor in San Jose, and at the first conference we held there, President Joseph W. McMurrin being present, I asked him if he had any objections to my asking the bishops in our stake to recommend missionaries to come down there and assist me in the work. He said he had none whatever; if the bishops would recommend them, he thought it could be arranged. I am delighted to announce to the brethren and sisters present that we ' had twenty missionaries from the Alpine stake, laboring in the San Jose conference, while I was there. I was somewhat selfish in the matter, because I realized, being president of the stake, that when those missionaries returned they would strengthen us very materially, and besides it would do them good and it would do good to the people of the world. 

After I had labored in the mission field six months I was not satisfied. I liked the work so well that I asked permission to remain longer, and I did so with consent. I enjoyed my labors immensely. It was the joy of my life. Most of you are aware that later on we were overtaken in an accident, where eight of our missionaries were hit by an automobile, seven of whom were knocked down and five had to be taken to the hospital. I want to say that at the hospital we received very fine treatment from the doctors, the nurses and the attendants. They were all good to us, and during our stay with them the missionGENERAL CONFERENCE  taught the gospel to the people in the hospital. While we were sick we spoke of the Book of Mormon to them, and succeeded in placing twenty-five copies of that book among the nurses, the doctors, and the chief nurse of the hospital. We talked of the gospel to every nurse that waited upon us, and I think that some good will come out of this serious accident. I cannot understand why such an accident should have happened to a group of missionaries, choice, pure-minded, industrious young people, who were willing to labor in the service of the Lord. I do not suppose that the Saints in early days in Missouri understood -Why it was that persecutions were heaped upon them. I suppose that the relatives of John the Baptist could not understand why he had to go to prison and was finally beheaded. I do not suppose that the Saints in ancient days understood why Paul and Silas should be imprisoned, and why Paul should be shipwrecked and beaten with many stripes a number of times. I do not understand these things, but I do know that the Lord is at the helm, and is able to sanctify all these conditions to the good of his people. When I regained consciousness at the hospital (I was unconscious for two or three hours), and found the doctors sewing up my head, and discovered what had happened, to me, it seemed to me that I was hurt everywhere from head to foot. I had two gashes in my head, my face was all skinned up, my lips were skinned, my hands and my side also, and there was a gash in one leg, and the other leg was broken. Well, it hit every place about me but the most prominent part, and that was my stomach. 

I revisited the hospital to find out how the nurses were getting a-long with the Book of Mormon. We found them interested and reading the Book. Among the nurses was a Chinese, girl who could speak English, and who claimed that she was a Christian. I induced her to take the Book of Mormon and read it. She said she had a brother who was a Ph. D. at the Lick Observatory, at Mount Hamilton. I made a trip up to Mount Hamilton and had the opportunity of talking to him and getting acquainted with him. I told him I knew his sister. I left him my card and the Articles of Faith, and told him who I was. 

I appreciated the opportunity of laboring in the mission field and am glad to return. California has good roads, and many flowers, although they are not so fragrant as Utah flowers. They have good fruit, but I do not think the flavor is quite so good as is the flavor of our fruit at home. I think the people at home are as beautiful as the people of California, but we find some fine people in California, splendid, sincere people. As a result of the accident we had many friends raised up to us, Catholic and Protestant, who entertained us and welcomed us into their homes, and had radio programs and regeptions for us, and this gave us the opportunity of preaching the gospel to them.  

I do not feel to regret the accident very much. I am hardly well yet, but I believe that I will get better, and all of the others who were hurt in the accident are better. The young lady who had to be in the hospital so long with her head crushed is well again. The doctors in California said to me: "There is no hope for her." I said: "Now 133 , I have not felt that way, I believe she will get better." I had not seen the girl, and when they wanted to take me in to show her to me before she left there, I told them I did not want to see her on account of the condition of her face. She weighs twenty-four pounds more now than she did when she went into the mission field, and she looks more beautiful. She is restored, and you cannot see a scar or anything upon her face. It is wonderful. When the doctor was waiting upon me for my foot upon one occasion, he remarked to my good wife who was present: "That is one time when the guardian angels did not have charge of you." My wife said:  "Doctor, you are mistaken, that is the very time when they did have charge of us, and they saved every one of us." It would have been an easy matter for every one of the party to' have been killed, but the Lord preserved our lives, and I hope that those who are injured, and their parents and friends, will appreciate the kindness of the Lord in the preservation of our lives. 

I pray the Lord to bless us here at home, that we may set an example to the world that will help us, and help them. 

The only criticism I received while I was away was upon one occasion when speaking on the street corner. A man stepped up to me, after the meeting, and said: "Your talk was fine, but your people do not live according to what you are teaching) here tonight." I was speaking on the fruits of "Mormonism." I said to him: "Well, in what way?" He said that he had lived in Idaho, and that our people did not live up to their professions. I said : "I suppose there are some members of the Church who do not live up to all they should," but, I said, "the Savior himself got one bad one out of twelve, and it is just possible that the gospel net may gather in some, in these days, who are not as. they should be." That seemed to satisfy him. 

I want to say that we met hundreds of people who had been on the Temple Block, and who have visited the Bureau of Information, and I have yet the first individual to meet who has been heard to criticize or be unkind to us in our visits among them. In every instance they commended the splendid treatment they received here on the Temple Block and at the Bureau of Information. It is a wonderful missionary arrangement for the preaching of the gospel to the people of the world and preparing them to receive the elders. May God bless them, each and every one. Bless these brethren who preside that we may uphold their hands and stand by them in this glorious work of the Lord, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have received telegrams from different sections announcing that people in Idaho and other places are listening in by radio to the proceedings of the conference. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Heber Austin. 


