12
Afternoon
04 10 1935
Elder John Wells
108
40-43

None

None

I am deeply impressed with this vast assembly of worshippers, and it has brought to my mind an incident in the life of the Master concerning his interview with the woman of Samaria at Jacob's Well. He departed from Jerusalem to return to his native Galilee. He was weary with his journey. He arrived at Jacob's Well about noon and rested on the curb of the well while some of his disciples went into the village to buy food. While they were away, a woman came to draw water from the well, and Jesus said to her, "Give me to drink." She expressed surprise that a Jew should ask her for a drink, she being a Samaritan, for, as she said, the Jews had no dealings with the Samaritans. During the conversation the Master said that whoever drank of the water of the well would thirst again, but whoever drank of the water that he would give should never thirst, for the water would be in him as a well of water springing up into everlasting life. The conversation continued, and, because of his statement regarding her past life, she was impelled to say, "Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet." 

The woman then brought up the age-old question of worship, and this is the subject which I desire to call to your attention. She said: 

Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; [meaning Gerizim] and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship 

The Master answered her: 

Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, worship the Father. 

Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews. 

The Jews had a system of worship based on the knowledge of God and his attributes given to them through their leaders and prophets of old. The Samaritans accepted only the five Books of Moses. They were without an authorized priesthood and had drifted somewhat into idolatry. Jesus continued: 

The hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. 

God is a spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. 

No doubt the Master intended to convey in these words that the worship of the Father should not be confined to Jerusalem or to the synagogues of the Jews, or to Samaria, but that wherever his Gospel was preached, the Father should be worshipped in spirit and in truth. 

Worship comes to us from two Anglo-Saxon words meaning worthy-ship. The more comprehensive our knowledge of the object of our worship, the more intelligent and sincere will be our devotion to him. It is inborn in man to worship, but true worship is the spiritual life of the soul. It is sweet communion with God. To worship in spirit and in truth is to worship in meekness, humility, and sincerity. 

We have not been left in doubt as to whom to worship. The Master when tempted of Satan said: 

For it is written, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God and him only shalt thou serve. 

In this day, as recorded in Section 20 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, the statement is made: 

And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. 

We give homage and reverence in our worship to our Father in heaven in the name of his Son Jesus Christ. 

Worship may take place in the mountains, in the forests, by the water's edge, as well as in our homes. However, I wish to direct our attention to worship in the chapels or buildings of the Latter-day Saints that are used for sacred purposes. The Lord has commanded us to go to the house of prayer on his Holy Day and there offer up our oblations and prayers unto him and partake of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper in remembrance of the sacrifice of our Savior, and to covenant that we will keep his commandments that we may have his Spirit to be with us. This sacrament meeting is the basic meeting of the Church, and all who have reached the age of accountability are required to attend. 

In order that we may have the Spirit of the Lord with us, and feel its impressions, our conduct must be in keeping with the occasion. We should maintain an attitude of worship and reverence from the time we enter the chapel until the services are closed with the "Amen" of the benediction. Until the meeting opens, our conversation, if any, should be subdued and consist of a friendly greeting only. Children should sit with their parents, for parents are responsible for the orderly conduct of their children. We should always bear in mind that our worship will not be acceptable to God unless we approach him on this solemn occasion with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, which I interpret as humility, meekness, and sincerity. 

Recently I attended a sacramental meeting where there was the true spirit of worship. The members of the ward entered the chapel quietly, while soft music was rendered. The hymns sung by the congregation and selections given by the ward choir were sacred in character. The prayers were appropriate to the occasion. The sacrament was administered in an orderly manner and in the spirit of solemnity and reverence. We were fed the bread of life in an address on a principle of the Gospel. Here we truly worshipped the Lord in spirit and in truth. 

Our ward meeting houses are the centers of social life of the community. Many of our places of worship are of necessity used for meetings other than sacramental services. They are also used for recreational purposes. Even in these meetings, in order that the spirit of the Lord may be present, our conduct should be orderly and in harmony with the spirit of the purpose for which the building was erected. There should be reverence not only for the occasion, but for the place. 

Carlyle has said: "No greater calamity can befall a nation than the loss of worship." Then, we should go to the house of the Lord with the spirit of worship in our hearts, and our minds prepared for communion with God. The hymns of praise, the prayers of thanksgiving, the words of exhortation and comfort, and the testimonies of the restored Gospel will fill our hearts with appreciation if we enter that place of worship in the right spirit. 

Through this worship there will come into our hearts greater faith. We shall receive courage to go forward in life's duties. We shall renew our covenants with the Lord. We shall be brought nearer to God and to our fellowmen. We shall acquire a deeper understanding of the Gospel. There will come a sense of gratitude for the atonement of our Savior, for the restoration of the Gospel, for the holy priesthood, for the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, for our membership in the Church, and for opportunities to render service in the cause of God. 

My soul is filled with thankfulness for the many blessings which are mine. I know that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I am happy to be counted worthy to hold the priesthood, to be a member of the Church, to partake of the blessings of the Gospel, and to be of service to God and my fellowmen. I feel that our meeting houses are places of worship. They are sacred to me. No matter what meeting of the Church is being held in that place of worship, I feel that I am on holy ground. 

May we as an assembly of worshippers renew our determination to have greater reverence for our houses of worship and by example and precept influence others to have more reverence for these sacred places and to worship God as he has commanded, in spirit and in truth, or, in other words, in meekness, humility, and deep sincerity, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
