3
Morning
04 10 1935
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
16-18

None

None

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to greet you in conference and to be able to participate with you in the spirit of this occasion. I am sure that our Eternal Father is pleased with all those who support him in the establishment of his purposes in the earth. His revelations are not understood so fully perhaps as they might be, but I think that the majority of men and women in the Church are giving attention to his plan and are endeavoring to conform their lives to it. 

The history of this Church is a most interesting one. There is nothing to compare with it in the world. In the building up of the Lord's great work in the earth there has not been a break since the days of his appearance to the boy prophet, when he introduced his Son, and when he planned the organization of the Church; there has been a steady advancement of his purposes among his people. The building of a great commonwealth, the establishment of homes and cities, of stakes, wards, branches, where people reverence the Lord, the spread of missionary work — these things all indicate the progress that has been made. 

There has never been a change in the doctrines of the Church. When I read the sermons that have been delivered, when I listen to men preach today, when I listen to missionaries in their testimonies I can see the same common teacher, the same common spirit all through the period of years during which this Church has existed. It is true that men and women will not observe the things the Lord wants them to do as fully as they might. Temptation is on every hand. There are many things to lead men and women and boys and girls astray, but the Lord's plan will prevail, for his word is sure and certain, and men will finally comprehend the plan that has been inaugurated by him. 

The work of the Lord in all parts of the world is a testimony to men who make investigation. There can be no objection raised by any man, I feel sure, who will sincerely consider the principles of the Gospel that are taught by the leaders of the Church, and by the lay-members of the Church in all the world. In the hearts of all good men and women there are desires for righteous living. There is faith among men. Prayers are poured out to our Heavenly Father for his help and for his guidance. And the principles of truth that he has revealed appeal to the desires and needs of all who honestly investigate. 

The Lord said, when he was in the ministry, to those people to whom he was speaking, that every plant that is not planted by our Heavenly Father shall be rooted up, every doctrine that is taught, every principle that is introduced into the world that does not come from him shall be rooted up and cannot stand. It is only the word of the Lord that can stand. The men who believe that our Eternal Father is a great spirit without body or parts must have revealed to them some day the truth. They cannot walk into the presence of God under such a belief. Men who say there is no Hereafter in the family organization, that there cannot be and is not a continuation of the marriage relation beyond the grave, must be informed, for they cannot enter into the presence of the Lord until they understand these things. 

The living monuments that we are acquainted with — those that we read of in history, and that we individually know — are evidences of the divinity of this work to men and women who are honest in their hearts. Brigham Young, who led the people into this country, is recognized by every one who visits this land and this city from other places, as a great leader, and as one whose works must have been under divine guidance. Men who listen to the sermons President Grant preaches cannot but be impressed with their psychology and sound doctrine and must feel the inspiration directing them. 

Faith is taught in this Church today as it was in the beginning. The people of the world need to have faith taught to them, and it must be exercised by the people in the Church, by men and women who profess to know God. It must be shown in their lives that they have faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ; that they believe in the Word of Wisdom, and that they believe in divine revelation, for after all the great fact upon which this Church is founded is the revelation of God our Eternal Father as it came to Joseph the Prophet in the beginning. 

As I stated before, there is nothing so interesting as the history of this Church, both the doctrinal and the historical parts of it. There is nothing to equal it in all the world, and I invite men and women everywhere to read the record that the Church has made as a body. They will have to conclude that no man or set of men could lead men and women as this Church has been led except God be with them. It could not be done by man alone. Men would fail, their doctrines would fail, but the Lord is with this Church as he has been with his children in former times. From the days of Adam until now he has led his people, whenever he has had a people in the earth who would serve him. 

We do not expect that we are going to be perfect here in mortality, but we hope to go on to perfection, to overcome our weaknesses, to be lenient and kind to each other, and to stand for the thing that we know is right and try our very best to get others to think along the same line. Again I say, if men would only read the doctrines of this Church, I don't care who they are, if they would read a little every day and then make an investigation themselves as to whether this thing is right, I am sure there would be a change in the hearts of thousands of people. 

These western hills are made for men and women to live in. Our Eternal Father led our people here. Yet the strength of God is not in the hills and in the rocks and the stones, but is vested in his sons and daughters in these great valleys of the mountains. Here is his priesthood. His power is here, and here is where his resource lies, and here is where he lives in the hearts of the children of men. 

It is our privilege and duty to lead all whom we can into the way of salvation. We must help them to think and act and live so that they may receive the blessings of our Eternal Father. We ask them to investigate the plain statements that we make so that they may know for themselves the things that the Lord has revealed, and begin to plan for themselves to live beyond the grave, where their glory will be. May we ourselves live so that we may measure up. May we keep the commandments of God and glorify him, knowing that he is our Father, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
