11
Afternoon
04 10 1935
Elder Don Mack Dalton
207
37-40

None

None

I anticipated, my brethren and sisters, that I might be called upon, timid though I feel in this position. I hope I may be able to say something relative to the Lord's work in South Africa that may be edifying to the people who are gathered close to the authorities of the Church here in Zion. 

The South African Mission, as you might understand, is the most distant mission in the world from the authorities of the Church. It takes thirty days to get a letter to an elder down there, and it takes even longer for an elder to travel that distance. We have not very many elders in that land, but I am sure that the ones who are there do about as much missionary work as any missionaries in the world. 

I am very proud of the young men who have been sent to that far-off land to teach the people the principles of the Gospel. With them, my wife and I have been grateful for the splendid labors of our predecessors; and to my immediate predecessor, President Samuel Martin, I desire to pay a tribute of honor, because that man lost everything he had and his health and strength, after he returned home. I have not seen him since, but he did a marvelous and great labor. When I received word that I would be released and that President LeGrande Backman would succeed me, I felt greatly comforted, because he is a noble and good man. I am sure President Grant acted under the inspiration of the Lord when he sent him there. 

The people of that mission are wonderful and our members are loyal and faithful. About forty per cent of them pay tithing. During the six years I had the honor to preside there, there was 129 per cent increase in the mission membership. Upon my arrival there were 596 members on the records. This included children blessed. We rejoiced greatly because we felt that the people accepted our message. 

We had various methods of doing missionary work. We used motorcycles to some extent. We realized that we had to get to the people in order to teach them the Gospel, and the quickest way was none too quick. We stressed Book of Mormon contests in various forms, such as reading contests. Many people there, like the people here, had never read the Book of Mormon through. We stressed Book of Mormon selling contests, and in this way we got the people to cooperate with us in spreading the Gospel. We also held a meeting contest between the Districts and likewise a membership contest. We formed small organizations in remote places, in order to give to all the privileges in the Church that they deserve. 

We had conventions of the elders every year, so that we would know exactly what we were counting as tracting, counting as visiting saints, and so forth. We tried to labor as one unit. 

We found that in order to gain publicity we had to do something that was a bit different. On one occasion my wife and I were attending a foot-ball game. Two universities of that great nation were competing. The bands were playing; people were yelling; and all at once the athletes marched into the field. They stood in perfect alignment. Suddenly everything became silent, and a grave dignified gentleman marched forth to shake hands with the athletes. 

Who was he? The Earl of Athlone, the Governor General of South Africa, the brother of Queen Mary of England. The majesty of the great kingdom of Great Britain was present. 

This silence seemed to strike me and I thought, if only something could be done in some kind of way to get such a great man to recognize a few Mormons. A little poem came into my mind. The author I do not know. 

Some one said that it couldn't be done, 
But he, with a chuckle, replied, 
That maybe it couldn't, but he'd be one 
Who wouldn't say so until he tried. 
So he buckled in with a bit of a grin 
On his face, if he worried he hid it, 
He started to sing as he tackled the thing 
That couldn't be done, and he did it. 

Some one said, Oh, you'll never do that, 
At least no one has ever done it; 
But he took off his coat and he took off his hat, 
And the first thing we knew he'd begun it. 
With a lift of his chin and a bit of a grin, 
Without any doubting or "quit it," 
He started to sing as he tackled the thing 
That couldn't be done, and he did it. 

It seemed that as I looked for an opportunity, as time passed, all at once the thought of baseball came into the minds of the people. We organized a team among the missionaries and began to get write-ups. Suddenly baseball began to take precedence over the national game of cricket, until soon we were playing to nice crowds. The newspapers that previously would give us no recognition whatsoever, began to write about the Mormon missionaries, to tell the people something about us. What did it mean? It meant that we were gaining the confidence of the people. And then we had a great match game against Transvaal, the land of gold. The other team came to Capetown to play. All was ready. Here were six missionaries, with other baseball players, lined out in front of a tremendous grand-stand filled with spectators, and amid the stillness that prevailed the Governor-General of that great land shook hands with six Mormon missionaries. A similar occurrence took place last March. 

This impressed the people so much that upon my departure one of the big business men of that town came to my wife and me, and he said: "Mr. Dalton, you do not know what a great thing you have. It is the greatest thing in all this world. Anything that will make young men do as your young men do is the greatest thing on this earth." 

I was very much pleased to find, as we went along in our work, that the Lord blessed us, and though we were far away from the authorities of the Church, and were lacking their advice in many particulars, the Lord answered the prayers of the missionaries and myself. 

My wife and I, while returning home, made a trip around the world and visited very many nations. While in Italy we had the distinction of visiting the Pope of Rome and the Vatican, and seeing the marvelous earthly power of that great dominion. We also visited Greece and Turkey, and then went into Syria and Palestine and saw the Armenian saints, who are doing a faithful work, under President Piranian. We found in Palestine need for great improvement. Jerusalem is a hill of rocks, it seems to me. May the Lord bless that country. It needs it greatly. 

While going over that great land of Africa I could appreciate how hard the authorities of this Church have to work. With the little presiding capacity that I had I sometimes felt fatigued with the constant roll of the car wheels under my ears as I traveled for thousands and thousands of miles, trying to reach the people. I thought of what the authorities of the Church have to undergo in order to reach the people as they do, visiting the wards and stakes and missions and holding meetings with them. Let me tell you that these great men are the hardest-worked men in all this world, I believe, and we should sympathize with them, and do what they say, and comfort them, and I am sure we will not go amiss. 

In my heart there rings a melody. I am thrilled constantly with my testimony of the Gospel. I know that the Gospel is true, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that President Grant is his legal successor in office. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I felt it in every part of my body when I visited his birthplace in Bethlehem. 

Oh, if we could only realize more fully the truthfulness of the Gospel, and put it into our lives effectively, so that other people might recognize the truth by reason of what we do and say, I am sure that those not of our faith would have greater friendship for us. Why? Because they would have more confidence in us, and we cannot get friendship before we get confidence. 

May the Lord bless us, I ask, in his name, Amen.
