4
Morning
04 10 1935
Elder Richard R. Lyman
17
18-22

None

None

For mankind, it has been observed, there are five great destructive forces, namely, poverty, war, disease, crime and intemperance. It is concerning intemperance that I desire to speak on this occasion. 

One of America's greatest newspapers has stated that the liquor business has been the devoted and intimate ally of every vicious element in American life, that it has protected criminals, fostered the social evil and has succeeded in bribing politicians and juries, and legislatures in every part of our fair land. 

"BILLIONS FOR RUM" 

For prohibition the Church stood strong. It has been said that in 1915 we were expending "billions for rum," and that in 1930 as a result of Prohibition we were expending those billions for homes and better living. It looks now as if we have already returned to the old standard of "billions for rum." 

Thinking Latter-day Saints surely do not need to be told that the standards of the Church remain unchanged and that these require Church members to abstain from the use of all alcoholic beverages including beer. This Church does and must and will forever stand firmly against the use of beer, cocktails and every other beverage containing this poisonous narcotic, alcohol, which I designate our nation's public enemy number one. 

THE FOUR GREAT HEALTH SCOURGES 

Dr. Bogen, authority on the symptoms, causes and nature of diseases says, "No other poison causes so many deaths or leads to or intensifies so many diseases, both physical and mental, as does alcohol." Dr. Weeks, great English authority, cites four British medical writers who name alcoholism as one of the four great health scourges of modern civilization. Cancer, tuberculosis and venereal diseases are the other three. It hardly seems possible, that any human being of moderate intelligence could be induced knowingly to expose himself to the ravages of any one of these four scourges. And yet every glass of beer, every cocktail or taste of any other alcoholic liquor is an exposure to the first named of these four terrible scourges. 

DAVID STARR JORDAN'S VIEW 

In our Church organizations we propose to continue to struggle to teach young people that alcohol is a habit-forming drug, that the first drink is the easiest to resist; and that while a few seem to use liquor with little apparent harm, yet by its use no one is ever made more efficient or more skilful or does more or better work, while by its use untold thousands, many of them the ablest and most promising, have been ruined. When the truth concerning this public enemy number one is thoroughly understood, when its harmful effects on both health and character are realized, its use will be avoided and prohibited with the same vigorous unanimity with which we now prohibit the use of morphine. 

David Starr Jordan says: "The basis of intemperance is the effort to secure through drugs the feeling of happiness when happiness does not exist. * * * 

"There is nothing more hopeless than the ineffective remorse of a man who drinks and wishes that he did not. * * * Men drink to forget. They drink to be happy. They drink to be drunk. Sometimes it is a periodical attack of madness. Sometimes it is a chronic thirst. Whichever it is, its indulgence destroys the soundness of life; it destroys accuracy of thought and action; it destroys wisdom and virtue; it destroys faith and hope and love." 

ALCOHOL AND THE DEATH RATE 

The drinker not only thinks he is not harmed by taking his first drink but he thinks he is more clever, witty, skilful and competent. He does not realize that drinking has brought shame and illness and death to uncounted millions and unspeakable sorrow to those related to these millions. The effect of alcohol is to paralyze judgment and the paralysis begins with the first glass. 

In 1917 for the benefit of 43 life insurance companies a study was made which covered the records of two million policy holders for a period of 23 years and the conclusion reached is that alcohol invariably produces a higher death rate. 

This national public enemy of which I speak is no respecter of persons. To him rank and station mean nothing. There is no man so rich that this public enemy cannot take from him his fortune; no brain so brilliant that liquor cannot reduce its chances of success; no human body so full of health that by drink its life cannot be materially shortened. 

One manager of a large business institution said recently, "Our greatest trouble today is with liquor." Another said, "We can't have this woman in our institution. She actually comes to work drunk." A man came to me for help recently because he had lost his position. He had been discharged for drunkenness and he was drunk when in tears he made his appeal to me in the interest of his wife and children. Officers tell me that rarely does an accident involving two automobiles occur when the occupants of one or both of them have not been drinking. 

"I'll give you a thousand dollars in cash if you will only quit," said a rich man to his young friend. Later the young man replied, "I've tried. I've done my best. I am defeated. I cannot quit." 

WHOM SHALL WE FOLLOW 

And this serious drinking and drunken condition is found everywhere. Are we the people of this great nation whose motto is "In God We Trust," are we the people of this land of liberty who sing, "Protect us by thy might, great God our King," are we in this chosen land following the example of a drunken few who are swinging their bottles and shouting for liquor, or are we following the example of our Pilgrim fathers who, Bible in hand, wended their way to their places of worship and there upon bended knees prayed for strength to resist temptation? 

Where are those, our so-called patriotic and country-loving friends and neighbors, who before the repeal of Prohibition announced repeatedly that repeal would improve conditions? I have not been able to see improvement nor have I been able to find others who think conditions are better. 

OUR GREATEST ENEMY 

The man who has become an addict to drink is powerless to help himself. He has lost the faculties of will and self-control. There are other substances which, in one or more ways, act something like alcohol upon the human system, but in the three particulars which make it our greatest enemy, alcohol stands alone. First, it is easy to manufacture; second, it is easy to take — it is drinkable; and third, it deceives the drinker in its effects upon himself. In this matter of coping with the drinking habit, we the people of the Church can only succeed, as can the people of the nation also, if unitedly and firmly we stand for abstinence, yes, total abstinence, as well as for reformation. 

NOT INTERESTED IN DRUNKEN PRATTLE 

Some people used to think that a few drinks of liquor made the tongue wag more freely and therefore made conversation more interesting; but today, in this age of scholarship and intelligence, no wise man nor even the average man of ordinary intelligence is interested in the prattle and nonsense of a man who is drunk. No man would care to spend his time with his most intimate, his closest, his most beloved friend, if that friend were drunk or even tipsy. 

Robert G. Ingersoll appreciating the seriousness of the use of liquor said, "I believe that alcohol to a certain degree demoralizes those who make it, those who sell it and those who drink it." 

LET US BE ORTHODOX 

I appeal to you Latter-day Saints to stand by our Church standards, to live in accordance with Church ideals. May we be able to say always, "Latter-day Saints do not drink liquor; therefore, I being a Latter-day Saint do not drink." Let us be orthodox. Being orthodox should mean that this and many other questions will always be answered for us in advance as we travel along life's journey. When others participate in social drinking, let us stand by our ideals and standards without having to stop and come to a decision. Let it be cleared up and settled in our minds once and for always that being Latter-day Saints we never drink. 

LIQUOR LAWS SHOULD BE ENFORCED 

With many of my friends in and out of the Church I stood for Prohibition as vigorously as I knew how to stand. I thought then and think still that Prohibition will finally prove to be the ultimate solution to the liquor question. But living in a country where the majority rules I now stand with equal positiveness for the enforcement of our present laws. It was said that if Prohibition were repealed all good citizens would unite in an effort to eliminate the bootlegger, to eliminate drunkenness and drunken driving, to enact and to enforce laws that would keep liquor from minors and from those weak adults who spend for whiskey the money their children and their wives need for food, clothing and education. 

I now appeal to you and to all other good citizens to unite and help enforce the laws which have been enacted for the regulation of the liquor traffic. I appeal for the election to office in every branch of our government those who live in accordance with the law and those who favor its enforcement. Will you be good citizens and go to the primaries and to the polls and help as best you can to see to it that no one is elected to public office who owes allegiance to the liquor traffic or to any of its allied evils? 

THE WAY TO STRENGTH AND POWER 

If we would have the strength of the Puritan we must hold to the practises of the Puritan; we must have in our hearts a hatred for that which is evil. The way that leads to strength and power has ever been and will always be straight, stony and stormy. It will ever remain true that the paths that are easy and flowery often lead to weakness and misery. Resisting temptation strengthens the mind; it strengthens the soul. 

May our children be able to resist successfully the numerous and trying temptations of today. This is the way of righteousness. It has been said that no man can be called strong and virtuous until he has come innocent from the conquest of temptation. And in our teaching let us remember that resistance to temptation must come from within. We cannot by compulsion make our children good. 

What is going to give the necessary strength, the necessary power to resist temptation? Education alone, it seems, will not do it. A knowledge of science will not do it. Many with scholarship and knowledge have had their lives ruined by drink. 

The greatest power that can come into human hearts and lives is the power of God. This added to scholarship and education, will give the required strength. It is the doctrine and practises of the Church, it is Christian ideals, it is belief in a life beyond the grave, it is a testimony of the divinity and effectiveness of the restored Gospel that will make it possible to resist the temptation of liquor. 

MAY WE RESOLVE 

May we have faith in all of these, may we be able, I humbly pray, actually to believe what is written in the holy scriptures. May we feel in our souls the divinity and effectiveness of holy writ. May there be awakened in our hearts an ambition to assist, especially by example, in preserving from temptation those who are young and inexperienced. May we be able to convince them of this truth that touching liquor is playing with fire. 

And may we down in our hearts resolve and get our children and our children's children in their hearts to resolve also never to buy or drink or sell or give any kind of alcoholic liquor. Let us struggle until we have thoroughly conquered this our present outstanding public enemy number one, so that our choice young folks, promising young men and promising young women, may be protected from its terrible temptation.
