10
Afternoon
04 10 1935
Elder Charles E. Rowan, Jr.
127
36-37

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am delighted to have this opportunity. I was released from presiding over the Texas Mission some six months ago, but I feel grateful to the Lord for the privilege I had of laboring as a missionary there. 

I am grateful for the knowledge I have that this is the work of the Lord. During the past six months I have had the opportunity of visiting among the people and of speaking virtually every Sunday. I have been invited to speak at five different funerals. I have enjoyed very much being home among the Latter-day Saints. I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the testimony I have, and for the knowledge that has come to me that this is indeed the work of the Lord. 

"Surely the Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secret unto his servants, the prophets." Oh, how I rejoice in the testimony that has come to me that these men whom we sustain as our general authorities are indeed prophets, seers and revelators to this Church and people — a marvelous thing, my brethren and sisters. 

The other day, when I was going out on the mountain, I heard a noise. I looked, and a large deer jumped and gave a little snort. I looked a little farther along the ridge and I could see eight more deer bounding off into the quaking asp, and I thought that the Lord in his kindness had placed sentinels even among the animals and those of his lesser creations. 

How important it is and how grateful we should be as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that the Lord has placed sentinels, has given us authorities in the wards and stakes who represent the Master, and above all, that we have a prophet, seer and revelator who stands at the head of the Church. I am just as confident as that I live, that the Lord our God will reveal unto him his mind and will pertaining to this great and important work. 

I have been impressed with this conference. I have enjoyed very much each and every one of the testimonies. I was thrilled this morning with the message of President Grant — as I always am — when I heard him bear his fervent testimony as to how the Lord had blessed him in body and in mind all these fifty-three years that he has been serving this people. 

May the Lord bless us. May we live our religion. May we prove to the world that we are indeed God's chosen people, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
