18
Morning
05 10 1935
Elder James H. Douglas
209
60-65

None

None

How shall I sing thy beauty, pow'r and light, 
O glorious kingdom of the latter days! 
I see thy loveliness, I feel thy might, 
But fail in utterance to speak thy praise! 

I search in vain the records of the past, 
Which paint dead kingdoms in their short-lived pride, 
They cannot picture thee, whose pow'r shall last 
While heav'n and truth and Deity abide. 

And shall the little "powers that be" today, 
Be likened for a moment to thy majesty? 
As well declare pale Vesta's twinkling ray 
Unfolds the splendor of eternity. 

In hist'ry only Egypt's greatness lives — 
Lost are its treasures, all its wisdom hid, 
Except the scraps the crumbling mummy gives, 
The sculptured sphinx and tow'ring pyramid. 

Where are the palaces of Babylon, 
The "hanging gardens" and the golden tow'rs? 
With the Chaldeans' starlight wisdom gone, 
Walls, gates and glory, images and flow’rs! 

And thou, O Rome! proud mistress of the world! 
Thine armored legions spread no terror now. 
They bring no blood-bought spoils of gems impearled, 
To deck thy bosom and thy haughty brow. 

O! all ye living governments and states! 
Gaze on the relics of far mightier powers! 
The hand that shattered them, uplifted waits 
The bell that ends your few remaining hours! 

In the high chambers of the West, I see 
An infant kingdom struggling to the birth. 
And the prophetic spirit says to me, 
"In manhood this shall govern all the earth." 

(The words I have quoted are from the inspired poem "The Latter-Day Kingdom," by the late President Charles W. Penrose.) 

The sight that I behold today, as I stand before you, cannot be seen in any other part of the world that I have ever visited, — and I have visited many countries and seen large congregations; but I have never seen a picture just like this, and I tremble as I come before you today to report briefly my mission as president of the British Mission. 

The British Mission is the oldest foreign mission of the Church. Away back in 1837 our first missionaries were sent to England, now ninety-eight years ago. Since that time, if I am correctly informed, 125,000 persons have been baptized of the British people, and as I understand it, at least 100,000 have immigrated to this country. Some have died. Some have remained there, and are still there anxious to come to this glorious land of Zion. 

England has been a fruitful country. It is a marvelous country, beautiful beyond my description, with flowering hedges, trickling streams, shaded lanes and ever-green pastures. In that little area of fifty-one thousand square miles there are thirty-eight millions of people. In England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, there are forty-nine millions of people. There is an area of one hundred twenty thousand square miles in these four little countries and small islands, about three-fourths the area of California, and yet they have a population almost double the population of the United States west of the Missouri River. It is marvelous to think that so many people can live in such a small space. England alone has fifty-one thousand square miles, and Utah has eighty-five thousand. A little country five-eighths the size of our state has thirty-eight millions of people, and we have only five hundred thousand. London alone has sixteen times as many people in it as there are in the entire State of Utah. 

While we have had hundreds of missionaries in Great Britain in the last ninety-eight years, I doubt whether we shall not have to labor there, (using the present method of proselyting) hundreds of years to come, before our message can reach the great multitude of people who live there. 

We learned to love the people very dearly. When we went there President Widtsoe said: "These people need your love." We extended that love to them. They gathered about us wherever we assembled, in our district conferences, and we extended the hand of fellowship and love to them, and as far as I know we did not make a solitary enemy. 

We attended ninety-three district conferences, and traveled up and down England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, ninety-three times. During the period we were there we crossed the usually rough Irish Channel twenty-one times and were never sick once. My wife accompanied me on every trip and was very helpful, as 60% of our membership are women. We did not miss a solitary appointment. Every appointment that we made, we filled. And not a Sunday evening passed, as I remember it, during the three years we were there, that we missed speaking to some congregation, small or large, somewhere, explaining to them the beauties of the everlasting Gospel as revealed in these latter days. 

There are sixteen districts in Great Britain and seventy-seven branches, eighty-five percent of the branches being presided over by local people. Let us hope that in the near future they will all be presided over by local members. We began selecting and setting apart local people to preside over the districts, and I think since our departure and President Cannon's arrival there the districts are now nearly all presided over by local people. We desired to place the responsibility of caring for the people upon the local saints. There is an enrolled membership of the Church in Great Britain of 7,117 persons. I doubt very much whether they could all be found. It would be like hunting for a needle in a haystack to try to find a member of the Church in London, if he were not inclined to find us. 

In my judgment, a building program in Great Britain would improve conditions very greatly. We have only thirteen small chapels there now, and seventy-seven branches, most of which need a better place in which to meet than they have. We need building accommodations for our auxiliary work, and some day, I am sure, if we progress as we should, and reach the hearts of that great multitude with our message, we should have suitable chapels in which to worship. President Grant and President McKay and others who have presided there know our needs, but we cannot get them all at once. The saints there are mostly working people and cannot pay for them fifty percent. Some day perhaps we shall be well enough off to extend the needed help — I hope so, because investigators, unless their hearts are touched by something unusual, will not worship in those places where some of our splendid, faithful saints now have to worship. 

If I were to ask this congregation today to hold up their hands, those who came from England, or from the British Isles, or who are the descendants of those who have come from Great Britain, thousands of hands, I think, would go up. 

In Ireland we are doing some good work. In Dublin we have a branch of about sixty members, nearly all descendants of German people. It is the only wealthy congregation we have. They are all well-to-do. I am sure Brother Callis will be glad to know this. I have thought sometimes that with his life-long experience and great fund of knowledge he could accomplish a marvelous work in Ireland. In Dublin there are 398,000 people. 97% of them belong to the Catholic Church. I am told they have 70,000 Catholic priests and nuns laboring in that vicinity, so you see what a big job we have if we convert the Irish people. 

In Northern Ireland we have a fine congregation, mostly Irish people. That is a Protestant section. But the southern section is mostly Catholic. We also have several active branches in Scotland and Wales. 

President George Q. Cannon, President John Taylor, President Charles W. Penrose, President Charles W. Nibley, Apostle James E. Talmage, President B. H. Roberts, all came from the British Isles. That country has given the Church many outstanding people, and I feel that I can safely predict that there is yet a great and wonderful work to be done over there. 

My wife and I were blessed with remarkable health. We clung closely to the promised blessings that were given us when we were set apart, that we would go in peace, return in safety, and have perfect health while we were away. We didn't have to lie in bed one day because of sickness. We were marvelously blessed. Notwithstanding the fact that I am getting along in years, pretty close to our President now, in my seventy-eighth year, the Lord has blessed me so that my voice has been strong and I have been able to speak two or three times at every district conference. 

We have sixty-two Relief Societies there and sixty-nine Sunday Schools — President McKay and Brother Pyper will be glad to know this, We have fifty-nine Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, sixty-eight Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations; and fifty-four Primaries. The officials in charge of these departments will be pleased to know this, I am sure. We have made a special effort in Primary work during the past year and a half. We also have forty-three genealogical organizations. 

We now have a cabinet in the British Mission office containing forty-four thousand cards, where records are made of genealogical work. I predict that genealogical work there will advance faster and more correctly than it has in the past. 

As I said before — I again repeat, after ninety-eight years of proselyting we have only thirteen churches. We need at least fifty more with suitable accommodations for auxiliary work. If this work progresses as it should we must have better places in which to worship. 

During the three years we were there, there were three hundred young men missionaries, and four young women, from the intermountain country, occasionally one from California, some from Arizona, and some from other parts of the United States. These young people were energetic, dutiful, faithful and exemplary — ever willing to do their duty. We loved them dearly and I convey this message to their fathers and mothers that they were wonderful examples to the British people. They loved their work and made impressions for good wherever they went. 

While we were there we had with us Patriarch James H. Wallis and his dear wife. They were a great asset to the Mission. Brother Wallis had the spirit of his calling as a patriarch, giving about one thousand three hundred blessings. Many of these were given while we were there, some prior to our going. He also acted as associate editor of the Millennial Star, and was of great assistance to me in my missionary labors. 

My wife's work among the sisters was marvelous. Her refined personality was an inspiration to me and to all those with whom we came in contact. 

Some of the principal achievements of the mission during my Presidency are: 

The establishing of mission headquarters in London — a great forward movement. 

The granting of the privilege to perform marriage ceremonies in our Church owned chapels. 

The organization of mission-wide boards of all auxiliary organizations. 

Placing the book shop on a cash basis — greatly saving time and reducing losses. 

Gaining the good will of the Press and receiving favorable newspaper reports of our conferences and mission work. 

Securing the privilege of organizing Scout troops in various sections of Great Britain. 

BUILDING PROGRAM 

Through the generosity of the saints in the Hull district and the co-operation of the First Presidency we were able to build a nice little chapel in Hull. And also purchased a beautiful chapel in Burnley, and remodeled the chapels in Oldham and Manchester. We erected an amusement hall joining the chapel in Norwich and greatly improved the accommodations for Church service in London and various other districts throughout the Mission. 

Nearly 600 baptisms were performed during our mission period. 

With prejudice abating and favorable newspaper comments, people are getting a better understanding of our aims and objects, and we are getting the attention of many who formerly had a very vague, unintelligent impression of the Latter-day Saints. 

As I close I want to express our sincere appreciation to the First Presidency and to all the general authorities of the Church for their confidence in us. We were certainly God-blessed in every way while we were away, in health and strength and spirit. 

May the Lord bless you all, is my prayer, in the name of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, Amen.
