23
Afternoon
05 10 1935
Elder Legrand Richards
171
74-77

None

None

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of again attending a general conference of the Church. I have often remarked during my work in the mission field that I was sure the Lord knew what he was doing when he instituted conferences in the Church, as they are always a great inspiration to the saints and to those who bear the responsibility of leadership, from the very head down through all the organizations of the Church. I am very grateful to the Lord for this great organization. 

It has been my privilege during the past thirty years to labor in nearly every one of the various auxiliaries of the Church and the quorums of the priesthood, and having presided as a bishop of a ward and the president of a stake I have often noted that the men and women who were assigned to labor in the various auxiliaries felt that their particular assignment was the very most important part of the great organization of the Church, because of the splendid work assigned to the particular organization in which they were serving. I feel that as we analyze the various auxiliaries and the priesthood quorums and see the work that is being accomplished, we recognize that truly this is a marvelous work and a wonder. 

When the Apostle Paul referred to the organization of the Church and named the offices therein he said, that this organization had been given to men, "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, and for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to a unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ; that we henceforth should be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive." 

I feel grateful that the organization has been restored to the earth which contemplates the direction of the activities of the lives of its members, in the carrying out of this great mission, and I am sure that this mission could not be fully accomplished without such an organization. I think you realize with me that there are those who lie in wait with cunning craftiness and the doctrines of men, seeking to lead away and destroy the faith of our people. In the particular work assigned to the Church, to which Paul refers, one important part is the work of the ministry, and since that happens to be my assignment at this time I desire to say a few words about missionary work. 

True to form, it seems to me that this is almost the most important part of the work, and yet when I realize how important are our auxiliaries in preparing men and women for activity in the Church, I realize that one department is not more important than the other; but I do want to say to you that it is a great joy to have the privilege of laboring with your young sons and daughters who come into the mission field. Sometimes I feel that the mission field might be likened unto the great laboratory of the Church, where our boys and girls are privileged to put into activity and to the test the things that they have been taught in the auxiliary organizations, to try them out to see if they are good and true to the teachings that we have received. We read in holy writ that "this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." And he that hath faith must "believe that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." 

It is a glorious thing in the mission field to see how the faith of these boys and girls is developed in a very short period of time, so that they actually know that God lives, that he moves in the affairs of individuals and of peoples and of nations. These boys and girls soon have all doubt dispelled. Many of them come to us with critical ideas and analytical minds, and it is a great privilege to sit with them as they begin to study the scriptures, and see how marvelously the truth of the Gospel, as it has been committed to us by the prophets and restored in these latter days, unfolds; how their minds are able to grasp the truth of it, and to see how their faith in God develops so that their prayers become sincere, and they feel that the Lord is with them. 

When our missionaries travel on the highways it is not just a mere form with them that they find a little clump of trees and kneel down together and ask God to open the way that they may be provided with transportation. They learn not only that it is recorded that the priesthood has been restored, but that God recognizes their administration when they are called to administer to the sick and to otherwise officiate in his name. They learn that he lives; they come to realize and know that the Lord is working toward a great end and destiny. They learn to observe the influence of the Gospel upon the lives of the men and women who keep the commandments of God. 

It seems to me that in the face of demonstrated truth, before the eyes of our boys and girls, it should be very difficult for them to return home and turn away from the teachings of this Church. Men and women are literally born again. They are literally made over in a very brief space of time through the influence of the Gospel in their lives. 

At a conference a few weeks ago, one man who had been a member of the Church since last November was called upon to speak, and he said: "Brethren and sisters I have grown more in the last year than in all the rest of my life." These boys and girls contact the Saints and hear their testimonies day after day because of their faithfulness in keeping his commandments. The letters that reach the mission office bring great joy and happiness to our souls because of the faithful testimonies of these saints. One good sister wrote in the other day and said: 

"Brother Richards, when the season commenced we hardly knew how to get the seed to plant our crops, and now our bins are full of grain and our smoke houses are full of hams. I don't know why, except that we pay our tithing." 

I went down into Florida a few months ago, following a very cold spell that destroyed many of the crops there. As I went through the groves of one of our faithful saints I said: "Brother So and So, it is remarkable how well your crops thrive." 

He said: "President Richards, my crop is tithed." 

In the midst of all these demonstrated evidences that the Lord does keep his promises to his people, our boys and girls are seeing worked out before their eyes the fulfilment of the promises of the Lord. I remember a promise that the Lord gave unto his people in this day. He said: 

I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. 

I want to bring you the greetings of the missionaries and the saints in the Southern States Mission. I thank the Lord for the privilege of laboring with them, and I feel that this great missionary system of the Church is one of the very outstanding parts of its organization. I feel grateful to the fathers and mothers who are making the sacrifices to send their boys and girls into the mission field. I pray that this spirit may increase in power among the saints and never diminish, so that our boys and girls may enjoy the great privilege of experience and training that comes to them. 

May God bless this great Church and its leaders and all who labor therein, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
