21
Afternoon
05 10 1935
Elder Clarence H. Tingey
131
70-71

None

None

During the past two and one-half months since we have returned from the Australian Mission, I have looked forward to the assembly of the Latter-day Saints as they were to convene in this semi-annual conference, believing that possibly President Grant would expect me to make some report of our activities in the Australian Mission. I cannot say that I feel comfortable, altogether, and yet I consider it a distinct honor to face you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon. I feel that the responsibility is particularly heavy, after listening to such an able discourse by President Callis. I have been thrilled and heartily say Amen to all that he has said in these few moments. 

I am very happy to report conditions in the Australian Mission are very favorable. We have had some obstacles to overcome. Our appointment first came in 1928. We had the opportunity of laboring in that field for three years, were then released and returned home. A few months later President Grant asked if we would return for a second visit. We accepted the honor, and have had three and a half years more among those delightful people. 

During the first three years we faced the task of encouraging, building up and strengthening our people during the years of depression. During the years of 1929, 1930 and 1931 the Australian people met their most severe hardships. Some of our saints became discouraged, of course. We spent much of our time attempting to point their attention to the future, that they might see something better beyond the horizon. 

During our second visit we were under the necessity of meeting a depression in missionaries, and were compelled to fight through with a very materially reduced missionary force. But I am very grateful to report here now that through all of this the Lord has sustained and upheld the work in that land in a most remarkable way. The Spirit of the Lord, under the guidance of the priesthood, is permeating the hearts of the people of Australia. Our saints, I feel, are more spiritual minded than they have ever been before. Their friends are more sincere than they have been previously, and men and women of all types are giving more earnest consideration to the presence of the Mormon missionaries in their cities and communities. 

I am happy to report that our missionaries were all well when we left them. Their spirits were high, and they were displaying a remarkable devotion to the trust which had been reposed in them. Likewise with the saints, the members of the Church. We bring you greetings from these, and President Rees and his good wife, who succeeded us there. They would all like to be with you today. 

There has been a remarkable change in the public attitude toward the Latter-day Saints. We hear of this so much these days. I want to explain briefly some of the incidents which support this declaration. 

On the day that we were celebrating the 104th anniversary of the appearance of John the Baptist to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, I was honored with an invitation from the Council of Churches of Sidney to attend a meeting of representative ministers of all faiths. There were some four or five hundred representatives there. Dr. Norwood, of the City Temple of London, was the speaker. As I looked over that vast group of intelligent, clean-looking men, I felt a distinct insignificance, and yet, as the thought came to me of the day on which that gathering was held, I stood amazed at this thought: Among all of these men I could claim honestly and legitimately to be the only one among them who actually held the priesthood of Almighty God. 

But these men were friends, most of them, a most interesting change, compared to that which we had experienced previously. 

At the farewell which was given us when we left Sidney, there were members of Parliament, doctors, university professors, members of the American Consul's Office, the mayor, and a number of his aldermen, of the city municipality where our headquarters are situated. All of them came happily, extending their congratulations for the work which was being done by our small organization in that part. 

Mayor Goddard addressed the group, as did others, and in addition to his splendid tribute, verbal tribute, presented us with a letter of appreciation, signed by himself, the town clerk, and under the corporate seal of the municipality. 

These things, brethren and sisters, would have been almost unbelievable had they been mentioned a number of years ago. President Callis spoke of the leaven. I declare before you that the leaven of the Gospel is operating. It is permeating the hearts of men. It is sinking deep into the consciousness of intelligent men and women. And I bear witness before you today that come what will, let all the fury of the world, all of the inbred hatred of mankind, be released at once and let it wrap the world in its embrace, it shall not stop the development, the progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus, the Christ, was his Son, and I delight in that testimony. I bear witness also that I know that Joseph Smith was a faithful, honest, humble prophet of the living God; that the priesthood which is now held by the Church, the keys of which are in the hands of President Heber J. Grant, is indeed the priesthood of God the Eternal Father, and has a right to operate, legally and efficiently among the children of men. 

May God help us to understand the treasure that has been given us, I pray humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
