35
Afternoon
06 10 1935
Elder Reed Smoot
39
115-117

None

None

I think I echo the sentiments of every member of the Church present, that this conference has been one that will be remembered as long as we live. Never before have I felt the inspiration of God to such an extent as I have during this conference. 

I anticipated referring somewhat in detail to what I find in a book entitled, "Twelve Modern Apostles." It was published in 1926. There were selected from twelve denominations one person to speak for each. I was selected at that convention held in Chicago to speak in behalf of what they termed the Mormon Church. As I took the book from the shelf the other day — having forgotten all about it — I looked it over and turned to the article prepared by myself, to remind me of what I said upon that occasion. I haven't the time now, to discuss it in detail but I want to say to you that the first sentence of the article that I prepared at that time reads as follows: 

"In the first place I was born one." 

LIVING UP TO PRINCIPLES WE BELIEVE 

I was born one, and while years passed before I could stand before a congregation of Latter-day Saints or otherwise and state that I knew this was God's Church, that I knew that the Presidents of the Church from the beginning had received revelations from God, and that this Church was directed not by the wisdom of man, but by the inspiration of our Heavenly Father, I would rather die than lose my testimony, and I have never been ashamed of it no matter where I have been. I have never occupied a position that man or woman could point to me and say, "He doesn't live up to the principles professed by him." In all of the gatherings of the men of the nation that I have attended, the great dinners given by the wealthy in Washington, where liquors were served at every banquet, never have I tasted a drop of their liquors or wines. At the first great banquet I attended, given by the wealthiest woman in the world, there were at every guest's place at the table glasses for the three different wines that were served. At the close of the dinner the hostess noticed that I had not taken a drop of these wines, and she said to me: "Senator Smoot, wasn't my wine good enough for you?" 

I had a chance to explain to her the Word of Wisdom as understood by us. I begged of her to take no offense, for none was intended. It was not long until everyone in Washington — for I did the same at every dinner, at the embassies of foreign countries, or whatever the occasion might be — knew that I did not drink liquor. I thank God that I had strength enough to act as I professed, and as my religion taught me. God never requires of his people anything that he does not provide a way for its accomplishment. I think sometimes that our growth is slow, perhaps conversions are not so fast as we think they ought to be, but they are just as fast as people are prepared to keep the word of God and listen to his commandments. 

AT THE WHITE HOUSE 

I hope the time will never come when a change will be made of that which has been in vogue, as far as the White House is concerned, for nearly a hundred years. No liquors of any kind are served at public dinners given there by the President of the United States. It has given me unbounded pleasure to explain to all the Presidents of the United States, from Theodore Roosevelt down, our attitude, our belief In the Word of Wisdom. On two occasions I have lived at the White House, I have slept there, and taken part in all the exercises that were held, and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that there never was a morning or a night that I did not bow before my Heavenly Father in that place and thank him for the knowledge I had of him and his great work. 

VISIT WITH THEODORE ROOSEVELT 

The last time I visited Theodore Roosevelt he was a very, very sick man. It was some time before his death. In our conversation he expressed the opinion that the time was near at hand when he would be taken to the Beyond. He said: "I have tried to live a Christian life, I believe in God, I have tried to wrong no man. I expect to continue my work beyond." He was strong enough to rise from his chair after a two hours' visit, and I had to leave to catch a train from New York to Washington. He arose with a great deal of energy, and putting his arm around me he said: "Reed, there are trying times coming for our country. I expect you to defend the rights of the people and the constitution of the United States as long as you live." I promised him upon that occasion that I would do my best. 

PRAYER FOR COUNTRY AND CHURCH 

I love my country. I have watched her growth, I have seen her mistakes, as I judge them, but I have absolute confidence that there shall no harm come to our nation as a nation. We will revere the Constitution, live by its principles, even though at times it may seem that we are violating them. God bless America. God bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God bless the Presidency of the Church, and give them the revelations, O Father, of thy mind and will, that they may at all times direct the affairs of this Church in a way that thou wilt approve of all that is done. And, O Father, grant unto thy servants power to defend thy cause here upon this earth in a way that will be convincing unto the honest in heart. May we grow in numbers as thou seest best we should, no faster, no slower, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
