28
Morning
06 10 1935
Elder J. Golden Kimball
14
92-93

None

None

I pray the Lord humbly and prayerfully that he will give to me of his Holy Spirit, that I may appreciate, if it is possible for us to appreciate, the great honor and blessing conferred upon us in holding the holy priesthood. I feel it a great honor to be called upon, on this occasion, with so little time for the President of the Church to have all his brethren honored and privileged in speaking of the Lord. 

You all know by this time that I have a calling in the ministry which if I honor and live up to, makes of me a special witness of the Lord to the nations of the earth. I have always been ready and willing to go forth among God's children and testify of these great truths. 

I have a friend on Main Street who is a lawyer. He said of me: "Uncle Golden seems to be very desirous of checking out and going on to the other side and finding out if he has told the truth." I am here today, not to resent that statement, for it was said in the greatest kindness and with some humor, but I am here before you good people to tell you that I have the same testimony that I had fifty years ago when I began my ministry. I may not live up to all the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I think there are few of us that seem to be able to do so, but under the influence of the Holy Ghost, I can testify before you in humility that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Claude Richards printed a book, called "A Biography of J. Golden Kimball." I am not here to sell the book. I haven't got a nickel in it; I wouldn't take a chance on the investment. But you will find forty talks in that book and it will do you good to read them if you have any time to waste. When I have felt blue and despondent I have picked up that book and read it, and I was somewhat surprised at my own testimony which I have never failed to bear. I would not do honor to my father, my sire, if I had not faith enough to believe that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This is God's church. 

I met quite a prominent man on the street — that is where I generally have my conversations — and he was "digging" at the Church. He was wondering why we do not have revelations. He was putting all those things up to me. I said: "Look here, my friend, I want to be kindly with you. You haven't got the same spirit and testimony I have. I still retain my testimony that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God is our Father, the Creator of the world, the Giver of all good gifts. Jesus Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the world. I am willing for the Lord to run this Church, but I wouldn't take a chance on it if you had anything to do with it." 

That is the way I feel. I sustain President Heber J. Grant with all my heart. I seem to understand in a way the great responsibility that is resting upon him and upon his counselors and upon the Council of the Twelve. 

I pray God with all my heart and soul that I may never do anything, in the short space of my life that remains, that will show any evidence that I have lost my faith in this Church, in this people, and in the general authorities. 

Praying God to bless you, I am your humble servant, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

