31
Morning
06 10 1935
President Heber J. Grant
10
102-104

None

None

I believe that for the first time in my administration as the President of the Church I shall occupy the remaining time. One reason that I do this is because there are about twice as many people here today as there were when I delivered my address Friday morning. 

SHOULD NOT DISCOURAGE BELIEF IN BIBLE 

I want to say that I know, from personal testimony to me, that in the University that I have contributed of my means to assist in its support, some teachers have been guilty of asking questions that they have no business to ask. Men who are drawing salaries are asking questions that create a disbelief in the Bible. If they would just control their tongues and teach what they are paid to teach, I for one would be grateful to them. When teachers stand before their classes and ask students to hold up their hands in answer to a question whether they believe something that is in the Bible, such instructors are doing that which I think they should refrain from doing, because that is not what they are paid for. Let the Bible alone, and not attempt to get a "ha-ha" out of those who do not believe its teachings. 

THE BIBLE IS WHAT IT PURPORTS TO BE 

In my youth I read a book entitled, "The Cause and Cure of Infidelity," and I became converted, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that the Bible is exactly what it purports to be. The man who wrote the book spent eighteen years of his life trying to turn people from infidelity to a belief in the Bible, and he announced that at the end of that time, with two exceptions, he had converted to a belief in the divine authenticity of the Bible all who would read eight books that he would place in their hands, and read them twice. One of the exceptions was a lawyer who said, "If I were a juryman and had taken an oath to render a verdict according to the evidence, I would have to say that the point was proven." Dr. Nelson said: "Whether he continued his studies or not I do not know, because he subsequently lost his mind." 

The other man whom he failed to convert was a young man who came to him with a serious face and said: "Dr. Nelson, I acknowledge freely and fairly that every argument that I ever raised against the Bible as being from God has been met and answered and fairly overturned by the books that you have placed in my hands. Furthermore, I do acknowledge that I have found arguments so strong and so momentous in favor of the divine authenticity of the Bible that I am unable to meet or to answer them, and yet I do not and cannot believe in the Bible." 

If they read them only once, they became greater infidels generally than they were before, because they found many arguments against the Bible that they had never heard before and they accepted them. 

Richard W. Young (who was my nearest and dearest friend) and I listened to a half dozen lectures, as I remember, by David McKenzie, a returned missionary from Scotland, first in one ward and then in another; we followed him around. In his concluding lecture he said: "Now, if you want to know more about the things concerning which I have been talking to you, buy Nelson's book, 'The Cause and Cure of Infidelity.' All that I have said I learned out of that book, and you will find a whole lot more than I have said." 

Not only did we hear the lectures, but we read the book aloud twice, taking turns in reading, and there came into my heart, into the eternal part of me that will live on after those who ridicule the Bible are dead and buried, an assurance that that book is just exactly what it purports to be, and that prophecies recorded in it uttered hundreds of years before their fulfilment have come to pass. 

THE GOSPEL HERE TO STAY 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was referred to in prophecy centuries ago. It was stated that "in the last days the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the tops of the mountains," and here it is, and it is here to stay. The promise has been made that it shall not be given to another people. That promise was never made regarding any other dispensation of the Gospel. 

We do not need to fear, but I do complain absolutely against any teacher who says to his class: "You have always had a prayer here in the past. If we knew there is somebody to pray to, we would have a prayer in the future, but as we do not know, we will not pray." All I ask of him is that he just keep his mouth shut and not pray. 

FORMERLY ABSURDITIES, NOW DEMONSTRATED FACTS 

They talk about not teaching infidelity — they teach it by asking such a question as: "Do you believe in the flood?" I do, and I have no doubt of it. There is no need of any such question. Just be honest. And it is not honest to draw money to teach people that which we are not asked to teach, and that which is calculated to destroy faith, just as was the case with the doctor who ridiculed me for believing that there were cement buildings in the early days among the Nephites. Ridiculous! Absurd! But in the providences of the Lord that absurdity has been demonstrated to be a fact. He ridiculed me for believing that the voice of Jesus was heard all over the land. "You know that is a lie, young man," said he, "because if you get up on top of a house and shout, your voice can be heard only a short distance." Thank God I have heard the voice of Admiral Byrd all the way from the South Pole! Thank the Lord for demonstrating thousands of things that used to be ridiculed by the infidel! 

God lives. Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. The Bible teaches that he should come and that he should be the Redeemer, and it teaches that his Gospel should be established in the last days. And that Gospel is here, and we defy all the professors that walk the earth to change it. 

God bless you. Amen.
