36
Afternoon
06 10 1935
Elder John H. Taylor
164
117-118

None

None

May the Lord bless me that I may be helpful to you, my brethren and sisters. The ways of the Lord. are those of simplicity. They are effective because of the intelligence, wisdom, and love back of them. It seems to be more difficult to live the simple life and the principles of the Gospel than it is to live a more complex life with a religion that has as a part of its motivation, artificial and ornate things as well as numerous rites and ceremonies. The statement has been made that it is needful for us, in order to hold our people, to introduce, at least in a small measure, some of these ornate attractions and additional ceremonies. 

What we need is real faith. I was encouraged in my faith because of President Grant's attitude regarding the questions which in his youth were unanswerable from an intellectual or scientific standpoint. I am quite certain that today we have other questions which are unanswerable from the viewpoint of science or learning. Our only safety, when it comes to the revealed laws and words of God, is to hold to that type of perfect faith that President Grant had as a young man. If we do not, and if we are not capable of developing that degree of faith, eventually we will lose our faith in the revelations of God. Our schools of education in the Church, our auxiliary associations, and even our meetings, should be so imbued with the spirit of the Gospel and should so interpret the doctrines of the Church, in accord with our standard works, that no student, no parent, none of us, would have cause for any criticism. Those who teach us from the pulpit and in our organizations or our schools should be men and women of whom there is no question as to their faith towards the revealed word of God. Correctness of doctrine and spirituality are our safeguards. They are absolutely necessary if we shall make progress and maintain our faith in the revealed principles of the Gospel. 

May we be blessed by the Lord that our faith shall increase; that we will be able to live beautifully the simple things of God, the Eternal Father, so that he will be pleased with us, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
