34
Afternoon
06 10 1935
Elder Antoine R. Ivins
132
113-115

None

None

My brethren and sisters, very naturally you will not expect me to occupy this position very long this afternoon as the hour is well nigh spent. I, however, appreciate the opportunity of mingling my voice with those of my brethren in testimony of the truth. 

Brother J. Golden Kimball has called attention to the fact that in the position we occupy we are supposed to be special witnesses of this great truth, and that we endeavor to be to the fullest of our capacity in all soberness. 

We have heard many references here this afternoon to the Prince of Peace and his mission in the earth. We name ourselves the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that to me means much. We believe that it was through him that our greatest opportunities were vouchsafed to us in the earth. We believe that he came into the earth and labored in our behalf and gave us a wonderful body of doctrine that we might follow, and laid down his life for us, becoming the first fruits of the resurrection. We believe that resurrection to be a fact and it opens up to us the very greatest possibilities that man could ever desire, I am sure. If it is not a fact that he was resurrected, then we are a deluded people. The scriptures have borne that testimony to us, a testimony so well proven that any court at law would accept it, and it is refreshing at times to find men who even delve into the sciences that we are partly familiar with who are willing to accept the bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ as a demonstrated fact. 

I call your attention to the article that appeared in the Deseret News supplement some time ago from the pen of Apostle Joseph F. Merrill who is presiding over the European Mission. I say it is refreshing when men such as he refers to will testify to this fact in the face of the many questions that are constantly being asked regarding it. We accept that fact as an actuality and a verity. Our faith rests upon it, and Christ himself told Peter and his disciples that upon the testimony which he had received, and which we might receive from God our Heavenly Father that that is true, he would found his church. We rest just as firmly upon that testimony in this day as they did in that. 

The resurrection, being an accomplished fact and a possibility with us, opens up to us wonderful opportunities. Perhaps there is no more sublime thought in all our teachings and all our doctrines than the possibility of eternal and perpetual progress that the human soul is capable of. Remove from our philosophy the thought and possibility of a resurrection and we lose that wonderful thought of eternal progression. With it goes the thought of our mutual association in family relationships we so much cherish as a people. They to me are crucial and fundamental beliefs. If we cannot accept them it becomes a sad day for us, but we do accept them wholeheartedly as they are perhaps the most wonderful thoughts in all of our philosophy. Along with this thought we accept another, the fact that testimony of this was borne to our generation. I mean the generation in these modern times, if we can extend it over a hundred years or more. That same testimony that Christ is a resurrected being, and a testimony as to the personality of God, his Father, came to us through a modern prophet. That tact and its succeeding important events were commemorated just recently by the erection and unveiling of a monument on the Hill Cumorah. 

Those to me are the chief cornerstones of the foundation upon which we base our faith — the actual Sonship of Jesus Christ, his resurrection from the dead, and the restoration of the knowledge of this wonderful thing through the Prophet Joseph Smith. If we accept them, and we do, then we are in very deed Latter-day Saints, provided that we are able to live approximately at least according to the teachings involved in their doctrines. 

That is the testimony that I want to leave with you. I believe these things sincerely. I believe them to be true. I am willing to accept the responsibility of advocating them, and I am going to try to the best of my ability to live in accordance with them. 

I pray that our Heavenly Father will grant to me and my colleagues and all the officers of this Church the power to live that doctrine and live it so as to be an example to every member of our flock, so that no man who looks at us can say, "He teaches one thing but does another." That to me is the saddest thing in the world, to have a man go out and talk and talk and talk a truth, and never live it. If we can live our teachings there is no question about our future. I pray that God will bless us with this strength, that every officer in this Church may be an example, that every member in this Church may equally be an example to those with whom he associates in the world at large ; and when the time comes that our example may measure up to our teachings and to the things we know to be right, then we will be the power in the earth that the Lord has desired and destined this great organization to become. 

May God bless you all, Amen.
