33
Afternoon
06 10 1935
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon
5
110-113

None

None

I am grateful for my membership in the Church, for I know that it is true and divine — that it is the work of our Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. I rejoice that through the Prophet Joseph Smith, divine authority has been restored to the earth for the preaching of the Gospel and the administration in the ordinances of the same. I am appreciative of the splendid service that is being rendered by the stake presidencies and ward bishoprics, by the mission presidents and the traveling missionaries, and by all the other officers throughout the Church. I rejoice in the faith and devotion of the Latter-day Saints. It is also gratifying to note the fine work of those who have talents, and who impart of those talents for the benefit of others. The inspirational character of the music that has been rendered in the different sessions has been very pleasing. I congratulate the Tabernacle Choir, the director and the organists for the splendid service they are giving, which is creating such a wonderfully favorable impression for this people throughout the United States and throughout the world. 

SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS AIDS GOSPEL SPREAD 

I realize the fact that with the wonderful development in a scientific way, in communication, in transportation, and in other fields, the world is hurrying swiftly onward, that means are being developed whereby this work will be enabled to use the facilities available to go forward with even greater rapidity than it has in the past. It is our responsibility and our opportunity to keep pace with the times in the use of these facilities for the spread of the Gospel message. 

TELEVISION NEAR AT HAND 

I think we may expect within a year or two, at the latest, not only to hear the voice of the President of the Church over the radio, but that those who live within a radius of 25 or 30 miles of this city will be able to see his visual image by means of television. During the summer I had the privilege of visiting the television laboratories of a Utah man in Philadelphia, — Philo T. Farnsworth, — and there saw a demonstration of the development of a new principle, different from any that has heretofore been employed, so far as I know — the electronic principle, — whereby the visual image is produced by electrical rays. The day before I was there the radio editors of New York newspapers had been there and seen that demonstration, and one or two papers had written accounts of the same. The statement was made that, within six months or a year at the latest, receiving sets for television would be available at fairly reasonable prices and that transmitting equipment would be set up so that people could receive visual images by television. 

THE PARABLE OF THE SOWER 

The eyes of the world are upon this work and upon this people as never before. The principles taught by this Church are recognized by thinking men and women as generally outstanding. We shall be judged by our observance of those principles. You remember the parable of the sower, one of the great parables taught by the Savior. The sower went forth sowing seed, some of the seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them; some fell upon stony places, where there was not much soil, and at once the seeds sprung up, because there was no depth of earth; and when the sun was up, the plants were scorched, and withered away because they had no roots. Some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. But others fell in good ground, and brought forth fruit, some a hundred fold, some sixty fold, and some thirty fold. 

GOD IS NO RESPECTER OF PERSONS 

When the Apostle Peter, a Jew, was led by revelation to Cornelius, a Gentile, a believer in the Gospel, and he saw the evidences of the power of the Holy Spirit in Cornelius, he declared, "Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: but in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him," I realize, after my trip east this past summer, that a much more favorable and friendly attitude is in evidence toward this people by intelligent men and women. In fact, in some respects, their attitude is so favorable and their appreciation of our principles so strong that we are under a great responsibility to endeavor to measure up to the standards which they have set up for us. If we sense the meaning of this attitude and have the love of the Gospel in our hearts, we shall endeavor to exemplify the Gospel principles in every respect in our lives. If we fail to do this, we shall, in larger or smaller measure, bring reproach upon the Church. 

OBSERVANCE OF COMMANDMENTS BRINGS BLESSINGS 

We receive blessings according to our observance of divine commandments. Every promise and blessing is conditioned upon the observance of certain requirements. So it is with the observance of natural laws. If people choose to transgress divine laws, they will fail to gain the advantages of such principles. Everyone of us will be judged according to his actions. Occasionally members of the Church fail to follow the counsel of Church leaders as to the observance of Gospel principles. They have, of course, the right to do so. But they fail to realize that these leaders are unselfishly concerned for the welfare of every member of the Church. Only to the extent that the Gospel seed finds root in their hearts and is properly nourished will they be able to produce the fruits of the same. 

PEOPLE WHO SEEK "LOAVES AND FISHES" 

There are people who would join this Church or any church in order to get any material benefits that might accrue therefrom. They are the type referred to by the Savior on one occasion as those who seek the "loaves and fishes." I think there is danger in public pronouncement that the Church will take care of any in need who hold membership in the Church. Certainly it is the Church policy to see to it that no Church member suffers for lack of the necessities of life. But this should not necessarily mean that the Church alone should carry this load. Of course, those who are faithful, who have brought forth fruits of righteousness deserve Church assistance when in need. Others who are indifferent and seek the "loaves and fishes" should be cared for through public agencies. All who are able-bodied should be provided with employment. But in such times as these, when private employment is lacking, it is reasonable and proper that they should obtain employment through public undertakings. In normal times, when private industry is functioning properly, employment is largely available for practically all workers. 

EFFORTS TO BECOME SELF-SUSTAINING 

All Church members should realize the importance, and cultivate the aim, of endeavoring to support themselves and those dependent upon them, but also of contributing to the great work of the Church with their time and means. It is the aim of the Church to help those in need to help themselves. Various conditions cause distress. The causes must be determined — whether unemployment, sickness, disability, education or other causes. As far as possible the remedy should be applied to enable the distressed to become self-supporting. 

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHURCH 

It must be remembered that this Church has a great mission and a great responsibility: to preach the Gospel in all the nations, — to build up the Church groups in the branches, wards and stakes, — to provide the necessary facilities for worship, spiritual and recreational development, — to advance the work of salvation for the dead, — and to promote the temporal as well as the spiritual welfare of its members. All these things require much means as well as voluntary service. Every member of the Church is expected to do his or her part to help in these various respects. 

IMPORTANCE OF INDUSTRY 

Everyone who is a member, or who is interested in the Gospel, should be encouraged to exemplify the spirit of the beehive. The combined efforts — both spiritual and financial — of all Church members are needed in order that this work may best fulfil its destiny. President Brigham Young declared on one occasion: "The non-producer must live on the products of those who labor. There is no other way. If we all labor a few hours a day, we can then spend the remainder of our time in rest and the improvement of our minds." The Lord declared: "Thou shalt not be idle, for the idler shall not eat the bread nor wear the garment of the laborer." 

ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY IN CHURCH AFFAIRS 

It appears to me, that, in order to accomplish all the many things with which the Church is charged, there must be practiced economy and efficiency in all of the various responsibilities, — missionary work, facilities for worship and spiritual, educational and recreational development, and temporal relief. To promote the temporal welfare of the people of this intermountain country, I think we should go back to the principle of practical cooperation, — in productive as well as in consumptive enterprises. They will provide local employment, use local materials, keep money at home and furnish profitable returns. I am told that, if all of us would become home industry minded and patronize local industry as far as local production is feasible, employment would soon be available for practically all unemployed. Likewise, I think we should encourage and promote more practical training in the various trades and vocations adaptable to the local conditions. Also, if those engaged in farming suffer repeatedly from lack of water and land fertility, they should have the opportunity and counsel, if necessary, to re-locate on projects where such requisites are practically assured and where the Church organizations can be established. 

I pray that all of us as Church members may strive continually to put ourselves in a position to be most helpful in the advancement of this work, as well as to be able to take care of ourselves and those who are dependent upon us. 

May the Lord bless us to this end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
