27
Morning
06 10 1935
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
6
89-92

None

None

My brothers and sisters, it is again a great pleasure to be with you and to enjoy the spirit of this conference. 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO CHURCH MUSIC AND MUSICIANS 

Once more I wish to pay tribute to the music of our Church. During this conference we have had nothing but music wonderfully rendered, beginning with the Summit Stake choir, a choir from one of our smaller stakes, singing the songs of Zion in beauty and in melody; then with the Singing Mothers, who sang, as it seems to me, with all of the love and beauty of motherhood; and then with the great German Choir singing with that clarity and resonance which marks the minds and the habits of the great Germanic nations; and lastly with our own choir here today, singing sermons to us. 

I want to pay a tribute to Brother Tony Lund, whose benign countenance we miss today, who served us so long and so faithfully, who was devoted to his work. We must pay tribute to his musical culture, to the breadth of his musical view. It was his lot to follow a man of outstanding ability, and he does not suffer by the comparison. We need men, and need them badly, of the devotion of Tony Lund. 

And to Brother Cornwall who takes his place, with our full and entire confidence, we welcome him, and it is no treason to those who have gone before that we wish him well and hope that the choir, under his leadership, will go ever onward. May I say that whether Brother Spencer Cornwall knows it or not, he now stands at the head of the greatest choir in the world, a choir with a greater potential power for righteousness than any other choir in the world. 

THE PATH TO PEACE 

"How lovely are the messengers that preacheth the Gospel of peace!" And we, my brothers and sisters, are those messengers. Men may cry, "Peace, peace," but there will be no peace until men and women put out of their hearts all greed, all lust, all passion, all thirst for power and earthly riches, all unholy ambitions. It is the duty of this people of ours to be the leaven that shall leaven the lump, in all of these things. Until we, this people, can eliminate from our minds and our hearts all the baser passions of humanity there is little hope for peace, either among us or in the world. 

With these things put out of our hearts, and with us living lives of peace, of good will, of brotherly love, of kindness, no one knows what the influence might be, and God, I am sure, intends that when we shall reach that point we shall assume the moral leadership of the world. God grant that that day is not far distant. 

AS THE LORD WOULD HAVE US LIVE 

"Clean hands and pure hearts," was a sermon sung this morning. Clean hands — clean of defilement of our fellow men, clean from the goods of our fellow men, clean from the blood of our fellow men; that must be the cleanliness which must be ours. Pure hearts — pure before the Lord; greed and lust and covetousness banished from our hearts, standing pure before God, that he may look therein and see there nothing which would cause him pain, and nothing which would make us blush. 

I have often said: "I wonder how we would all stand, and individually how I would stand, if I were told that God was yonder in the mountain and I could go to him if I wished." I wonder if my life has been such that I could go and stand before the Being who could look me through and see my secret thoughts and hopes and ambitions. Unless and until, my brothers and sisters, we could stand that test, we are not living as the Lord would have us live. 

OBEDIENCE TO LAW NECESSARY 

My brothers and sisters, we have been told that we are governed by law. There are some of us who seem to fail to understand that fact. Read the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and see what there it says about law, and the necessity that we shall live the law, if we shall be what God wants us to be, and if we shall inherit those blessings and those glories which God has provided for us if we do but live the law. 

LAWS OF PUNISHMENT AND LAWS OF BLESSING 

To my mind the law may be easily resolved into two categories: first, the law of command, and to that law of command there are added punishments, and those punishments come when we violate the law. All the great laws of nature are of this type, and there are certain great spiritual laws — the commission of the unpardonable sin, the commission of adultery, and other things — which carry with them their own punishment, whether or not we like it. 

Then there are the great laws of blessings. The Lord has given to us some such laws; sometimes he has taken them away. They are the laws only of blessing, there being attached thereto only the punishment that we fail to receive the blessing — and great enough is that punishment at times. 

You will recall that in the time of Moses the Lord tried to persuade the people that they should accept the Melchizedek priesthood. They were unable to do so. They failed to receive the blessing. 

In our time the Lord tried to establish among us the United Order. We were not able to live it. We failed to receive the blessing. 

There come readily to mind other laws, other privileges which the Lord has given to us, which we failed to live, and which he has been obliged to take away from us. 

DESTRUCTIVE DOCTRINES 

There are abroad among us, men, and women also, who are preaching doctrines that are destructive of the very fiber of our civilization. I hear now and again, and here and there, the doctrine of "free love." 

There are those among you who would teach your children that the sexual desire is like any other biological desire, as hunger and thirst, and should be indulged in with as little restraint and control as we eat and drink. Nothing baser has been conceived by Satan than this doctrine. 

Brothers and sisters, watch your families, your children. Teach them, honor them, lead them away from this terrible sin. I was taught by my parents that they would rather carry me to the grave than that I 
should lose my virtue, and I thank God for that teaching. Until we come to that teaching, until that is the feeling and the thought of the Latter-day Saints, lust will stalk among us and take his toll. 

THE LAWS OF GOD IMMUTABLE 

There is sometimes a cry among our young people for a loosening of our standards. They tell us that our standards are too high, and the Church must abate them. My brothers and sisters, my young people, the Church cannot change the laws of God. They stand immutable. We may change the rules; we may say that a drunkard may go into the temple; we may say that a blasphemer may go into the temple; we may say that he who drinks tea and coffee may go into the temple. These rules we may change. But we cannot change the biological law that he who uses narcotics must pay the penalty somehow, somewhere, sometime — he himself or his children or his children's children. And this is the tragedy and the curse of disobeying nature's laws and God's laws. Remember what Brother Salzner said yesterday: In that great institution in Germany sixty-five per cent of the epileptics owe their epilepsy to the use of alcohol by some of their forefathers. 

My brothers and sisters, let us awaken. Let us bring into our hearts the Gospel. Let us live it, for if we do God will surely bless us. 

ONE GREAT EVIL MASTER MIND AT WORK 

It seems sometimes as if the darkness that surrounds us is all but impenetrable. I can see on all sides the signs of one great evil master mind working for the overturning of our civilization, the destruction of religion, the reduction of men to the status of animals. This mind is working here and there and everywhere. May we hope and may we pray that this is the darkness before the dawn, and that soon the light will come in the east, that the darkness will fade out, that a sun of righteousness will rise and touch the peaks and flow down and fill the valleys, fill our hearts and fill our lives, until we shall be the people which God wishes us to be. 

May this come to us, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 


