38
Afternoon
06 10 1935
President Heber J. Grant
10
122-123

None

None

The Presidency desires to hold a meeting tomorrow morning of all the general authorities, the presidencies of stakes, high councilors, bishops, bishop's counselors, and stake and ward clerks, and if any of the other brethren want to come, they are welcome. The meeting will be held at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning in this Tabernacle. 

AUTHORITIES ABSENT 

We regret the absence of Elders John A. Widtsoe and Joseph V. Merrill. Brother Merrill, as you know, is presiding over the European Mission, and Elder Widtsoe is doing something that we hope and pray will have a wonderful effect upon the people of the United States. Not only is Brother Widtsoe engaged in this work, but ministers of other denominations are being permitted to teach and preach the Gospel as they understand it to the students of the University of Southern California. Wonderful! May that same privilege be afforded to all universities. I agree with Roger W. Babson that what the people of America need more than anything else is religion. 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO FORMER CHOIR LEADER 

I wish to echo my appreciation of the labors of Brother Anthony C. Lund as the leader of the Tabernacle Choir. He was a man of deep love of the Gospel, and his spirituality was demonstrated in his labors as our musical director at the Brigham Young University, and as conductor of the Tabernacle Choir. He was so full of jokes and humor that many people did not know the strong spiritual character of the man. Many people not of our faith have expressed to me their appreciation of the spirituality of the singing of our choir, and also of the spiritual messages by our announcer. 

I am very grateful for these beautiful flowers which have been provided by Brother and Sister J. P. Fugal of Pleasant Grove — I am very partial to Pleasant Grove, I got my wife there. 

I wish to thank our new Choir leader, Brother Spencer Cornwall, the organist, and the members of the Choir for the splendid music we have had, and I wish to thank all who have furnished the music during this conference.
