Outdoor
03 04 1915

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 10 a. m. Elder Rudger Clawson presided, and the 33rd Ward choir, conducted by Joseph Poll, furnished the music. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Elder Arthur W. Horsley offered the opening prayer. 

The choir sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART. 

(President of Duchesne Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters, we have some up from the four quarters of the earth to be in attendance upon the Semi-Annual General Conference, which opens this morning, that we may learn more fully of the ways of the Lord, and return to our homes and endeavor to walk more circumspectly in His paths. 

I deem myself under sacrifice by being deprived of the privilege of a place in the Tabernacle this morning, that I might listen to the opening address of the President, and no doubt, in this respect, we all have harmonious sentiments; but it is willed otherwise, therefore, let us submit ourselves with becoming humility to our present lot. 

We commenced these services by singing the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter-day days." As we did so I wondered whether we really sense the full significance of these words, and in very truth feel the gratitude they convey. This has been designated as "The dispensation of the fulness of times." It is designed to be laden with most important events, as the essential keys of the Gospel of all former dispensations are to be committed to it; and all important achievements, spiritually and temporally, are converging toward the second coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, as a distinctive feature in fulfilment of the promise made at the time of His transfiguration, in the meridian of time. 

The Prophet Isaiah foresaw that the Lord, at a certain time of the world's history, would "proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder;" and the early revelations unto the Prophet Joseph Smith clearly indicated this day to be the time of its fulfilment, and set forth the Gospel, with all the achievements to be accomplished under its divine power and authority, to be that "work." Doubtless, many worthy Saints who have gone before, who, through the eye of prophecy, were permitted to behold this age, well nigh envied those who should live during it and be successful participants in its accomplishments. 

The first important event ushering in this dispensation was the visitation of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith, when he was a boy, and in answer to his query as to which of all the various churches was divinely recognized, he was told that they had all gone astray, and for him to go not after any of them, and that in due time the true Gospel would be restored. 

A few years later, in the year 1823, the Angel Moroni was sent to Joseph, who acquainted him further regarding this work that was about to commence, and revealed to him the existence of a book of metallic plates, upon which were inscribed the history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, of some of whom the American Indians are a remnant. After four years training, Moroni finally delivered unto Joseph these plates, together with the Urim and Thummim, by the aid of which, and through the gift and power of God, Joseph translated this history into the English language. He found that not only was it profane history, but that it related the hand dealings of God with branches of the House of Israel on this continent, and contained the Gospel as given unto the Nephites by Jesus in person, after His crucifixion. This same Moroni had stood, 1400 years before, as the last of his exterminated race, who had fallen through transgression. He being the last historian had, under divine instruction, hid these records in the Hill Cumorah, and it was fitting that he should restore them when the time arrived for their coming forth. On the east pinnacle of yonder Temple stands his statue, trumpet in hand, figuring the heralding of the Gospel, in fulfilment of the vision of John the Revelator, wherein he saw an angel bringing the Gospel again to earth. 

Isaiah saw the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, in the day when the Lord would "proceed to do a marvelous work" when a certain people, through their history would "speak out of the ground." Ezekiel foresaw that a stick, or book, of Joseph would be brought forth and would go hand in hand with the stick of Judah; and the Elders are now going forth into the world with these dual witnesses — the Bible and Book of Mormon — of the hand dealings of God with these branches of the House of Israel. 

As this "marvelous work" unfolded, John the Baptist, in the year 1829, came and conferred upon Joseph the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, and was followed by Peter, James and John, who conferred the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood, they themselves having received the same in the Messianic dispensation. 

A House of the Lord having been erected at Kirtland, Ohio, under divine instructions, the climax of these commitments seemed then to  been reached. The Savior appeared therein to the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, proclaimed to them His identity, forgave them of sin, declared them to be clean before Him, and accepted the Temple. Following this visitation came Moses, Elias and Elijah and committed, respectively, the keys of the gathering of Israel; the dispensation of the Gospel of Abraham, through whom all nations of the earth were to be blessed; and the keys of salvation of the dead. With respect to his mission, the Prophet Elijah declared that the time had fully come spoken of by Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) would be sent "before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse." 

I humbly pray that tnrough faith, repentance and good works, and through the blood of the Redeemer, we shall be cleansed from all sin, and finally prove ourselves wholly worthy of the privilege and the responsibility of being participants in this "marvelous work," and of being partakers of its munificent blessings; which may Our Father grant in the name of His Son, Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK. 

(President of Cassia Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, we have gathered from our respective homes to attend this General Conference of the Church. Eighty-five and a half years have passed since the Lord, through the agency of the youthful Prophet Joseph Smith organized His Church in this dispensation. Marvelous progress has  made during the past, under trie guiding care of the Almighty, but great as the development has been, we may look for and should expect to behold greater works than these, in the unfolding of the possibilities of the future, when those who are now careless, and indifferent to the responsibility of membership, and" the obligations of the Priesthood, shall awaken to the same righteous zeal, and intelligent efficiency in their religious duties that is manifest by the leaders in Israel, and by thousands of good, faithful men and women in all of the wards and stakes of Zion, as well as in the missions. Men are reaching out after greater efficiency in all the secular affairs of life, as the Church is urging its members to more zealous application and nobler results. 

We were favored in this city, a few days ago, with a visit by Mr. Harold Bell Wright, the renowned author, who, in an address before the Bonneville Club', took for his theme, "The Royal Family of Tomorrow." After referring to the world war now in progress, and which is being sustained under the present systems of men and nations, where faith and love are alike being destroyed, and selfishness and pride have obscured the more important considerations of life, he said that the "future bore significant evidences of the approach of a New Royalty in which man would aim at an efficiency that would involve the study of man, an efficiency that meant greater service to humanity." 

We sincerely hope that this statement is well founded, for it is a well known fact of history that man has ever been mans' most deadly foe. When we consider that "God is the Father of the spirits of all flesh" it  easy to confess that the race should be a truly royal family, bound together in bonds of fellowship and righteousness. 

The pitiable condition of men in the religious world, was portrayed in an address delivered some months prior to the commencement of the present European war, by Lord Winston Churchill, home secretary of the British government in which he says: 

"The extreme restlessness seen everywhere is the sign of a great spiritual wave in history," and adds: "Most of us are like boys with cold hands, looking on at the 'game.' We . don't understand it. Perhaps it looks ridiculous to us. We are at cross purposes, with no anchorage of love or anything abiding. We want a religion. Perhaps we are waiting for a new one. We'd plunge into life, into usefulness, if only we knew what life were; but we don't know. The conception of Christianity given us in our youth has failed to satisfy us. We are unable to say with the conviction of our fathers: 'This is the absolute truth.' The science and agnostic critics of the past have riddled that religion. We want to know! Whither shall we turn for a religion, a sanction, a guide to life? We start off on our modern Pilgrims' Progress, to seek after God, if happily we may find Him." Then he states: "That the religion chosen must have a positive militant righteousness, called the 'New Patriotism,' and will involve, when adopted, heart and soul, a change in the motive of life. It will require a life of sacrifice. Not selfishness and acquisition. There must be a new birth. Man must become his brother's keeper. It must acknowledge the problems of evil, and grapple with them. A striking note of this 'New Patriotism' is openmindedness; teachableness, and hence a capacity for growth. Its greatest enemies are those with closed mi'ids; the Pharisees of today, who neither 'enter in' themselves, nor permit others to do so. It involves the principle of individual worth, and individual responsibility. We must trust those whom God trusts, in this divine scheme, and love our neighbor as ourself." 

As Latter-day Saints, we recognize the beauty and logic of this statement, and we hasten to offer to all these modern "Pilgrims," that religion for which they are seeking, for it is to be found in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed to Joseph, the Prophet of this last dispensation. And while the time allotted to me, at this Conference, will not permit me to enter upon this inviting phase of the subject, I will just say, that "Mormonism," so called, embraces every principle and quality sought for by the honest in heart. This- is the "absolute truth," and the stone which the builders have rejected is ready to become the chief corner stone in the structure of man's eternal salvation. It is the divine scheme, and the only scheme, that will eliminate war, and envy, and strife and bitterness from among men and prepare the earth and her inhabitants for the rule of righteousness soon to be ushered into the world. We invite all men to look into the merits of this new, yet old religion. 

I will only say, in conclusion, that the thought to be gathered from the utterances of the noted gentleman in these quotations, and which I desire to leave with you, is the possibility of greater efficiency and more extensive service in the Church of Christ. Each of us, as officers and members of the Chruch should labor diligently in the service of our fellow men, with faith and prayer and study, that our efforts may be directed with intelligence, and balanced with wisdom, and sustained with unfaltering faith and  love, so that the larger results may be achieved in this glorious cause. 

God has given to His Church the most perfect organization in the world, and has made it possible for us to render the highest order of intelligent service, with divine authority to officiate in His name, therefore the responsibility rests with us, as to the quantity and the quality of the services rendered. There can be no more distinguished "royalty" than to honor our kinship with God, and no higher quality of "patriotism" than to devote our lives to the accomplishment of His purposes in the earth. May the Lord help us to so live and labor, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Rain commenced falling heavily, and the service was closed by prayer by Elder Benjamin Goddard. 


