Afternoon
06 04 1915

Tn the Tabernacle, at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Zion stands, with hills surrounded." 

The invocation was offered by Elder James Duckworth. 

The choir sang a hymn, composed  Prof. Evan Stephens, entitled, "True to the Faith." 

ELDER HUGH J. CANNON. 

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, I realize that it will be impossible for me to say anything which will be beneficial or profitable to this conference unless the Lord shall direct me. The spirit which has accompanied the remarks to which we have listened bears ample evidence to my mind that the thousands of people congregated in this city have come together hungering and thirsting for the word of the Lord, and they have been fed, they have been given instruction which will make for their eternal salvation. It seems to me that never in my life, have I attended a conference which has made me feel so determined to press on, and with the help of the Lord, to work out my salvation, and to discharge the duties which devolve upon me. 

I thought this morning, while Brother Woolley was speaking, that even he, who has spent twenty years in the Hawaiian mission, presiding over that people, could not feel more joyous than I felt with the announcement that a temple is to be built in that land, for from my earliest infancy, I have had instilled into my heart a love for that people. It was on the Sandwich Islands that my father demonstrated to his own satisfaction that the Lord is willing to hear His humble servants. At a time when he was alone, when he was friendless, when those to whom he should naturallv have looked for instruction, were wavering, at least some of them, he found that the Lord was his friend, and he learned 119  the lips of the Almighty that He loved the people of those islands, and that He intended the gospel of salvation should be preached to them. I rejoice more than I can tell at the action which has been taken that a temple is to be built there, that our brethren and sisters are to have the rights and privileges which we enjoy in this land. 

I see in this, as has been stated by a number of speakers, the fulfillment of prophecy. On one occasion I heard President Snow, speaking in the Salt Lake Temple, declare that temples would be built outside of the confines of Utah and outside of the United States. At that time, it had never dawned upon my mind that temples would be built outside of Utah until we got ready to commence the edifice in Jackson county; but he made the statement positively, and 1 see in this the fulfillment of that prophecy. I see in it more than the fulfillment of prophecy. I see that a people who are worthy and anxious to do the work for their dead are to have the opportunity of doing so, and not only for their dead, but for themselves' as well. In several sessions of this conference, I have seen a young man who labored as president of one of the conferences of the Swiss and German mission during the time that I was there. He is now principal of one of the Church schools, a very studious, thoughtful, highminded man. who said to me on one occasion : "T feel that my parents have deprived me of a blessing which should have been mine, because thev might have gone to the temple of the Lord and been seiled together for time and all eternitv. but thev permitted trivial matters to come in the way and I was not  under the covenant." I wondered at the time and I have often thought about it since, what excuse can the parents of such a man offer to themselves and to him ? It seems to me that if they know his feelings, they will receive sufficient condemnation in the knowledge that their son feels as he does. He is a man who would be a credit to any parent, to any father, to any mother, and the last time I talked with him, he felt that his parents had deprived him of a blessing which belonged to him, and robbed him through their carelessness, of something which was his, or should have been his, because they were indifferent or careless, did not attach to this duty the importance which should belong to it. And I wondered how many more parents are in the same condition, actually robbing posterity of the blessings which should be theirs, because of indifference or carelessness, or because they feel their unworthiness, and will not put themselves into a proper condition to go to the house of the Lord to be sealed together for time and eternity. 

It seems to me that we owe posterity something as well as ourselves. The steps which are being taken by the Church to erect temples in the outlying parts will give people a better opportunity to go to the house of the Lord than thev have ever had before. There are doubtless very many cases, as has been suggested here, of people who cannot possibly, because of their conditions, reach the temples, and have to be married in some other way, but I thank the Lord for mv own part, that I was born under the covenant, not because I feel that T am any better than those who are not. but T have thought all my life. that if this had not been the case with me, I perhaps, would not have been faithful. I thank God for the Gospel of Jesus Christ and for what it has done for me. Insignificant as I am in the work of the Lord, I know that I am very much better and more useful in life than I would have been without the gospel. I fear and tremble when I think of what my lot might have been if it had not been for these truths and for the teachings of my parents in my youth. I thank the Lord for my parentage and I thank Him more than I can express that I too have had the privilege of going to the house of the Lord. Those who are near to me are mine forever and cannot be taken from me bv any power on earth or beneath the earth or above the earth, save through wrong-doing on my own part. 

I think we do not appreciate these blessings. We are as little children. "We see as through a glass darkly," but sometime we will be able to understand what this all means, and will be more faithful and more diligent than we have been. I think that the Latter-day Saints have abundant cause to rejoice. In my opinion, there never has been a time, at least not within my memory, when the people were as well looked after as they are at the present time. I think there never was a time when the organizations were doing the good that they are doing at the present time, when the people were being visited and being labored with and looked after as they are now. The Church districts are being divided and sub-divided, and now there are seventy-two stakes in the Church, a very remarkable increase in the last few years, and the result is that people are being better cared  and labored with, and they are becoming more diligent in their duties. No uncommon thing now to see wards that have one hundred per cent of block teaching, wards where a hundred per cent of block teaching has been done for four or five years, not a single family missed in any month in that time. And we are seeing the fruit of this diligence in the lives of the people. Faith is increasing and the Saints love the gospel as they never loved it before. They are more diligent, they are striving more earnestly to keep the commandments, they are paying their tithes and offerings, they are keeping the word of wisdom and living nearer the Lord than they have ever done, at least .within my experience. 

1 bear testimony to the divinity of the gospel and the power and authority of the men who stand at the head. All we have to do as Latterday Saints, is to follow in their footsteps and give heed to their instructions, and we are absolutely safe. It does not matter to us, or it should not matter, whether we approve always of that which is done. The Lord will sustain those who sustain His authority. And men lose the power and spirit of the gospel the moment they begin to find fault and criticize. I know men who, notwithstanding the fact that their lives were not exemplary for years and years, had a knowledge of the gospel burning in their souls. They frequently bore testimony before the world that they knew this was the truth, but when they reached forth their hands to "steady the ark," the Lord deserted them in that moment, and they were left in darkness; and when once light becomes darkness, that darkness is some121  terrible. I pray the Lord to bless this people and help us all to work out our salvation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LARS P. OVERSON. 

(President of Emery Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, it makes me shake a little to face this large congregation, but nevertheless, I rejoice in having the privilege to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the work of the Lord in which we are engaged. I have rejoiced exceedingly during this conference in listening to the timely counsel, and the testimony that has been borne, and to the instructions that we have so abundantly received. I feel as though I would be able to go back to my home and be a better man than I have been in the past, that I would be able to bear a stronger and better testimony to the people of the section of the country where I live than I have ever done before. 

T come from one of the remote stakes of the Church away off across the mountains, but over in that country we have some splendid, good people, people who are striving to serve the Lord and to live up to the requirements of the gospel to the best of their abilitv. I rejoice in being associated with them, and to have the privilege to minister in the midst of the people of God. 

T have had for many years an unouestionable testimony burning within my bosom of the truthfulness of this work. I realize and fully know to my own satisfaction that Tosenh Smith was a proohet of God, that he was inspired of the Lord to bring forth this mightv work, which Ins spread abroad and grown in the  years since it was first organized, till today it is reaching into all parts of the world. I appreciate the blessings that have come to this people through the establishment of this gospel, through the organization of this Church and through the ministry of the servants of the Lord who have labored in the midst of the people for the establishment of the work of the Lord upon the earth. I sustain and uphold the servants of the Lord who are called and placed at the head at the present time. I know that they are men of God, I know that they are called of God and that they are capable of leading this people onward and upward in the paths of righteousness; and if we, my brethren and sisters, will follow their admonitions and counsel, we will be able to reach that glory and exaltation in our Father's kingdom for which we have started. 

I rejoice to know that the gospel is spreading abroad, that the work of the Lord is growing in all parts of the world and that steps are being taken to establish more fully the work of the Lord in the nations of the earth. It has been my privilege to be associated with this Church from my childhood, although I was born in a foreign land, but my parents embraced the gospel while I was a child and brought me to this goodly land, and I have had the privilege to be tutored and instructed in the principles of the gospel, by the servants of the Lord, all the days of my life, and I cannot sufficiently thank my Heavenly Father for this privilege. I know that this gospel will continue to grow; I know that it has been established, never more to be thrown down, never to be given to another people, but that it will continue to spread abroad whether we, my brothers and sisters, keep pace with the work of the Lord or not. 

I hope and pray we may all be faithful and true, that we may continue steadfast in the cause of truth, that we may be valiant in its defense, and stand up for the principles of righteousness wherever it may be our lot to be cast amongst our fellow men. That the Lord will help us and bless us to this end and enable us to be faithful all the days of our lives, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEMUEL H. REDD. 

(President of San Juan Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, I feel very timid indeed in standing before this great congregation. I trust that the few words I utter may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord. I can say that I have rejoiced in attending this conference. I endorse every word that has been spoken. I know that the word of the Lord has been given unto us, and I trust, my brothers and sisters, that we will carry with us the good spirit that has been so manifest here during our conference. 

I come from the San Juan stake of Zion, perhaps the farthest stake from Salt Lake City. I have lived there for the last thirty-five years, was called there when I was a mere boy. It was a wild Indian country when I went there, but I can say we have a splendid country out there, and a good people and a good place for young men and young women to go to get homes. There is lots of good land, and the conditions are good. If the young people are willing to go there and labor, and be economical and industrious, they can  good homes. It is a splendid experience for young people to go through. I can say that those who are willing to go and be directed by the Spirit of the Lord, and be governed by those who are placed over them, they will enjoy life, they will prosper in the land. This has been my experience. 

I am in love with the Latter-day Saints. I am in love with the principles of the gospel. I know they are true. I bear testimony to you, mv brothers and sisters, that I know that Toseph Smith was a proohet of the Lord; that no man could do the things that he did unless he was directed bv the Spirit of the Lord. Those who hsve succeeded him also are men of God. I have had the honor and pleasure of visiting with those who preside in this Church, and T know that thev are splendid men. T never heard a word or sentin >cnt come from them but what I know to be true. 

My brothers and sisters, I pray the Lord to bless each one of us, that we may be enabled to go to our homes and possess the good spirit we have enjoyed here, that we may learn to be better men and better women, to be more faithful than we have ever been before and finally may be saved in our Father's presence, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD H. SNOW. 

(President of St. George Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, I have had an opportunity already during this conference of sneakine to the Latter-dav Saints, but President Smith advises me that T may bear mv testimony to you. It is a great privilege and of course carries with it a great responsibility. 123 

Like my brethren who preside over stakes of Zion, I have grown to love the work of the Lord and the people of the Lord. We have in the St. George stake of Zion, one of the best peoples in the Church. It is a desolate region, full of sand and rocks, but the people have become so habituated to battling with the elements for subsistence, and wresting from them some of the comforts of life, that these sands and rocks have grown dear to us, and we love the everlasting hills. We love to ride through your, fertile valleys from St. George to Cache, as we can do it now, and see what you have and what we have, and while we know and realize that you are living in better lands than we, yet we are glad that our mission is in that part of the country; and we are glad, also, that we have held onto the mission of our fathers and we have made it better land to live in than when they first went there, that we have builded well upon the foundations which they laid, not only temporally, but, I hope, spiritually. 

I love the work of the Lord, I love the association of my brethren and sisters, especially do I prize my association with the servants of the Lord. It is a good thing that the human heart does not deceive itself. We are not deceived in our attachment to these brethren, and our loyalty has been won from us by a service for mankind and for God, that we cannot and would not gainsay. I am glad that it is so. I am glad to give them my support. I am glad to be guided bv their counsel and their advice. I know that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven, and the more we do for the Church and kingdom of God the greater we love it. 

We sometimes think we have discovered psychological principles, among which is that we learn to do by doing. The Lord is a great psychologist. He knew well we would learn to do by doing, and He knew that we love the things we make sacrifices for, and consequently I think He gave us principles in the gospel such as tithing and offerings, donations and things that we call sacrifices on our part, that would cause us to love the work of the Lord, for it is well known by all of us that the more we do for it and the more service we perform for the benefit of mankind, the greater is our love for the children of men. And we all realize and know too, it is in the service of mankind, that we best serve our God. 

May the Lord bless us, that the desire may always be with us to serve Him and to serve our fellow men, that we may enjoy and merit the favor of God, which is the source of all true happiness, I pray for it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK. 

(President of Wasatch Stake.) 

I feel rather timid in attempting to address so many as there are assembled together on this occasion, brethren and sisters that I know are well versed in the principles of the gospel, and have received a testimony of its truth as well as I have. Nevertheless, I feel to corroborate and add my testimony to those that have been rendered on this occasion by my brethren. 

I know that the principles of the gospel are true, and the teachings which I have heard from my infancy, or from my boyhood days to the present time, have been for my welfare and the welfare of my brethren and sisters, for our best interest in this life and in the eternal world. I rejoice in association with my brethren and sisters. I love my brethren; I court their acquaintance, and desire to be associated with them in whatever may come to this people. I love this land, and our homes in these valleys of the mountains. I feel, with all my heart, that God has brought us to these lands, and this is the place which God has provided for the gathering of His people. 

It was my pleasure to be associated with President Robinson, for a few days, in the Irrigation Congress, in our neighboring state upon the Pacific Coast. Truly they have a wonderful country there, a place desirable to men wfto are seeking aggrandizement, wealth and the honors of men, a state which, in the near future, if the suggestions of the Irrigation Congress are carried out, will become one of the greatest, if not the greatest, state in all the Union. But it does not compare for our purposes, for the Latter-day Saints, with these little vales in the tops of the mountains, the place God has appointed for His people to gather unto, that they might become united, and work hand in hand in carrying out the principles of the everlasting gospel, a condition which could not have possibly been developed in that great and glorious state of California. 

God bless California and the people. They, I believe, are friendly toward us; but they are seeking the things of the world. To those among us who want the things of this world and its pleasures, I would say go to California; but if you want' to serve God and keep His commandments,  in these vales of the mountains, surrounded by brethren and sisters who are seeking God's truths, and desire to carry out His principles. I am assured that we will make much greater success in keeping God's commandments in the place which He has appointed. I thank our Father for these lofty hills and mountains, which gather the snows and make it possible for us to establish homes at their base, in our beautiful little valleys, just big enough for us, developing as we grow, and not -attractive, particularly, to those who are seeking for the good things of the world, which is the case in great cities, and in the great state in the west at the shores of the sea. 

I feel that the Lord has been good to us to let us live in this dispensation, and given us inspired men to guide and direct us; and in revealing- the everlasting gospel for our salvation.' W e should show our appreciation bv keeping the commandments of God, for in doing so there is peace, happiness, and contentment of the mind, and eternal rest in the kingdom of our Father in heaven; which may God grant will be the lot an<-1 condition of every Latter-dav Saint, and everv honesthearted man and woman throughout the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES WOTHERSPOON. 

(President of North Weber Stake.) 

Mv brethren and sisters. T feel it an honor to have been called to this ston^ tndav. anrl lik-p the brethren who have alreadv addressed vou, I reioice in the statements that have been made, and in the counsel and advice that have been given to us at 125  different sessions of this conference. 

I rejoice with the brethren and sisters at all times, when they are enjoying that spirit and influence that comes from our Father in Heaven. He has given to us the Gospel of His Son, He has given to us the plan of life and salvation, which, if followed out in our lives, will lead us back into His holy presence. To me there can be nothing greater come to mankind than to have lived in this dispensation in which God has been so merciful to open up our understanding and give us the light of truth, that we might be able to receive a testimony of this great latter-day work. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know this is the work of God. 

I am thankful that the elders came to Scotland in early days, and that my father and mother had the hardihood to accept the principles which they taught, to accept their testimony, and afterwards to obey the Gospel and receive a testimony for themselves. I thank God for this, because I know not whether I would have had the hardihood of myself to accept it or not, but I do appreciate the fact that they did, and that I have been brought to this goodly land; and that so far as the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord has been with me, I have tried to follow in the path of truth. To a man full of weakness and imperfections, it is a hard thing to do. But I have tried in my weakness to do that which is right and, whether I have made a success in it or not, the Lord will judge me when the great day shall come. I pray that His blessings mav be with us as Latter-day Saints, that we may realize that we are God's children, and that the bless of heaven are given us, inasmuch as we will do that which He requires at our hands. 

Mention has been made at one of the sessions of this conference in regard to the great principle of uniting families together for time and for all eternity. To me, this is the grandest and most glorious principle that the latter-day work presents to us, the fact that God has given to His servants in this dispensation, authority to bind men and women together as husband and wife eternally. Nothing can be more joyful than to know that after the troubles of this life are over, after we have passed through scenes of adversity, and sometimes prosperity, and have finished this course of life, that we shall arise on the morning of the resurrection and meet those that we loved on earth, and those that loved us. To me, this is one of the greatest and grandest principles that has been revealed in this latter dispensation. We know the troubles there are in life : we know the adversities we have to pass through, we know the struggle there is, and then to think that, after death claims us, those we have loved and who have loved us would not be our associates in the ages that are to come, to me it is impossible, it is not God-like, it can't be true. 

God is a lover of His children, just the same as we are lovers of our children, and we want to meet and associate with each other through the countless ages of eternity; and may God grant it to us all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A seventeenth ward choir double quartette, under direction of James H. Neilson, rendered Prof. Evan Stephens' new song, "Loyal to the Truth and the Right." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER JOHN J. M'CLELLAN. 

(The Tabernacle Organist.) 

My dear brethren and sisters : I have faced audiences in many parts of the world, and feel that probably I have done myself justice, but this is the most trying position I have ever occupied. I am very grateful to God our Heavenly l*ather for this recognition. I am thankful to be counted worthy to stand in your midst, and proud to bear my testimony. I have known all my life that this is the work of God, and I expect to spend all my time in this glorious work. I expect to live and die among this people, because they are the best people in the world. I have traveled a great deal and I know we have the best people, that we have the Gospel in its true and pure state, and that the Church is blest with revelations from time to time. I know that President Joseph F. Smith is, and all his predecessors have been, prophets of God. I don't merely think it, I know it! 

I testify that those associated with the President, his counselors, the apostles and the general officers of the Church are men inspired. Of course, I appreciate my standing in the Church, though I feel sometimes that I am a rather poor Latter-day Saint, but I am trying to do the best I know how. You will agree that I am a poor preacher; but though I seldom express my love for the Gospel with my lips, I try to do that in my own way, at the great organ. God has given me a musical gift and I am trying to develop that; and if I do my duty in that way, I feel that I am doing, partly, that for which I was sent here on earth. 

I know that the Gospel is true, and I have never been ashamed to say  I belong to this people; I have always been proud of that fact, and have always associated myself with the Church, and shall always strive to do so. 

My standing in this Church, that I thank God for, means more to me that all the rest of the world's interests. I am sincere in this because I believe it with all my heart. In my way I shall dedicate my life to this work, under the direction of the authorities of the Church. I love our people. There is one thought I would like to present to this magnificent audience, and it is this : We have been the most persecuted people of modern times; you well know that. I remember the persecution among our people in the early days, when I was a child, and my heart ached; I thought we were the most abused people in the world. Having been so situated, having been so persecuted, we should as a people, I believe, possess a great degree of charity, one for the other. There should be no back-biting; there should be more evidences of brotherly love, and we should give the "other fellow" the benefit of the doubt. It is easy, as our dear president here, can testify, to be in the public eye and be hammered to death almost. Have you ever thought about it that we are most uncharitable sometimes toward our very own? I wish I had the power and eloquence of an orator to present this subject as it should be presented. This great thought, charity and forgiveness to one another, so beautifully touched upon in this conference, should be religiously cultivated among us. It would prove to be a wonderful blessing, if we bore a more kindly attitude to the erring ones. Let us do away with the 127  of "knocking," which is prevalent to some extent in our communities. It is surely always bad for the "knocker" as well as for the one maligned. My dear brothers and sisters, I feel that being followers of the meek and lowly Jesus, and believers in His Gospel, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and knowing as we do that brotherly love is a great feature in our profession of religion, that it is a divine factor, we should encourage in each other kindly feelings, exhibit a forgiving spirit, and be in very deed brothers and sisters in the Gospel. 

I thank God for the Gospel, and I shall try in my humble way to assist in its upbuilding in the earth. I am grateful for this privilege of speaking to you; and I pray that the Lord of Hosts will bless and help us all to do our duty according to the light that is given us. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD P. KIMBALL. 

(Assistant Organist > 

When President Smith called me over and whispered in my ear, I thought I was going to be sent on some errand, but when he said "Will you bear your testimony for five minutes?" my heart stopped. Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am grateful for this privilege. 

It is the rather unhappy lot of men associated with the musical profession to have to live down the fallacy that a man cannot be a latter-day Saint and be a professional musician. For one, I am doing my best to live down that untruth. I believe there is nothing in the Gospel of Jesus Christ that will act upon any man or woman in any  way, if he or she be engaged in an honorable, upright profession, than to make him or her excel in the line of work which they take up. I admire the physician or the surgeon who has courage enough to administer the ordinances of the Church to his patient before performing an operation, recognizing the hand of God and his own limitation, putting himself as a humble instrument in the hands of God for the cure which he hopes, through the power of God, to be instrumental in bringing to pass upon those to whom he is called to administer. I admire any man or woman engaged in any lawful pursuit who has the courage to stand up and bear testimony of his conviction. 

I hope you will pardon me for a few personal reminiscences. Some of you may not know, others may, that I was in Europe, in Berlin, at the time war broke out. I could see no reason for coming home. Friends were raised up to us on ever side, and we were not expecting to return home until we received the word from the president of the mission that President Joseph F. Smith had called the priesthood out of Germany. That was sufficient for us. We sold our household belongings and came home, broken-hearted, along with fifteen or sixteen other students who were continuing their studies in that country. I testify to you that there is not one of those students who had to return to the United States, as he believed without having completed his work, who has not been able to accomplish more in the eastern cities than had he remained in Europe under present conditions Now, to me that is a testimony that President Smith GENERAL CONFERENCE.  inspired of God, and that no man or woman will ever lose anything by following the counsel of those who stand at the head of the priesthood in this world. 

I was compelled at one time to give up the dearest desire of my heart. I had the chance of entering a musical conservatory in the East. My brother was called upon a mission at the same time. It was a question of him remaining home or I. I was able to forego the privilege at the time and he went on a mission. Another time I thought the time was ripe for me to go, and I was called on a mission myself. I set my work aside and went into the missionary field as any other elder would do. Those who knew me as a missionary did not know, until weeks afterwards, that music was the profession of my life and the thing to which I hoped to devote my entire time. I put this aside, devoted myself according to my best ability, in weakness and humility, to the labor as a servant of the Lord in the missionary field. I testify to you that I am of the same opinion today, if the authorities of the Church should ask me to lay down my professon, which to me, next to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and my loved ones, is the dearest thing in the world, as I feel now, I would do it, to take up labor in any capacity to which I might be called. 

I take my work here in the tabernacle, as asistant organist in the Church, very seriously. There are preaching missionaries in the Church. I consider my work, and I consider the work of my associates here as that of playing missionaries of the Church. It is a matter of prayer with me. I remember not more than ten clays ago 

I had an extremely difficult pro-] gram to render, and I bowed my knees in prayer, as I always do, to ask for the help of the Lord, that those people who heard my effort here might receive at least a comparative idea of the musical ability of our people, for such I consider the work which we render here gives. After I had finished I was told by one of the janitors in the east end of the building, that a couple had come to him and had made this statement : "I don't know who that young man is, but he surely is imbued with the Spirit of God." This was an answer to my prayer. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I hope that the time is coming when . you, all of you, will recognize that a man or woman can follow any lawful occupation in the world and succeed, and still be even a better Latter-day Saint. I believe the Gospel with all my heart. I am proud of my lineage. The statement was made by Brother Seymour B. Young this morning that it was prophesied of this Church in the early days, by enemies of this people, that the third and fourth generation would leave the faith. I am of the third generation on the side of my father, and I am of the fourth generation on the side of mother, and I want to testify to you that the faith in the Gospel has not died out within my soul; there is no sacrifice which I would not make if called upon, providing I can keep the same spirit of humility and faith which I now have, and I intend to see to it that the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the testimony of the divinity of the work of Joseph Smith shall not die within the hearts of my children, if the Lord will permit me to give them the example which has been given 129  me by my parents and grandparents. 

I believe the most potent thing in the Church today is the bearing of testimony. I don't believe there is a servant of the Church who is so humble and who is so unlearned that, if he will put himself in condition arid bear the simplest testimony it will not have a tendency to increase the faith in the heart of some one. Now we who have been born in the Church have most of us had the testimony of the Gospel given to us by continuous hearing of the word, until the Lord ' has touched our souls; and I think that we should never stop bearing testimony. I am grateful that the authorities have seen fit to set me to work as a missionary here on the block. I have borne my testimony to more thousands here this summer than I did in the three years of my missionary experience in the world. 

Now, may the Lord bless you; may He preserve the lives of the older brethren and sisters who have made it possible to meet under such auspicious circumstances. May He preserve the life of His servant, President Smith, and his counselors, and the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, until they shall have fulfilled the work which God has outlined for them here. 

Once more my brethren and sisters, in my humble, weak way I bear to you the testimony that I know, so far as it is possible for a man in weak mortality to know, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. I don't know that South Africa exists, I don't know that there is such a place as South America except through the testimony of those who have been there and who do know it I don't know that God  through having heard His voice or seen His face. I don't know that Joseph Smith received the visions which he did, through having come personally in contact with Him at the time, but the testimony of faith has been established within my soul through hearing the testimonies of those who do know, and I believe it is possible for every member of the Church of Jesus Christ to have not only the testimony of belief and of desire, but a testimony of positive knowledge. There will come a time when the hearts of every one of us will burn within us, as the Doctrine and Covenants says, if a man will know that a thing is right he can only know by the burning sensation which comes" within the soul. . We all know that the things of this world, our occupations, fade into insignificance compared with the things we enjoy — compared with some of the rich outpourings of the Spirit in our priesthood meetings. What is the reason? Simply because we are in tune .with the Infinite, and the things of the world disappear, and become as naught. 

I hope the Lord will give me long life, and allow me to devote my entire time in whatever capacity I may be called, to the promulgation, and the furtherance of His purposes, and that I may always allow the solemnities of eternity to rest upon my soul, that I may treasure up continually the word of the Lord, and that I may be ready at any time, wherever I may be, in any clime or under any conditions, to testify to the truth of the Gospel, as I really and sincerely feel it in my heart today. God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Smith : "God bless our GENERAL CONFERENCE.  from generation to generation continually." 

ELDER TRACY Y. CANNON. 

(Assistant Organist.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, I am glad that I was called upon to speak, although 1 believe this is one of the most trying times of my whole life. But I have noticed this; that since I came from my mission, quite a number of years ago, 1 have been called upon, perhaps, only twice to administer the sacrament in our meetings, because I have always been busy with the choir or at the organ; and I have felt sometimes that the brethren forget that we musicians hold the priesthood, and that we want to exercise our rights therein. For this reason I am happy indeed, my brethren and sisters, to bear unto you the testimony which burns within my soul, for I have a testimony of this Gospel, that it is the work of God. 

I have traveled quite a good deal in my short life, and have studied somewhat concerning other faiths, and I have noticed that each particular faith that I have studied has its own peculiar spirit. There was a certain spirit attending me, it seemed, when I studied the beliefs of the great Catholic Church, and there was an entirely different spirit when I read somewhat concerning the Hindoo faiths; and T notice this, and always have noticed it. that when I have gone into one of our meetings or picked up one of our Church works, that there was an entirely different spirit from any one of them. A sweet, beautiful snirit came to my soul and testified that this was the greatest of all works among mankind, and so, my brethren and sisters, I am thankful. ?r~""  bottom of my heart, to be a member of this Church. 

I am thankful for the opportunities that are presented, from day to day, for us to play to the thousands of people that come through here; because I know from experience, in speaking to the tourists, that their hearts are softened towards us, because of the beautiful music from this great and wonderful organ in this still greater and more wonderful building, thus preparing thousands of people to receive the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that this Gospel is true. I feel this testimony burning within my soul, and I know that when I am doing my full duty that the spirit is burning deepest in my heart. I feel to uphold President Smith, his counselors, and the Twelve, the missionaries and every man and woman who is working in this Church for the furtherance of truth; and I feel like Brother Kimball, and I know Brother McClellan feels the same, that I would be willing to lay down my professional work to go out as a humble elder, tracting from door to door. I have done it once, and it was really and truly a joy and power to me, even as is playing this wonderful organ; and you can imagine what a great joy and what a wonderful amount of satisfaction and happiness comes to one in having the great opportunity of playing to so many thousands of strangers. 

I pray God to bless von all, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith said : 

In this tabernacle, and in the assembly hall, and in our openingmeetings during this conference, 39 131  of stakes and 10 presidents of missions have spoken and borne testimony, and I regret that we did not occupy all day yesterday, as well as the Sabbath and Monday and today, in hearing the testimonies of our brethren who stand at the head of the various stakes and missions of the Church. I think we have heard very much to convince us that the Lord has made wise choice in the selection of those men, who have spoken to us, to occupy the important positions they are called unto. 

It will be necessary on account of the shortness of time to change our course a little. Brother Smoot will be leaving us to attend to his duties at Washington, we would like to have him express himself and bear his testimony before he goes. The other brethren of the Twelve and of the Seventies will be with us and will visit you from time to time, and you will hear from them again. We will now give a few moments of the time to Brother Smoot. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The Saints pray for the President and leading men of the nation. — American people opposed to war, and conquest of countries. — Intense interest in welfare of Country and Church. — An appeal for thrift and economy. — Prayer for the world's peace. What a splendid conference we have had, and what wonderful testimonies have been given, and what a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord has attended those who have addressed this conference. During the few moments that I stand before you today I pray the, blessings of heaven to be with me. I want the people to know that my  being has been, in tune with the testimonies that have been borne and the admonitions that have been given, and I thank mv Father in heaven for the privilege I have had of being with you at this conference. 

My heart rejoiced when President Smith, in his opening statement to this conference, said that the Church never was in a better condition spiritually and temporalis than it is today. Mv brethren and sisters, I believe that God intends that as the people grow in the spiritual things of life so shall they be blessed with the temporal things of life. We have heard many testimonies durinsr this conference of the wonderful prosneritv of the r>eor>le of Utah, and I am so thankful for it. I am thankful to mv heavenly father that our country is enioying peace, and as far as I am concerned. I believe that there has not been a moment that our country was in danger of becoming involved in this wicked and unjustifiable European war. I have been taueht all mv life, and so have you. to pray for the rulers of the world, to nrav for the President of the United States, to nrav for the lawmakers of ah countries, and particularly our own;to prav for the governors of states, the legislatures of states and all who make and administer the law : but. mv brethren and sisters, that does not mean that we must approve of all that men do in those positions. It is our right to ask our heavenly Father to give all men wisdom and judgment. I measured mv words when I said ^iat I do not believe that there has been a moment that our countrv was in danger of becoming" involved '»-> this wicked and unjustifiable European war. There are so many GENERAL CONFERENCE.  for this that I haven't the time this afternoon to even mention a tithe of them, but first and above all is the fact that there are a hundred million of American people that are opposed to war. And again, I believe when the true history of the war is written, after the close of the war, it will be found that the greed for expansion of territory, the ambition for greater power, and not least, if the last that T mention, a desire to control the commerce of the world will be recorded as the fundamental reasons for the war. We should thank our Creator that our country, the one in which our liberties are so well pro-, tected, has no ambition to rule the world by force; that it has more interest in the commerce of its own country than it has to control the commerce of the world, and that her peoole do not want another foot of land of any foreign power. 

I believe what has been testified to in relation to the prosperity of the people today. I wish that it had come through some other way than through the channels of murder and war; and I now call the attention of the people to the fact that this horrible massacre of human beings must cease before long, and when it does the products of our state and of the intermountain country will not be so highly prized, and will not bring in dollars and cents what they are bringing todav. And I plead with all that while this prosperity exists., unfortunate as the cause of it is, that you save a part of your gains for the future. I am deeply sensitive of the jealousy I have for the growth and development and thrift of my country and my Church, and I desired to speak upon the subject of thrift, but T haven't time to discuss it at length. 

I must be content with the time at my disposal, to present the question as it were in headlines, and let every one present make the argument for himself. 

In speaking of thrift I mean thrift in its broadest sense, the kind that makes better men, better women, better children, thrift that will build a better nation. We often mistake what thrift means. It means more than the mere saving of money. It means prosperitv, good husbandry, good farming, economical management, frugalitv. It means individual efficiency. It means order and system. It means character building in its broadest sense, morally, temporally and spiritually. The thrift that I desire to impress upon you today does not mean stinginess; it does not mean miserliness, nor does it mean upon the other hand a wild extravagance; rather would I say that it means a walk of life between the two that I believe our heavenly Father intended His children to follow. Thrift and thriving mean the same thing. A farmer who lets his broken fences go unrepaired, his farm implements remain in the field all winter is not a thrifty farmer. A wife who throws into the garbage can enough food to feed another familv, which often is the case, is not a thriftv woman. And do you know, my brethren and sisters, that it is estimated that there is wasted throueh the garbage cans of the United States over a billion dollars a year. There is enough in that one statement to make a sermon. I remember preaching a sermon, years ago, upon the waste of the swillbarrel and many told me it was greatly appreciated. Remember that leakage and waste are the universal enemies of all forms of thrift and 133 . We find it in smoking, we find it in drinking, we find in homes that we enter thousands of little things going to waste for want of immediate care. I never see such waste but that I think, "A stitch in time saves nine." I wish that every one fully understood the true significance of that statement. Thrift never despises little beginnings. 

One day President McKinley and Mark Hanna were entering a street car. It was when McKinley was a congressman, and just after he had secured the passage of the McKinley tariff bill through the House of Representatives; and as they stepped on a car Mr. McKinley paid ten cents for tickets for himself and Mark Hanna. As soon as they sat down Hanna turned to McKinley and said : "I wish that I could make a tariff bill such as you passed through the House today, yet I think you are the most wasteful man that I ever knew." McKinlev asked him why. "Why," Hanna said, "you could have bought six tickets for a quarter, and you paid ten cents for two of them, a clear loss of nearlv twenty per cent. No wonder you have been poor all your life." 

Remember the first hundred dollars that you save will be the hardest for you to acquire. To do so sometimes requires self-sacrifice and it always requires self-control. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, I have trespassed on the time alloted me already. I wish that I had time to discuss fully the question of thrift. I would like to have the principle of thrift made a part of vour lives; for the Lord has promised that His people should be blessed as no other people in temporal affairs as well as spiritually;  remember this, that "God helps those who help themselves." I trust that the Latter-day Saints will by honesty, energy and thrift helo themselves that our heavenly Father can better help them. 

I want to leave with you my testimony; for I know that this is the work of the Lord. I never felt prouder of my standing in the Church than I do today. I never felt a stronger desire to accomplish all that God would have me accomplish than I do at this moment; and I pray that His blessing may be upon all the people, not only the Latter-day Saints, but all the honest in heart throughout the world and may peace come to the world in the Lord's own due time; may the European war be overruled for good and the people of the world be ultimately blessed through it. God knows how this can be brought about. May peace ever be with us is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts. Tonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edear Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishoo, with Orrin P. Miller and David A.. Smith, as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the bodv of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Plorace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William 

W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John 

C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Joseph'S. Wells. 

Tabernacle Choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; John Drakef ord, librarian : and all the members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmeline B. Wells, president; Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor; Julina L. Smith, second counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, secretary; Susa Young Gates, corresponding secretary; Emma A. Empey, treasurer; Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical director; Edna H. Coray, organist; Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth. Phebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McLelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Jeanette A. Hyde arid Sarah Eddington. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union — Joseph F. Smith, superintendent; David O. McKay, first assistant superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, second assistant superintendent; George D. Pyper, secretary; John F. Bennett, treasurer. Other members of board: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, William 

D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, Anthon H. Lund, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows. William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Charles W. Penrose, Edwin ' G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, 

E. G. Gowans, E. Conway Ashton and Adam S. Bennion. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement AssociationJoseph F. Smith, superintendent; Heber J. Grant and -Brigham H. Roberts, assistant superintendents; Moroni Snow, secretary; Francis M. Lyman, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph 

F. Smith, Jr., Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F." Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley, Richard W. Young and Preston D. Richards. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement AssociationMartha Home Tingey, president; Ruth May Fox, first counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor; Clarissa A. Beesley, secretary; Joan M. Campbell, recording secretary; Alice K. Smith, treasurer; Margaret ISummerhays Sand Mabel Cooper, music directors. 

Aids : Maria Young Dougall, Adella W. Eardley, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Estelle Neff Caldwell, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovsey, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Sarah E. Richards, Lucy S. Carter and Charlotte Stewart. 

General board of Primary associations — Louie B. Felt, 'president; May Anderson, first counselor; Clara W. Beebe, second counselor; Frances K. Thomassen, secretary; Edith E. Hunter, treasurer; Ida B. Smith, librarian, Adelaide U. E. Hardy, assistant librarian; Emma Ramsey Morris, chorister; Matilda W. Cahoon, assistant chorister; Ivy Allen, organist; Isabella S. Ross and Ann Nebeker, physical directors. Advisors to the board; George F. Richards and Anthony W. Ivins. Aids : Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion, Margaret C. Eastmond, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma P, Romney, Zina Y. Card, Laura L. Foster, Erma Bitner Evans, Eleanor R. Jeremy, Ella S. Carpenter, Mary F. Young, Annie S. Milne, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers, Beatrice Cannon, Helen Davis, Florence Summerhays, Marion Belnap Kerr. 

General board of Religion classes — Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, second assistant superintendent : Edwin S. Sheets, secretary; Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant. Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, Willard Young, James E. Talmage, N. Andrew Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

General board of the Genealogical society of Utah — Anthon H. Lund, president; Charles W. Penrose, vice president; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., secretary and treasurer; Joseph Christenson, librarian; Anthony W.. Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I need only to say at the conclusion of this conference, that the Lord has truly blessed us with a  outpouring of His Spirit, and by virtue of my calling and the priesthood that I hold, I bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

In accordance with his authority, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum G. Smith blesed the people and pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, Fred G. Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF 

THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

SIX VOLUMES NOW READY 

COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per Vol. - - $1.50. postpaid Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol. - 2.50 Half Calf— Gilt Top, per Vol. - 2.50 Full Morocco — Full Gilt Edge, per Vol. 4.00 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE, FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 



THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

A New Church Work "JESUS THE CHRIST" 

By Dr. JAMES E. TALMAGE. Just off the press of the Deseret News. A study of the Messiah, and His Mission according to Holy Scriptures both Ancient and Modern. Well printed in large type, bound in half Morocco, $1.50. 

Two Books That Every L. D. S. Family Should Have 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. 

Joseph Smith's Teachings 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 









