Afternoon
03 04 1915

In the Tabernacle. 

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order, and stated that overflow meetings are to be held in the Assembly Hall and in front of the Bureau of Information, this afternoon. 

The Tabernacle choir, and visiting choristers, sang the "Hallelujah Chorus." 

The invocation was offered by Elder Frank Y. Taylor. 

The choir sang the anthem, "God is our refuge." 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Privilege of attending Conference — How to draw near to God — The new birth — Need of being born of the Spirit as well -as of water — Duty of teaching this to the Children — Experience of the Prophet Joseph Smith — Christ's dual character — God's power to hear prayer — Organization of the spiritual Kingdom — Personal experience — The new work about Christ — The Holy Trinity. 

I feel it is a great privilege to be permitted to meet with my brethren and sisters at this conference. I never felt the value of it more in my life than I do today. I have attended a great many general conferences of the Church, as well as conferences abroad in the different missions, but I never felt any more grateful to God for the privilege of attending a conference than I do today. 1 fully enjoyed the services this morning, and I presume that most of the congregation this afternoon were here at the morning session and heard the addresses that were delivered by President Smith and President Lund, and heard the music, the singing of the choir and the song that was sung by Elder Ballard, which I enjoyed with the rest of the services. 

President Lund, in the course of his remarks, asked the question : Why we became Latter-day Saints, why we joined the Church in spite of the obloquy upon it, in spite of the opposition of the world and in spite of the fact that the "Mormons" were and are now a people despised by the great majority of mankind. Well, I felt in my heart that the answer was in that song that Brother Ballard sang this morning. I believe the refrain was : "If ye with your whole heart seek unto God, ye shall ever surely find Him." That may not be the exact words, but T think that was the sen and we can bear testimony that this is true and this is the great reason why most of the older members of this Church have become Latter-day Saints, receiving the truth in the various nations of the world and among the various denominations of Christendom. When the Elders of this Church were sent forth in the early days of its organization, they went' out "without purse or scrip" in the way in which the ancient apostles traveled. They did not take money with them to pay their way; they had no wages, no salary, no stipend, no means of support but that which God raised by friends to administer to them. They had to seek to the Lord. They found Him and those who administered to them also received that blessing. I can bear testimony myself that when I heard the Gospel preached, away back early in 1850, I went to the Lord. I had been trained to believe in God. I did not know very much about Him, although I was brought up among "Christians," so called. 

I learned that when Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the nineteenth century, desired to obtain a knowledge of the true Church, to find out which was the true religion among all the various existing sects, he followed the advice of James who said : "Tf any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him; but let him ask in faith." That is the great key to it. So Joseph in his boyhood retired to a grove near his father's residence and called upon God that he . might learn which was the right religion, for a great number of the religions of the time were engaged in their revival gatherings. Many of you know what that is, some of you perhaps do not. Revivalism is a sort of religious enthusiasm, often religious and spiritual inebriety; people are "drunk but not with wine, and stagger but not with strong drink," using the words of Isaiah the Prophet, and they become sometimes delirious and go into all kinds of excesses; and he was puzzled to know which was the true religion, and he followed the advice of the Apostle James. He sought the Lord and he believed that God would hear his prayer and answer him and in response to his petition the Father and the Son, God the Father, God the Son Jesus Christ, for He was God and was in the beginning with God, we read in the scripture ancient and modern, and God the Father and the Son appeared to him and spake to him and he was told by the Father to hear the Son : "This is my beloved Son, hear Him." And the Son spoke to Joseph and told him to go after none of them. There is a side to the character of Jesus of Nazareth a little different to that in which He is generally pictured. 

I used to sing when I was a little boy and went to Sunday School : "Gentle Jesus, meek and mild, look on me, a little child," and I suppose He was meek and mild in His character, and we are told that we ought to entertain a Christian spirit when we feel a little disturbed by the falsehoods of our enemies. But Jesus had two sides to His character and one of them was shown on this occasion, but not so forcefully as it was shown at some periods of His ministry on the earth. He said to Joseph : "Go after none of them. "The professors of religion draw near to me with their mouth and with their lips do honor me while their hearts are far from me and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men. Go after none  them; they are all gone astray." You remember, if you are acquainted with the history of Jesus, what little we have of it in the New Testament, that He had a great aversion to those self-righteous Pharisees and others of their ilk and the other sects who were hypocrites. "Woe unto you, scribes, pharisees, hypocrites! Ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte and make him ten-fold more the child of hell than he was before." He was not very meek and mild upon those occasions nor was He when He went into the temple and made a thong of cords and kicked over the tables of the money changers and drove out them that sold doves.. "My Father's house is a house of prayer but ye have made it a den of thieves. Get out of here." That was the other side of His character but He was meek and mild and gentle to all when they were sincere, when He felt that they meant what they professed. When sinners were repentant, He was kind and gentle to them and welcomed them to Him. "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden and I will give thee rest.' That is where His mildness shone out. You must remember that Jesus was not only the Lamb of God slain from the foundation of the world, but He was also the Lion of the tribe of Judah. and the time is coming when He will shine forth in that character. When the work is being brought to a consummation and the kingdoms of this world are arrayed against Him He will come forth in His strength and the might and majesty of His power, and the kingdoms of this world will be broken in pieces before the kingdom of our God and His Christ. 

Now, I speak thus concerning Jesus of Nazareth because He is at the head of this work in which we  engaged. This is no sect of religion. This is no mere man-made organization. It is divine and was from the beginning and the Father and His Son appeared and opened up the latter-day dispensation. The greatest of all dispensations of God's mercy to man is opened and launched forth upon the earth and it will be brought to a grand and glorious consummation, for all things shall be subdued unto Him and He shall reign whose right it is to reign over all the earth. The promise is made to us as it was made of old by the Lord to the people: "Draw near unto me," saith the Lord, and I will draw near unto you." That is the process. We are to draw near unto Deity and Deity will stoop down and condescend to us and reveal to us that which shall be for our good, but we have to draw near to Him, as the song says, with our whole heart and to serve God and be determined to serve Him as He has commanded us in these latter days, with all our heart and might and mind and strength. 

That is what the Lord commanded anciently and has renewed again in these latter days. For through the Prophet Joseph Smith to whom the Father and the Son spake in that heavenly vision, God has revealed the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, and has restored all the ordinances and rites and powers and privileges and gifts and blessings pertaining thereunto as they were enjoyed in times of old. God is the same "yesterday, today and forever," and those who draw near unto Him with their whole heart shall find Him and shall learn of Him and understand Him. Of course we do not expect to comprehend Deity in the fulness thereof while we are in mortality, but the day is to come, according to both  and modern scripture, when we will come "face to face" with Him and "see Him as He is and be made like Him, but every man that hath this hope," the apostle John says, "purifieth himself even as He is pure." Here is something for us to consider, my brethren and sisters, and friends, if there be any here who are not of our faith : that is, that there is something more to religion than believing in Deity, something more than receiving ordinances and ceremonies and rites, and organizations. What is it? It is the Spirit and the power of God. Jesus Christ, when explaining to Nicodemus that peculiar saying that "except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God," and Nicodemus could not understand it, expounded it this way : "Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit he can not enter into the Kingdom of God." This is something we should all understand. It is necessary that we should be born of water. A great many of our modern religionists say that does not matter, that the water does not amount to anything and so it does not matter whether we are born of water or not. But Jesus Christ laid down as a fundamental that "except a man be born of water and of the Soirit he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God." 

To be born of water is very easy to understand, if we will look into the life and character and example of Jesus Christ. He started out on His ministry before entering into the preaching of the Gospel and accomplishing the work that the Father sent Him to do by going to John the Baptist and being- immersed in the River Jordan. When He was baptized of John, we read, he came up straightway out of the water and lo! the heavens were 

opened unto Him and the Spirit of God rested down upon Him in the form or sign of a dove and the Father from the heavens said: "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased." He was born of water when He came up from the Jordan, and born of the Spirit when the Holy Ghost rested down upon Him in visible form. The voice of the Father proclaimed that He was well pleased with Him and He has "left us an example that we should follow in His steps." I do not want to take up time in regard to that particular point. If we will read the Acts of the Apostles in the New Testament we will notice the fact that whenever they went forth to preach the Gospel they proclaimed these principles, that if anybody wanted to enter into the Church or Kingdom of God they had to be baptized for the remission of sins; and that baptism was an immersion, it was a death to the old life and a new birth to the new life. It is being "buried with Christ in baptism," being raised up in the likeness of the resurrection of Christ. 

But then they laid their hands upon the baptized, repentant believers and conferred upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost. So that the Holy Ghost is necessary as a baptism; that the individual must be baptized, immersed in that influence, quickened by it, enlightened by it, thus becoming one of the sons of God by adoption in the Gospel. Verily, said the ancient apostle, "they that are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God'" Now, here is a double birth — the birth of the water and the birth of the Soirit, and I want to impress upon the minds of my brethren and sisters that they should teach this to their children, not only to be baptized in water  they are eight years old, but to be "born of the Spirit," as the Lord has commanded. He says : "Inasmuch as there are parents having children in Zion or in any of her Stakes that are organized, who teach them not to understand the doctrine of faith in Jesus Christ, the son of the living God, and baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." Doc. and Cov. 68:25. It is a splendid thing that in every month just before the fastday, which President Smith drew our attention to so strongly this morning, just before the fast-day there is a baptizing day and parents send their children, when they are of proper age, to be baptized. It is to be hoped and believed that before they send them they instruct them in these things. The Lord says il they do not teach them to understand that doctrine the sin shall be upon the heads of the parents. On the fast-day, generally, the children, after being baptized, are taken to the fast meeting and under the direction of the bishops, hands are laid upon them by the Elders and the Holy Ghost is confirmed and sealed upon them in form. But it is for the children to be instructed how to reach out, to reach up to God with all their heart, and if thev do they will find Him and they will receive that baptism and inspiration of the Holy Ghost from on high without which we cannot see and comprehend the things of God. 

For, as man by the spirit of man, which is in him understands the things of this world, so no one can comprehend the things of God but under the influence and power of the Spirit of God, the light of the Lord, that divine light which proceedeth from His presence through the immensity of space, that which is in the sun, in the moon, in the stars, in the earth, and in all things, and by which He operated when He made the worlds and by which Jesus, the Son, who was with the Father in the beginning operated in the formation of this globe. It was He, Jesus the Christ, our elder brother in the spirit, that was spoken to by the Father in the beginning when He said : "Let us make man after our image and our likeness," and so on. But the Holy Ghost, the Comforter that Jesus Christ said He would send when He went away, is "a personage of spirit." When He left His disciples He said He would not leave them comfortless but He would send to them the Spirit of truth from the Father, who, when He came, would guide them into all truth and take of the things of the Father and of the "-in and show them to His apostles and unto those that received the gift of the Holy Spirit. Thus the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost are three separate and distinct personalities; they each have their particular power and sphere of operations, but they are all one in mind and purpose, and in act; they three are one in that sense. 

Now, we want our children to understand that they can learn of the Lord as Joseph the Prophet did. Not that every one of them is to receive visible manifestations as he did; for he was a special witness raised up by the Almighty to usher in the greatest and grandest of all dispensations, but to learn to be led by the Spirit of God, to understand its whisperings, its inspiration, and if thev do learn that and walk in the h>ht that they will not be led astray. When those foolish vaearies that President Lund alluded to this morning, come along from time to  and lead some foolish people away from the straight and narrow path, we know by the Spirit what they are. They are not of God. They come to deceive, to darken the mind, to becloud the understanding, to lead people from that which God has shown to them to be the truth. True. Latter-day Saints hav<; *-'iis peculiarity about them that they are bom of God, by the water and the Spirit. And that Spirit is a spirit of revelation. It is a spirit of inspiration : it enlightens the soul, as that which we call artificial light lightens the natural eyes. These lamps that shine here today give the same kind of light that comes from the sun and from the moon and is a property and a manifestation of the spirit of truth, the light of truth, the intelligence that always existed, that never was created or made, the Snirit by which God operates throuehout all His creations and by which He can learn about us whenever He desires, and behold us, and can hear and answer our prayers. 

It is a great puzzle to some people how it can possibly be that a person, an individual, of form and stature, occupying- but one place at a time, can hear the prayers of His people or can comprehend them as David said He does : Said he : "There is not a thought of my heart but lo! O God, thou knowest it altogether. If I ascend up into heaven behold thou art there. If I descend down into hell behold thou art there; and if I take the wings of the morning and flee to the uttermost parts of the earth, there will Thv hand lead me and Thy right hand guide me." Of course these exr>res«ions are somewhat fieurative, but there is the great fact that God on be omnioresent bv the power of His universally diffused spirit which proceeds from His presence throughout the immensity of space, and He can see and discern all things by that power, as He told Enoch, and Moses also, as you can read in The Pearl of Great Price. Moses and Enoch were each lifted up so that they could see, measurably, as Deity sees and they beheld the multiplicity of the creations of God; and when Enoch declared that if a man could count the particles of the earth or of a. million earths like this, that would not be a beginning to the number of God's creations, then God told him, "Yea, and mine eye can pierce them all." By the power of that Spirit he sees and comprehends and understands all things, and His watchful care and His mercies are over all His works. 

There is another thing connected with that, which you can understand if you will read the 10th chapter of the book of Daniel. I will not take time to read it. I don't want to take up too much time. There are others to speak this afternoon. But do you read it. Daniel, the proohet, whose words are being fulfilled, many of them, in our own time, Daniel predicted and saw in vision the rising of the great kingdom of God in the latter days, to supersede and overcome all kingdoms upon the face of the earth. He prayed to God on a certain occasion and his words were not immediately answered, and he fasted and prayed and fasted and prayed but his words were not answered in the way that he expected, and after three weeks had passed by. a heavenly being aopeared before him, an angel of God, and he fell down on the ground, and the angel said to him : 'Stand up like a man;" and when he stood un he told him. "Daniel, from the day that thou didst set thine heart to understand and seek unto the Lord thy words were heard, and T am  for thy words; but the Prince of the kingdom of Persia withstoo'1 me one and twenty days, and lo! Michael, one of the chief princes came to help me and now I have come for thy words." Three weeks had passed by since Daniel commenced to pray for the blessing that he desired, and at length the messenger came to answer him and give him the asked-for information. 

Here is something disclosed that gives a little key to those who wish to understand the world behind the veil, the spiritual world, that it is organized. As the Church of Christ is organized here on the earth with quorums and organizations and institutions in all their beauty and harmony and order, so it is in the spiritual sphere, and there are personages appointed for different positions and districts of that sphere, and they can proceed and act according to their office and authority and according to the sphere of their labor. This angel that came from the presence of God was fought by the powers of evil, evidently, and was withstood on the way for three weeks — one and twenty days. Sometimes our prayers then, are not immediately answered. Daniel's was postponed until the time when the angel came. Reading that chapter and reflecting a little may open the eyes of some of us in regard to the operations of God in His great universe in the spiritual world as well as in the natural world. 

And this is a certainty: If with our whole heart we seek God, God will draw near to us and we will find Him, not expecting, of course, that we will behold Him, visibly, that He will come down to everybody and appear in His personality, but by the power of His divine spirit, He will draw near to us and we will ;iear to Him, and every Latter-day Saint who has really been born of the Spirit as well as of the water, understands something of this. . I don't know of any joy or pleasure, any sensation that is delightful, to be compared with beholding the visions of eternity by the power of the Holy Ghost, and to have the soul lifted up above sublunary things and all earthly and material matters, to draw near to God our Heavenly Father. He is our Father, the Father of our spirits. We came from Him. He has sent us here. We are here for a purpose and an object and He designs our progress, our development into the fulness of His own image and likeness and power and glory; but to understand Him and His ways and to enjoy His lisdit and His presence and to find Him really, we must be quickened by the power of the Holy Ghost and those who seek the Lord and try to serve Him with all their heart and mind and strength, will be able to draw near unto Him. 

I know this is true. When I was a boy I learned of this Gospel and T went to the Lord and inquired of Him concerning it. Not one of the family to which I belong embraced this Gospel, not one of my friends or associates in the different sects have received it so far as I have learned; but I went to the Lord myself. I believed in Him, I prayed to Him, and He enlightened my mind, He lit up my soul, He gave me a conviction of the truth of this work and I went forth and received the ordinance of baptism and the ordinance of confirmation by the laying on of hands by men appointed of God to minister in these ordinances. T received the remission of my sins, T received the gift of the Holy Ghost, and from that time to the , I can testify that God has been with me on the land and on the sea, among the wicked and among the Saints. In all my labors and duties during the years that have intervened God has been "my refuge and strength;" in Him we shall prevail. Our enemies may continue their onslaughts; thev may contemn the leaders of this Church as they are doing today; they may conspire against us, but we shall prevail, not because we are so wise or so mighty or so numerous, but because God is our refuge and our strength, and He hears our prayers, and He answers our requests when what we ask for is wise in Him to bestow. 

We should remember that, my brethren and sisters. Sometimes in sickness, people call upon the Lord and they get angry because their prayers are not immediately answered. That is very foolish; we are all foolish, I suppose, to some extent, weak, for we are human; but we should understand that God is our Father, and fathers do not always give to their children everything they ask for. They know better than the children what they should have. So let us ask in faith and in trust, trust in God as well as faith in God, and keep His commandments, and all shall be well with us, and we will be guided of Him and inspired of Him and He will lead us in the path of life. Brethren and sisters, don't let us leave prayers to God to times of trouble and sorrow and distress, but call upon .the Lord in the morning and the evening, every day; and when we are full of joy and gladness call upon Him and offer our prayers of praise unto Him. We should praise the Lord with hallelujahs in our souls. Tf we can't give them voice, like the choir has done so beautifully today; we can praise God in the soul; we can draw near to Him in gratitude for His mercies unto us, for they have been wonderful and manifold to this Church to which we belong. God has manifested His power from the beginning, and it will continue and will prevail. 

Now let us understand another point, and that is, that when we pray to God, the Eternal Father, we pray to Him in the name of Jesus Christ, and Christ has promised that if even a few of us are agreed and call upon the Father in His name, what we ask for shall be granted. There is power in the name of Jesus the Christ. 

I am glad to say before I sit down, that a splendid volume called "Jesus the Christ" has been issued from the press. Brother James E. Talmage of the Quorum of the Twelve was requested by the Presidency to write a real history of Christ. It begins away back in the beginning when He, as He has told us, was with the Father and was the first-born. It recounts His works from that time down, showing that the Jehovah of the Old Testament, was the Jesus of Nazareth of the New Testament. All this is set forth in excellent style, with quotations from ancient and modern revelations which make it a very valuable work for the Latter-day Saints in all their societies and organizations and in their private homes. I allude to this subject again so that you may not go astray. Some people get peculiar notions about who Jesus was. Understand, once for all, that the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost are three separate and distinct individuals. We prav to God the Father in the name of Jesus Christ the Son, under the influence and power and guidance of the Holy Ghost : and if we will walk  the ways that the Lord has pointed out, we will not go astray. 

Any man who is imbued with the spirit of this Gospel will understand that God has established an order in His Church, for its guidance and government, as we heard this morning, and when men start up here and there and over yonder and pretend to be some great . one to set things in order, they should understand and we should understand that in the very beginning of the Church, right in the very beginning, the Lord revealed that if He had anything to reveal to His Church He would give it through the man that stands at the head, and that has been the rule ever since. The man who stands at the head holds the keys and power of revelation for the Church; but for individuals the blessing is free to all; the spirit shall be poured out upon all. I know that God inspires the soul of man. I know that God qualifies His servants, weak though they may be, for the works that they are required to perform; and I thank Him and praise Him this afternoon for His mercies to me in all my labors and travels and toils through my past life, and I praise Him for the privilege of being here with my brethren and sisters this afternoon. 

I invoke His blessings upon all. May the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, be our constant guide and companion, that we may be able to subdue all that there is in us that is wrong and contrary to the divine will, and be led and guided and subject to the Father of our spirits, through Jesus Christ, the Son, and the influence and power of the Holy Ghost. May God bless you and help us all to be faithful and true and save us in His glorious kingdom, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

Prof. Evan Stephens' new hymn, "Loyal to the Truth and the Right," was sung bv the choir. ELDER JOHN W. HART. 

(President of Rigby Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I deem this a great privilege, and an honor to me personally, to be called by the President to occupy this position this afternoon. I can assure you that if I say anything that will be for our benefit the Lord will be responsible for it, and not me personally. It is very unexpected on my part to be honored with this call; and I might state farther that I have been suffering with a severe cold the past week, and I fear that I will not be able to. satisfactorily occupy the time; but I pray that the Lord will be with us, that I may enjoy His help while I say a few words to you. It was surely a great inspiration to me this morning to sit in the congregation and look in the faces of those on the stand, whom the Lord has chosen in this dispensation to have charge of His work in the earth; and to be called to occupy this position this afternoon, and face this vast audience, to me it is an added inspiration. It is a wonderful testimony to the Latter-day Saints to note the many representative people that have come from different parts of the earth, and do come to attend these general conferences, the business meetings of this great Church. The loyalty and devotion of those who have been selected to occupy positions in the Church is wonderful to me. 

I could not help but reflect upon some things that were stated this morning by the President, and prob one statement of his that appealed to me and caused me to reflect more than any other was when he stated that the time had come when the adversaries' efforts toward this people were growing weaker all the time. I can bear testimony to this statement my brethren and sisters. I come from the state of Idaho, where I have lived for over twenty years; I have seen the day there when a Latter-day Saint was not permitted to enjoy nor to exercise the privileges of citizenship, on account of his religion. I have seen, exhibited there, on the part of the enemies of this people, the greatest bitterness and antagonism I believe that existed anywhere since the Later-day Saints came to these valleys. I am. glad, my brethren and sisters, to state in your hearing today that the bitterness, antagonism and unfriendly feeling have practically disappeared from our state, and our neighbors and friends with us are glad that it has gone, that it has left us. I want to say farther that our neighbors honor us for our sincerity of purpose, and our devotion to our religion, for our energetic efforts in furthering the principles of the Gospel in the parts of the state where we reside. W e now have a high classed lot of people in Idaho who are not members of our Church, and they are willing and glad to meet with us, to enter into counsel with us to consider things, ways and means that are for theuplifting of the citizenship, for the inauguration and establishment of laws that would be for the betterment of all mankind. We are grateful and thankful that this condition prevails now. 

The section of the country which the Latter-day Saints occupy, in that state, I believe is growing and progressing more rapidly than any other section where they live in these Western States. We are glad of this, and I believe that the people there are beginning to appreciate more fully the blessings of the Lord toward them, and the way that they are being prospered in their efforts, than they have done heretofore. We are grateful and thankful for this condition. 

I want to say, my brethren and sisters, that I am proud to hold a membership in this Church. I have a testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel. I know that the Lord is with us and that if we will continue to put forth our efforts for the establishment of truth in the earth, if we will go forward and battle against evil in the future as we have in the past, the time will come when truth and righteousness will conquer evil, and we will enjoy more fully the Spirit of the Lord, and peace and happiness will be in our midst more extensively. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord upon this Church, upon those who have charge of its affairs, those who have been placed in authority, I hope and pray that they will have the Spirit of the Lord continually, that we may receive from them counsel and advice that will be for our good, and take it home to those over whom we preside, that they also may be benefitted by hearing the word of God, even if it does come second handed. I pray that the Lord will be with all who are occupying responsible positions, with the elders that go abroad, that they may continue to uphold the dignity of this Church, and that they may defend its principles loyally, and in a manner that will be acceptable in the sight of the Lord, in the  as they have in the past; that His blessings will precede them, and that they will be rewarded with the testimony of His work. May His testimony abide with us, may we have faith continually, and may we seek unto the Lord for guidance at all times, that we may receive the blessings that are in store for faithful Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MARK AUSTIN. 

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I, too, am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this opportunity of bringing to you the greeting and good feeling of the people of the Fremont Stake of Zion. I desire to say unto you that they are very much interested in the work of God in the earth. They are a good people, and the Lord has abundantly blessed them in the land to which they have gone under the direction of the prophets of God. 

T have been very much interested in the remarks, teachings, counsel and advice we have received in this conference from President Smith, and the other brethren who have addressed us. Surely we can say in our hearts we are blessed of God. He has given unto Israel mighty men, clothed with the power of the holy priesthood for the blessing and salvation of the souls of men. We have listened to President Hart, who has lived in Idaho, as he has said, for twenty years. Because of his life and conduct, his straightforwardness in dealing with the people of Idaho, they have respected and honored him in their legislative assemblies; and everywhere that he has gone he has brought honor to our people. We are blessed by the  of Brother Hart and those who are associated with him, and we are very grateful for this. The Lord softens the hearts of good men and women of the world, who have misunderstood us, when they come to know us; if they love righteousness. 

I pray that the Lord may bless us and help us to understand the great mission that has been given to us in the world, to teach men the truth, and when they know it they shall be made free. When men speak unkindly of those whom the Lord has called to positions in the Church, surely they are not our friends, or they would let us rest in peace, in the enjoyment of our right to happiness. But when some cry out falsely things that disturb our peace, surely those can not be regarded as our friends, and we feel justified in warning the Latter-day Saints against them. If a man loves you he will not try to disturb your happy condition. They who are unhappy, and desire to have you likewise, are inspired by Satan, like the adversaries of this work, who accomplished the jnartyrdom of the Prophet and his brother, and other faithful elders of this Church. Their power ends with the destruction of life, they are not able to go further. The old prophet said, "Fear God who may destroy both the body and the soul in hell." We have no need to fear men who have power to harm the body only. 

I thank God that He has called such splendid men to lead us, whose lives are an example of righteousness. God's work is going onward and upward; and one stands at the head today who is fearless as a lion in defense of truth and righteousness. He has the admiration of good men and women in all the world,  they understand his motives. His counselors, the chosen twelve, and all the general authorities of the Church are also righteous men. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to be loyal, in accord with the song that has just been sung. We should be thankful for the prophets and the poets; may the Lord bless them, and help us all to understand and properly perform our mission in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Eight young girls, under direction of Sister Lizzie T. Edward, sang "The Lost Chord." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I am deeply gratified for this opportunity of standing before you for a few moments this afternoon, bringing a word of good cheer from the Elders and scattered Saints who are living in the Eastern States mission, on the northeastern borders of this great republic, and also in the four eastern provinces of Canada. I trust that what I shall say, my brethren and sisters, will be actuated and inspired by the Holy Spirit. In and of myself I feel wholly incapable of edifying you. I often think of the example which Joseph, who was sold by his brethren into Egypt, furnishes. When he was brought from the dungeon, after he had prepared himself to go into the august presence of King Pharaoh, on which occasion he was required to give an interpretation of Pharaoh's dream, which had troubled him, he stated, "It is not in me, yet God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace." I have found through my experience in the mission field, and at home, that the Lord will not leave those who are engaged in His service, so long as they will put their trust in' Him. 

Today the thought has been passing through my mind, what would a mature person answer who should land upon the eastern shores of the United States, when asked, "Have you investigated Mormonism?" He may say, "I have never heard of such doctrine." Perhaps he would set out in search for the truth or falsity of what the world would call "Mormonism." He may go to one of the theatres in New York City, and he will find "Mormonism" made the coarse and vulgar jest of the wicked. He might go to the churches of New York City, and other eastern centers, and find the maledictions of the preachers poured out almost in liquid eloquence against this people. He will go upon the street corners and he will hear "Mormonism" spoken of as a hiss and a by-word. Eventually he may encounter two young men standing fearlessly before the passing crowd declaring that God has spoken from the heavens unto His Prophet Joseph Smith, and has revealed His mind and will to the children of men in this age as in former years. H,e might b(e impressed with the sincerity of these young and faithful ministers, and conclude to read some of their literature, and finally decide that he will come to where these people live, that he might learn for himself what "Mormonism" really is. He enters the valleys of these mountains, he sees the beautiful shade trees, and the orchards overburdened with fruit, the fields and the farms well cultivated and luxuriant with golden grain. Every way he turns there is beauty and thrift. When he associates with the people,  finds cleanliness and devotion in their lives, he is compelled to change his erroneous opinion of "Mormonism" to what it really is. He would say, "If this is the fruits of the system that has been mocked and made the subject of coarse theatre jests, and paraded ludicrously upon the vaudeville stage of this country, and has been made a theme of reproach in many a pulpit, then I say, 'God speed Mormonism.' " "By their fruits shall ye know them," and not by what their enemies say of them. 

I am sometimes constrained to wish that some of you western people could partake of the "luxuries" that we are having in the East. Conditions are not all pacific, I will say, in the East. There are all manner of representatives of various antiMormon organizations trying to deceive the people in regard to what we believe, and with words of eloquence they are blinding the eyes of many good and honest-hearted people. Comparatively speaking, we are just a mere handful, and though T speak of the Eastern States Mission, especially, the same may be said of all the missions in the United States, and those in Europe also. Missionaries clothed in the robes of the holy priesthood, going out meeting and contending with the education and the training of men of the world, missionaries who have not been met squarely, who have not been treated fairly, they are declaring that God lives, and is revealing His mind and will to the children of men. Some of the reports of our opponents' efforts that come to our notice occasionally are not without comedy. I have v/ith me a tfew newspaper clippings, which come from a Press Clipping Bureau, and I want to bring some of these "luxuries" home to you. I will read  three of them. Here is one from the Philadelphia Pennsylvania Inquirer under date of April 29th, 1915, quite recent : 

PERIL SEEN IN MORMONISM. 

Speaker Warns Mothers That Daughters Are in Danger. 

"Mothers, it is time your eyes are opened to the dangers that threaten your daughters, that attend the high schools and colleges in this country," declared Mrs. May Leonard Woodfurd, recording secretary of the Women's Home Mission Society, at the quarterly meeting of the Philadelphia Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, which was held yesterday at the Arch Street M. E. Church, Broad and Arch Streets. 

'Mrs. Woodfurd spoke of the number of people in this country, amounting, she said, to 68,000,000, that profess Christian religions. She spoke of the growth of 'Mormonism' in the Eastern States." 

[Now she is dealing with something that we know a little bit about.] 

'"The Mormon Church has 2200 missionaries in and around Pittsburgh alone.' " [Laughter.] 

I felt compelled to compliment Elder Watson, who is presiding over that conference. I turned to him, and to the four elders who were laboring in that great city, and said, "President Watson, you and your companions are a considerable crowd." 

"She said, ' they are attending schools and colleges, and frequently induced good girls to adopt the monstrosity they call religion.' 

"The Membership Committee, consisting of Mrs. Seymour Eaton and Mrs. Leonard Woodfurd, announce an increase of fifteen hundred members [of the Mormon Church in that district] during the last quarter of this year." 

We are glad to know we are making this progress, and I am not sure but what there is some truth in the  from their point of view; not from our records, however. These people, who are thus antagonizing the Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter-day Saints, hold that all that is necessary for a person to do in order to join their church is to go to their prayer meeting and say, "I believe." I am very grateful for Mrs. Woodruff's opinion that there are fifteen hundred people who have gone to the ministers and said, "I believe in Mormonism;" but they haven't had the courage to be baptized yet. The harvest is coming. 

At our conference six months ago a report was read of the expenditures of tithing paid during 

1914, which amounted to nearly two million dollars. Here is a clipping taken from the Lutheran's publication under date August 15th, 

1915. even more recent than the last clipping : 

"The advantages of centralized authority, and of a well-developed financial system, are well illustrated in the achievements of Mormonism. The hierarchy has just issued a report which accounts for nearly tzvo billion dollars received in tithes the past year." [Laughter.] 

If the Church population is fve hundred thousand, that makes four thousand dollars each individual paid in tithing. (Laughter.) I call upon all to give some substantial reason why an organization whose members are capable of earning forty thousand dollars each per year and of paving four thousand dollars each in tithes, should be opposed. Nor do the reports seem to be in consonance with each other. Of course everything- must be true when it is against the "Mormons." It is really surprising to see how some people will swallow bait, sink^ er and all. Here is a clipping from the Meadville Pennsylvania Messenger, September 15th, 1915, so recent that the ink almost smears under my fingers : 

"interesting lecture on mormonism. "By Mrs. Deifenderfor in First Presbyterian Churches. 

"Some startling facts concerning Mormonism were really brought to light by the lecture of Mrs. Deifenderfor at the Presbyterian Church. The following are a few extracts. 

"Mormonism is the most highly organized institution in the world today. So perfect is the machinery that a command can be flashed from the head to its most remote member in just forty minutes." [Laughter.] 

"It numbers millions of adherents." [Did you get that?! [Laughter.] "It numbers millions of adherents, and has at least three colonies in every state of our Union. It has .established churches in New York City," [I wish that were true,] "in Chicago, and many other cities, and has two hundred missionaries in Pittsburgh." 

Someone has made a mistake of at least two thousand missionaries. One says two thousand two hundred and another says two hundred. We are being "exposed" before the world, and a great many honesthearted people are writing to our headquarters asking for literature, . and we are only too pleased to supply the same, sending it by special messengers who have been set apart for that work; and we believe the work is growing. The sentiment is changing, notwithstanding the great effort that is being put forth by the adversary of men's souls to thwart the purposes of the Lord in sending this Gospel message to the ends of the earth. I feel we are camping on higher ground every night. We are trying to carry to the hearts of the children of men the doctrine of love for mankind, that man should  men as brothers, and that all should love and respect and obey God, our Father in heaven, as a father. 

Now may the peace of our heavenly Father abide in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints forever, I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

The Book of Mormon declares that when we are engaged in the service of our fellow men we are only engaged in the service of our God. The service that wives and mothers in Israel, and the fathers, and the missionaries are rendering is as sacred in the sight of God as the service that angels are rendering around the throne of the Almighty. In the 17th chapter of the Gospel of St. Luke, it is said that Jesus healed ten lepers : of the ten that were healed only one came back to glorify God. The sin of ingratitude is a most abhorent one. I wonder if the account of this healing was intended for the admonition of Israel. I wonder if we who have been favored of God in our crops, and have been blessed in our basket and in our store, sometimes forget to glorify God by paying our tithing and by worshiping the Almighty with all our mind, and might, and heart and soul. 

I believe, brethren and sisters, we ought not to look too far into the distant future, I .believe there are blessings around and about us. Recently, when a photographer in Atlanta was taking the picture of our recently erected Church edifice, he invited me to look on the plate and I was endeavoring to look through  plate and could discern nothing; but he said to me : "Mr. Callis, look on the plate; don't try to look through it;" and then I beheld a beautiful picture. On every hand, are testimonies of the truth of this Gospel. There are mighty prophecies being fulfilled now at our very doors that we can rejoice in and have our faith strengthened thereby. 

When the President of the Church stood up this morning and announced the blessed news that a temple was to be erected on one of the far distant islands of the sea, T said in my heart that that glorious prediction, that the spirit and power of Elijah would be manifested in this dispensation among this people is being gloriously and splendidly fulfilled. 

For these splendid tilings that are happening in our midst, for the great men who preside over us, for this great Gospel, for Tsrael — for Israel is a splendid people — I thank God, and bear testimony that this is the work of God and that we are the people of God; in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, ''The Judgment;" the solos were rendered by Esther D. Stephens and Horace S. Ensign. 

Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until Monday. October 4th, at 10 a. m. 



