Second Overflow
03 04 1915


Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder George F. Richards presided. Forest Dale and Richards Ward choirs, under direc of T. Albert Hooper, furnished the music. 

The anthem, "Awake and Arise," was sung by the choir. 

Prayer was offered by Elder John R. Barnes. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Ye simple souls who stray." 

ELDER EDWARD H. SNOW. 

(President of St. George Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters. Although your faces are new and strange to me, yet I know that your hearts beat with mine, in the same desire and the same aspirations. Therefore, in responding to this call this afternoon, I do so with the assurance in my heart that you have come up here to worship the Ford, and to receive encouragement and strength to help you to keep the vows, covenants and obligations which you have made unto the Lord as His covenant people. It is these covenants and vows which we have made that make us a peculiar people, the people of God, and which characterize us differently from all other peoples of the earth. Because of the reverence and faith we have in those who preside over us we are thought not to be as independent in our lives as other people, but we have learned the principle of the freedom of obedience. We have tried and tested the advice of the leaders of this Church and people, for so many years that we have perfect confidence in what they advise and teach us as being the mind and the will of the Lord. And, in carrying out their teachings in our lives, the Spirit of the Lord has uniformly borne testimony to us we are truly shown the way of life, truth and righteousness.  In listening to the words of President Smith this morning, I thought of the principle that sometimes is inculcated in political platforms, to the effect that a frequent recurrence to fundamental principles is essential for the perpetuity of the liberties of mankind, that it is necessary for  us to go back to the simple life; it is necessary for us to remember the foundation stones and principles upon which our body politic is founded and upon which it rests; and upon which our rights, both social and personal are founded. We must not forget them, but that we must live them in our political life if we would preserve our political liberty. Likewise, President Smith has called us back to the fundamental principles of our home life, of our individual duties as- members of the Church. He has warned us against any departure from them, and has pointed out the benefits that would follow the performance of our duties, humbly and fully, as Latter-day Saints. 

In every age, where God has had a people upon the earth, the cry has gone forth to repent of waywardness and indifference, and turn to God. The prophets of old exhorted Israel : "Turn, O back-sliding Israel, return to your God and to the ways and to the teachings of the prophets." The Savior of the world cried out to Israel : "How often would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ve would not." The call of President Smith to the Saints to practice the minor as well as the weightier matters of the law is to us the word of the Lord. It means that we must, in our homes and in our wards and in our stakes, if we have departed from those simple.  principles, go back to them, if we would maintain the truth and righteousness so characteristic of the people of God. All that we have accomplished as a people in this western commonwealth, and as a Church, has been accomplished because of obedience to these fundamental principles of the Gospel. 

We must remember the Lord; we must be grateful to Him. night and morning, for the blessings that we receive. We must not forget to thank Him for bounties with which He has blessed us; we must not forget to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, to go to the house of the Lord noon the Sabbath dav and partake of the sae'rament. and worship with the Saints of God. We must not forget to pay our tithes and our offerings in the day and the season thereof. We must not forget to show by our acts and bv our lives that we are in fellowship with our brethren and sisters, and that we unhold and sustain those who preside over us. These, mv brethren and .sisters, are some of the fundamental principles, some of the fundamental duties, of Latter-dav Saints, and it is the doing of these duties, and the observance of the law of the Lord, which makes us strong and vigorous as a people, not onlv phvsicallv but intellectuallv and snirituallv, and gives us power and influence in the earth for good amone the honest and virtuous of the earth. 

There is an oft-repeateed passage in the New Testament, of Paul's, that he was not ashamed of the Gospel, for it was the power of God unto salvation. The Gosoel. if we live it. is the power of God unto Salvation. Salvation, as the 

Prophet Joseph Smith interpreted it, means the placing of trs beyond the power of all our enemies. Now these enemies are not personal enemies. They are not enemies of the flesh in the form of men that we are afraid of; but they are our own weaknesses, the weaknesses with which, perhaps, we were born, the weaknesses that perhaps we have acquired through bad habits which we have formed. The observance of the laws of the Gospel gives us power over all such enemies, in short, saves us from them. For instance, if we obey the Word of Wisdom bv persisting vear after year in the abstinence of the use of tea. coffee, tobacco, and intoxicating Honors, does not this persistence in this habit, and this determination on our part to keen this rule of life become so rooted in our natures and in our lives, and in our very existence, that we are saved from their degenerating- influence? Thus the Gosnel. so far as this one principle is concerned, has become to us the "m' , " r of God unto salvation. We are saved from that enemv : we have overcome it. The strength of being rlpnn ir yes effectuallv that the Hocnol. indppd. is the power of God unto salvation. 

Likewise in the payment of our tithes and offerings. Tf we have paid our tithing honestlv and scrupulously in the time and the season thereof for vears and years, it has become to us the power of God unto salvation, because the temptations of the flesh, the sordidness with which we are possessed, and the love of monev. are rooted out of our svstems. It is no longer a temptation to ns to retain that for our use which nVhtfullv belongs to the Lord, Wc never think of withhold it. So we might go on from one principle to another, and we should find that if we persist in obeying principles of righteousness such persistence becomes unto us the power of God unto salvation, not only here but hereafter, for our salvation hereafter, we know, depends upon our life here. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you in this gospel. I am thankful beyond words to express that I was born in the Church, of good parents. I am thankful for the influences that the Gospel has had upon my life. There is nothing that T would exchange my faith in this Gospel for. There is no wealth, no influence, nor possession for which I would exchange the simple faith that I have in God, and the knowledge that I have, that this is the kingdom of God, the Church of God, and that it is being led by the influence and power of God. 

May the Lord bless us, and sanctify all, that we may receive during this conference to our good, that our determination shall be to do the will of God and keep His commandments, that we may enjoy salvation, here and hereafter; which I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG. 

(President of Sevier Stake.) 

My brethren, sisters and friends, President Snow was speaking about our hearts beating, but I do not believe that your hearts are beating quite as fast as mine is in occupying this position. 

It was stated when I was introduced that I was from Sevier. I remember the cjuestion being asked, ire the people severe ? Not at all. I feel that we have a splendid good people in the Sevier stake of Zion, a people that. are at peace with one another as well as with their Gentile friends, and God is blessing them always. 

While I was looking over the congregation this afternoon, I thought how differently I viewed this grand congregation than a certain gentleman did, a Rev. Collins, of Australia. I labored in that far-off land, among goodly people for upwards of three years, and I enjoyed very much the hospitality and bigheartedness of that people. (By the way, I see faces in this congregation of some that I was instrumental in the hands of the Lord of taking into the waters of baptism. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that I was obedient to that call, to go as ctlle 1 by the Prophet of the Lord and perform missionary labors in that distant land.) This reverend gentleman I have alluded to paid Ltah a visit to study the "Mormon" religion, and also to learn somethin? of the character of the "Mormon" people. When he returned he advertised to his own congregation, giving them to distinctly understand that he did not want it to come to the missionaries' ears, that he was going to deliver a lecture and expose "Mormonism," and tell the people something true about the real character of the "Mormon" neople. Rut some of his good peole ouietly informed us when the meeting would be, and we were in attendance, and sat immediately in front of the stand. When he beheld us it seemed to trouble him very much, and it was easily to be seen that he was not at ease. However, he told how he got on the boat at Svdney, and spoke of some of the customs of the Americans as he found them on the boat, which by  way was an American boat. In telling about when he landed in San Francisco he seemed to be a little worked up in his feelings, and as he told about how he came across what he called the barren waste of the desert parts of Nevada, he seemed to be a little more worked up in his feelings. But when he alluded to his arrival in Ogden, he stopped and hesitated, and evidently hardlv knew what to say. However, he proceeded, and. told about Brigham Young's home and his "forty wives," and other absurdities so on and so forth, which seemed to be very pleasant to some of the congregation. He said, "everything seemed to work in my favor. There was a 'Mormon' conference, and I attended the meeting in theTabernacle. They had a choir leader who was a perfect genius of music from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, and they had a splendid large choir. But O Lord!" he said, "of all the careworn, poor, miserable looking mothers you ever saw, there were many in that congregation. And what was worse," he said, "was when some of those 'prophets,' as thev claim to be, arose to their feet and spoke, and of all the dry discourses that I ever listened to in my life I heard the worst there. But, fortunately, the congregation, practically all, feel asleep, and I prayed to the Lord that I could fall asleep also " 

I sat in front of the "reverend." and when he got through I asked him for the privilege of reading a statement from a cosmopolitan gentleman, who had circumnavigathed our globe three times, and who. during his travels, had visited Ut^b In Australia, I said, this gentleman that T desire to quote to , is esteemed to be one of your greatest men, a man whose integrity is unimoeachable, a man who is known throughout this land for his honestv and uprightness. I want you to permit me, before you dismiss iU; s meeting, to read to this people his views along the same line that vou have been speaking here thic ^~ning. Mr. Collins replied, "This is my meeting, and T want vou to distinctly understand that I don't want any 'Mormon' to open his month here and speak to my people." And, after a few words more, he dismissed his meeting. 

I want to state that was an exanir>1« of a prejudiced mind, a man who had vainlv tried to stop the work, and had done all in his power to destroy the effect of the diligent labors of the elders in that far-off land But we find a different example in that gentleman who came here with an unprejudiced mind, „ T;+Ti -> view to ascertain the truth, and learn for himself whether these "'ere true or not. That gentleman made a statement, in words to this effect : that the people should ceasp striving against the "Mormon" elders, for "I beheld in the Staff of Utah the most noble women Tvl mothers that T have seen in ah n-T travels. T advise that you cease fighting their boys, because the whole ministerial world can never thwart the progress of sons born of such noble mothers." However, thp reverend gentleman did not let me HI the congregation that. Later we had the privilege of delivering- our tracts to the greater part of his congregation, and we were instrumental in the hands of the Lord in baptizing some of his foremost people, which vexed him very much. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel grateful when fair-minded persons come in our midst and praise the people. They find the fruits of the Gospel to be good; they find young men who are clean, and highminded. They find that our young women are pure, modest and refined. They have been taught by their fathers and mothers the principles of life and salvation. They are young men and women who, with their fathers and mothers, sincerely thank God every clay of their lives for His blessings. 

When we sing this beautiful hymn, "We thank thee, O God. for a Prophet," our hearts are made glad, and we rejoice we live in the day and age when prophets are with us. We heard inspired words from the lips of the prophet this morning, and T believe they met responsive welcome in every heart, and that our determination is now more than ever before to go forth and diligentlv perform the sacred work that is assigned to us. 

A great thinker and writer has said, "It is not possible for God to be everywhere, therefore He gave us mothers." T wonder if we appreciate our good mothers, our fathers also, those who have taught us all the davs of our life to be pure, to be upright, to be honest and to let our light so shine that the world mav see it and glorifv our Father in heaven. T was just thinking that my mother in far-off Scotland, (pardon me to refer to it), was one of the first in the neighborhood where she resided to join the Church. She had lost her father and mother, and was staving with a family as a servant girl. When she told this family about "Mormonism," they became very angry. She was then only 14 years old, and they stated to her that if she did not cease visiting the meetings they would dismiss her from their service. She asked them not to be so harsh, and said, "I know it is true, I have a testimony it is true." They tried to convince her that it was just a hallucination of the mind, but they could not, and finally she was baptized, and they drove her from their home. All the money she had in her pocket at that time was 24 cents — one shilling — and she gave that, the night she was driven from home, to secure a hall, which was known as Townhead Hall, for the elders to preach in that night. Those elders blessed her and told her that she would never want; and that blessing, I want to testify, has been literally fulfilled. She remained firm, steadfast, and immovable to the cause of Truth. One of the members of that family, a young man, became converted, and finally the entire family were converted, and came to Utah, and their testimony was to the effect that it was all due to the integrity and faith of that little girl. My mother was also instrumental in getting my father to attend meetings, and finally he became converted. When my father and mother came to Salt Lake City with the other emigrants, there was a dinner already prepared for them by this very family that had driven her from their home because of her belief in "Mormonism." T thank the Lord for her immovable faith. I wonder if we are all appreciative of the trials and sacrifices that our fathers and mothers have made to bring us to this goodlv land, this great land of America. Are we appreciative of the fact that we are recipients of the true Gospel, that we understand  plan of life and salvation, and that we have so many blessings showered down upon us day by day? I wonder if we are counting these many blessings, thanking the Lord for them, and regarding the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ as the biggest thing in all the world. That we may do this, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEWIS ANDERSON. 

(President of South Sanpete Stake.) 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privelege of attending this splendid conference. The sessions that we have already attended, and the remarks that have been made by those that have addressed us, have been full of inspiration and good things for the Latter-day Saints. The vast gathering in this building, and in the adjoining building, which is much larger than this, is a great testimony of  the grand work that we are engaged in. It seems to me that in each conference the throngs become greater who gather here to hear the words of the Lord through His servants, the prophets. 

I am very thankful for the testimony of Jesus, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has been revealed througdi His servants the prophets. T want to say that I am thankful for the priesthood. I am thankful for the faith that I have in the cause of Zion, and in her people, in the servants of the Lord. I am thankful to God that He has given to me the faith that I have in my heart to uohold and sustain them in all the various conditions in which we have been placed, and they have been placed. It is a wonderful work that we are engaged in, preaching the Gospel in the nations of the earth.  at home, and in performing the duties and labors devolving upon us as Latter-day Saints. 

I desire this afternoon also to express my feelings in relation to what was said by the First Presidency, Presidents Smith and Lund, and the words of counsel that were given unto us by them concerning what was termed "small things;" but I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that those things that were referred to are great things. Those things referred to by President Edward H. Snow this afternoon also are great, and are necessary for the building up of the work of God. 

We as Latter-day Saints, I believe, are thoroughly conversant, and in harmony, and in tune, with the principles of the Gospel, at least with what we sometimes call the first principles of the Gospel, faith, repentance, and baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. All these things, I believe, we are in harmony with, our hearts are in tune with them, believing that they are necessary unto our salvation and to our exaltation. In these things I believe we have come to the unity of the faith, as being essential in every particular. I believe that the Latter-day Saints throughout are believers in those principles, because they manifest them in their lives, and their children manifest them in their lives. As a rule, we find that the children of Latter-day Saints are anxious to become members of the Church of Christ when they attain eight years of age. The parents likewise are anxious that they shall receive the ordinance of baptism, being initiated into the Church of Christ. In these things it may be said we have come to the unity of the faith. 

There are other matters, however, pertaining unto our every day life, in which we sometimes do not see eye to eye. They were mentioned this morning by our beloved President, and I was very much pleased in the illustration that he made in relation to home life, and to the teaching. There has been a great deal said of late in relation to the necessity of the teachers among the Latter-day Saints, the ward teachers, performing their duties in visiting the homes of the people, and making what is known as the one hundred per cent. I take it, my brethren and sisters, that those that are called to this great ministry of being ward teachers to the Latter-day Saints, should place themselves in a position that they will be able to teach, that good results may come from the teachings and visits of our brethren in the homes of the Saints. I believe that is essential in order to be successful. We who are doing this work should bring ourselves into harmony with the Lord and His purposes, so that, when visiting we can ask these questions in the way and manner that was stated by President Smith this morning; and that we can truthfully answer them ourselves in our homes, that we are living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that we are at peace in our homes, in our families, in our every day walk and conversation, and with our neighbors. 

I believe that this Gospel includes all that is good; it is a splendid thing for the Latter-day Saints to practice upon every clay of their lives. The payment of tithing also has been referred to by President Smith. To those who keep this law, it becomes second nature to them, as well as in obeying the other commandments of the Lord. I believe that if we observe these things they become a source of joy and satisfaction to us. Also the payment of our fast offerings, and observing that day day of fasting and prayer, a day of contributing of that which the Lord has given us, in the spirit and meaning thereof, for the benefit and comfort of the Lord's poor that we have among us. It was said by President Smith, this morning, that there would be ample in the hands of the bishops, that there would be no suffering among the poor people, and there would be no necessity of drawing from the tithing funds of the Church for their support, if all members of the Church would remember to observe this duty. I am thoroughly persuaded in my experience that that is true. 

I am thankful for what was said to us in relation to the building of temples. My life, for twenty-seven years and upwards, has been, in a way, devoted to that work, and I want to tell you that this work is growing among the Latter-day Saints. In the city where I live, Manti, during the nine months just past there has been an increase of more than ten thousand ordinances performed in that temple above the record of a year ago, or of any other except the opening year of that temple. The Spirit of the Lord is upon the people, encouraging them to work for the redemption of the dead as well as the living, and be diligent in preaching the Gospel in the nations of the earth. The preaching of the Gospel to the dead, and doing ordinance work for those that have probably accepted it beyond the veil, is progressing; and the Spirit of the Lord is working upon men among the nations of the , that their hearts are turned to their fathers, and the hearts of the fathers are turned to their children. This is evident everywhere. 

We noted at the Congress that was held in California not long since, some of the effects of the spirit that is poured out upon the various nations of the earth. Delegates were there from various countries, many from our own land of the United States, expressing their great interest in this important work, the gathering of genealogies of the people, of their forefathers and mothers and other ancestors. This is a work that has been long engaged in by the Latter-day Saints, and they enjoy the blessings thereof. In the nations of the earth men, that know not why these things are, are inspired to gather together records by which the Latter-day Saints are greatly assisted to prosecute the great work of redemption for their kindred dead. 

I pray my Heavenly Father to bless the Saints. May His Spirit shine within them, that we may be able to accomplish the labors that are enjoined upon us, in a way and manner that shall be pleasing to our Heavenly Father, and that shall give blessing, consolation, and salvation to ourselves, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ADOLPH MERZ. 

(President of North Sanpete Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you in having the opportunity to attend this excellent conference. For many years these General Conferences have been a feast of blessings to me, and I have never gone home from one of these gatherings disappointed. I have felt in my heart, every time I at them, that I had received strength in my soul and new testimony of the divinity of the work of God. I thank God for this testimony, and I desire to bear it to you this afternoon, if I may be led by the Spirit of God to do so, for I know in my heart that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the living God. 

I rejoice in the remarkable growth of this people. For many years I have watched their gatherings, and it seems to me that the numbers who attend conferences are constantly increasing. When I heard President Robert D. Young speak this morning of the Rev. Mr. Collins, I felt sorry that the gentleman could not have attended one of these great General Conferences of the Saints, and I wondered what he would have thought of it, or what effect it would have had upon his mind. The impression that I have always received at these conferences has been, that the people who attended them were filled with the Spirit of God and were hungering and thirsting for His word, and that they were eager to hear the voice of the true shepherd. 

I rejoiced this morning to hear the voice of our beloved President and Prophet, the mouthpiece of God to this people, and I feel to sustain him with all my heart. When he arose to speak this morning and said that probably his condition was not such that he would be able to occupy much time owing to severe cold, I prayed in my heart that God might strengthen him, and I felt like one of the Elders of Israel of old, to uphold and sustain his arms, that God might give him strength to speak to the Latter-day Saints. And how remarkably impressive the  of God came to us; I am sure that we all rejoiced in hearing the words of our beloved leader. 

There is no danger, my brethren and sisters, as far as I can see, that can come from the outside to injure this Church, as long as the people are united, and as long as we are performing our duties and labors in our humble callings in life. There is no danger of the adversary having power over, and prevailing against this people so long as we serve God and keep His commandments. The only danger that I can see to this Church, and that not collectively, but to the individual, is the danger which comes to the man and the woman who do not keep the commandments of God, those who neglect their prayers, who desecrate the Sabbath day, or who refuse to pay their tithes and their offerings, and who are not in harmony with their bishops and the authorities of the Church. There I can see clanger, for as sure as we live, if we do not keep the commandments of God, little by little our faith will become weaker, and eventually we will lose interest in the work of God. 

For some time we have endeavored in our stake to bring a larger number of people to our Sacrament meetings, and to accomplish this we called into service some thirty missionaries and singers and musicians, who for the last two or three months have visited alternately every ward in the stake, preaching the Gospel and calling the people to repentance. So far we have seen some fairly good results. But it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that the distinction is becoming more and more apparent between the men and the women who serve the Lord and keep His commandments and the ones who do not. I can see the need of labor, the need of visiting the homes of the Saints, and of praying with them, and bearing testimony to them of the truth of the Gospel. 1 know the words of President Smith, which he uttered in his opening address this morning, are true. I am convinced that great good will result from the faithful and devoted labor of the ward teachers, and of the officers of the Church, by prayerfully admonishing the people and teaching them the word of God. We sometimes go to our meetings to hear certain men speak, and we hear the question asked, "Who is going to speak today?" "Why, Brother so and so." "Well, I have heard him before, I do not care about going to meeting today." On the other hand we hear it said, "Elder so and so is going to speak, let us go and hear him, he is a good speaker." And so we go to our meetings. And I have wondered sometimes how many people, how many of us, go to our sacrament meetings irrespective of who shall sing or pray or speak, but because we love the Lord with all our hearts, and because we feel to go to the house of worship to offer up our oblations to the Lord our God by partaking, in humility, of the emblems of the atonement, in remembrance of the sufferings and the mercy of our Savior, judging our hearts, our conduct, and our worthiness, to partake of the emblems of the broken flesh and spilt blood of our Redeemer. ' My brethren and sisters, I am sure that if we love the Lord we will obey all His commandments, and if we do not keep His commandments, it is because we lack faith and devotion to the work which He has intrusted to us. 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord. 1 rejoice greatly in the labor, which I am permitted to perform. There is nothing compared with the privilege that we enjoy to labor in the vineyard, whether at home or abroad. Money-making, my brethren and sisters, does not compare with it. It does not bring the peace and the satisfaction which com,es to the soul of the man and the woman who faithfully and devotedly do their duty in the Church. I have this testimony in my soul. I have rejoiced greatly in my travels abroad among the people of the world, preaching repentance to them, and warning them of the judgments and the calamities, which would overtake the wicked, because of their unbelief and their rebellion against the warning voice of God. But I have experienced as great a joy and satisfaction in laboring at home, in the ward and in the stake in which I live. I have found inexpressible joy in teaching the boys and girls among our people, and I have oft returned to my home from Sunday School, or from the Mutual Improvement meeting, or from the homes of the Saints which I had visited, filled with gratitude to God for the privilege given unto me to labor in the vineyard, and of aiding someone, especially the youth of Zion, to obtain an understanding of the glorious principles of life and salvation. 

Brethren and sisters, let us all put our shoulders to the wheel, and labor faithfully and devotedly for the progress and advancement of the work of God, that we may stand blameless before Him in the day of judgment, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Individual responsibility an essential characteristic in welfare of the Church — -Aggregate of "little things" immensely valuable — Prayer one of the most important of "little things" — All Church duties, though humble, are important. 

My dear brethren and sisters, T cheerfully and unreservedly bear my testimony to the truth of the remarks of our brethren who have addressed us this afternoon and the spirit which has prompted those remarks. I commend the same to you all, including myself. Tt will be profitable for us to ponder these things, and to put them, as far as possible, into the practice of our lives. 

The remarks made in this meeting and in the meeting this mornins:, in the large tabernacle, reminded me of some of the savings of the Apostle Paul, which I desire to read to von briefly from the first chapter of First Corinthians : 

"For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; a"d God hath chosen the weak things of t 1l e world to confound the things "hich are mieditv: and has° things of t-lip world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, vea. and the thines which are not, to bring to nought things that are, that no flesh shall glory in his presence." 

And then in the next chapter the Apostle Paul says : 

"But as it i c written. F.ve hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man. the thing? wMrh God hat'-> prenared for them that love Him. But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit, for the Spirit searchcth all things, yea the  things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holv Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. B' t the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritedly discerned." 

The little things, my brethren and sisters, which go to make up our religious life are the things which count in the end, both for the individual members and also for the Church as a whole, just as the details in any business go toward making- the success of that business enterorise. 

Dunne the conference we have had detailed some of the things that indicate the growth of this great work in which we are engaged; additional stakes and wards, an increase of population, of tithings paid. etc. 

If we would have Zion strong and so recognized in the world, with nowers for good, we as members of the Church of Tesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints ousdit each to take his share of responsibility in makinsr it so. Tf the members are all strong-. Zion will indeed be strong- and potent for good. Neither does our strength as individuals in a reliefions capacity nor as an organization of the Church consist in a spirit of independence, of being proud and boastful, or blasphemous, or of exercising- our agencv so as to show our independence in doing- thinp-s which no honorable, good man or woman would stoop to do. Our strength is in God, our Eternal Father, through living the laws of the Gospel which He has revealed, and they are made up of little things; and as the Apostle Paul said, "These are as foolishness in the eyes of the world," of men who see not the things of God because they enjoy not the Spirit of God. But not so with us who have entered in at the door of the sheepfold in the way that has been appointed, who have had sealed upon our heads the Holy Ghost, with the rights and privileges of having Him ever with us to guide us in life, strengthen us against evil, giving us power to overcome self, to see and understand the truth, to love and obey it, and to finally obtain salvation. 

"Except ye be converted and become as a little child ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." Jesus did not say, except ye become a king upon the throne, or a judge upon the bench. No — ye must be humble even as a little child, so humble that ye can worship God your Father and acknowledge Him and give Him reverence, so humble that ye can acknowledge Jesus Christ the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and serve and follow Him. There is no salvation except through Jesus Christ our Savior, and except through acknowledging Him as such, and by yielding obedience unto the laws and ordinances of His Gospel, simple though they may be. 

Brethren and sisters, the little things of life, such as the saying of our prayers, are important. Are we trving to go through life without the help of our Heavenly Father, expecting to obtain a salvation ? If we  His help, and we must have it if we succeed in this great enterprise, we must obtain it through the means which He has ordained, and that is through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, we must obtain it by seeking after it. The promise is only to those who seek. "To those who ask it shall be given," and our asking must be in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavers is like the waves of the sea, driven of the winds and tossed. 

Who of us are grown, and were taught when we were children at our mother's knee to pray in secret before laying our heads down to rest at night, and again in the morning after we had risen to offer to Him our prayers, have outgrown these things ? Is it possible, brethren and sisters, that we need less of the protecting care of the Lord ? less of His guiding hand and inspiration now when we are grown, and have a multitude of responsibilities, than when we were little children? Or is it because we think the Lord will hear the prayers of children, and will not hear us? Or is it because we have so far departed from the way of the Lord that we feel embarrassed and ashamed when we undertake to approach Him in prayer ? Or what is the reason that we have forsaken our secret prayers? And have we adopted the order in the Church of praying in our families? If not, why not, brethren and sisters? If we have not adopted this custom in our religious life we are not in full harmony with the Church and the Latter-day Saints. We could call attention to other little things that have been spoken of. The attending to our fasts, for instance. Was the fast day instituted  a few, and they of a certain class! No, it was instituted for every man and woman, from the highest to the least in the Church, and I cannot justify myself in neglecting to fast on fast day. I cannot justify myself in withholding my offerings from the poor which should be given upon the fast day. And so with our tithing. If I am justified in not paying my tithing, why should you be required, my brethren and sisters, to pay tithing? Is not this a common cause in which we are engaged, the building up of the kingdom, and are not the tithes' of the people used for that purpose ? On the other hand, if you who do not pay your tithing are justified before the Lord, why should not I be justified without paying tithing, or every other member of the Church? And so with every religious duty that devolves upon us. I admonish you to an exercise of care, my brethren and sisters, to all these little details which go to make up the consistent, faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint, and promise you that if you will do so you will have peace of mind such as cannot be purchased with gold and silver or with houses and lands or flocks and herds, yea, that which will surpass by far everything earthly. You will have joy in life, and a hope and an assurance that you will obtain eternal life with all its attendant blessings. 

We must know that our course of life is approved of God or we never can exercise that faith in Him which is necessary to take hold upon the blessings of eternal life. And let us remember, too, that we are dependent creatures, that we need the Lord's help to do these simple little things, to live the true and consist life that is required of the Latter-day Saints. 

Now the Lord bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and sanctify to our mutual good, our happiness and our slavation, the remarks, the spirit, the prayers, the singing of this session of our conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Praise ye the Father." 

Closing prayer by Elder John G. McQuarrie. 


