Afternoon
04 04 1915

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The choir and congregation sang the hvmn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Elder John S. Geddes offered the opening praver. 

The choir sang the hvmn, "Though deep'ning trials throng your way." 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

Great outlay for Temples, etc. — General spirit of helpfulness in members of Church — Our religion embraces all that is good in other religions — What the Lord has provided is greater and better than man has devised — The Priesthood, auxiliary organizations, revenue system, etc., given of God — Duties required of all alike, no discrimination in blessings — Great good accomplished by Protestants — The tree of "Mormonism" produces good fruit. 

It is a great satisfaction to mingle and associate with the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice very much in our meetings of this conference. I am sure the hearts of the Latter-day Saints were made glad at the opening of our conference, in receiving the information that was given by President Smith, more particularly with respect to the growth of the Church and in receiving the news that a temple was to be built on the Sandwich Islands. With two temples being constructed at this time, and other work of the Church that is going on in the erection of Church offices, and in the assistance rendered in building meetinghouses, stake tabernacles and amusement halls, in the different wards and stakes, the brethren can readily understand- that a great amount of means is called for in all of these expenditures. So far as mv knowledge goes, we are in a better shape to entertain these expenditures today than the Church has ever been before, and I am sure that this information must be gratifying to the Latter-day Saints. Nevertheless, it is expected of us that we will keep the commandments of the Lord, and that we will assist with our tithes and our offerings in building up the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth. 

What a splendid organization this is. What a spirit of helpfulness there is in every one of the different societies, and associations, and quorums of priesthood that constitute this great Church. Where is the like of it to be found? May we not, with truth and with pride, say to all the world, Where can you find so much of the spirit of helpfulness, the spirit of brotherly love, the sincere desire of being of assistance and blessing, benefit and help to one another, as you will find in this organization ? Can we not say to our brethren of other churches. Protestants, Catholics, Christian Scientists, and all other organizations, We have all that you have that goes to make right living and good citizenship, good order and peace, good government and the well-being of mankind; we have all of that. There isn't anything that any one of those organizations can point to that makes for the betterment of mankind and the uplift of humanity that we do not have. Indeed, one of the articles of our faith is that "if there is anything lovely or of good report, or praiseworthy" in the world, that belongs to us, we have it, we incoroporate it, it is part of our system. 

And now. in addition to all that these have, and thev have the best that man has been able to devise, we have much more. I have no criticism or comnlaint on that score, the best that such men as Tohn Knox or Martin Luther, or Wesley or any man has ever devised, it is the best they could devise, but it is not as good as we have. Whv? Because the Lord has devised this system; this i 5; thp Lord's wav. We ought not to be blamed or censured by our brethren of the outside because our svstem is better than theirs. Neither ought we to be praised particularly because it is so much better, but we should give praise to the Lord because it is so much more efficient, so much more helpful, so much more strong in doing things, in accomplishing results. We put it before all the world as the most excellent in the world in producing the results of peace on earth and good will to all men, and the blessings and comforts that are included in all that. 

We have in this organization a different spirit. We are not to be given the credit for having that especially : we did not devise it or send it here. Neither are our neighbors to be blamed because thev do not have it : a spirit, an impelling spirit, a spirit that constrains always to righteousness, and to the wellbeing of humanity and to the uplifting and upbuilding of righteousness in the earth. We are not entitled to the credit for that particulaly, an; more than we are entitled to credit if we follow it, but it is the Lord that has given it, that makes it different from all other organizations. 

We have our organizations of the cmorums of the priesthood, which i c that much more than anv other organization in the world has. Thev don't have them; they are not to 'he blamed for not having them because thev didn't know about them. Man could not devise it and man has not devised it. NHther ou?ht we to be so much praised because we have it. because it is the Lord, T say again, that has given it to us, and it is His way of working thinsrs out. In addition we have our auxilarv organizations, like the Relief Societv. What a splendid organization that is. how maenificent in its activity, how beautiful in its service and work among the poor, and  the sick! The Lord gave it to us. Others have tried to copy after what the Lord has given and that is good, we are glad to see that, but the spirit that goes with this work, the world cannot give and the world cannot take away. The Lord has given it and so it makes the organization better than anything the world has to offer. 

And so with our revenue system, our system of collecting revenue for the Church, the old way the Lord had ages ago, the same way, it is not anything new, but it is the Lord's way and we did not know about it, but the Lord revealed it to His servant the Prophet, and gave unto us a system of collecting the revenue for the sustenance of the Church, for the building of these temples that we hear about, for the spread of the Gospel, for the building of meeting houses, for the maintaining of all the activities of the Church, and the Lord gave us that system different from anything else in all the world. Some of our neighbors are trying to copy after it and we are glad of that, but they don't srem to quite get it as we have, because, of course, the spirit of the thing in this organization is different from the spirit of any other organization in the world. It is easy, perhaps, for a sculptor to make a clay model of a man, to make it perfect in form, but it is another thing altogether to breathe into its nostrils the breath of life, the lifegiving spirit. That is a very different proposition, and the Lord has empowered and given to this organization, to this Church, that living spirit, that living force of power and potency that impels and constrains me and you to works of risrhteousness and to impart of our substance. 

We cannot call it sacrifice because it isn't any sacrifice. It is a law general in its nature, it applies to all. Not like the laws we have enacted in our government and in other governments, too, that apply to special individuals, individuals who have means, and does not apply to others who have not any means to speak of, but the Lord's law, the just law, is that all who receive the benefits of the Gospel shall sustain the Gospel by their means, shall sustain the Church. The widow at the wash tub, yes. She has the blessing of the temple, she has the blessing of the meeting house, she has the blessings of the Church in all that it can give; the widow's mite is acceptable, and she may do more proportionately than we all; yet she is expected to do, that is the Lord's law. Not so with man-made laws. They say one-half of one percent of the community shall pay to support the blessings of good government, and the other 99 J /2 percent shall be exempt. The Lord's law is different from that. It applies to all alike, and so the rich pay according to their means and so the poor give according to their means, and all receive equally the blessings of the house of the Lord. So it is a little different, don't you see, from anything else in the world. 

Another thing different from any of the organizations of our brethren on the outside is this, that if a man is doing the works of unrighteousness, although he may claim membership in the Church, if he persists in his unrighteousness, no matter how rich he is or how powerful, or how great, or how much some may think the Church depends upon him, that man will be dealt with and dealt with quickly; he must cease  wickedness or his unrighteousness, and repent, and repentance means to stop it, quit doing the evil thing, or he will be dealt with, excommunicated from the Church. Now I don't find that in many other organizations. I find men in good membership in other organizations who are known to be not living correct lives, and they are not dealt with, they are let go. Now in this, we are a little different. This is the Lord's way of doing it, to bring me or you upstanding, so to speak, to demand of us that we keep the commandments of God and work the works of righteousness. 

Another thing that makes us distinctive and a little different from any others — and I am not finding' fault with any others, I am only trying to show you what the Lord has done, to count our many blessings, and show what the Lord has done for vou and for me, and for this organization — another thing,, this organization, in its spirit of helpfulness, tries to get the people to own their own homes, to get out of debt, and to stay out of debt, and so in consequence, in our community 73% of all the Latter-dav Saints own their own homes. Now isn't that a good thing? Are not all of these activities that I have mentioned good things? Are they hurtful, do they make for anything that is wrong and unrighteous No, no, they are all good, they are all blessings. 

We heard here from President Smith, in his opening remarks, of the wrvrk of the teachers of the ward, different from anything in the world. I challenge the attention of every one with respect to this matter, that here, in this things that I have called attention to, in this special thing als o of the work of the teachers, in this special thing of the work of our Relief Society, and in our revenue matters pertaining to the Church, in all these there is nothing like it in all the world. How beautiful the work of those teachers that the President so well explained to us yesterday morning! Could anything be better? Could anything be more beautiful in giving assistance, the spirit of the helping hand and brotherly, and sisterly affection and love, to the brother or sister who needs it? Could there be anything better devised? Is there any other wav, has anybody in the world got anything like it to offer? No, no, of course not, and I say again, no one is to blame for that, because they have the best, the verv best that man could devise through all the ages, and I don't decry these churches of Protestantism. I take off my hat to Protestantism. I recall, with gratitude and praise in my heart, how that the Protestants fought and suffered, and were persecuted and worried, and contended with down through all the time of Knox and Luther, Cromwell and Wesley, Blake and Drake and all those firm Protestant people, warring against tyranny, against oopression, and against that which would be subversive of liberty and of the rights of man, and I am here today and you are here, in the enjoyment of liberty, because of the Protestant world that accomplished these results for us. Otherwise, we probably would not have been enjoying these liberties; so all honor and praise to Protestantism. 

But when it comes to matters of religion, and organization of churches and so on, I repeat again they have the very best that man  devise, but here is something better, and I have shown you a few of the things that the Lord has added, which they have not got. In addition we have the spirit of the thing, the life-giving power, the Holy Ghost, they have not that, that has not been given to them. We see an elder of the Church taking a person down in the water to be baptized and, raising his right hand before God, he says "having been commissioned of Jesus Christ," — just let that sink in, — "having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you," etc. Who else has been commissioned, what other organization? You cannot blame an organization that has not got it, we cannot take praise to ourselves because we have got it. It is the Lord that has given it to you and to me, and to this organization, and all praise and glory and honor be to Him. So in all the organizations of the Church, I find, notwithstanding our weaknesses, and they are many, I find this spirit of helpfulness, this spirit or desire to be of service and of benefit to mankind. I do not believe that, as a people, our hearts are set altogether upon the things of the world. I believe that in the main our hearts are for the Church and Kingdom of God and His righteousness, that it mav be established in the earth, and that His work may spread. 

Now in assisting people, bishops of the different wards sometimes assist people to get a piece of land. Assisting people, poor people who don't know so much, trying to teach them in the way that they should improve their stock, for example. 

In every way to try and help and be a benefit and a blessing. Can any one say that there is a single thing connected with all this that  bad, that ought to be uprooted and extirpated? I thought this morning when some of the brethren were saying, Brother Austin, from Bingham Stake, how well their neighbors and they got along together, that they loved one another, they got along peaceably; and why not, why shouldn't they? It is different from a while ago, it is different even now where we are not known and understood, but the time is fast coming my brethren and sisters, when we are apt to get a little heady because of the things that the Lord has done for us, and take credit to ourselves, and outrank our neighbors so far that' we will feel perhaps a little above them. We ought to be careful of that feeling if we have anything, and we have so much that is different and so much better than all the world, we ought to always remember that it is the Lord that is giving it, that it is the Lord that is continuing it. This is not President Smith's work, or Joseph Smith the Prophet's work alone, that is to say, it is their work, of course, as it is your work and mine, but they didn't devise it, they didn't breath into its nostrils the breath of life, and give it that living, potent, powerful, helpful spirit. They didn't do it. They could not do it but the Lord has done it. 

Now of all these good things, and many more that I could mention if I only had time, can anyone say that any of these are bad? Can anyone in the world stand up and say that they have anything to compare with it in- the organizations of the world, or all of them put together? No, no thev hiven't. Well th°n, when Joseph Smith the prophet stated to those few people in Pal, in 1820, that he had had a heavenly visitation, the Father and the Son, and that these results now have been brought about in consequence of that small or that great beginning did he. tell the truth or was it a lie ? when he stated that the Book of Mormon and those golden plates had been delivered to him, and the three witnesses to> the Book of Mormon stated that fact and published it to the world, was it true or was it false? Can it be possible that an evil tree of falsehood, built upon falsehood and lies can produce such good and excellent fruit? If that is so, then the Savior of the world's words are false, because His word is that an evil tree can not bring forth good fruit, and by their fruits ye shall know them. Men do not gather grapes of thorns nor figs from thistles; they do not come that way. So with all these good results, and so many more that I could stand here and point to you, I bear testimony that Joseph Smith the prophet, that the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon, that everything connected with the work of the Lord is true and not false. It is God's way of doing it. He is in the earth by the power of His Priesthood to accomplish these results and greater results than these, for the time shall come as one of our brethren said this morning, when all will believe, when every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus is the Christ, — they will bow down and confess to this fact that Jesus is the Christ to the honor and glory of God the Father, which I humbly nray mav speedily come to pass for the Messing of mankind everywhere, in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY. 

(President of Wayne Stake.) 

It has been my privilege to be called to lift up my voice upon street corners, and in halls hired by the Latter-day Saints, in this and foreign countries, to preach repentance to the people, and I never remember assuming this responsibility in my life without feeling a sense of human weakness, but never have I felt that responsibility more than I feel it in facing this mighty congregation this afternoon; but notwithstanding this feeling, my heart cries out : "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless and praise His holy name." These words of the psalmist are expressive of my feelings this afternoon, as nearly as I can express them, for the good things that the Lord has done for me and, doubtless, for hundreds of my brethren and sisters who are in this congregation this afternoon. 

I remember very well that when, as a lad of nineteen years of age, I first heard the message of the Gospel proclaimed by the elders of this Church in my native land, that my mind was beclouded and somewhat prejudiced, for at that tender age, I had read a great deal about socalled "Mormonism." I had read something about what the Christian Herald had to say upon the subject. I had read much from apostate "Mormons;" but, unfortunately, up to that time I had read little or nothing in favor of the Latter-day Saints; and, like many others, having been taught to believe in the traditions in the churches — that Bishop Nibley has alluded to this afternoon — or rather in the tenets of faith of the various churches, having read the kind of literature that I have referred to, you may  that my mind was deeply prejudiced, but I was very greatly impressed with the 13th article of the "Mormon" faith : 

"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men. Indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul. We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

Those words greatly impressed me. I knew that a people who had such ideals, who believed in such saving principles, could not be of the character that I had read they were, and on investigating I became acquainted with the truth that they were teaching, the plain, simple gospel that I had been seeking for from the earliest days of my childhood, but had never found to my satisfaction. It never occurred to me, my brethren and sisters, in my early youth, that it would be my privilege to find a church possessed of the gifts and blessings of the Gospel that were enjoyed in the primitive church, or of the doctrines as they were proclaimed in their perfection by the Son of God. 

Bishop Nibley this afternoon has referred to some of the reformers, and in thinking of their work, I am reminded that those honest men never made the claims that have since been made by the authorities of this Church. John Wesley never bore a testimony to the world such as the Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed. To the contrary, he taught the people according to the light, knowledge, and inspiration that he possessed from God, and we honor the memory of John Wesley, as we  the memory of other reformers, and those who have not been named this afternoon. You will remember that John Wesley was the spokesman. He preached what he believed to be the Gospel, and that to the best of his understanding. He suffered much, as all good men have suffered for what they believed to be the truth that they taught to the people. Charles Wesley, his brother, was the poet, and in many of his poems he expressed the feelings not only of himself, but of his brother and those who believed in the doctrines that they advocated. I remember that there is to be found in our hymn book one of the poems of Charles Wesley, and in speaking of the days of the primitive church, in reviewing conditions that then obtained, he was led to give expression to these words, thinking of the time when men held the authority to speak and to act in God's name, that Brother Nibley has referred to this afternoon, when men go forth clothed in the authority of the holy priesthood, to call people to repentance, and if they repent with all their hearts and come to God with a contrite heart and a broken spirit, they are endowed with the authority to lead them into the waters of baptism and, in the name of Messiah, to baptize them for the remission of their sins. I think that Charles Wesley was thinking of that day when he said : 

"Oh, what an age of golden days, Oh, what a choice, peculiar race, Washed in the Lamb's atoning blood, Anointed kings and priests to God." 

He seemed to have had something of the inspiration of the Spirit, and what it meant to men and woman when the priesthood was enjoyed  men upon the earth; and further, he realized that that power no longer existed with men upon earth. He realized that people were not living in that golden age, that they were not enjoying the apostolic blessings, hence, in looking around in the world, in reviewing the conditions, in thinking of the various religious denominations that existed, he said: 

"Where shall we wander now to find Successors they have left behind? The faithful whom we seek in vain Are 'minished from the sons of men." 

Oh, what a confession for a man of this character to make! If there were time, and we could review some of the writings, we would find that John Wesley and his brother, and hosts of believers looked forward in fond hope to a day dawning when the fulness of gospel light should shine upon men. 

My brethren and sisters, we are living in that glorious age and dispensation, the time foretold that was predicted by the prophets. We are enjoying the blessings of the Church of God that has been established upon the earth. We have been gathered, hundreds of us, as one of a family and two of a city, and the Lord has brought us up to Zion. He has established our feet in these valleys of the mountains. He has given us the opportunities that have so beautifully been portrayed during this conference. I wonder if we are making the best of our opportunities. Reference has been made to the conditions that now obtain in Europe, to the strife and contention that now prevail. Is it not possible that, had it not been for the saving power of God, had it not been that the Gospel of the Redeemer appealed to you and me, we should have been today where many of our relatives are, engaged in that terrible conflict; but instead we are here engaged in the work of the Lord, a work of peace, a work of righteousness, a work of love, a work that brings joy to our hearts as we wake in the morning and as we close our eyes in slumber at night. When I think of all these things, my brothers and sisters, my heart is full, to overflowing, of gratitude to God for His loving kindness to me and to His people. 

I deem the privilege of being a member of the Church of Jesus, Christ of Latter-day Saints the greatest honor that could possibly come to me in this life, and the Lord knows that I feel grateful that I have been counted worthy to bear a portion of His priesthood, to be associated with my brethren who are willing to make sacrifice for the work of God. My heart goes out in love and admiration for these men who are willing to give of their time and their substance to bear witness of the truth to the nations. I love these presidents of missions. I love the missionaries who are in the world carrying the message of salvation, in their weakness, to the people; for they will find many among the children of men such as you and I, who are willing to be impressed with the truth when they hear it, who know the voice of the true shepherd and who respond to that voice, for they are of the seed of Abraham, as referred to this morning, of the blood of Israel, and all they are waiting for is an opportunity to hear and receive the truth. It is a glorious privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be associated with a prophet of God, with apostles  the Lord Jesus Christ, endowed with power and authority from on high, and with men and women who love God above all other things, and delight to keep His commandments. 

I bear you witness that I know that my Father in heaven responds to every seeking soul. I know that every man and woman who will seek the Lord in earnestness, with a desire to know the way of right, will be led into the paths of righteousness. I know by experience that God is no respecter of persons, but that out of all nations and among all peoples, He gives liberally of His Spirit to all who seek Him and desire to do the things that are right. I know that the Lord is working in the hearts of the children of men just as powerfully today as ever before in all the history of men. I believe that the Lord is doing just as marvelous things today as He ever did at any time since Father Adam commenced the great work in this world. I believe it because of the things that I see and the things that I hear, and because of the feelings that are in my own soul. The Lord is doing His work in such a way that unless we are in touch with the inspiration of His Spirit, perhaps we are not cognizant of the marvelous changes that are taking place; but in the events that are transpiring every day, I see the fulfillment of prophecies; I see that God is bringing to pass His purposes, and I rejoice in this work. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may heed the kindly counsels that have been given to us during this conference; for I know that a man who will listen to and obey the counsel of the servants of God and the inspirations of the Holy 

Spirit, to which he is entitled, as he does the will of God, he will be blessed and have joy in this life, and glory, immortality and eternal increase will be added to him in the world to come. There is no reason why we should mourn over the past. There is opportunity for us in the future. Let us find today wherein we have failed, wherein we have been weak, wherein we have not followed always the dictation of our conscience. Let us, from this day henceforth and forever, seek to be diligent in the service of God, and in the end we shall have salvation in His presence. That God may grant us this boon and blessing in the world that is to come, and that we may have joy while we live, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER OLEEN N. S'TOHL. 

(President of Box Elder Stake.) 

I sincerely pray that the Lord will bless me while I attempt to speak to you for a few moments. I need not say to you that I feel my weakness and dependence upon the Lord in standing before you, but I know that this is our Father's work, and that we are engaged in His service, and I know that He has been with us, and that He has blessed us thus far during our conference, and that He will continue to bless us. 

I was reminded, while Bishop Nibley was addressing us, of a statement made by President Welling at the dedication of the Bear River Stake Tabernacle. He said, in the course of his remarks, that since the organization of the Bear River Stake, some six years ago, that they had expended in that stake for meetinghouses and tabernacle, and  church houses erected for the blessing of the people, some eighty thousand dollars, and he testified before the people who were assembled on that occasion, that the people of that stake were better off financially, and enjoying more of the spiritual blessings of the Lord at that particular time than ever before. In other words, there were none of them who were poorer because of their willingness to take of their means and use them for the upbuilding of the work of the Lord. And I began to think of our own stake. The Bear River stake was largely taken from the Box Elder stake. In fact if we go back to the early history of the Box Elder stake, I can say that it was wholly taken from the Box Elder stake. I began to make a little calculation to see what the Box Elder stake had expended for meetinghouses and other church edifices during the past ten years, and I found that we had expended in the neighborhood of ninety thousand dollars in similar improvements to those referred to by President Welling. And I want to bear testimony, brethren and sisters, that the people of Box Elder stake are not poorer because they have done this, but better off. And this was clone in addition to the payment of their tithes and offerings. The Lord has poured out His blessings upon them and they are more prosperous than they ever were before. 

I remember at the time that two or three of our wards were building their meetinghouses and making improvements that ran up into a considerable sum of money. At the close of the year the bishops reported that the people had paid more tithing that year than any previous year, so it showed again that the Lord poured out His blessings upon the people; and while they were willing to take of their means for the upbuilding of the Church, they were also willing to observe the law of tithing and did better than they had done formerly. I know, my brethren and sisters, from my experience, that when we are willing to serve the Lord and to use our means for the upbuilding of His kingdom, that He will pour out His blessings upon us. 

I am thankful for the testimony I have of this work. I am reminded of the words of the Savior and was reminded of them, and have been during this conference, wherein He said : "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself." Now that is our privilege; that saying applies to us. If we will do the will of the Father we shall know the doctrine, and know whether it is of Him or of man, and the gratifying thing connected with this is that those who have tried the doctrines and the laws, by living them, they are the ones who can testify that they know that the doctrines are of God. That testimony has come to you and to me, and we know that the doctrines of the kingdom of our Father can be tested in this way, and that is very gratifying to us. We are not dependent upon man or men, simply dependent upon our own humble obedience and righteous living, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel this way, that while we are enjoying all of these blessings, many of us laying up treasures upon earth, we must not let our hearts be so fixed upon the earthly treas that we will forget God who has given them to us, but if we will use our treasures for the upbuilding of our Father's kingdom, and thereby lay up treasures in heaven, the peace and power and blessing of God will abide with us, and we will have that living testimony within our hearts that we will daily and hourly know that this is our Father's work. I rejoice in the spiritual things of the kingdom. While we are dealing with the material things, we are also in daily touch and contact with the spiritual things, and I want to say that I know that the signs follow the believers, that the blessings promised through obedience to the Gospel follow the believers, just as much today as at any time. I feel to praise the Lord because I know that my life through His blessing and power was spared, and as one of my brethren said to me today, I was given a new lease of life of the Lord. 

Now I feel that it is not my privilege to take up your time. I rejoice in the work of God; and I know that it gives that joy to us that we cannot obtain in any other calling or labor. Let us go forth and serve our Maker, and let our hearts be centered upon Him and upon His work, and upon helping our fellow men, and serve them and bless them, and if we will do this, our Father will bless us. 

May His peace and blessings continue to abide with our leaders, with those who preside over us, and all who labor for His cause, whether it be at home or abroad, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A contralto solo, entitled, "A World of Love," was sung by Sister Mabel Cooper. 

ELDER SERGE F. BALIFF. 

(President of Cache Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have faced policemen in Germany, Austria and Hungary, but I do not believe that I trembled so much as I tremble this afternoon in standing before you; and I hope and trust that the Lord will bless me with His spirit, that I may be enabled to say a few suitable words this afternoon. I appreciate more than I am able to say my standing in the Church of Christ. I have a testimony burning in my bosom that tells me that this is indeed the work of God, that God is directing His work here upc?n the earth. 

I am pleased and honored to say that I reside in the Cache Stake of Zion. We have many things there to be thankful for. I don't know of a valley in all the world, that I have visited, that is so blessed as Cache Valley. You only need to ride through the country and see our crops, the bounteous harvest. The people are being blessed on every hand. The Lord is blessing the earth for their sakes; and I do hope and pray that the people will appreciate the great blessings that the Lord is pouring out upon them. 

We are farming in Cache Valley scientifically. We have a fine lot of educated farmers; they are raising splendid crops of beets, and grain; and when you compare the condition of the farmer of today with that of twenty years ago, I say that we have a great deal to be proud of and grateful for. 

The conditions that have brought about the blessings that we are enjoying today, in a great measure, come through those great institutions that have been established in our valley, the Agricultural College  the Brigham Young College. Those two institutions are doing a wonderful work in educating our young men and young women in farming and dairying. As has been stated today, this is the temporal part of the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth, and I deem it as one of the essential features of this great work. 

We look with pride to the presidents of those colleges; they are doing a splendid work. We have professors in those institutions who come from many parts of this great nation, and I want to say to you that when these men leave our institutions, they are better men than they were when they came there. The spirit of the Gospel is impressed upon the students of those institutions, and they go from our city filled with the spirit of faith in the gospel. In a great degree they are being taught scientific principles, but they naturally partake of the spiritual influences that are to be found in our city. I am very thankful for this. I am very thankful, my brethren and sisters, for the good support that these college men are giving us in our state. I want to say to the people who are sending their children to Logan to be schooled, that we have a system there, in all of our wards, whereby our young men and young women can be looked after, to become active in the organizations of the Church. Whether they be of Latterday Saint parents or not, we are looking after their best interests. 

T was very favorably impressed this morning with the remarks of one of the mission presidents, when he spoke of a young man who was preaching the gospel on a street corner in some eastern city, and he said that he was a poor boy. His mother, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I believe he said, was a widow, and the boy scarcely knew where the next meal was coming from, at the same time, he said, that when he stood before the congregation he was fearless, and bore a marvelous testimony of the Gospel. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints my experience has been that when you send your boys out into the mission field,  if you will clothe them with the Spirit of God, the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and let them leave their money at home, let them go into the mission field depending upon the Lord, that they will be blessed and they will give the Lord an opportunity to bless them, they will give the Lord an opportunity to show them what they can accomplish if they will put their trust in Him. I am an advocate, and believe in the first principle as our fathers did, to go unto the nations of the earth and trust in the Lord, and go without money and without price. I have demonstrated beyond all question of doubt that the Lord can and will take care of our young men. He will take care of us when we go into the world to represent Him. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue with us. May we be united in our supplications to the Lord that He will bless our prophet, that He will bless all those who are called to preside over this great work here upon the earth, this is my prayer and I ask it in the name of the Lord, Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY. 

(President of Deseret Stake.) 

I sincerely pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will calm my spirit, and let His Spirit rest upon me for the few moments that I may  before you. I ask myself the question why should I so fear and tremble, and I cannot answer further than to say that I sense, measurably at least, the great responsibility that rests upon me when I stand up to take the attention of this vast audience. One thing I can do, and perhaps that is all that is necessary upon this occasion, is to bear testimony to the divinity of this great work. I cannot remember the time, and never in my life have been perplexed with any doubts as to the divinity of this work; in harmony with the teachings of a good father and a good mother, who from my childhood up taught me that this was the work of God, and that if I was a prayerful, humble boy, the Lord would manifest to my spirit the truthfulness of their testimony. I believed them, and the Lord has given me that testimony. He gave it to me before I went abroad, called as a missionary to proclaim the Gospel. 

Now I am very happy, in my visit at this conference, to have with me my son, a boy of twenty years of age, who stands up to his father's height, and looks me in the face and says : "Father, I am glad that I am here to be blessed and set apart to go and bear testimony, as you have borne before, to the nations of the earth that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ." When asked, "Wouldn't you rather go to some Englishspeaking people than to go to far-off New Zealand?" "No," he said, "I would rather go where the Lord wishes me to go, for He knows where I can accomplish the best work." 

I was delighted with this spirit, and I thought when Brother Austin stood here and bore his testimony, 101  testified of the faith of his father, and of the teachings of his father and mother who received the gospel in the world, I shed tears of joy as I sat there and listened to that humble testimony, and I blessed the name of my father. My father never could stand up and preach the Gospel with any degree of eloquence, but with his wives and children, he taught them the Gospel, he bore testimony to them, and he had them grow up to pray, and to lead clean lives, and to seek the Lord and keep His commandments. Oh, it is my hope that my life shall be worthy of such a sire, worthy of such a mother, that when I shall have finished my work, and I shall appear before my father, that I can say, "Father I have cherished the testimony, I have lived the principles of the Gospel as you taught me, and after you left, as the Spirit of the Lord has led me, I have followed in your footprints." And then I want to be able to say further: "Now father, that your sons and daughters have gathered with you, and your family unit is complete, I hope also that I can bear testimony that my sons and daughters, with their good mother, are following : we have faith and reason to believe that thev will come also, and then our haooiness will be complete." I cannot conceive of anvthing that can minister to our happiness so completely as to see our sons and daughters in their dailv life manifest that they have full faith in God, that thev are not led off after the things of the worH, but that thev prize the Gnsnel and the truths thereof above all things else, and that thev fear not in the face of men to stand up and bear testimony of the divinity of this great work. 

I feel happy when I think of my associations. I delight to bear testimony concerning the good men with whom I associate, and I say, as has been said in this conference, look at the fruits of the gospel. It has been our experience recently, in the Deseret stake of Zion, in visiting the priesthood, to call the men together and catechize them, to question them in every quorum, and we find the high priests, seventies, elders, priests, teachers and deacons, all working faithfully in the Church and kingdom of God. We discover that they prav, that their lives are clean, and that they are morally clean in every way; they are observers of the word of wisdom, and accept it as the word of the Lord. The fruits of "Mormonism" surrounds us in men of this kind, in fathers and mothers of this kind. We discover, bv careful examination, that the officers of auxiliary organizations are also leading exemplary lives. What else can we have them than the best of men and women? Why should we be astonished to find men and women such as these stand up and bear testimony that this is the work of God. that the Lord has spoken from the heavens, that He has restored His everlasting fospel. and that He has established His priesthood : that men soeak in the name of the Lord, and that it comes to us with the same weight, authority and significance as though the Lord Himself has spoken, for thev soeak as thev are moved upon bv the Snirit of God. 

The Lord help us to appreciate all that we have, and to live worthy to receiv the Klessines that He has in store for us, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Commending faithful services and worth of Stake Presidents. 

We have had the honor of listening to a few of the good and great men from among the seventy-two, who stand at the head of that many stakes of Zion. Surely the sheep in the folds over which these good shepherds preside cannot take any hurt if they will listen to the counsel and drink freely of the spirit manifested here by the men who preside over them, as we have heard and witnessed by their fervent spirit and powerful testimonies borne to us during this conference. For my own part I cannot but express the sincerest gratitude of my soul for such men; and from the depths of my heart I bless them and invoke the blessing of Almighty God upon them. We will not be able to hear, from all of these good men, but we propose to hear from as many of  as the time will permit, and we would like our brethren of the presidencies of the stakes to make up their minds to be called upon. They do not know where the call will hit, nor who will come next; but we would like them to be in possession of the spirit of their calling and ministry so that when they come up here to address the conference, they can express themselves as those have clone who have already spoken to us. God bless the people who dwell under the watch-care of these good men and help them to humble themselves before them and be submissive to the counsel and direction of their leaders. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Let the Mountains Shout for joy." 

Elder George E. Stoddard pronounced the benediction. 


