10
Afternoon
07 10 1898
Elder Heber J. Grant.
10
34-38

None

Necessity for Faith and Courage — Example of Nephi — Church officers should be exemplars— The Church perpetuated— Prophecies fulfilled— Personal testimonies.  
  
I rejoice exceedingly in having the privilege once more of assembling with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference, and I earnestly desire that the time I may occupy this afternoon may be for our mutual benefit; that the Lord will inspire my mind, that I may be prompted to say something that will strengthen our faith and renew our determination to press forward valiantly in the discharge of the duties and the obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never had any other desire in standing before the Latter-day Saints than that I might be able to say something for their good and for my own good, and that would be calculated to increase that determination that ought to animate each and every Latter-day Saint, to "seek first the kingdom of God."  
  
I realize that we all have our weaknesses, and that we do and say many things that are not pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father; but if we desire above all other things upon this earth to know the mind and will of God, and if we desire the strength of character, after we shall learn the mind and will of our Heavenly Father, to carry it out in our lives, I do know that God will help us, and that as we grow in years and in knowledge and in understanding that we will grow also in the power and the ability to accomplish His will.  
  
I have rejoiced exceedingly in the teachings of this conference. When President Cannon was preaching of the faith needed by the Latter-day Saints, there came to my mind that scripture which was quoted here yesterday by Brother Cowley, from the Prophet Nephi, that faithful man, and I felt in my heart that when it came my time to speak to the Latter-day Saints, I should quote that passage to them, and urge upon them to gain the same faith that Nephi of old had; and I rejoice in the testimony that was borne here by Brother Cowley when he quoted that passage to us in our meeting.  
  
I feel that there is an abundance of room for the Latter-day Saints to cultivate that faith. I feel that we should learn never to become discouraged. I endorse with all my heart the remarks of Brother Joseph F. Smith, that we should never become discouraged, but that we should always be full of faith, full of determination to labor for the onward advancement of the kingdom of God upon the earth. I rejoice myself that the Lord has blessed me with a hopeful disposition; rejoice in the fact that it requires a great deal to discourage me in any of the things of this life. In the battle of life I am not easily discouraged. I believe in the saying: "If there is ever a time for a man to be ambitious, it is not when ambition is easy, but when it is hard." Then is the time for us to labor, and m the same sentence from which I am quoting are these words: "Fight in the dark; if you are down, die hard and you will not die at all."  
  
I believe there are many Latter-day Saints who in sickness give up; they surrender to the power of the adversary; and I believe that there are many sleeping in their graves who might have lived to labor for the onward advancement of God's kingdom, if they had been determined to live, determined that they would not die, unless in the providence of God they had finished their labor here on the earth. I believe there is something in the will power that God has given to us. I believe when we determine within our hearts that by and with the blessings of God our Heavenly Father we will accomplish a certain labor, God gives the ability to accomplish that labor; but when we lay down, when we become discouraged, when we look at the top of the mountain and say it is impossible to climb to the summit, while we never make an effort it will never be accomplished.  
  
Nephi said to his father that he would go and do the things which the Lord commanded, and when his brethren failed to get the plates and they came back discouraged, he was not discouraged, but said unto his brethren: "Let us go up again unto Jerusalem; let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of God, for the Lord is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea or even his tens of thousands." And after they had tried again and were discouraged, he tried once more. He said to his brethren: "As the Lord lives and as we live we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished that which the Lord has commanded us." Now we as Latter-day Saints should remember that Nephi succeeded; we should remember that in the face of obstacles he secured the plates containing the precious words of God; that he secured the record which was beyond price; that was invaluable to his desceendants, and without which it would have been difficult for many of them to have found the straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal.  
  
If there is one character more than another in the Book of Mormon that I have admired and whose example I have felt to emulate, that character has been Nephi of old; never discouraged, never disheartened, always ready, always determined to labor to the best of his ability for the accomplishment of the purposes of God.  
 
I say to the Latter-day Saints that we should have an ideal in life; that we should have an objcet we wish to reach, and that object should be that to the full extent of our ability, to the full extent of the power that God has given us, physical, intellectual, and spiritual, we will accomplish His purposes here on the earth. We should have an ambition that no man shall do more for the onward advancement of God's kingdom than we. As laborers in the different Stakes of Zion, standing as presidents of Stakes or as counselors to a president of a Stake, no man should allow any other member of that Stake to be a more honest tithe payer than he is. I say no man should preside over a Stake unless he is absolutely honest with God in paying his tithing. Why? Because he cannot conscientiously urge upon other people to be strictly honest. If we have been careless in this particular in the past, let us be careless no more. I say no man presiding over a Stake of Zion or over a ward should fail to pay his tithes, or should fail to observe the Word of Wisdom. Why? Because he is unable to stand up before a body of people and teach them by the demonstration of the spirit of God that they ought to obey these commandments from the Lord. This is our duty — to place ourselves in a position whereby when we stand up to teach the people, we can teach them by the inspiration of the spirit of God as it shall descend upon us; but if we are not observing the commandments of God, we can not with power, and with force, and with strength urge upon other people that they obey the commandments that we ourselves are failing to obey.  
  
We have heard here today from the lips of the President of the Quorum of the Apostles, that the First Presidency of the Church at the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith could not be organized. Why? Because men holding the Apostleship were not true to their covenants to God. That was why they were led away from that straight and narrow path. They failed to follow their file leader who stood at the head of the quorum of the Apostles. They failed to follow that man upon whom the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fell.  
  
There are those that know not God. There are those that think the Latter-day Saints are a mistaken people, that they are deluded and that they have no faith in the supernatural; but I say here today that I know the mantle of Joseph Smith fell upon the Prophet Brigham Young. I know it, and I am willing to meet the testimony that I bear. How do I know it? I know it because of my mother, a more honest woman than whom never lived, a more devoted Latter-day Saint can not be found; because she and scores of others have told me that they saw the Prophet Brigham Young when he spoke with the voice of Joseph Smith; when he looked like the prophet Joseph; and I know that these people are honest; and in addition to this I know by the inspiration of God to me that Brigham Young was a Prophet of God. I know that those that lost the spirit of God, that failed to follow the Prophet Brigham Young, have come to naught. There are none who were led away from the Church but those who failed, to follow their file leader. Brigham Young was the only file leader that amounted to anything; and the Church of God under the leadership of God, using the Prophet Brigham Young as an instrument in His hands, has grown and increased and spread abroad in the land, and has filled these mountains. We are here today what the Prophet Joseph said we should be, "a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." I will read to you the exact language of that prophecy uttered by Joseph Smith with reference to the Latter-day Saints coming to these mountains. "I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction, and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains; many would apostatize; others would be put to death by our persecutors, or lose their lives in consequence of exposure and disease, but more would live to go and assist in making settlements and building cities and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." Now I have read this in your hearing, and I desire particularly to call the attention of all Israel to this prophecy, and to the fact that it has been fulfilled. I have done this recently in several of the Stakes of Zion. I have done it because there is a question, and an active labor now being carried out among the Latter-day Saints by what is known as the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but as Brother Richards, I think it was, said, there is no such thing, as the Church was never disorganized. But I desire to call your attention to this one prophecy. The Prophet of God proclaimed that the Saints should be driven to the Rocky Mountains; that they should become in the Rocky Mountains a great and mighty, people, and we are the Saints and the "Josephites" are not in it. So, if the prophecy was uttered by a Prophet of God, and if it has been fulfilled, and if we are the Saints, then the Josephites will have to reject the chief corner stone upon which their religion rests, which is that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God.  
  
Now there is another thing — the Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed that the Saints should be driven from city to city, from county to county, from state to state, and finally driven out of the confines of the United States, all of which was fulfilled. What else? He said the time would come when not only a city, when not only a county, when not only a state, would array themselves against this handful of people called Mormons, but it should come to pass that the whole United States should array themselves against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Was this prophecy fulfilled? Yes, to the very letter. Driven here from our homes in the states to Mexican soil, the United States sent its army against us, not a state militia, but the army of the United States of America against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but not against the Josephites. Please remember that. This remarkable prophecy must fall to the ground if the Josephites are in it to the least bit of a small particle of a degree. But as if to doubly emphasize the words of the Prophet Joseph, the United States government confiscated all of the property, both real and personal, belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They finally discovered their mistake and gave it back to us, for which we are truly grateful, but we would like them to give back the expense that it cost to manage it while they had it. I have picked up a newspaper and read in bold headlines, "The United States of America versus the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and I have laid down the paper and said, "Thanks be to God that the United States of America has put upon the prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith the stamp of divinity." And I say once more, thanks be to the United States that they have put the quietus on the claims of the Josephite church, because the United States have never arrayed themselves against the Josephites. The Prophet Joseph told us that our name should be cast out for evil all over the world. Why, the Josephites are beloved; nobody casts their name out as evil. Another prophecy that was handled very nicely in the Improvement Era, and to which I am really indebted for the idea coming into my head: The assistant editor took up the question of an interview with the Prophet Joseph by the late Stephen A. Douglass, When this Stephen A. Douglass was an obscure attorney he met with the Prophet Joseph and they conversed about the affairs of the offices of the government, and in that interview Joseph told this obscure attorney, "The day will come, Mr. Douglass, when you will aspire to be President of the United States, and I say to you, if you shall ever raise your hand against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you shall be defeated in your ambition, and you shall never reach the presidential, chair." Years rolled on, and this obscure man became noted in Illinois; he became a member of the legislature, he entered the halls of Congress; and he finally aspired to the presidential chair; and thinking that he could gain some slight political advantage by opposing the Latter-day Saints, he did it. The "Deseret Evening News" then took up his opposition, quoted to him what the Prophet of God said — that he should be defeated, told him that he had sealed his own doom. He was defeated. One more nail, my friends, in the coffin of our Josephite friends; because it was not the Josephites that Stephen A. Douglass raised his voice against, but it was the Church of Christ that Joseph Smith, as the instrument in the hands of God, had established upon the earth, and the keys which he had bestowed upon the Apostles. In opposing that work, Stephen A. Douglass sealed his doom when he aspired to the presidential chair.  
  
These things should appeal to the minds of all young men and young ladies of Israel. We should realize that we have the Church of Christ. We should realize that the power of the Priesthood of God rests upon the men that lead this Church. Why, you take men that come from all over the world, and they are surprised at the great mind, as they term it, that Brigham Young possessed, at the wonderful statesman he was. I recognize the great mind of Brigham Young; I recognize the great man that he was, but I say to you that it was God speaking through and directing Brigham Young that made him the great man that he was. The servants of God are the most humble men that I have ever been associated with in my life. They take no credit to themselves; they realize that they are dependent upon God alone, and that without inspiration of His spirit they are as naught. They not only realize, but they know, that God lives and that He directs them. Do I know that Lorenzo Snow is a Prophet of God? Yes, I do. Do I know that Wilford Woodruff was a Prophet of God? Yes, I do. Do I know that John Taylor and Brigham Young were Prophets of God? Yes, I do. I know it as well as I know when I take hold of the poles of an electric battery, and they turn on the current, that I have been shocked. Do I know that the gifts and graces of the Gospel abound among the Latter-day Saints? I do. Do I stand here today a living monument, a living witness, that God has raised me from a bed of affliction, where I was given up and told that I had to die? Yes, I do. Do I know that God gave me the witness of the Holy Spirit that I should live and not die? Yes, I do. I say to the Latter-day Saints that I know by the revelations of the spirit of God to me that He lives, that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; and I pray God that we may all so live that this knowledge may be our guiding star, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.  