13
Morning
09 10 1898
Elder F. M. Lyman.
16
44-48

None

Organization of the Church in harmony with the will of God— Man is that he might be saved — Favorable times for the Saints — Man's obligations to his Maker first — Young people should marry— Time should be economized for righteousness.  
  
It affords me much pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you on this important occasion — the day on Which is to be consummated the beginning of a new administration in the Church under President Lorenzo Snow and his brethren. This great body of people gathered from all directions give evidence that the work of the Lord is still alive in the earth; that this Church is growing, gaining strength and power, spreading abroad in the earth, accomplishing the design of our Heavenly Father. Our children and those who are brought into the Church, from abroad add strength to this great work, and the Lord will fulfill His purposes. His favor and blessing are over the people, and they are being established; the stakes of Zion are increasing, the wards, the quorums, the associations and the missions are increasing in the earth, and we are the witnesses that the gifts and graces of theGospel attend upon the ministry of the Lord's servants. The will of the Lord is made known to the people, and they are not long left in doubt, or to wonder or surmise; for we have attained that degree of humility, union and faith that insures to all Israel the mind of the Lord in regard to His purposes. It is manifest in our present experience how readily all Israel has discovered and learned from the Lord His mind in regard to the Presidency of the Church, and the steps that are necessary to be taken in order that the organization of the Church may be complete and perfect; for as long as the Church is under the necessity of moving without the chief presiding quorum —the three High Priests designated by the Father and sustained by the people — the organization is not complete.; and in order that the Church may have all the blessings ,the gifts and graces, the inspiration and favor of God, it is quite desirable that every department of this Church should be in complete organization. I say that in this movement that we have witnessed, and that we witness today, is an evidence that the Church is advancing, that the people are becoming schooled and better tried and proven in the doctrines and discipline of the Church. The Lord has spoken to His Prophets and Apostles, and has announced His will; and today the world shall see that Israel is a united people, that they see eye to eye, and in your hearts, my brethren and sisters, as well as in ours, shall be the evidence, positive and unquestionable, that the mind and will of God has been spoken from the heavens. Let every Latter-day Saint in hie and her own heart ask the Father that he or she may really feel and know, by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, that the organization of this Church is in harmony with the mind and will of the Father; and those who thus seek the will of God shall know it in their hearts and souls.  
  
The work is advancing; it is growing apace and spreading quietly in the earth; the Gospel is being preached; the people gathered and established; the resources and facilities of Zion are developing on every hand, and we are becoming a very remarkable people. The Lord will magnify and sustain His people; He will correct them, reprove them, restrain them, and inspire them. He will inspire every man who bears responsibility in this Church. Every man presiding in missions abroad every man laboring abroad and lifting his voice to the world, calling upon all men to repent and turn unto the Lord, will be sustained by the power of God; and those who preside at home, in the organizations of Priesthood, in the stakes, in the wards, in the associations and organizations of our brethren and sisters, will all be blessed and sustained. We will learn valuable lessons at times, no doubt, by the things we suffer, and sometimes possibly by the mistakes we make. But the Lord knows our hearts, our conduct, and our thoughts, and He will purge us and prove us, and will save us to the uttermost, if We will but be saved. It is the design of the Father that all His children should be Saved. Men were not created to be damned; but they were created to be saved. Men have come to the earth and obtained their bodies that they might be saved, that they may be enlarged and developed, and that they may walk in the footsteps of our Elder Brother, Jesus, to salvation. In Him we should discover the very example of purity, of humility and of obedience to God that should be followed by each of us. It will be necessary, if we would be the heirs of God and joint heirs with the Son, that as He had but the will of God, so must we also have the will of God. Our wills must be subject to the will of the Father; that What the Father wills in regard to us, We should will — it should be our will; for He only wills good to us, life, prosperity, peace and salvation, in time and in eternity. We can well afford to exchange our wills for the will of God — or, rather, that our wills should be as the will of God; that we should adopt the will of God as our will. "Not my will, Father, but thine be done." For the will of God is superior to our will. He knows what will be good for us; He knows what is good for us. He knows what will preserve us and will save us from the power of Satan, from the grasp of that personage who would drag us down into the same condition that he is in. The Lord knows exactly what is best for us; and what our Elder Brother has accomplished and attained to — we also are the sons of God, the junior brethren and the sisters of our Lord Jesus Christ, and He designs that we should come up as He came up, and accomplish what He has accomplished, and be worthy of the favor .and blessing of our Heavenly Father in time and in eternity, and this can only be obtained by serving the Lord, as He serves our Heavenly Father.  
  
Then, my brethren and sisters, it is very important that we should learn to live unitedly, to be humble, to be faithful in the discharge of the duties that devolve upon us, and to fulfill the requirements of our Heavenly Father. Now we are entering upon times and conditions that are to be favorable to the Church, and favorable to everybody else. Good times are coming upon the people — prosperous times. As we have been so. abundantly blessed this year, so may we be blessed the coming year, and so on for the future. And when the blessings of the Lord are so abundantly bestowed upon us, we ought to make good use of them. We ought to listen to the counsel of wisdom, and to profit by our past experience, to refrain from contracting obligations that we are unable to meet. The Latter-day Saints should begin now, if they have not already, to meet all their obligations. I believe with the favorable conditions that are opening up to us and to the people of the world, that we ought to learn to meet our obligations; free ourselves from mortgages entirely. The Lord will open the way if we will make good use of the blessings that He has bestowed upon us, that we may meet all our obligations. But remember the Lord first! I am frequently approached by brethren to know what they shall do. "If I pay my tithing, I have other obligations and embarrassments that weigh me down. Shall I, under these circumstances, pay my obligations to the Lord?" I say, Yes. First of all a man should meet his obligations to his Maker He who has furnished us the earth upon which we live, and all the wealth thereof. We ought to remember our obligations to Him; for we are in this work for eternal salvation and exaltation, eternal life, and to become the heirs of God, through our faithfulness, that whatever of wealth the Lord possesses we shall be His heirs, and joint heirs with the Son, Who has received from the Father all things and all power in heaven and on earth. If we would be sharers in this, we must remember first our obligations to the Lord; for they are older than the obligations to any man. Pay the obligations in the order of their seniority —as they are due. First meet all our obligations to the Lord properly, and then tell the Father that we want to be conscientious and honest with everybody else— with our brothers and our sisters as we are with Him. Now is the time that we manifest our faith in the Lord, and prove Him; and I want to bear record that no man has ever failed to. find the promises of the Lord reliable. No man has ever paid his tithing properly but what has been abundantly blessed. I want to say, too, that no man has ever paid his just obligations to his brother but what he has been abundantly blessed. There is a compensation that always comes in answer to the performance of every right and proper duty between man and his Maker, between man and his brother; for I say that a man will not be honest with his Maker if he be not honest with his brother. Be honest with the Lord and then honest with the brethren. Be honest with the world, and conscientious with them in all our obligations and covenants; for they are our brethren— unbaptized, so far as that is concerned, but they are our brethren, the sons and the daughters of God, and our conduct, our dealings, contracts and business obligations with them should be most conscientious, honest and upright. If so, then they will see that we are conscientious and honest in our dealings with our father in heaven. They will have confidence in us, and will believe our professions. Then, I say, brethren and sisters, remember the Lord in these times. Let us go forward and discharge the duties that devolve upon us. It is a splendid time now to pay our debts.  
  
It is a splendid time now, also, for the young people to enter into marriage. Young men and young women who are twenty years of age and upwards should see to it. Parents should advise and counsel with them, that they should enter into marriage. The Latter-day Saints are a people that believe in the principle of marriage. They believe it is one of the most sacred commandments and requirements of the Lord that men and women should marry, and should multiply and replenish the earth, and fill it with the son's and daughters of God, training and leading them in the ways of righteousness by their example and by their instructions. Let me exhort you, my brethren and sisters, Bishops, Presidents, leading men, mothers in Israel see to it that your sons and daughters and those under your care are thoroughly taught in regard to this principle. We are not a people with one idea only; not alone the Word of Wisdom, not alone the law of tithing; but the law of marriage, the law of honesty, of virtue, of charity and of uprightness among the people and between each other. We believe in all these doctrines, and we believe that if a man would be saved and exalted in the celestial kingdom of God he must do all that it is possible for man to do. All the requirements of the Lord must be accomplished if we would attain to all that is to be obtained in the celestial kingdom of our Father. And every Latter-day Saint has started out for that— the obtaining of eternal life, and the greatest degree of glory that can be obtained in the celestial kingdom. Then to obtain this I say that the full and perfect law of the Father must be observed. We are to be rewarded for our works. We must earn what we obtain. We have our sins upon us and we cannot atone for them ourselves; they have been atoned for by the Son of God. But we must repent of them, which we can do. Every man can repent who will; for the spirit of repentance, a gift of God, waits upon the children of men, as does the light of day, as does air, heat and cold, and all these conditions that attend closely upon the movements of mankind. So does the spirit of faith, of humility, of righteousness and virtue always attend upon the people. These two spirits are anxious that we should entertain them. Why will we not? It is according to the will of man that he turns against the truth and closes his heart against it. The truth may be here abundantly on every hand, and we can close our hearts against it. Let us not do this, my brethren and sisters. It is only a little season that we live here. This probation of ours is very brief. I discover this when I find that in a little time I shall be an old man, ready to pass away; and my brethren the same. Now I have passed half a hundred, and when men get to that age they become old men, and after that their race to the end is very rapid; they get old in a very short time; years and periods become brief. Now we want to be prepared, and remember that it is only a little span. Ninety years, such as President Woodruff lived, will be looked upon, when he passes beyond and looks back over his career of the past in mortality, as just a brief, brief span. It would seem as though we could almost hold our breath that long, to get over without doing anything that is wrong. Let us shun evil. Let us seek to know the mind and will of the Lord, obtain the Holy Ghost and enjoy it all the day long, and the Lord will lead us gently home. Oh! what joy and happiness there is when we are serving God with full purpose of heart all the time, when sin ceases to afflict us, when temptations and trials are kept far from us. The path is straight, it is narrow, but it is easy and most pleasant. Let us try and walk it, and be faithful in the discharge of every duty.  
  
I want to testify to you in regard to this work. It is the work of our Father who dwells in heaven. It is the work established by Him, and not by man. When I hear the brethren say, as was testified to here by Brother John Henry Smith, that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, I say to myself, why the Christian world acknowledge that. But the question in the Christian world Is, where is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that is the power of God unto salvation? I would testify to all this great assembly here — brothers, sisters, friends, strangers — that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ which is the power of God unto salvation was restored in its ancient power and purity through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We possess it today. We have the Priesthood of God, which is His authority and power. It is in the earth, and with all our imperfections, weaknesses and follies, yet hath the Lord maintained us, and He will do if we are fairly faithful. The more faithful we are the more will we witness the power of God and the more readily will everything be accomplished that comes along which needs the attention, of the Lord and of His servants; the more readily and perfectly will every gap be filled, and you will find the Church of God will move so regularly and smoothly along that there will never be a ripple. We may have a rough road to travel over, as we have had in the past; we may have difficulties and trials, and the world may be measurably arrayed against us, and try to destroy us or do us harm, feeling all the time, no doubt, in their hearts that they are doing the greatest possible good and are anxious for our salvation; but I want to say to you that our Father who dwells in heaven — that Father whom Jesus taught His disciples to pray to, "Our Father, which art in heaven" — that same great Parent overlooks these affairs, and is guiding and controlling the destinies of this people, as He is the destinies of all other people; and with this people abides today that Gospel which is the power of God unto salvation, and it will endure and accomplish what the Lord has designed it shall accomplish — the salvation of the children of men, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.