14
Morning
09 10 898
Elder Brigham Young.
268
48-51

None

Instructions should embrace temporal as well as spiritual subjects— Some duties of officers of the Church and of parents — Avoid evil speaking and contention— Periodicity of times of plenty and scarcity. Husband the products of the earth.  
  
I would like your attention, my brethren and sisters, for the few moments that I may stand before you, for I believe it is difficult to make all of this vast congregation hear the words of the speaker. Some very good things have been said in testimony and otherwise which have been lost to a portion of the congregation; but I believe if we were quiet throughout this building that it would not be very difficult to hear an ordinary voice in every part of it.  
  
I have rejoiced exceedingly during the meetings that have been held here and have listened with attention to the remarks of my brethren. Great things have been said; great ideas have been advanced; great principles have been dwelt upon, for our brethren have spoken of those things that pertain to eternal life. I have felt to say in my heart: if we have not the Gospel, the Lord have mercy upon us, for our fellow-men will not have mercy, the world will not have mercy upon this people; but if, as we testify, we have the Gospel of the Son of God, who can prevail against us? Not the world, nor the adversary of our souls, if we live in harmony with the revelations of God that He has given unto us. I know that we have the Gospel of the Son of God. I do not know that I will be saved in His celestial kingdom, but I know that He has revealed to me all that is necessary, in the past and the present, and will reveal unto me, personally, and by the instructions of my brethren, all that is necessary to guide me in the future, that I may return back into His presence. I know this to be so; that it is the truth; and my desire for you is like the desire I have for myself, to again meet with you in the presence of our common Father in His celestial kingdom.  
  
If people expect that we, who are here in these stands, are to confine ourselves to the spiritual necessities of the kingdom of God, they are somewhat mistaken. We have to deal with that which is before us, the every day life which we live in the localities where our homes and interests are situated. We can come here and feel well for a short time, but if we lay aside the spirit we obtain at these conferences, and which we will find in our meetings at home if we attend them— if we lay that spirit aside, the course of life will seem too strong for us. I never saw a time in my life, in my experience, when it was more necessary to be humble in prayer, in public, in private, and in family worship than at the present time. I never saw a time in the history of this Church, so far as my knowledge extends, when we were more tempted to omit these commandments of the Lord; something intervenes, something prevents the husband and the wife from gathering their families, their children, in their household and observing this duty. O, I haven't time to pray this morning. The temptation is great to omit it. I testify unto this congregation that if you will go to your homes throughout the length and breadth of the land and will humbly seek your Father in prayer and in supplication, in private and in public, as your duty may call and the spirit direct, that you will grow and increase and life will become a ten-fold pleasure to you. I testify to you that you will create a sentiment and a feeling in the hearts of your sons and daughters that you will marvel at, and rejoice to see the reformation that will take place in all the households of the Latter-day Saints who observe this simple duty. Try it. Let every man and every woman go from this Conference with a determination to observe these requirement's which God has made of them. We go into the Stakes and visit the people a great deal, and we find much that needs talking about. In some Stakes that I have visited in the past— I will say in the last year — I find occasionally that the President of the Stake has lost his grip to some extent, lost his influence, and that there are opposing forces arrayed against him among his brethren, and sisters — that tie his hands, to a great extent. Why these people have a power. One of the brethren said that when he faced the people before him, who are in the image of our God and our Savior, it made him tremble. These people have a force and a power. If you are not in sympathy with me when I stand here to teach you, then I have no influence. You have this power in your wards, in your societies and in your associations.  
  
In visiting some of the wards I have had the pleasure of visiting the Relief Societies, and I asked one person in relation to the visits of the Bishop to their meetings. "Why," the president said to me, "the Bishop never visits us; he never attends our meetings." Here is a neglect on the part of the Bishop in something that is very essential, and they should repent of this, and every meeting that is held, every interest of that ward, should be his especial care, and make it his duty to supervise it as far as need be, and be in perfect harmony with them and have them in perfect harmony with him in all their labors. I go again to the Sabbath school, and on one occasion I said to the presiding officer: "Who are those little boys on those back benches?" "Why," he said to me in a whisper, "those are our hoodlums. We work with them as best we can. You see that brother is a mild tempered man. He sits right there by those little fellows trying to keep them in order; and we use every effort and all the persuasion that we are capable of to get them to observe order, but I tell you, Brother Young, with all they get from here, their parents are indifferent as to what their children do. Parents neglect their children and they run hither and thither all the week long and when they come into the Sabbath school it is almost useless to try to keep them quiet and orderly for the little fellows have been neglected and disorderly the whole week." Fathers and mothers do not second the efforts of these excellent, disinterested teachers who go Sabbath after Sabbath to their Sunday schools, and seek to inform their children's minds that they may grow up useful men and women in the Church of Christ. There is a neglect in this department throughout the length and breadth of the land. Will the people of this Conference go from here and take up these subjects and say in their hearts: With the help of God we will aid the Sabbath schools, for they cannot do it all? The president of a Stake cannot do everything; the Bishop cannot do everything; but we are all neglectful in some things, and here are evils that must be corrected.  
  
I find in some localities that there is a disregard of the principle of tithing as well. Who is forced to pay tithing? Nobody; the principle upon which some of the brethren work with whom I am acquainted is, they say in their hearts, and they have said it to me: "I want to bind the Lord. He has promised; I want to fulfill my part of that promise that it may be verified to me." They are punctual and they strive to discharge that obligation. If we do it not, we have no promise, but we have a promise if we fulfill it, and though we may do it imperfectly but with a good and honest heart and if we are striving to do our duty in this respect, God is bound to fulfill His part. He always does it, as was testified of here by the brethren who have spoken this morning. God always fulfills His part. Now, brethren, try it. If you come here and listen to the words of inspiration from our Presidency, from our brethren, the leading men, they fall upon, stony ground if you do not heed them. You must not do this. Go from here with the determination that with the help of God you will fulfill your obligations.  
  
There is another thing that I find a great evil among some of the people, and that is moral cowardice. A brother offends, and they have not the moral courage to go to him and say: "You have offended me; let us make it right, brother, so that we can live in harmony." Brethren, and sisters, make up your minds to take the Doctrine and Covenants and study what God says upon this subject; when you go to your homes, read it; and with the help of God keep enmity and jealousy out of your hearts. God has commanded it and He demands it at our hands — that we have no such feelings. He demands it this day, because they are evils in our midst. Let me have the moral courage, and instead of saying as I have heard men say: "I will get even with him," let me go to the man if I have got anything to say to him and say it in as mild a spirit as I can command under the inspiration of the Spirit, of God, and say to him: "Let us heal these differences." That brings peace, that brings love and joy, and the love of God will increase in the midst of the people.  
  
"We are too apt to make a man an offender for a word. If God was to make you and I an offender for a word, we never would rise above the existence we have here; we never could see anything better than we have here; but He would have you to never sit in judgment upon your fellowmen. Let God judge, whose right it is to judge. Who knows what his providences are? If I am injured, or tempted, or should have to meet sorrow or sickness or death, if I have lived according to the light that He has given me, am I not safe in every particular? O, yes. God will overrule; but don't let me sit in judgment upon my fellow man; let God judge; and let me say in my heart, However constrained my circumstances may be, I acknowledge the hand of God in everything.  
  
Now, beware of the leaven of the Gentiles, I suppose this is too plain talk for this time of year, under the circumstances. What do I mean by it? I mean by that that you have received a knowledge of the Holy One, and the leaven of the Gentiles is to leaven that knowledge that you have received from God Himself until it is entirely obscured.  
  
Now, there is a great harvest; the earth groans with her harvest. Looking backward need I cite you to the past few year's experience that we have had, need I say to you that the day was when your cattle was worth nothing? The man that owned the most cattle was among the poorest in Zion. Today we are beginning to talk of cattle kings. There was no demand for them; no demand for grain today; but a little while ago, there was no demand for property in Salt Lake and throughout the State. Bye and bye, men were aroused and went in a sense crazy. These men are not all dead, and they are liable to go crazy again. Plenty will follow a dearth, and dearth will follow plenty. We are thriving in every particular, in every manner, in wealth, material wealth that is useful, that builds us up, that feeds and clothes us, that gives us homes and habitations, beautiful orchards, gardens, farms — all that we desire. We are wonderfully blessed in material wealth here. Brethren do you not suppose that there will come a time when these, all these things will be changed? Why I know that such action will come. I do not know when, but mark it, whenever there Is a flush, it seems to me that the opposite follows. It is so in the rains that fall upon the earth; when we have deep snows in the mountains and plenty of water here, in a little time this plentiful supply is followed by a drougth. It seems to me that it comes in streaks.  
  
Well, now, this is so in our lives. God will temper these things to the good of His people. When the earth yields in abundance is the time to take care of it. When you have plenty of grain, plenty of wealth and the abundance of the earth is given to you, I say to you go from this Conference and take care of it. Brother George Goddard said yesterday a thing that was written upon my mind and has been ever since I saw the fields north and South: Seeing the enormous quantity of the products of the earth, I felt in my heart that a scarcity may follow this plenty. I do pray that the Saints, above all men, will take care of the bounties that the Lord has given them.  
  
There is a great deal that comes to my mind in relation to this matter, but I haven't time to talk about it, and I do not think it would be profitable to do it here, but I can touch upon the points that I had in my mind and that come to me standing here, for the Latter-day Saints to be mindful of.  
  
One of the great things for us to do is to be mindful of our children, our sons and daughters. Now some of you who live in the country permit your daughters to come to this city to get work. They come here to work for a livelihood, to get themselves clothing and to help their families, and for other reasons. Our girls want to appear as well as anybody. They are certainly as good looking as any other class of young ladies I have met in my travels on the earth, and they want to show their good looks and be a little fashionable. We cannot help that; I do not know that they can. But there is a great difference between this and permitting them to be surrounded by circumstances through which they might be led astray. If it is necessary for them to go out to work, try to see that they get a situation where they at least will be respected, and return to you as they left you, with their virtue not destroyed, but willing to come into the family circle, and the family circle willing to receive them.  
  
I rejoice with you. God bless you, and let us one and all go from this Conference with the determination that we will live as God would have us live, that we may attain unto the great blessing of eternal life.  
  
May God be with us in our homes and in our habitations throughout the length and breadth of the land, and strengthen us in the cause of truth, for I believe in my heart that the Latter-day Saints are the only people that are striving intelligently to be saved in the celestial kingdom of our God. Amen.