15
Afternoon
09 10 1898
President George Q. Cannon
4
52-53

None

None

said:

This is a very solemn occasion, and the spectacle from the stand is most impressive. It is difficult to repress emotion on seeing such an assembly. We have come together this afternoon in solemn assembly, to vote for the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Every one present is entitled to vote — to vote as he pleases — that is, every member of the Church. They can either vote for or against. Every one has perfect liberty. And it is well that you should understand the method of voting. The brethren will be called upon in their various quorum capacities to vote. If their vote is an affirmative vote, they will rise from their seats and raise their right hands. When they have thus voted, if there are any negative votes— they having kept their seats — they can rise and vote. And each one as I have said, will have perfect liberty to vote as he pleases.  
  
The order of voting by quorums was as follows:  
  
First — The Twelve Apostles.  
  
Second— The Patriarchs, Presidents of Slakes and their counselors, and the High Councilors.  
  
Third— High Priests.  
  
Fourth — Seventies.  
  
Fifth— Elders.  
  
Sixth— Bishops and their counselors.  
  
Seventh — Priests, Teachers and Deacons.  
  
Eighth— The entire congregation.  
  
In each instance President Cannon announced the vote to sustain the authorities successively, then said to the voting quorum: Are you prepared to vote upon this question? If so, arise to your feet and raise your right hands. When the affirmative vote was cast he called for those opposed, to arise to their feet.  
  
Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.  
  
George Q. Cannon as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Joseph F. Smith as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Franklin D. Richards as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the que rum of the Twelve Apostles — Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley and Abraham O. Woodruff.  
  
All the voting was unanimous, and it was so announced, until the negative vote upon sustaining the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles was called from the Elders. Two of these arose to their feet. President Cannon addressing them, asked who they objected to and for what reason?  
  
Each of these two Elders said he objected to John W. Taylor, and the reason was certain objectionable remarks made by him in Conference on Friday, October 7th.  
  
They were asked if they would come to the stand at the close of the session and see whether Brother Taylor could make the matter right with and satisfy them. Both replied that they were willing to do this.  
  
The voting for members of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles then went forward uninterrupted and was unanimous, until the negative vote of the entire Congregation was called for. At this point a number of members of the Tabernacle choir, probably from twenty to twenty-five of both sexes, arose to their feet.  
  
On being asked by President Cannon who they objected to and the reason for it, they replied that they objected to John W. Taylor on account of some disparaging remarks he had made in Conference regarding the choir, on Friday, October 7th. They were asked if they were willing that Brother Taylor should personally meet with the choir and endeavor to make the matter right to their satisfaction. They signified that this arrangement was agreeable to them.  
  
It was then announced by President Cannon that a vacancy had been created in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles by the removal of President Snow from it to assume the position of President of the Church. It had been decided that this vacancy should be filled, and announced the name of Rudger Clawson for the position. The mind and word of the Lord had been obtained upon the selection of Brother Clawson for this office.  
  
A motion was made and put to the several quorums and to the entire congregation, that Rudger Clawson be ordained an Apostle, be one of the Twelve Apostles and a member of that council. The voting was unanimously affirmative.  
  
The following authorities were then presented to the entire congregation to be voted upon in the usual way which obtains at ordinary General Conferences, and were unanimously sustained:  
  
The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
Patriarch to the Church— John Smith.  
  
First Seven Presidents of the Seventies—Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, B. H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin.  
  
William B. Preston as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton as his first and John R. Winder as his second counselor.  
  
Franklin D. Richards as Church historian and general Church recorder, with John Jaques, Charles W. Penrose and Andrew Jenson as his assistants.  
  
As the General Church Board of Education — Lorenzo Snow, George, Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John Nicholson and George H. Brimhall.  
  
As Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — Lorenzo Snow.  
  
John Nicholson as clerk of the General Conference.  
  
 It was stated that the release of the presidency of the European mission had been contemplated, and that one of the number, Elder Edwin F. Parry, had already returned. By unanimous vote of the Conference Elders Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin were also released, and Plate D. Lyman appointed to preside over the European mission, with James L. McMurrin arid Henry W. Naisbitt as his counselors.  
  
Similar unanimous action was taken with regard to releasing Brother Lautensock from the position of president over the German mission and the appointment of Arnold H. Schuthess to succeed him.  
  
President Cannon remarked that there was no other Church in the world the officers of which were subjected to such an ordeal as had been applied to those who had been voted on here today, and he felt thankful for the unanimity that had prevailed.  
