16
Afternoon
09 10 1898
Elder Rugder Clawson.
7
53-54

None

None

Brethren and sisters, this is a very trying position that I occupy before you this afternoon. It is true, as President Cannon has said, that I have been placed in some trying situations. I was with Elder Joseph Standing at the time of his martyrdom, and was myself exposed for a few moments to martyrdom, but I escaped through the providence of the Lord. I have been placed behind prison bars for the testimony of Jesus, and that was a very trying situation. When I came out of the penitentiary I was told that the Lord wanted me to labor as President of the Box Elder Stake, and I assure you, brethren and sisters, that that was a great surprise to me at that time, and very trying. I had been brought up in Salt Lake City; all my interests, all my associations, and, as I thought, all my expectations were in Salt Lake City, and it was a great trial for me to be called away. No inducements were offered, but I was told that the Lord would bless and sustain me in that appointment, and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have been sustained in my presidency of the Box Elder Stake of Zion, and I have enjoyed my labors there. There is a good people in that Stakes — a people, I believe, who are trying to serve the Lord. They have sustained me and I have felt blessed and prospered in my labors there. This later call that has come has proven to be a very great surprise. I had no knowledge of it; I had no notice of it whatever, only as it has come to me today in this meeting. My patriarchal blessing, that was given a number of years ago, indicated that I would be called to a high appointment in the Church in the due time of the Lord, and I presume that this is the appointment now. I feel very weak; I feel very humble. I know that unless I can enjoy the spirit of the apostleship and the faith and prayers and the support of my brethren and sisters of this Church I cannot stand, I cannot succeed in this labor; and therefore I earnestly pray that God will be with me, and that I may have your faith and prayers, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.  