6
Afternoon
06 10 1898
Elder J. G. Kimball.
14
17-18

None

An ambition that is not wordly — A great Missionary responsibility — Special reference to the seventies.  
 
I trust, while I stand before you, that I may be governed and influenced by the Spirit of the Lord; for I can assure you that I have only one ambition, only one desire burning in my heart, and that is, to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. I understand my labors to be to preach the Gospel continually among the children of men; that my calling and labors are well-defined; and I do not ask any Seventy in the Chruch of Jesus Chruch to do what I am not willing to perform myself. I am a candidate in the Church of Jesus Christ to take up the cross and follow the Savior, and preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth; and I am willing, if the customs of the country will permit it and I am so directed by the Spirit of the Lord, to travel without purse of scrip, to addict myself to fast and to pray, and to live near unto the Lord, that he may soften the hearts of the children of men towards me. I have only one ambition, viz., to follow in the footsteps of my father and emulate his example. While I believe it to be my right, notwithstanding I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to work for any gift that can be given by this great nation or by the people of this State, yet I have no ambition in that direction. I realize that there is danger in speculation; but I claim the right to speculate, if I am honest and straightforward in my dealings. I claim that it is my right to become rich and to surround myself with the riches of the world, inasmuch as I use it for the good of the children of men. But I have no further ambition in that direction, unless I am specially called by those appointed to labor in the Church. I have, however, an ambition to be saved in the kingdom of my Father. I desire to understand the Gospel, the plan of life and salvation, and if there is any greater ambition that can be given unto the children of men, I pray you to point out the pathway.  
 
I realize, my brethren and sisters, that there is a very great labor devolving upon this people. As was stated by President George Q. Cannon, we cannot say that we have the number of missionaries laboring throughout the nations of the earth that we had six months ago. In the Southern States alone there have been over one hundred and twenty-five Elders released since the 20th of June, and on the 20th of June there were five hundred and eighty Elders laboring in that mission; and Elder Rich, who presides, stated that there should be released from that mission alone, then, and there should be sent into that field of labor at least two hundred and fifty more Elders as soon as it can possibly be done. I feel myself that it is a time to thrust in the sickle; for the Lord has softened the hearts of the children of men towards this people, and Satan, in his anger, is trying to raise of persecution against our people, and it is already developing in the Southern States. I feel, my brethren, that we should put ourselves in a condition to undertake and carry out this labor, especially the Seventies, whose labor it is to continually preach the Gospel. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants that the High Priests are to preach as their circumstances will permit; but there are no such words found in the Doctrine and Covenants regarding the Seventies. I went into a qporum of Seventies only a few nights ago — one of the best quorums, too, that I have met with — and we found eighteen Seventies out of thirty-five that have never filled missions to the nations of the earth. So we find it all through the Church. It is my opinion that there are but few quorums in the Church in which you cannot find twenty Seventies that have never filled missions to the nations of the earth, and I took upon it as one of the most unfortunate things that can befall a man — to be robbed of that privilege. While it is true that many of our brethren have filled honorable and wonderful missions at home, yet we look to Seventies to fill up this number; and I pray the Lord to move upon them mightily by His Spirit, that we may be able to supply our brethren in the next year with three hundred Seventies that are willing to take upon themselves this labor.  
  
I realize, my brethren, that we should be charitable. I do know that our brethren are in debt, that they are in trouble and in difficulty. It is only two weeks ago since I personally interviewed eight bright, intelligent men who were perfectly able, physically, mentally, and, for aught I know, every other way except financially, to go on missions, and these eight brethren all declared that they were in debt and unable to go. I felt impressed by the Spirit to prophesy to them and to promise them that if they would have faith they could pay their obligations in the next six months, if they would make a covenant with the Lord that they would take up this labor and preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. But it leaves a very grave responsibility upon the Bishops and the presidents of Stakes; for when you send that class of men, they leave behind them probably large families to be taken care of. I feel that that is one reason that so many young men have been called — men who were not Seventies— because many of them had no families to leave behind. But I say to you, my brethren and sisters, inasmuch as this is my calling, that it devolves upon this people, notwithstanding there is a great expense to it. From a human standpoint, it would seem as if it would take from our people nearly all their means to preach the Gospel to every nation. Yet, if I understand the matter aright, when the angel came, that was the message he delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
  
I do not desire to occupy more of your time; but I did desire to call your attention to that part of our labor that is devolving upon the people. I pray the Lord that He will continue to bless us, and bless the earth, that it shall yield forth of its strength, so that our people may free themselves from debt, and take up this labor; that it may not be necessary to hunt and search as we now are under the necessity of doing, to find men to send forth to the nations. I pray the Lord to bless our brethren, the Apostles, for my sympathy is with them. I desire to say to the people that I hope the time will never come when it will be necessary for any of our people, through their strife and their troubles — their political troubles— to make any further trouble for their brethren; for when I look back to that aged servant of God —President Wilford Woodruff— who has passed away, and when I think of our other brethren who follow him, how true and how faithful, how full of integrity they are; they have never swerved, but they have been steadfast and have fought valiantly for the cause of Christ, and just as they get here and have established themselves seemingly permanently, and it seems when it ought to have been a time of peace and rest for our brethren, some of us who became restless and got the spirit of the world had to make more trouble for them. I pray the Lord that He may soften our hearts, that we may love the Priesthood, that we may honor them, that we may serve the Lord and keep His commandments,and have the Spirit of God burning in our hearts like a living fire. This is my desire, in the name of Jesus. Amen.  