7
Afternoon
06 10 1898
Elder George Reynolds.
27
18-21

None

This is God's work— Human weaknesses— Payment of Tithing— Every day duties.  
  
I trust, my brethren and sisters, that while I stand before you this afternoon I shall have your faith and prayers in the testimony that I may bear and in the few remarks that I may make. It is very unexpected to me to have to stand before you at this time; but I always esteem it a privilege to bear testimony to the truth of the great latter day work, and also to that which is being accomplished by the labors of our brethren. I understand and realize that we are accomplishing the work that God has designed; that we are fulfilling His purposes; that this is His work, and not ours; and that according to His good pleasure, according to His divine will, all things will be brought about, and the words of His servants will be fulfilled, until this earth is prepared for the reign of His Son. I have no doubt of this on my mind. All things, whatsoever they are, that the Lord has willed in the restoration of His Gospel, in the gathering of His people, in the building up of His kingdom, will be brought about. And though our efforts from day to day may seem but small and insignificant, yet in the end they will fulfill the purposes designed of God. Therefore, as a people we have every cause for encouragement. God will not leave us to ourselves. He will not forsake us. He will not give us over into the power of our enemies. He will not permit that His kingdom in this dispensation shall be overthrown. Though we are weak, though we commit follies, yet in these respects we are not different from those who have gone before us. We are told, in the various divine records that have reached us, that those to whom God gave His revelations, on whom He imposed the responsibility of performing His work, and who were His representatives to the people, were men of like weaknesses as ourselves. We are furthermore told in the Book of Mormon that God gives men weaknesses, that by having weaknesses they may be better prepared, be better able to do what He requires. There is one thing of which we are satisfied, that there is none that is perfect save God. We are instructed to seek to be perfect, even as God and His Son Jesus Christ are perfect; and that Jesus Christ so advised shows to me that it is possible for us so to be. The Savior may not say this in derision, or in irony; but he so encourages us all that we may seek to reach that which is perfect as near as we possibly can, and by so doing we progress. We have long since learned that obstacles, as far as the Church of Christ is concerned, are things to be overcome. When we speak of obstacles we mean that they are things that stand in our path, not to prevent our progress, but that we may triumph by overcoming them; for most of us have learned with the youthful Prophet Nephi that God never gives a commandment to men but he provides the way by which that commandment can be obeyed. In other words, the Lord does not. ask impossibilities of us. Many things that have been done by this people through the grace of God and by His help, in gathering together to these mountains, and the things that have been accomplished since we gathered here, not only show the overshadowing hand of God in our favor, that He has been with us all the time, that He has protected us, and that He has directed His servants who have led us, but also, looked at humanly, we may say that this people have performed miracles in that which they have accomplished in the building up of this community in this intermountain region. But our history, when read in future ages, should the world continue as it is now — which, of course, we do not expect; but if it were possible in the future to look on the present as we now look into the past, if our history could be read in this light, removed from the obstructions that at present obscure the view of things as they really are, we shall be surprised at what we have accomplished through God's help, the influence that we have wielded in the world, the results of the ministry of the Elders, and the changes that we have produced in the world's history. We are a small people, but, as we often say, our numbers are not commensurate with our influence. God has given us power — power above our numbers, and this is so because we are seeking to serve Him. He has also made us a wealthy people. We may not have many multi-millionaires in our midst; but when we take the riches of this people, head for head, I do not believe this wide world over we can find any community of a quarter of a million of people taking them as we would take ourselves, who are so well situated with regard to material prosperity as we are. And this is but the beginning. How often have we heard the servants of God promise us that if we would be faithful to God, if we would keep His commandments, if we would pay our tithing, if we would be honest with the Lord and generous in our donations, that He would bless us to an extent that we could not at present conceive. I believe this is so. The little that we have done has brought its reward. We none of us claim that we, as a people, faithfully observe the law of tithing; yet the Lord has abundantly blessed us. True, we have been thrifty, we have been patient, we have been persevering, we have been economical — all of which virtues tend to the increase of material wealth. But why have we been so? We have been so because it is the genius of the Gospel that men should be thrifty, economical and temperate in all things; and that the virtues which have an especial effect upon man's present condition should be observed as well as those that more particularly affect man's future life. The Lord is now blessing us abundantly in our flocks and herds, in our crops, and in all other respects in which we materially increase, and I believe He will look to us to honor His law. Now is a most convenient time, a most proper time — never a better time — when we should be faithful to the Lord in paying our tithes and our offerings; that the hands, of the servants of God who bear the responsibilities of this Church should be loosened; that they should not be held under the burden of debt and the responsibilities that weigh so heavily upon their shoulders — the responsibilities which President Woodruff felt so keenly, and which should not be upon those who bear authority and presidency in the Church of Jesus Christ. They should be relieved from these burdens by all of us doing our duty, by us observing those laws that we acknowledge, in our testimonies, come from God. These things affect us all. We are bound up in the Church. What would we be if it were not that we are members of the Church? What should we be without the Church? What should we amount to? Where would our salvation be? What could we accomplish alone and singlehanded, or in a disorganized condition to further the purposes of God and prepare men for the coming of His Son Jesus and for that time when the earth is to be filled with a knowledge of God, when His purposes are to be accomplished, not only in the redemption of the living, but also in the redemption of the dead. Without us, we are told, they who have gone before cannot be made perfect, and we without them would be insufficient for the fulfillment of the purposes of God. All the various generations of men have to be welded together in indissoluble links, so that as one great whole, as one united family, we may be prepared for the great final consummation, when all things that our Heavenly Father has created and made shall be returned to him in the condition in which they were when he pronounced them, at the beginning, very good. But in view of this great consummation we sometimes lose sight of the fact that it is little by little that all these great things are accomplished. We lose sight of that truth that is taught in the verses our children learn in the primary departments in the schools, that it is "the little drops of water and little grains of sand" that go to make up the ocean and the land of which this earth is composed. It is the little actions of our lives that go to make up our characters. It is the minutes that make the days, and the days that make the years, and the years that make eternity. So it is with us in our everyday walk; in the fulfillment of our everyday duties we shall bear off the kingdom of God triumphant; not so much by deeds of heroism that few of us may be called upon to perform, but by the daily, patient, continuous performance of our every day duties, laborious though they may be, wearisome though they may be, tiresome though they may be, and drudgery though they may sometimes be. It is by the performance of these duties that we are building up the kingdom of God, that we are accomplishing His purposes, and that will eventually bring us that perfection of character that will enable us, through the mercy and blessing of God and the atonement of His Son, to enter into His eternal presence, and reign with Him through the years to come. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. God bless this conference, that all that is said and done herein may God's approval, is my prayer, through Jesus. Amen.  