Morning
08 04 1898



ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

The Path of Duty Leads to Prosperity— Need for Retrenchment — Future Expansion of Missionary Work. 

It is always a little difficult for me to start out upon a high key, and I have discovered that it is more or less the case with others. However, if you will give me your attention and your prayers and faith, I hope to be able to make you all hear the few minutes I shall occupy your attention. I have been much interested in our Conference, and can say that I heartily endorse the remarks that have thus far been made in our hearing. I was very much interested in the remarks of our President on yesterday, though it is not very pleasant to contemplate the scenes that he has passed through; the troubles and ordeals, going through waterwheels, having bones broken and all this; and I conclude that Very few people could, under such circumstances, endure for a long time. 

I have a testimony of this work. I know it is true. I know the Lord is with His people; the manifestations of His power are realized and felt by many of the Latter-day Saints. Of all people we have the most reason to be grateful and thankful to our Heaveny Father. While, perhaps, our financial condition as a body is not so desirable as we would like it, yet I believe that we are as well off financially, and perhaps better off, than people in other states of our Union. It is wonderful to me, when I contemplate the affairs of our people, to realize the vast amount of money that goes from us in the transportation and support of our Elders on missions abroad, and in  payment of our tithes and our offerings. This is a condition that many people do not realize, and they do not have to cope with these things. The Lord, however, requires these conditions at our hands, and apparently He opens up the way and provides the means whereby these things are accomplished. The Elders are sent out, their fares are paid, they are supported by their friends while abroad; and it all costs money, and the money ooraes from somewhere. The Lord through His providences opens up the way whereby these things are accomplished. I was conversing with a brother some three or four years ago, I think at the Conference in this city, and he was telling me his condition. He was very much depressed financially. He had been under the necessity (he thought) to mortgage his home, and he was very much embarrassed. He felt very bad over it, so much so that he could hardly enjoy the Spirit of the Conference. He was a very intimate friend of mine, and he asked me what to do. I told him that I believed that I could tell him what to do to extricate himself. He said he would be very glad to know what to do that he might be free again. I said, "have you paid your tithing of late years?" "Well," he said, "no, not so strictly as I ought to have done." I told him I thought that was one cause of his financial trouble. I said to him, "you go home now, and pay your tithing strictly, as you receive it; don't you sign any more notes to anybody; don't give mortgages on any more of your property; curtail your expenses at home, retrench a little, for I believe there is room for retrenchment; pay your tithing; trust in the Lord, and ways will be opened up whereby you may extricate yourself." I met him at this Conference, and he said that he wa3 getting along finely. He has near.'y all of his debts paid, and he has lifted the mortgage from his homo. I said, "then you have paid your tithing, have you?" He said, "yes, paid my tithing strictly and honestly." I believe there is a principle in this. It is said that Paul may plant and Apollos may water, but the Lord gl\eth the increase. And I have concluded from my experience that the Lord is able to. The Lord gives us the increase. He blesses some people abundantly for a wise purpose in Himself. We cannot always comprehend why he blesses some men above other men, but there is a purpose in it, and I am just as confident as I am that I am standing before you, that if the Latter-day Saints from this very day, will pay their tithes honestly and strictly, and cease to mortgage their homes, cease to incur obligations as individuals, and begin a system of retrenchment in all their homes, the Lord will prosper them and they will be free from debt — for is there a family in Israel that cannot retrench a little? I know that it can be done; and if the Latter-day Saints will do these things as a people, the time is not far distant when we will be relieved from our financial troubles. The Church will also be relieved of its financial troubles. Why is the Church financially depressed? Because we are financially depressed. We are the Church— the people of the Church, and if we will retrench and observe the rules of propriety in regard to our family affairs I believe that we all may be relieved; and I believe the time is not far distant when it may be said of the Latter-day Saints, that they are lenders of money and not borrowers. This should be our situation. Now the evidence is before the people that we come far short of what the Lord requires at our hands in tithes and offerings. I heard President Young once say in the old Tabernacle here, "if the Latter-day Saints will pay their tithes honestly, every man and every family, I will pay all their taxes, their school bills and their general expenses." It is evident that the people did not do it. We may search the Church from one end to the other, we mav search the records, and we will find that there are not many men, (of course there are some, and perhaps a good number) that pay their tithing in full. A large majority of the people, I believe, come short in this, and they think they are doing pretty well too. They make themselves think they are  pretty well in paying their tithes and offerings. This principle of tithing was not instituted by man. The authorities of the Church have not instituted it, God revealed it in the early history of the Church, and He made it a requirement of the Latterday Saints. It is a law of the Lord, -nd it is important that the Latter-day Saints live up to the law, that this land may be a land of Zion unto the people. 

Brethren and sisters, I want to make you a promise in my own name, that if you will observe these things, begin now to pay your tithes and your offerings in full, if you will cease to sign notes, if you will cease to give mortgages on your homes, and retrench from this time forth, and turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, I will promise you that the way will be opened up and every faithful man and woman will be able to extricate himself and herself, and the time will be in your life time, when you will be a free people. There are some few people that are free now, and they do not owe any man anything, and they are happy and contented; but too many of the people have mortgages on their homes. I have always raised my voice against mortgaging and obligating ourselves. Wait until we have the means and then make the purchase, and do not make the purchase until we have the means. Do you not know that the whole system of our banking institutions in our midst is based upon the interest paid by the people for money borrowed? It is not a good thing, in my view, for individuals to do. It may be justifiable in the case of some large enterprise that would benefit the country and people, but as a rule for individuals to pattern after large corporations, they will fail if they do it. How many people in Salt Lake City, and in the country, have lost their homes, their families turned out without a shelter over their heads, because, peradventure, they have been unwise! They thought they were going to make a great deal of money by some speculation, and they have failed. The Lord did not bless the enterprise, and unless the Lord does so we will fail every time; no matter whether it be Jews or Gentiles, or Latter-day 

Saints, that enter into it. But if the Lord will bless the enterprise it will be a success. As a rule, however, it has not been the counsel of the Priesthood, so far as I have learned, for the people to obligate themselves beyond that which they were able to meet at any time. 

This system of retrenchment is important and necessary. Not only here in the city, but everywhere throughout the country, we see extravagance among the Saints, and carelessness and indifference with regard to the things that the Lord blesses us with. There is extravagance in the household; there is not that care and attention bestowed that ought to be. You will excuse me if I talk about myself and my own family, but I am reminded of an incident that occurred with me a few years ago. I had a brother who emigrated from England, working at my place. He had left his family there and had not the means to get them out. He said to me one day, "I wish my family could go to your swill barrel; they would get plenty of food right from it to supply them." It set me to thinking. Do my family waste things like that? Do they waste provisions to such an extent that this man and his family could live out of the swill barrel? I began to examine the matter a little, and I had to talk a little about it. I not only found it was profitable to talk at home, but also to talk among my friends and neighbors. There ha& been more or less of extravagances financially; it is very important that nothing should be wasted. President Young used to talk about these things everywhere he went. I have heard hliu in the settlements of Saints cautioning the people to be prudent, and to be careful with the means that the Lord had blessed them with. I believe we ought to observe this counsel, and if we will do it, as I said before, I think we may rely upon it that the Lord will open up our way whereby we may be relieved. President Cannon was almost on the point of saying so, the other day. I felt the spirit that he was possessed of, that he felt to promise the people that the time would come when we would be in a different condition. 

We are trying to do the Lord's work, to preach the Gospel to the world. We are sending out a few missionaries, but, I tell you, so far as i can see in the future, and understand the future, we are not sending out a drop in the bucket today, to what we will send out in the future. Only think of it for a moment. We have, it is said, 1,700 Elders abroad in the world. Take these 1,700 Elders, cut them in two, place half in London and half in New York, two of the great cities of the world, and the people of these cities would hardly know there was an Elder among them, because the inhabitants are so numerous. But we are doing the best we can in regard to this matter, and the work is increasing and progressing and spreading abroad, and the Gospel of the Kingdom will eventually be preached as a witness to all people and all nations. We are here to do that, ana we want to train our sons and prepare them to be honorable representatives of the Latter-day Saints. We do not want to send men out that are not honorable men. We want young men to go imbued with the spirit of this work, and we would like them to have a testimony from the Lord before they so and be able to give a reason for the hope they have within them. Then when they go into their fields of labor they are prepared to at once take hold of the work. They go to teach the world; they do not go to be taugh* by the world. They go from Zion blessed under the hands of the servants of God, to teach the Gospel and to warn the world. Young men must remember that they are not sent abroad to be taught of the world, but we must be acquainted with some of the principles and doctrines of the Church, in order to set before the people thosw principles and doctrines that God has revealed for the salvation and redemption of the human family. 

Brethren and sisters, I desire that we may reflect upon all these things and consider our affairs. We are here in this General Conference from the different parts of the State and from the states surrounding us. We are here to be taught; to have our minds stirred up by way of remembrance of the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us as Latter-day Saints. We are a peculiar people— that peculiar people which Isaiah spoke of, and we are here to learn the way of the Lord. Whether this teaching be temporal or whether it be spiritual it is all the same for us in the advancement of this work. We have to be engaged in temporal affairs as well as in spiritual affairs to bring about the consummation of God's purposes in the earth. 

I pray that the blessings of God may be upon Zion, and upon her Stakes, that the spirit of humility may possess our souls; that we may have an opportunity to be taught, to be instructed and to follow in the counsels of the Priesthood of the Son of God; then we are safe, we are upon the sure foundation; our house is founded upon the rock, and when the winds come and the rains beat upon it, it will stand unmoved; but if we are tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, and follow after "Christian Science" or some other myth or folly, we shall not be saved. As one of the brethren we have all in the Church of Christ that will exalt and ennoble us. Our insurance agencies in the Church are safe and sure, and if we are faithful in keeping the commandments of God we will be sure of eternal lives. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

A field of usefullness for women — Divine agen. cies at work. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the Spirit of the Lord which guides us in the ways of all truth will direct me in what I shall say this morning. I bear testimony to the advice that has been given unto us by Elder Merrill. I was pleased with the remarks that were given on the first day of this Conference, because they partook ot the spirit of encouragement. I feel encouraged in the work of the Lord, and I can see that the spirit which the brethren are imbued with is similar to that which was possessed by Nephi, the Prophet, while going up to the city of Jerusalem to get the record of his forefathers. His brothers protested against him going for this purpose, and he answered them in this wise: 

"That as the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto out father in the wilderness, until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us." 

When I heard President Cannon speaking about the success of the work of the Lord I could see he partook of the same spirit, and the brethren that have followed him since the first day have also manifested that spirit. 1 have been considerably impressed by all the remarks that have been made, and I feel that any one who has not been melted and made tender and pliable by that which has been said, must be as -"old as an iceberg. 

I desire to touch upon the idea presented by President Cannon, that occasionally wise and prudent women would be permitted to go forth and accompany their husbands in preaching the Gospel to the nations of the earth. I have been away on missionary labor, more or less, for some months past; our experience is, especially during the pleasant warm weather, that about one-half of the men in the country are away to the mines, they are absent from home looking after their business, and it would be imprudent for us to teach men's wives, and to take them into the waters of baptism without the consent of then husbands. A great number of men in the Western States and territories are away from home, and leave their wives for a season. It would not be wise for Elders to enter such homes, in fact, they are advised against this and they observe this counsel. The> do not go to the homes of women where the husbands are absent, or where there are no men folks living in the house. What is the result? The result is there are thousands of families to whom we cannot explain our views, simply because there are no men at home; they probably would receive us with pleasure and listen to our message if it were practicable to visit them. But I can see now the possibility of this being corrected. I have in view now, one of the sisters that was laboring in the state of Colorado. In the district where she resided there were some five families where the husbands were away from home. She became acquainted with  families. She distributed tracts, in their midst, and they came to understand our views in regard to our religion, but so far as the Elders are concerned these families would have been passed by. There are probably thousands of families in this condition. I iust mention this to corroborate the remarks of President Cannon, and to bear testimony to the good work that women can do. 

I feel to rejoice in the work in which we are engaged and in hearing of the great success of the Elders of Israel abroad. I was struck very much with a remark made yesterday by Elder Roberts; it was a very slight remark, but it impressed me. He said that God had witnesses upon the earth of His work. The witnesses Elder Roberts referred to, I presume, were the Elders of Israel who hold the Priesthood and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. I desire to read to you about other witnesses which possibly he did not have in his mind. I find in the 28th chapter of the Third Book of Nephi. the following, spoken by Jesus Christ unto the Twelve Apostles upon this continent: 

"And it came to pass when Jesus had said these words, he spake unto his disciples, one by one, saying unto them, What is it that ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father? 

"And they all spake, save it were three, we desire that after we have lived unto the age of man, that our ministry, wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, that we may speedily come unto thee, in thy kingdom. 

"And He said unto them, Blessed are ye, because ye desired this thing of me; therefore after that ye are seventy and two years old, ye shall come unto me in my kingdom, and with me ye shall find rest. 

"And when He had spoken unto them, he turned himself unto the three, and said unto them, What will ye that 1 should do unto you, when I am gone unto the Father? 

"And they sorrowed in their hearts, for they durst not speak unto Him the thing which they desired. 

"And he said unto them, Behold, 1 know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in my minis, before that I was lifted up;>y the Jews, desired of me; 

"Therefore more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death, but ye shall live to behold all the doings of the Father, unto the children of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled, according to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my glory, with the powers of heaven; 

"And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in my glory, ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye from mortality to immortality: and then shall ye be blessed in the kingdom of my Father. 

"And again, ye shall not have pain while ye shall dwell in the flesh, neither sorrow, save it be for the sins of the world: and all this will I do because of the thing which ye have desired of me, for ye have desired that ye might bring the souls of men unto me, while the world shall stand; 

"And for this cause ye shall have fullness of joy; and ye shall sit down in the kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be full, even as the Father hath given me fullness of joy; and ye shall be even as I am, and I am even as the Father; and the Father and 1 are one; 

"And the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto the children of men, because of me. 

"And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words He touched every one of them with his finger, save it were the three who were to tarry, and then He departed. 

"And behold, the heavens were opened, and they were caught up into heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable things. 

"And it was forbidden them that they should utter; neither was it given unto them power that they could utter the things which they saw and heard; 

"And whether they were in the body or out of the body, they could not tell; for it did seem unto them like a transfiguration of them, that they were changed from this body of flesh into an immortal state, that they could behold the things of God. 

"But it came to pass that they did again minister upon the face of the earth: nevertheless they did not minlster of the things which they had heard and seen, because of the commandment which was given them in heaven. 

"And now whether they were mortal or immortal, from the day of their transfiguration, I know not; 

"But this much I know, according to the record which hath been given, they did go forth upon the face of the land, and did minister unto all the people.uniting as many to the Church that would believe in their preaching; baptizing them; and as many as were baptized, did receive the Holy Ghost; 

"And they were cast into prison by them who did not belong to the Church. And the prisons could not hold them, for they were rent in twain, 

"And they were cast down into the earth. But they did smite the earth with the word of God, insomuch that by his power they were delivered out of the depths of the earth; and therefore they could not dig pits sufficient to hold them. 

"And thrice they were cast into a furnace, and received no harm. 

"And twice were they cast into a den of wild beasts; and behold they did play with the beasts, as a child with a suckling lamb, and received no harm. 

"And it came to pass that thus they did go forth among all the people of Nephi, and did preach the Gospel of Christ unto all people upon the face of the land; and they were converted unto the Lord, and were united unto the Church of Christ, and thus the peo» pie of that generation were blessed, according to the word of Jesus. 

"And how I, Mormon, make an end of speaking concerning these things for a time. 

"Behold, I was about to write the names of those who were never to taste of death; but the Lord forbade, therefore I write them not, for they are hid from the world. 

"But behold I have seen them, and they have ministered unto me; 

"And behold they will be among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles knoweth them not. 

"They will also be among the Jews, and the Jews shall know them not. 

"And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fit in His wisdom, that they shall minister unto all the scattered  of Israel, and unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and shall bring out of them unto Jesus many souls, that their desire may be fulfilled, and also because of the convincing power of God which is in them." 

It seems that these men shall have a peculiar endowment, and that endowment shall be the convincing power of God. 

"And they are as the angels of God, and if they shall pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus, they can shew themselves unto whatsoever man it seemeth them good; 

"Therefore great and marvelous works shall be wrought by them, before the great and coming day, when all people must surely stand before the judgment seat of Christ; 

"Yea even among the Gentiles shall there be a great and marvelous work wrought by them, before that judgment day." 

Now, you wonder why so many Gentiles are turning their hearts toward the truth. We can learn that there is a change brought about by agencies in addition to the witnesses that were spoken of yesterday by Elder Roberts. 

God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

Thoughts on temporal interests— The need of being devotional and self-sacrificing. 

I readily discover, my brethren and sisters, that this congregation do hunger and thirst for the word of God, and it is through this that the Apostles and those that have spoken unto you have been given such great liberty, and why you have been fed by the servants of the Lord under the influence of the Holy Spirit. It is now your duty to not only listen but to digest; not only to ' make resolutions, but to live up to the instructions that have been given, if you expect to receive the blessings of the Lord. 

There is a principle that I desire to talk upon for a few moments. I have the idea, but it is not yet clothed, but I pray the Lord that He may move upon me through your faith and prayers, to explain my views upon a certain subject. I am very much interested myself in the financial wel of this people, because I realize from my own experience that when men are in financial difficulties, and their honesty is in question, and they are unable to fulfill their agreements, it is very difficult for honest men who are sensitive to the reproach of the children of men to feel joyous and happy, and to appreciate the blessings with which they are surrounded. I want to say to you that the sun not shine brightly to such men, the grass is not green, and sometimes I fancy, they hardly feel that water runs down hill. It is a most terrible condition to be in. One of the great difficulties that menace this people is the lack of employment for our people. I know how some of us worship gold and silver, but I tell you that is not so great a problem among this people as employment. I am not in much doubt that the time will be in these United States when the people will worship work more than they do money, and it is one of the demands that I make upon thlB people, that they see to it that the people of this Church are employed. If you have large farms, and you are poor and poverty stricken with so much land, see to it that the people are given employment. Then the people must see to it that they are willing to take the produce of the country as pay for their labor, and not ask the farmer to give them gold and silver, which it is very difficult for him to get. 

With all due respect to some things that are being done, I believe that it is absolutely necessary — God requires it of this people — that they pay their tithes and offerings, and that the offerings be used for the people that are old, aged and infirm. It is one of the most destructive things that has happened in this Church when strong, able-bodied men and women, and young men and women are provided from its offerings which are given for the poor. I know the spirit that is creeping in among this people. I remember a certain experience I had when the scarlet fever struck my family. After they had recovered I sought most diligently in one of our own thriving settlements for a little help. I found families that were poor, and that were being supported by the 

Bishop. When I asked them to come and assist my wife — and I offered them the best I had (for which I was grateful to my Heavenly Father), that is, tithing office scrip— they said, "we can get enough of that without working." I have told some of my brethren that there is no man in this Church that has been treated better than I have by the authorities of the Church, and I am wonder-struck when I think of how I have been blessed; but I tell my brethren, "when you have not employment for me, say the word, and I will take my family by the hand, and I will again be a pioneer in the land." We have hundreds of brilliant young men, men that have  experience; but they are hanging around these streets and starving to death. Do you know what is the matter with us? There is a great deal of pride connected with it. It is not a difficult thing to live in a log hut if you have never had anything better, but it is a difficult thing to drop to a log house when you have been living in a castle. But our pride has got to be humbled, young men. There are a great many of us that ought to be sent out. Talk about missionary work; they ought to call out of this city 500 and send them on missions to colonize and build up the tens of thousands of acres that are in this great State of Utah. If the State of Utah is not good enough for you, go to Canada. That is a wonderful country, and you can get rich and prosper if you keep the commandments of the Lord. Then you can come back to Salt Lake City, and put on all the style you want to, if you pay for it. 

I desire to read to you from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I will put my text to the last part of my discourse, instead of the first. I wish to call to your mind what the Lord says: 

"I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth as a very handy work, and all things therein are mine: 

"And it is my purpose to provide for my Saints, for all things are mine; 

"But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my Saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low; 

"For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto thcnselves. 

"Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my Gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment." 

So that I fancy we had better commence to get generous and impart of the abundance which the Lord has given us and give employment to the thousands of people that are in need. The trouble that came upon the people in Kirtland was brought about for these reasons which I will read to you: 

"But behold they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh Saints, to the poor and afflicted among them, 

"And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; 

"And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the laws of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself; 

"And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it mvit needs be by the things which they suffer." 

Now, Zion will be redeemed, and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that all is not well in Zion; but if you wish to be popular you want to say that all is well in Zion. The Lord requires it at the hands of this people that they pay their tithes and their offerings, and that they see to it that they impart of the abundance which the Lord has given, to those that need work, and give them employment. The hands of the Presidency and the Apostles of this Church are tied because we are raising up among this people, what I call paupers. It is not the fault of the people altogether, it is because they cannot find work. I pray the Lord that He may move upon all of us that are in need of assist, that we will have the pride of a Latter-day Saint, and not receive anything when we are able to work, unless we be furnished employment. That demand should be made upon the Latter-day Saints, and I felt impressed that if the time ever came that I had no food for my family, I would go among the Latter-day Saints and as a servant of God I would demand work. And if you would not give me work the Lord would take from the abundance which you are blessed with. 

Now I want to prophesy, as the son of a prophet, that if this people want to be blessed they must labor for Zion; for if you labor for money you shall perisb. You are under covenant, and it is a demand that God makes of this people that they redeem Zion. You have got to be generous, and you have got to place all that you have and are upon the altar and learn to live the law of the celestial kingdom. 

"But," says one to me, "you would not preach that way four years ago when you had something." Well, if you have got to learn to preach the way I am doing you will learn it just the way I learned it. You will pay for it. The Lord will take from you what you have if you don't humble yourselves, and He will chasten you. I want to say to you the Gospel is to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We are spending no less than $300,000 a year, if I have figured right. If your Elders are traveling without money they spend an awful sight of it, it seems to me, and you will be called upon to spend a good deal more. You will be called upon to place all that you have and are upon the altar; and if you do not have your feet right and know that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, when you are asked to give up your means, you will flounder and lose the faith; but if you have not got anything you will be just as Peter was. I am in the same fix. If I leave this Church, where in heaven will I go. That is the way I feel. 

I feel to bless the people. I feel that you are being blessed and that you will continue to be blessed as long as you keep the commandments of God. When you cease keeping the commandments of God then the judgments of God will  at the house of the Lord, and I pray that that may be averted. I pray that we may not pass through the experience that the people had in Kirtland because they transgressed the laws of God. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

The Saints a charitable people- -Idleness and pauperism should not be fostered — Value of independence and industry. 

My brethren and sisters, I have been unexpectedly called upon to make a few remarks and as I have not premeditated upon what to say, it is just occurred to me to follow some of the remarks that have already been made to us this morning, by reading from the fourth chapter of Mosiah: 

"Believe in God; believe that He is, and that He created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that He has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend. 

"And again: Believe that ye must repent of your sins and forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in sincerity of heart that He would forgive you; and now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them. 

"And again I say unto you as I have said before, that ye have known of His goodness, and have tasted of His love and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember, and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own nothingness, and His goodness and long suffering towards you, unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth of the angel; 

"And behold, I say unto you, that if ye do this, ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins; 

and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the glory of Him that created you, 

or in the knowledge of that which is 

just and true. 

"And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man according to that which is his due. 

"And ye will not suffer your children, that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel with one another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers; he being an enemy to all righteousness; 

"But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another; 

"And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. 

"Perhaps thou shalt say, the man has brought upon himself his misery, therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just. 

"But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this, the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done, he perisheth for ever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God. 

"For behold, are we not all beggars? Do we not all depend upon the same Being, even God, for all the substance which we have; for both food and raiment, and for gold and for silver, and for all the riches which we have of every kind? 

"And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on His name, and begging for a remission of your sins. And has He suffered that ye have begged in vain? Nay He has poured out His Spirit upon you, and has caused that your hearts should be filled with joy, and has caused that your mouths should be stopped, that ye could not find utterance, so exceeding great was your joy. 

"And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are dependent for your lives, and for all that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, O then, how had ye ought to impart of the substance that ye have one to another? 

"And if ye judge the man who putteth P" his petition to you for your substance that he perish not, and condemn him, how much more just will be your condemnation for withholding your substance, which doth not belong to you but to God, to whom also your life belongeth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of the thing which thou hast done. 

"I say unto you, Wo be unto that man, for his substance shall perish with him; and now, I say these things unto those who are rich, as pertaining to the things of this world. 

"And again, I say unto the poor, Ye who have not and yet have sufficient, that ye remain from day to day; I mean all you who deny the beggar, because ye have not; I would that ye say in your hearts, that I give not because I have not; but if I had, I would give. 

"And now, if ye say this in your hearts, ye remain guiltless, otherwise ye are condemned, and your condemnation is just; for ye covet that which ye have not received. 

"And now, for the sake of these things which I have spoken unto you; that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God, I would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such =is feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick, and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants; m "And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order; for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength. And again: It is expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order. 

"And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you that borroweth of his neighbor, should return the thing that he borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt commit sin, and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit sin also. 

"And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many, that I cannot number them. 

"But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds. and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, O man, remember, and perish not." 

I have been reading the words of King Benjamin to the people as recorded in the fourth chapter of Mosiah in the Book of Mormon, and I don't know but what they apply to us today, in many ways, as completely as they applied to those unto whom they were spoken. Yet, I believe I can confidently say that the Latterday Saints, as a rule, are among the most hospitable, generous and kindhearted people that can be found upon the earth. Not long ago one of our Elders returned from a mission in the South. There had been a question raised in his mind as to whether the Latter-day Saints in Zion would be as open-hander" as hospitable, as kindhearted and as willing to receive and entertain a stranger as were the people of the South, and he determined to put the matter to the test. The story of his visits to some of our people here is published in the Improvement Era, No. 6. I canot give it to you in detail, but will only attempt a brief outline. Representing himself as a minister of the Gospel from the state of Tennessee, traveling without purse or scrip, as the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were generally doing, he called upon Brother B. Y. Hampton of the Hampton House and asked for entertainment without charge. Brother Hampton readily consented to take care of him. He next called at the Temple Barber Shop, with a similar representation, and asked for a "shave and shingle," on the same terms, which was readily complied with, and he was asked to "come again." He next called upon Brother Henry Dinwoodey, and presenting himself a6 before, asked for means to pay his fare on the railroad, going north, whereupon Brother 

Dinwoodey handed him out the money. Needing a mainspring in his watch he called upon Brother John Daynes and Son, and introduced himself as before, and they cheerfully repaired his watch. He then called upon Col. Thomas G. Webber of Z. C. M. I. and in the same guise asked for a pair of shoes, which Col. Webber generously gave him. Having a tooth which needed filling, he called at the dental parlors of Dr. Fred Clawson, whom he convinced, after some difficulty, that he was not an old friend and school mate, but really a minister of the Gospel from Tennessee, having a similar name, the doctor readily consented to his "having his tooth filled without money or price. Thus it was proven that the Latter-day Saints were as generous, as kind-hearted, as ready to help the stranger of another religion, as were the good people of the Southern States, and for that matter of any other country. Having put these people to the test, in other words, having weighed them in the balance and found them not wanting in each case he fully explained his motive and who he was, to their mutual delight. And when the Elder returned their gifts or declined to receive the favors granted him without proper remuneration, in each case, as I understand, the brethren insisted that what they had done was in good faith on their part, andi he was welcome to the same, believing that an Elder who had spent two years and upwards on a mission, laboring without purse or scrip, would be likely to stand almost as much in need of such help as would the strange minister whom he had personated. 

Now some of us are a little more fortunate than others. For instance, I have several doors, and beggars come to all of them; and if ever a beggar was turned away from one of my doors I never knew it. I have always, and so have my family, contributed food, and such clothing as we could snare to every one who came asking for it. Last summer a poor boy came to my house. I happened to be out of doors, around the corner of the house; I heard the voice of a man, I looked, and he was sitting on a box. I heard that he was murmuring and cursing and swearing. I stepped out  I said, "My friend, what is the matter with you?" He pointed to his feet and said, "look at my feet." The remnants of shoes which he had on them were too small for him. He had worn them through the soles and through the sides, and his feet were out upon the ground. They were blistered and inflamed and painfully sore. He said he had been driven out of Davis county by the officers of the law, and was told that if he did not get out of the county he would be put in jail for vagrancy, and he had come here and asked for food, and the people who had given him food had not invited him into the house. Now I said, "my friend, why do you swear about it? It seems to me that a man in your circumstances ought to pray rather than swear. It would be much more becoming in you to humble yourself and appeal to the Lord for a little assistance from Him, rather than to curse and swear as I have heard you do. I said to him, "this is my home, this is my family who live here, I have a very large family and I have all I can do to provide for them. So far as I can find or provide labor for my children they are out at work, indeed some of them are at work who ought to be going to school. Notwithstanding all this, we are willing to help you or any other person, so far as we can, who comes to us in need; but I don't like any one to come upon my premises and use profane language, or curst and swear. Now, I advise you never to swear again, hold sacred the name of the Lord, and do a little praying, and I'll promise you, you will get along better in this world than you have done." 

I then called my wife's attention fco the condition of this poor boy, and she prepared him a good warm bath, gave him a clean undershirt and a pair of socks, and a pair of boots, and a good breakfast, and sent him on his way. This is the way we treated this poor creature. But we do not treat them all that way. We could not afford to give all that come boots and socks and clothes and baths, for we have not enough to go round, but we have always managed to give something to the poor, and refuse no one who asks for food. I believe this is the general GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and character of the Latterday Saints. I think all the Mormon people are kindly disposed, and are generous toward the poor and unfortunate, and that there is not a Latter-day Saint under the sound of my voice or anywhere that would not divide his portion with his fellow creature in case of need. I have this testimony to bear to the Latter-day Saints. President Cannon asks whether I would advise, where men come asking for food, that they be invited to do a little work for it. I should most decidedly be in favor of asking a man who had plenty of time on his hands, and nothing else, and who had physical strength, to devote a little of his time and strength by way of compensating for that which he received. But you want to watch them a little; I am not talking now o£ the Latter-day Saints who seek for employment. There are very few Latter-day Saints who have to beg, indeed I know of none, and I am sorry there are any professing to be Latterday Saints who do beg; there ought not to be any Latter-day Saint beggars. The beggars that we have are those that are not of us, and they are sometimes very wicked in their hearts, and not at all grateful at times for what they receive. I have seen men go away from my door with good bread and butter in their hands (good enough for any king to eat, for my folks make good bread and good butter, as good as I ever ate on earth) and when out of the gate they have thrown it into the street. It was not food they wanted. They wanted money. For what? That they might go to some gambling hell or to some drinking saloon. Of course they are responsible for that. "We can only judge by appearances and by the promptings of the good spirit within us; and it is better to give to a dozen that are unworthy than to turn away empty one worthy person. 

There is another phase of this question that I want to refer to. There is such a thing as encouraging idleness and fostering pauperism among men. Men and women ought not to be willing to receive charity unless they are compelled to do so to keep them from suffering. Every man and woman ought to possess the spirit of inde, a self-sustaining spirit, that would prompt him or her to say, when they are In need, "I am willing to give my labor in exchange for that which you give me." No man ought to be satisfied to receive, and to do nothing for it. After a man is brought down to poverty and is under the necessity of receiving aid, and his friends give it him, he should feel that it is an obligation under which he is placed, and when the Lord should open his way he would return the gift. That is the feeling we should cultivate in our hearts, to make us a free and independent people. The cultivation of any other feeling or spirit than this is calculated to make paupers, to degrade and bring mankind down to beggary, which is a most wretched condition for men to be in. It is a bad thing for men to think the world owes them a living, and all they have to do is to beg or steal to get it. When it comes to this class of people I am very much of the mind expressed once by Dr. Johnson, when a beggar came to him and asked alms and insisted that the doctor should be generous in helping him, "for," said he, "doctor, you know that I must live." But the doctor said, "I don't see the least necessity for it." When a man becomes a parasite, living upon the charity of his friends, I confess it is hard to see the necessity for him to live. He is no good to any one. I speak this way only of such as are able-bodied, such as have their faculties and can devote these to some industry, to some useful labor. I don't refer to the cripple, to those who are enfeebled by age, because I look at them in an entirely different light; there is a necessity for them to live, and there is a necessity for us to assist such, but there is no great need in this world for men and women who. are able to work and will not work. Men come to our Bishop and to the Apostles and ask, "What shall we do? "We are without employment. "We cannot get anything to do, and what shall we do?" The Bishop says, "pack up your knapsack, if you have one, or if you have not take your bandana handkerchief to put your clothes into, if you have anything but what is on your back, and go out into the outer settlements where there is land to take up, where there is water to take out of the river, and where there is an opportunity for you to take up a farm, cultivate the soil, and eventually raise cows, sheep, chickens, pigs and other useful animals and produce from mother earth enough to feed and clothe you, and thereby make yourself an independent citizen, a useful member of society, and contribute something to the welfare of mankind, and prove that the world is better for your being in it. -Well, but," one of our good brethren says, "that was all right enough, Bishop, in olden times, but times are different now." Of course the times are different now. A boy starting out in the world now-a-days as we used to do, without anything, sees his neighbors enjoying the possession of good, comfortable homes, he sees a great many people that are rich, who can ride in their carriages, and have every luxury, and he, under the impression that he js as good as they and as much entitled to riches as they are, feels that because he has not as much as they have, he is in some way injured or persecuted, and envy and enmity spring up in his soul toward the rich, and he feels that they are his enemies and that he has a right to be theirs. That is wrong. It is just as easy to make a living out of the soil now with comparatively nothing to begin with as it was for the Pioneers when they first came into this valley, were it not for the pride that we have, providing we go where land and watei await the labor necessary to subdue and utilize them, instead of idly coveting the possessions of others, ana nursing the thought that we ought to have as good as they have. If we will go to work and earn and produce that which we need, we are entitled to it, and the Lord will bless every man who honestly and faithfully undertakes to get it out of mother earth. The Lord Almighty in the beginning, designed that we should earn our bread by the sweat of our brow, and we should produce from the earth that which Is needful for food and clothing and to build us habitations. He has provided gold and silver and iron and precious stones in vast abundance in the earth, and it is legitimate for men to gather all these from the earth, because they 

 useful for mankind. The Lord has provided these things; and there is nothing on the face of the globe nor in its depths that God has provided for the use of man, that is not legitimate for us to take and use if we do so wisely and prudently. They are all designed for our good. 

Now let us not encourage pauperism, or beggary; let us not encourage the thought that the Church or that the world owes any man a living, except it be the worthy poor— the Lord's poor —or by his honest labor he earns it. I heard a fellow one time say, "the world owes me a living and I will be damned if I don't have it." Such a man as that would have it if he had to steal it, and after a while he would have it if he had to murder some man who had riches, in order to rob him of his possessions. This is the spirit of murder and robbery. The spirit which creeps into the hearts of men to receive alms and obtain something for nothing, making them believe it is due them without honest work is, in part, the same spirit, at least it is a spirit that leads on to murder and robbery, in order that its passion might get what "the world owes" him, as he imagines. Now the world owes me a living provided I will go to work to produce it by honest labor. The earth has been good and generous to all those who have honestly labored upon its bosom, and who have sought succor and assistance from it. It has been a good mother. It has yielded in its strength for the good of man when he has put his labor upon it industriously and faithfully; such have reaped their harvest in its season and have partaken of its fruits in abundance. Let us seek then to obtain our living in this way, if the Lord permits us to do it; and if He calls us to any other business let us attend to that as faithfully as we would attend to the cultivation of the soil if we were permitted to occupy ourselves in that direction. 

God bless you is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir sang: 

On the mountain's top appearing Lo! the sacred herald stands! Benediction by Elder George B. Wallace.