Afternoon
10 04 1898




ELDER FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS. 

Signs of the times— Fulfilment of prophecy — Spirit of war — Work for the dead. 

I have been requested to occupy a few moments of your precious time this afternoon. I greatly desire the sweet and enlightening influences of the Holy Spirit to direct what I shall say to you, that the time may be occupied acceptably and profitably. I have been greatly edified in the instructions that have been given from day to day during this protracted and exceedingly interesting Conference. A great deal has been brought forward for our consideration, deeply interesting, and should be exceedingly profitable unto us. 

We are living in times of momentous importance, times which are marvelously significant from every point of view in which we may consider the conditions of the human family at the present time, whether religiously or politically, or whatever view we may take of it. Jesus, when on the earth, informed His associates that in the latter times there should come many false Christs, and there would be a great deal of wars and rumors of wars in the earth, etc. This same Jesus, risen from the dead, and again speaking to His Prophet in the last days, has spoken to us more definitely and significantly upon this point than He did at that time to the brethren with Him. He was pleased to say to His Prophet, Joseph Smith, on the 25th day of December, 1832, the day celebrated as the anniversary of the birth of Christ, that there should come wars in this land, and specifically stated that they should commence in the state of South Carolina. This revelation was preserved in the archives of the Church until July, 1851. Some nineteen years after this revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph it was brought out and published to the nations of the earth. Since then it has become common property to all the inhabitants of the earth who have been pleased to examine the revelations of God to the Latter-day Saints. It was stated that this was to be the commencement of wars that should cause the death and misery of many souls. It was not until 1861 — about ten years after this revelation was published — that this was fulfilled. And it was not done in a corner, nor in any obscure part of the earth, but it was fulfilled just as the Prophet said it should be. The first guns of that war were discharged at Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor, South Carolina. It is now a matter of national history, and all the human family should know that it was given to Joseph Smith in 1832, some twenty-nine years before it occurred, and which cost this nation so much anguish and the lives of nearly a million of precious souls. 

This has come to pass, and the same Lord Jesus Christ has given us through the same Prophet Joseph Smith to understand that the day is near at hand when peace shall be taken from the earth, and that it has begun to be taken from the earth. These things have been read in our hearing during this Conference. Now, we may as well understand that as the other great revelation of 1832 was fulfilled, which the whole human family know who are of civilized or semi-civilized condition, just so certain is this also likely to be fulfilled. It furthermore states in the revelation that has been read to us, that the time will come when all nations shall be at war; when every man that will not take up his sword to defend himself against his neighbor will have to flee to Zion. These prophecies indicate a growing tendency in that direction. And I wonder if the latter part that I have just quoted is not already tasted in its bitterness in the island of Cuba near to our coast though they have not the chance to flee to Zion, but have to take  their sword against their neighbors and have to contend for their liberties, and are at the present time in a horribly distressed condition, objects of the charity of the whole nation and of the other nations of the earth. 

Living then in times when these tremendous prophecies are hanging over the heads of the human family, partly fulfilled, partly unfulfilled, and when the angel of the Lord came with his message in these last days declaring the Gospel revealed again and bringing especially the word, "the hour of his judgment is come,", shall we take no notice of these great and wonderfully significant sayings? The brethren who have ears to hear and hearts to understand, will feel the necessity of maintaining closer business relations than we have been in the habit of doing for the last decade to two. If we had hearkened to the good counsels that were given to us by our President, and made it a point, as they and the officers of our cities and counties did, to make once a year a clean sheet, and get no further into debt, we would have been in a much stronger business condition today than we now are, and many men would have saved themselves sleepless hours who now have to lie awake to study how they are going to raise the money to meet their obligations and to save their homes from being taken away from them. 

We live in a time when the nations of all the earth are so disunitedly united that the tension of their connection is drawn to its utmost limit in many places. We need not only to notice the case here on our coast, but it is so on the other side of the globe. Nations are ready to go to war, and anxious for the opportunity. It seems as if the spirit of war had gone forth until great men who pose as patriots, and would like to be considered statesmen, are ready and clamoring for war. Latter-day Saints have always taught the principles of peace and good will. This came to us through our Savior. But He told us that we were going to come to a time when we would have contention and strife even in our families; when a man's enemies should be they of his own household — another affirmative statement of that terrible consummation that was before referred to. The world are tending to that. But the Latter-day Saints are tending to peace, to union, to fellowship, and love. While in the midst of our deepest affliction, harrassed, tormented, scattered and peeled, and ooming here as far as we could get away from civilization to make a home. I say while we have been passing through these things we have had a peace within us; we have a settled conviction of the knowledge of God; we know that He has accepted us as His children; we know that He has manifested himself to us frequently by gifts and blessings and manifestations not a few. Thus have we been right along. And while we do not nor are we under any necessity to, make any great demonstration or indulge in any spread-eagle discourses to convince the people that we are at peace, and that we wish they would keep the peace, that has been the way we have felt. But the Lord has told us that Zion would be the only people on the earth that would be at peace in the earth. Therefore, we want to overcome evil with good, cultivate this spirit and the keeping of the commandments of God, and get that spirit that Brother Joseph was talking to us of this morning, to know that we are born again, that His Spirit is in u,s, that we live by it and are guided by those principles; that it is the light that leadeth our feet, and we want to live so as to keep it growing brighter and brighter till the perfect day. 

Considering these are the times and conditions in which we live, it seems to me that the teachings we have had during this Conference have been wonderfully adapted to our condition, not only the spiritual portion, but the exhortation to the wise management of our temporal concerns. I would urge the brethren to make all reasonable effort to get out of debt, and live honest and honorable before all men. If you have but little, realize that that much comes as near being yours as anybody's, except the Lord's, who has made you the steward over it. 

We see then that the growth and tendency of all influences existing among the human family are towards discord, violence, warfare, contention  strife. The union that used to be felt among people in neighborhoods is being lost. The confidence of men with men is being lost. We hear it common among the people that we must treat every man in that way that we do not know but he may turn to be dishonest. 

Now, in the light of the great work that is going on, we want to cultivate every grace and virtue, and keep the commandments of God and the coverts we have made with each other. It is our integrity, our faithfulness, and our devotion to do these things and to walk in the law of the Lord, that we may have the light of His Spirit to increase with us constantly —it is this that is going to enable us to get through and accomplish the work that is laid upon us for ourselves and for our dead. I want to say that in our appointing the Elders to the nations we have an eye continually to their efforts among their kindred in distant lands, and the obtaining of the genealogy of their ancestry, that they may labor for their dead. 

I know this is the work of the Lord. I sense it continually. The only thing that I have to concern myself about is to be able to live it, to be counted worthy of the multiplied blessings which He has bestowed upon us. In other lands people are dying by the hundreds and thousands, through famine and terrible diseases and pestilences, which are God's messengers sent forth to convince the people. As it was said to an ancient Prophet, when the judgments of the Lord were in the earth people would learn righteousness. Perhaps they will; but I am afraid it is going to be too late for the great mass of them, the way they act. It seems as if the human family were anxious to become drunk with blood and imbrue their hands in each other's blood. And what a work will it be when peace is taken from the earth! Let us cultivate peace. Let us walk in all the ways of the Lord and serve Him continually. 

I pray that the blessings of God may be upon all the interests of Zion; that the spirit of this Conference may go to the ends of the earth as far as there are Saints or honest in heart that want to hear and to learn of it, that it may be a blessing and a benefit to us and to the human family; that the work of the Lord may go on and prosper, increase and spread abroad until the Gospel has gone to all nations, and until all the ends of the earth shall be made to know that He is God, and that there is none else in the earth like unto Him. And may His blessings be upon us, and upon all we have to do with — our persons, our, families, our flocks, our herds, our gardens and our orchards, and all that the Lord hath made us the stewards over, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Prophetic promises concerning the land of America and Its people— It is choice above all other lands — Designs of God in regard to it — Law in relation to war — Course of the government of our nation commended— Our duty to our country. 

The remarks which have been made by Brother Franklin D. Richards concerning the position the inhabitants of the earth are in, and particularly our position, and his reference to the revelation that was read the other day concerning the necessity there would be for those who desired peace to flee to Zion, suggests the reading of some promises and predictions that the Lord has made concerning this land. Lehi, before his death, in speaking about this land to which he and his family had been led, made the following remarks: 

"Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve Him according to the commandment which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound, cursed shall be the land for their sakes; but unto the righteous it shall be blessed for ever." 

His son Jacob also spoke concerning this land, and those who had charge of the records have left on record something that He has said respecting it: 

"But behold, this land, saith God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. 

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall  no kings upon the land, who shall rise up unto the Gentiles; 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations." 

Here is a promise given to the people of this land, that if we will serve the God of this land no nation shall prevail against us; for the Lord says he will fortify this land against all other nations. Of course, it is understood that to have this we must be a righteous nation. 

Other prophets have spoken in similar language. It is recorded by Moroni, in the book of Ether, as follows: 

"And now we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity; 

For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of this land, that they are swept off. 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabitants of the land hath hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." 

These are great promises which the Lord has given unto the inhabitants of this land; not to the Latter-day Saints alone, but to all the people of the land. You remember, no doubt, the effort that was made to establish a king on this land of North America, and the destruction which resulted to many of those who attempted it. The word of God as recorded in this Book of Mormon, which was revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the results of any attempt to set up a king on this land, was literally fulfilled In that instance. Mnximilllan was destroyed, and the attempt to establish an empire was brought to naught. The Mexican people, inspired wth a grand patriotism and an Intense love for country, rose up, led by a pure descendant of Lehi— a pure Lamanite— and overthrew the armies of Europe that were brought here to conquer the land and to establish upon this sacred soil— this soil dedicated by the Almighty to liberty and freedom— an empire. The flower of the French army, and most distinguished of her generals, with the Emperor Napoleon himself as the designer of the enterprise, backed and sustained by Austria, were ignominious] y overthrown and brought to shame and confusion. The Lord fulfilled His word exactly as it had been predicted long before. Upwards of six hundred years before the birth of the Savior Ether, a Prophet of God, had made predictions concerning this land. Not long after that Lehi made similar predictions. Shortly after that Jacob, a Prophet of God, made predictions concerning the fate of those who should attempt to bring the inhabitants of this land into bondage, and he said that no king should be established upon the land. So that we have on record great predictions by these three men of God concerning the future of America. This is a sacred land. It is a land choice above all other lands upon the face of the earth. It was kept hidden from the nations for long centuries, and the reason for this has been given to us; it was that the land might, not be overrun by the nations of the earth, and that it might be reserved for the great drama of the last days. 

It is a remarkable thing, and we would be incapable of understanding the reason why this land had been hidden for so many centuries from the knowledge of the nations of the earth, if the Lord had not revealed it. There is said to be a record among the Scandianvians that some of that race penetrated the western sea and landed on the coast of North America. This may or may not be so. The Welsh also claim that a prince of their blood also reached this land. The 

Irish also have a tradition that some of their race penetrated the western ocean and reached the land. But whoever did this. If any, left nothing on record to incite the nations of the earth to the belief that there lay hidden, enveloped In the mists of the western sea, a large hemisphere such as the continent of North and South America. The knowledge of it was completely hidden, as completely as if it did not belong to our globe. Navigators sailed to and fro; but through the long centuries that elapsed from the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel, when the inhabitants of the earth were scattered, until the time that Columbus, inspired of God, went from court to court, pleading with the governments of nations to give him the means to penetrate the ocean and find what he supposed was the Indies — during all that time the knowledge of this land was kept from all the nations of the earth. Is not this wonderful? How can we account for it? There is only one way, and that is the way the Lord accounts for it; He tells us through His servant that the knowledge of this land should be kept from all the nations of the earth, because if it were not they would overrun the land. It was a land too choice to be left unoccupied, possessed of too many of those elemnts that enrich individuals and peoples. The nations of the earth would have swarmed here by the hundreds of thousands, and there would have been no place found upon the land for the great events that are taking place now and for the people who now possess the land. There would have been no room for the Church of Christ, no room for the kingdom of God, no room for the gathering of the millions that will yet come to Zion, to build up the kingdom of God on this land and to prepare the way for the establishment of the New Jerusalem; for this is the favored land upon which the New Jerusalem will be established. We, therefore, can see today how the Lord has prepared the way for the gathering of the people from all the nations of the earth, and how His providence has been over this choice land above all other lands. There is plenty of room here; not crowding upon anybody; not compelled to come as conquerors have in  ages who have overrun other lands and driven out or destroyed the people who occupied the land. In order that they might possess it. No necessity for this; for God has made abundant provisions. He has kept in reserve this glorious land, in order that in the last days His kingdom could be established, and that under the inspiration which He should give, a government might be founded — a government of liberty, a government of freedom, giving to all the utmost liberty they could desire, and promising to those who should possess the land many precious things; for He has told us that none should be brought here except they should come by His permission. Therefore, the emigration that has come from the beginning, and that is still coming, comes by the permission of the Almighty. He is watching over it, and He will control it and bring to pass His purposes in connection with it. He has told us that if we will only worship the God of this land, Jesus Christ, we cannot be brought into bondage or into captivity by any other nation. The powers of Europe may band together and indulge in hopes of conquering this nation; but the Lord has said— and it will be fulfilled if we do right— that they will be defeated in all their schemes, and this shall be a land of liberty unto the righteous. This nation of ours, so glorious in its past, so glorious in its prospects of the future, will stand and never be overthrown, unless the inhabitants of the land reject Jesus Christ, the King and the God of the land. Now we know the conditions upon which victory will be assured to us as a nation. If this nation had listened to Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God; if they had been counseled by him, God would have adopted this nation and its government, and made it His; for the promises are to that effect. Now, what the future will be depends upon the conduct of those who possess the land and upon the administration of affairs in the land. 

There is one thing that has gladdened me very much during this recent agitation concerning war; I have been pleased exceedingly at the course that has been taken by the administration in this threatened difficulty. 

There has been so manifest a desire and determination on the part of President McKinley and those immediately connected with him, to keep down excitement, to prevent the circulation of falsehood and everything that would disturb the public mind and inflame it against Spain, that I have been very much pleased. 

In connection with this I would like to read a revelation which the Lord has given to us as a people, because I see in the conduct of the administration some features that agree with the instructions of the Lord. The Lord, in speaking about the plan that He recommended to His ancients, says: 

"Behold, this is the law I gave unto my servant Nephi, and thy fathers Joseph, and Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham, and all mine ancient Prophets and Apostles. 

"And again, this is the law that I gave unto mine ancients, that they should not go out unto battle against any nation, kindred, tongue, or people, save I, the Lord, commanded them. 

Here is a law given that is of the utmost importance to the inhabitants of the earth, as well as to us as a people. It is the law by which the inhabitants of the earth should be governed, and we, as Latter-day Saints especially, should understand this law and ba governed by it; and not, as we have been told at this Conference, indulge in warlike demonstrations or manifest a bloodthirsty disposition. We should be a peaceful people, seeking peace, and endeavoring to escape all the horrors of war, and to avert them from the nations of the earth, particularly our own nation. The Lord says: 

"And if any nation, tongue, or people, should proclaim war against them, they should first lift a standard of peace unto that people, nation, or tongue." 

I have been impressed (and I say this aside from any political bias, not wishing political feeling to enter into a question of this kind) with the conduct of the administration in relation to this. There has seemed to me to be a determination on the part of President McKinley and those immediately associated with him to push off war and to do all in their power to avert it. Because of their apparent hesitation some have become Inflamed against them, and have felt that the dignity of the nation was not being maintained, and that we were not doing as we should do to punish Spain for her supposed action In relation to the destruction of the battleship Maine, and because of her treatment of the Cubans. The feelings of our nation have been stirred up by reports in the newspapers, many of which have been incorrect and without foundation. While the examination concerning the destruction of the Maine was going on, the administration has been under the continued necessity of publicly denying the false stories that had obtained circulation; and they did this in the interests of peace, to keep the people of our nation from being misled and stirred up to such a degree of indignation that they could not be controlled. I have admired this, and I have thanked God that this spirit has been given unto the men that have our nation and its affairs in charge, because I have recognized how much it agreed with what the Lord has said. Spain has not yet proclaimed war against this nation; but if she has countenanced (which I do not believe she did) the destruction of the battleship Maine, or even if the ruling powers in Spain have done it, and were determined to have war with us, the Lord says we should lift up a standard of peace unto that nation. That is the duty of this nation. That is the duty of the Latter-day Saints, when their enemies come against them to make war upon them. We must proclaim peace; do all in our power to appease the wrath of our enemies; make any sacrifice that honorable people can to avert war, with all its horrors, entailing as it does dreadful consequences so numerous that they cannot be mentioned. It is our duty, I say, as a nation. The influence of the Latter-day Saints should be used in this direction. We should seek to quell these feelings of anxiety to fight and to shed blood. Our influence should go forth like oil poured upon the troubled waters, quieting the waves of discontent and wrath that are aroused by this fearful spirit. The Lord then tells us what should be done: 

"And if that people did not accept the offering of peace neither the second nor the third time," 

Not only ought we to extend the offering of peace the first time to a nation that proclaims war against us. but again the second time; and if that should be rejected, again the third time; and if it be rejected the third time, then 

"They should bring these testimonies before the Lord." 

Go to the Lord, and say, "Here are our testimonies. We have offered peace the first time; we have offered it twice; we have offered it three times; but our offerings are rejected, and this nation is determined to have war with us. Now we bring these testimonies before thee, Lord." 

"Then I, the Lord, would give unto them a commandment, and justify them in going out to battle against that nation, tongue, or people, 

"And I, the Lord, would fight their battles, and their children's battles, and their children's children's, until they had avenged themselves on all their enemies, to the third and fourth generation. 

"Behold, this is an ensample unto all people, saith the Lord your God, for justification before me. 

I do not look for our nation to do this. It is scarcely to be expected, in the nature of things, that they would do it. But it is the true principle, and we as a people should use our influence for this purpose. Our prayers should ascend to God; our petitions should ascend to the government of our nation to do everything that honorable people can to avert war. We have no fear of the effect of the combinations against us. Spain might inflict great damage upon our coasts. Her naval strength is equal if not superior to ours. We have a very extended line of seacoast, and a difficult line to defend against a strong naval power. And we might suffer in the beginning. But the promise of God is that if we will do right as a nation, if we will serve Him, they shall not have power over us, or be able to bring us into bondage; and in the end we shall prevail. This is a glorious promise which is made to the inhabitants of this land. I would to God  the whole nation would believe it. I would to God that they would accept the testimonies of the past, the prophecies that have been referred to this afternoon; for I say to you, as I would like to say to this entire nation, i nere are prophets of God in the land. The word of God is in the midst of the people. The Lord reveals His mind and will unto His servants the Prophets. The Droofs of it are before all the nations of the earth. There is abundant evidence to substantiate the statements which have been made that the Lord has revealed His will, and that there are Prophets in the land. And if the nation would believe, the Lord would make them the great and mighty power that we are told by the ancient Prophets this nation might become. 

To us as Latter-day Saints these principles are of the utmost importance. I do not want to see our young men get filled with the spirit of war and be eager for the conflict. God forbid that such a spirit should prevail in our land, or that we should contribute in any manner to the propagation of a spirit of that kind! But one may say, "Is it not our duty to defend our country and our flag? Is it not our duty to maintain the institutions which the Lord has given to us?" Certainly it is. And it is no part of cowardice to take the plan that the Lord has pointed out. No man need be afraid that the Lord or any just man will look upon him as a coward. 

There was a time when men who became angry at each other fought duels. A man of honor considered it his duty, if he received an insult, to challenge the insulter, and the man that was challenged had the choice of weapons, and they fought in single combat to avenge their honor. And such a feeling prevailed on this question that brave men were liable to be charged with cowardice if they did not fight. It took the bravest kind of men to refuse to fight. But it is not an evidence of true courage to be willing to rush into a fight. Sometimes the bravest of people shrink from any such action as this; when the time comes to fight, however, they are the bravest, and the slowest to yield. 

The Lord has given us a command in connection with this subject that  worth while for us to bear in mind: "For he will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept upon precept; and I will try you and prove you herewith; 

"And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find it again, even life eternal: 

"Therefore be not afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in my covenant, even unto death, that you may be found worthy." 

In this revelation the Lord requires us to be a brave people, a true and faithful people. As one of our hymns says: 

"We want no cowards in our band, 

Who will our colors fly; We call for valiant-hearted men, 

Who're not afraid to die." 

This is the kind of people that are wanted in the Church of Christ; not cowards, or men who will shirk and fly in the hour of danger. Such people are not wanted. At the same time the Lord expects us to be a peace-loving people, willing to do everything in our power for peace, to preserve the lives of the human family, to deliver every person, to the extent of our ability, from all the evils that Satan would bring upon them. Therefore, I hope if there is a disposition not to clamor for war that it will not be attributed to cowardice or to the fear of losing life. God has commanded us to be ready to lay down our lives whenever it shall be necessary. If it should be to defend our religion, we have in days past shown our fearlessness in that direction. Speaking generally, our people have not been afraid to lay down their lives for their religion. We should be equally willing, if it should be necessary, to lay down our lives for our country, for its institutions, for the preservation of its liberty, that these glorious blessings and privileges shall be preserved to all mankind, and especially to those with whom we are immediately connected. A man is of very little value that would not be willing to take the chances in a contest where these important interests were at stake; for these interests are of far more value than life itself. I believe that the day will come, or is here now, that if this people called Latter-day Saints should be required to go to defend their country and Its institutions, their homes and their religion, and the rights of their fellow-men, there would be an almost universal response In favor of that. Therefore, that which I say upon these points is not in favor of shrinking from the defense of everything that is right, or of doing anything that would be craven and unworthy of honorable people. I would not like to see our government put itself in a position that it would not stand fair before all the nations of the earth; and every effort that we make for peace will make us stand fair, because there is a feeling throughout the world that the American people are strong enough to be magnanimous, and that when they are magnanimous, it is not prompted by any craven or unworthy feeling. 

Brethren and sisters, I have endeavored to lay before you some of the promises that God has made to us. I say "us," because we are inhabitants of this land and possessors in common with our fellow citizens. I have read this to you so that if you need comfort it may be imparted unto you. There need be no trepidation in our hearts concerning the threatening aspect of affairs. If war should come, it will no doubt come because of the determination of Spain to force it upon us. I feel confident that there is no disposition on the part of our own government, whatever may be the feeling of the masses of the people, to create war. The freedom of Cuba has nothing particularly to do with us, only this far: They are on our borders, and the atrocities which have been committed have been of so awful a character that we would be less than human if we did not sympathize with them. Our government is amply justified in demanding that these atrocities shall cease. We would be less than human if we could sit quietly by and see people massacred and starved to death as they have been and are being on the island of Cuba. It is not the newspaper correspondents alone who have brought these tidings to us; but men of the highest repute have told of the conditions there. I have myself had communications upon the subject from one of the leading  in this nation, who visited Cuba personally. Of course, we all have seen what the newspapers have said. Under these circumstances, men and women who have the least feeling for their fellow creatures must cry out against the continued perpetration of such horrors, and the word should go forth that they must cease. We cannot allow a continuation of these scenes while we have the power as a nation to put an end to them. Then if Spain is determined, because of this position that we have assumed, to make war upon us, let us do the best we can under the circumstances. But I hope that Spain will see the folly of continuing this, and will give those poor, wretched people the liberty they are contending for. 

I pray God the Eternal Father to be with us as a people, to fill us with sentiments of justice and mercy, with comprehensive views concerning our relationship to mankind in general, and the duties that devolve upon us because of our position. For I say to you this day that the Latter-day Saints, in some respects, occupy the most influential position of any people upon the face of the earth, according to our numbers. And our influence will be felt more and more, especially if we will only be united. It is our union that gives us power. Take that away from us and we are weak as water. But united, bound together in holiness, in purity, and in the love of liberty and of truth, we are the strongest people upon the face of the earth. God grant that this may continue, and increase, until all shall be fulfilled that has been spoken concerning Zion and this glorious land >f ours. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF 

Historical incidents — Keys of power from Joseph to the Twelve— Founders of our nation Inspired — Afflictions awaiting the world — Importance of redeeming the dead. 

At the close of this Conference I have a desire to bear my testimony before you upon a few principles. I have rejoiced very much during this Conference in listening to the testimony of the Apostles and Elders who have spoken. It has brought to my remembrance a little of my history. 

In April, 1838, while in the town of Kirtland, in walking across the street I met two men who held the Apostleship. They said to me, "Brother Woodruff, we have something that we want you to join us in." Said I, "What is it?" "We want another Prophet to lead us." "Whom do you want?" "We want Oliver Cowdery. Joseph Smith has apostatized." After listening to them, I said to them: "Unless you repent of your sins you will be damned and go to hell, and you will go through the fulness of eternal damnation, and all your hopes in this life will pass before you like the frosi before the rising sun. You are false. Joseph Smith has not apostatized. He holds the keys of the kingdom of God on earth, and will hold them until the coming of the Son of Man, whether in this world or in the world to come." I am happy to say that those men did repent pretty soon, turned to the Church, and died in it. 

I feel thankful today that Joseph F. Smith is with us as a son of Hyrum Smith. He bears a true and faithful testimony of his father. I would to God that Joseph Smith had a son in the flesh who would do as Joseph F. Smith does here — bear testimony to the truth of his father. The Prophet Joseph Smith has no son that stands in the midst of the Church of God and bears record of his father. He never has had; possibly never will have. 

I will give you a testimony here that will show you where I stand with regard to this matter. Joseph Smith never ordained his son Joseph, never blessed him, never set him apart, to lead this Church and kingdom on the face of the earth. When he or any other man says he did, they state that which is false before high heaven. 

The last speech that Joseph Smith ever made to the quorum of the Apostles was in a building in Nauvoo, and it was such a speech as I never heard from mortal man before or since. He was clothed upon with the Spirit and power of God. His face was clear as amber. The room was filled as with consuming fire. He stood three hours upon his feet. Said he: "You Apostles of the Lamb of God hare been chosen to carry out the purposes of the Lord on the earth. Now, I have received, as the Prophet, seer and , standing at the head of this dispensation, every key, every ordinance, every principle and every Priesthood that belongs to the last dispensation and fulness of times. And I have sealed all these things upon your heads. Now, you Apostles, if_ you do not rise up and bear off this kingdom, as I have given it to you, you will be damned." 

I am the only witness left on earth that can bear record of this, and I am thankful that I have lived to see the day in which I stand. I am thankful to see the sons of these Prophets and Apostles holding the Holy Priesthood in our day and generation. I do not believe the day will ever come — it is too late in the day, in my opinion —when any Elder in this Church will be called to stand before any two of the Apostles with us today and give unto them the declaration that I gaAie unto the two Apostles I have referred to. I do not think any of the Apostles will occupy that position. I have faith to believe that these men who bear the Apostleship will hold it and live their religion. They have been called and ordained of God for this purpose. I do not think that one of them will apostatize. I believe they will be with you and with this Church while they stand in the flesh, true and faithful to God. 

Brother Cannon has been laying before you something with regard to the nation in which we live and what has been said concerning it. I am going to bear my testimony to this assembly, if I never do it again in my life, that those men who laid the foundation of this American government and signed the Declaration of Independence were the best spirits the God of heaven could find on the face of the earth. They were choice spirits, not wicked men. General Washington and all the men that labored for the purpose were inspired of the Lord. 

Another thing I am going to say here, because I have a right to say it. Every one of those men that signed the Declaration of Independence, with General Washington, called upon me, as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the Temple at St. George, two consecutive nights, and demanded at my hands that I should go forth and attend to the ordinances of the House of God for them. Men are here, I believe, that know of this, Brothers J. D. T. McAllister, David H. Cannon and James G. Bleak. Brother McAllister baptized me for all those men, and then I told those brethren that it was their duty to go Into the Temple and labor until they had got endowments for all of them. They did it. Would those spirits have called upon me, as an Elder in Israel, to perform that work if they had not been noble spirits before God? They would not. 

I bear this testimony, because it is true. The Spirit of God bore record to myself and the brethren while we were laboring in that way. 

What has been said with regard to this nation and to our position is coming to pass. All the powers of earth and hell will not stay the hand of Almighty God in the fulfillment of those great prophecies that have to come to pass to prepare the way for the coming of the Son of Man. You who have gathered here are my witnesses of this. I feel as though the day has come when every Elder and every Latter-day Saint ought to stop and consider the position he is in and the covenants he has entered into. Is there anything on the face of the earth that will pay you to depart from the oracles of God and from the Gospel of Christ? Is there anything that will pay you to lose the principles of salvation, to lose a part in the first resurrection with the privilege of standing in the morning of the resurrection clothed with glory, immortality and eternal life at the head of your father's house? No, there is nothing. I feel sorry many times when I see men who have the Priesthood forget almost that they have any interest in the work of God. 

I feel to thank God that I have lived as long as I have, and to see as much as I have in fulfillment of the words of the Prophet of God. His days were few. The lives of great men have been strange. The idea of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, only laboring three years and a half in the ministry and then He was put to death! His apostles, too, were put to death, excepting John the Revelator, and they would have killed him if they could have done so. He lived because God wanted him to live. We live in the  dispensation and in the midst of the great work that all the Patriarchs and Prophets since God made the world have spoken of. Afflictions and tribulations await the world. The destroying angels have got their sharp sickles in their hands, and they are going to reap the earth. Everything that has been spoken by the prophets under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost will come to pass in the generation in which we live. Do not forget it. I thank God we are as well as we are; that we have as many as we have who are united together in the Priesthood. Let us try to live our religion, do our duty, and magnify our calling while we are here. The eyes of all heaven are over us. The eyes of the world are over us. The eyes of the angels are over us. The Lord has looked upon us and upon the house of Israel to be saviors of the nations. We are here to fulfill these principles. 

I pray God my Heavenly Father that as Elders of Israel and as Latter-day Saints we may prize these principles, and that we may do oui duty what time we spend here in the flesh. These Apostles and all the quorums of the Priesthood have a great work upon them. Every father, and mother has a great responsibility resting upon them, to redeem their dead. Do not neglect it. You will have sorrow if you do. Any man will who neglects the redemption of his dead that he has power to officiate for here. When you get to the other side of the veil, if you have entered into these Temples and redeemed you progenitors by the ordinances of the House of God, you will hold the keys of their redemption from eternity to eternity. Do not neglect this! God bless you. Amen. 

The anthem, God of Israel, hear our prayer, was sung by the choir. 

Benediction by Elder C. W. Penrose. 