1
Morning
06 04 1898
President Wilford Woodruff.
270
1-2

OPENING REMARKS

None

I feel very thankful to have the privilege of meeting with so many of the Latter-day Saints in this, our Sixty-eighth Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I had my fears that I would not be able to attend this Conference at all, as I have been quite unwell the last month; but the last day or two I have been blessed with better health. It is a great satisfaction to me to have this privilege. I am satisfied myself that there are many thousands in the spirit world, including the Prophet Joseph Smith and other leaders of this Church, who are quite as deeply interested in this Conference and our work today as we possibly can be ourselves. I hope, while we are together, that we may enjoy the Spirit of God; that our minds may be opened, and our teachings and instructions be led in that channel which shall be unto the edification of the Saints and beneficial to us.  
  
The signs of the times show that the Lord has not forgotten His promises, made through the inspiration of Prophets and Apostles in generations that are past and gone. There has been a great change in the world with regard to "Mormonism" the last year of our lives, as shown in the increase of the work and of the labors of the Elders of Israel among all the nations where they have been called to travel. I hope and pray that we may be in a condition to comprehend our duties today and what is lying before us, that the purposes of God concerning us as Latter-day Saints may be carried out. I trust that the Spirit of God may be with not only those who speak and teach during this Conference, but with those also who sit and hear. My prayer to God is that His blessing may be over us, that our minds may be open to comprehend our duties, our blessings, and those things which are required at our hands; that we may be true and faithful in our labors while we dwell in the flesh, so that when we get through we may be satisfied with our labors here, and be justified when we are called to give an account of the deeds done in the body. I say, God bless you. I pray for His Holy Spirit to rest upon us as the Saints of God, and upon those who may address us; which is my desire in the name of Jesus. Amen.  

