12
Afternoon
07 04 1898
President George Q. Cannon.
4
33-36

None

Providential preservation of President Wrodruff — The Church controlled by the power of God — He vindicates His servants — Trouble results from disunion — Selfishness defeats Itself — The Church will be cleansed.  
  
The instructions that we have heard during this Conference have been accompanied by the testimony of the Spirit of God, and I esteem it as a great privilege that we have had this afternoon of listening to the testimony of President Woodruff. If we have not all heard that which he has said, we shall have the opportunity of reading it. I think it ought to be esteemed as a great pleasure and satisfaction for the Latter-day Saints to hear his testimony. President Woodruff is the only surviving Apostle who held the Apostleship at the time the Prophet Joseph lived. He is the only man living who received his endowments at the hands of the Prophet Joseph. He is the only Apostle living who entered this valley when it was penetrated by the Pioneers. To have him survive as long as he has, and to stand as a witness in the midst of this people, is a great boon to the Church. There has been, without doubt, a providence in his preservation. The Lord has had a purpose to accomplish. His testimony, which has so often been borne and listened to by the members of this Church will have a lasting impression and influence upon the Church. I am, therefore, for one, greatly pleased to hear him once more address a congregation so large as this at our General Conference. If we had been asked years ago as to who would be likely of the Apostles to survive until now, we perhaps would not have selected President Woodruff, because he was a man advanced in years, and, as he has related to us today, had passed through so many scenes of trial and had labored so hard physically, and had so many narrow escapes for his life, that it seemed almost impossible that he would survive all the others. But, as he has told us, upwards of fifty years ago, while in Boston on a mission, the Lord revealed to him concerning this Temple.  
  
He has not related that which I have heard him speak of at other times. There was a discussion concerning the material of which this Temple should be built. Some of the brethren advocated one material, and some another; and it looked as though it would not be built of granite. But President Woodruff had seen it in granite, and he knew while this discussion was in progress that when the Temple was built it would be built of that material. He also had dreams before the Temple was finished concerning the duty that had been assigned to him. The keys of the Temple had been given to him by President Young, and he was told to open the Temple, so that the people might go in.  
  
Under all the circumstances, has there not been a providence in this? Our God does not permit things of this importance to happen haphazard, and without His overruling power and providence being manifested. He has selected His servants, and He has assigned them their labors; and He will preserve them from accidents and from death until they shall accomplish that which they have been sent to perform— to fulfill the mission that has been given unto them. There is no such thing as accident in these matters. It is not by chance that these occurrences happen; but there is a providence which the Lord exercises over His people and over the affairs of His Church, and over all things that happen. They are controlled by His power for the accomplishment of His purposes. He gives unto us our agency, and that agency we can exercise to the fullest extent. There is no limit placed upon it. It is contrary to His mind and will and to the plan of salvation that there should be a limit placed upon man's agency or upon its exercise. But He controls the results. As President Young so often told us, He controls affairs so as to bring to pass His purposes and His designs; and there is no power that can prevail against Him and the fulfillment of His purposes. He supplements man's weakness, man's shortsightedness and man's inability by His strength, foreknowledge and almighty power. These men whom He has chosen to be His Apostles are weak, fallible men.  
  
As President Woodruff has told us, the Lord has chosen the weak things of the world, that they might not glory in themselves nor in their own strength; and the man that does claim the glory takes steps to destroy his influence and to lose his power and gifts. The Lord will not bless men who seek to take the glory to themselves. These men are fallible, and subject to all the infirmities of human nature; but God has chosen them, and when they do the best they can, seeking to Him for His Spirit, He inspires them; and where they come short He makes it up by His blessing. That which would seem to the natural eye to be a mistaken course or policy. He overrules and controls for His glory. That has been the course in this Church from the beginning. The men that have instructed the people, from Joseph himself down through all the ranks of the Priesthood, have been fallible men; their judgment has been imperfect; their conclusions have perhaps not always been as they should have been; but if they have acted according to the light they had and the Spirit that God has given them, and they have sought the Lord for His blessing and guidance, then He takes charge after that and He brings to pass according to His own good will and pleasure, and His power and wisdom are manifested in that which takes place, so that we are perfectly safe. If it were not for this, we would be appalled at the responsibility that rests upon us. Any man who feels the weight of responsibility and thinks of the dreadful consequences that might attend a misstep, could not endure it if there were not something behind him to sustain and buoy him up. President Woodruff could not stand under the pressure of the responsibility upon him, neither could any other man who may be near him or connected with the Apostleship and the Priesthood.  
  
But there is this reflection all the time: God can be trusted. God will see to it that His servants are not put to shame; that they do not become a spectacle in the midst of the people — before the Saints or before the world. He has never left His servants at any time. God be thanked this day for this! He has never allowed them to be covered with shame and confusion through failure. But He has sustained them, and He has borne them off victorious, under all circumstances, when they have served Him and appealed to His Holy Spirit to guide them. And He will do it from this time forth until the Lord Himself comes to reign on the earth. This will be the result if we continue to serve Him. Hence it is that the people are required by the Lord — with these evidences before them of what God has done and the predictions that have been fulfilled — to listen to the voice of His servants, to accept their counsels, to seek for His word through them, because He has given them power and the authority, standing in His stead in the midst of the people, with the full weight of responsibility upon them. Let me ask this congregation, can you put your finger on a time when the people of this Church have listened to the counsel of the servants of God that they have had reason to repent of it? You all know that no such thing has ever occurred. In every instance, in the deepest peril, under the most trying and dark circumstances, when the people have listened to counsel God has delivered them and brought them through safely. This you all know. Hence it is that God designs and desires that His Saints shall listen to the voice of revelation, to the voice of His Prophet, to the voice of men whom He has called to act in His stead in the midst of the people. And great condemnation will fall upon those who do not do this.  
  
Of all people upon the face of the earth we should be the most united. In union is our strength. But we are not united as we should be. And it is this that brings trouble to us. The disunion of the people is the source of all our trouble. The Lord desires to have us a united people, the people that will listen to His voice. And what does this mean? Does it mean tyranny? Does it mean oppression? Does it mean the taking away of any human being's rights? Does it encroach upon the liberty of any soul? No, it does not. It never has. It never will, because the Priesthood of the Son of God is not a tyrant. The operations of that Priesthood are beneficent under all circumstances. Look at the prosperity of this people. See how God has blessed them when they have listened to counsel and been guided aright. All our prosperity is traceable to this. Our misfortunes are traceable to our disobedience and neglect. Everyone knows this that has any faith whatever in the work of God. There is nothing asked of any man that he cannot do with the utmost pleasure and with the freest exercise of his agency. It has been so from the beginning, and it will be so to the end.  
  
We were told this morning, by Brother A. O. Woodruff, of the division there is among the people in many directions. It is a pitiable sight that among the Latter-day Saints there should be such things, such division, such selfishness, such injury done by one to another. It is wrong, and we should avoid it. It is contrary to the will of God that we should be in this condition. We grieve His Holy Spirit when we yield to this spirit that divides us and arrays us one against another. We ought to understand that selfishness defeats itself; that God will bless men who love His work and love their fellow men, and who do not allow selfishness to predominate in their hearts. That has to be extinguished among the Latter-day Saints, if we ever would be the people that God has said we shall be. I believe the Lord will weed out from our midst all who contribute to this division among the people of God and who will not dismiss these evil influences. Unless we are a united people we will not prosper temporally; we cannot prosper spiritually. We must love the Lord with all our heart, and we must love our brethren as we do ourselves. If we do not attain to that we cannot reach the standard He has raised for us. I do not expect that any of us will get into the celestial kingdom until we have this Spirit and are imbued with it and carry it out literally in all our associations and dealings with our fellow men— until, in fact, we shall be a united people, living in the United Order, which must be established before the reign of righteousness can be ushered in.  
  
We come to these General Conferences to be instructed in these principles, to have our minds refreshed, to hear the testimony of the servants of God, and we ought to go away impressed with these principles, and profiting by them sufficiently that we will make them a part of our lives. We have been called as Latter-day Saints. By the miraculous power of God we have been gathered from the nations of the earth. It is the greatest miracle, it may be said, that ever was seen by the human family. It is stupendous. It is something unexampled in the history of our race. And there is a grand purpose in it, which God has revealed. He is gathering from the nations of the earth the elements that are necessary to lay the foundation for a new era, to prepare the way for the coming of the Lord, for the establishment of the reign of righteousness. Yet, notwithstanding, the nations behold it, Satan darkens their eyes so that they cannot see its grand import. But to us the Lord has revealed this. And there is this remarkable fact connected with this: almost every man and woman that comes from the nations has, himself and herself, received a testimony that they ought to do this. They have done it under a divine impulse; not by any human force that has been brought to bear upon them, but by an inward force that has appealed to their souls, coming to them irresistibly from God. These elements are being gathered from the nations of the earth in this miraculous manner to accomplish the purposes of our God. But there will be a cleansing in the floor— in the garner, as it were. The work of cleansing is now going on. The net gathers a great many kinds of fish; but the bad fish will be thrown out. Having received these testimonies, and being in a position to know for ourselves concerning the work of God, it is for us to square our lives to make them agree with the principles of righteousness. As was read this afternoon, "My Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of hosts." There never has been a time in this Church since its organization when the Latter-day Saints have been preached to with such diligence as they have been of late. The Twelve Apostles are traveling constantly, visiting conferences, and the other brethren that are actively engaged in the ministry are doing the same. The people are being warned and taught, it seems to me, with a diligence and with a faith and power that I have never seen before in the Church. I do not think the Church ever was preached to as it is being preached to now. And this cannot be done without condemnation following those who resist the influence of the Spirit of God, and who harden their hearts against the teachings of God's servants.  
  
God help us, brethren and sisters, to be faithful to the truth, to cling to it, to love the Lord with all our hearts, to serve Him with all the diligence we can; which I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.  