23
Overflow
10 04 1898
Elder David H. Cannon.
50
70-72

None

None

I trust that while I shall endeavor to address you, I may have the benefit of your faith, that our Father may suggest words to my mind that will be beneficial to those who are here assembled  
  
I have rejoiced very much in the testimony of the Holy Spirit that was manifest through the Prophets and Apostles of God who have addressed us during the various meetings of this Conference. And I feel that, so far, it has been to me one of the best Conferences that it has been my privilege to attend, because of the plain manner in which our duties have been made manifest to us as a people. And I felt, when listening to our venerable President Woodruff in his testimony regarding the financial condition of this Church, that I would not only myself endeavor to do my duty and pay my tithes and offerings, but that I would use my influence with those whom I associate with in the Stake where my labor calls me, to get others to do likewise. For I believe it to be a veritable truth that if we as a people would draw near unto the Lord and observe the commandments that He has given to us more strictly, greater prosperity would attend our efforts, and we would become free from the thraldom of debt with which we are at the present time oppressed.  
  
I am satisfied that this work with which we have become identified, is "the power of God unto salvation" to all who will render obedience to its requirements, and that it is destined in the due time of the Lord to revolutionize the whole world and bring mankind generally into a condition when "every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ," to the honor and glory of God our eternal Father.  
  
At the time of the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, I remember with a great deal of pleasure the promises that were made to the people by President Woodruff, that if we would go forth from that time and seek to keep the commandments of God, and conform our lives to the requirements of the Gospel, that our sins as a people though as scarlet should become as white as wool, and that we should be free to serve God, and have greater influence in the midst of the nations of the earth, and that the persecution that is being brought to bear upon the people would cease. I say I remember these predictions with a great deal of pleasure; and I have watched with equal satisfaction the fulfillment of every prediction that was ever made to the people. Wherever we have gone forth laboring to promote righteousness in the earth, God has blessed our labors, and His Spirit has attended His people in their undertakings. His servants have gone forth to the nations and have had influence and power wherever they have traveled, to an extent that was never before experienced since the organization of the Church upon the earth. And if the Saints continue to improve in their lives, as a people, this Spirit will continue to increase, and more success will attend the preaching of the Gospel.  
  
I notice in traveling among the Saints and in our experience in the Temple, in the House of God, at St. George, where my labors are more particularly known, that there is a great improvement in the people with regard to the work that is necessary for the redemption of their kindred dead. Many more people are coming to the House of the Lord. Many there are that are desirous of obtaining their genealogical records, that they may be able to perform the work necessary for the redemption of their kindred dead. The spirit of this labor, I believe, is increasing throughout the Stakes of Zion, as also in the nations of the earth. And, while I do not believe that it is proper for us as a people to turn our attention exclusively to any one direction, to carry out one branch or one part of the Gospel, yet I believe that as a people we need to disturb ourselves a little in regard to this vicarious labor. I have said very many times, when addressing the people, that I do not know what the Saints would do if called from mortality and permitted to meet their kindred who have preceded them to the spirit world, I do not know what excuse they could offer for not having done more for the amelioration of their condition; because, in many instances, these people have lived within the shadow of the Temple, in close proximity with the House of God. The people have been reminded of their tithes and offerings wherein the Saints could place blessings and endowments in the Holy Priesthood in the hands of the kindred dead, and some have been perfectly indifferent in regard to this matter. In many instances men and women Who have considerable of their genealogies have failed to go into the Temple to do the necessary work. There are other instances where they have done all that they could do. To these I have nothing to say, but to the ones that have failed, and who do not attend to anything in this line. I have been wondering what these would say if they should be summoned to the presence of their friends in the spirit world. We believe that we have identified ourselves with the Gospel of the Son of God. We believe that it is necssary for a man or woman, in order to be eternally saved in the presence of our God, to go down into the water and be baptized for the remission of their sins; then receive the imposition of the hands of the servants of the Lord, for the reception of the Holy Ghost; and all that is necessary to save a person in immortality in the Celestial Kingdom of our Father, is equally necessary for those who have died without a knowledge of the precious principles with which you and I have become so familiar. And if the Elder who goes forth to the nations of the earth experiences joy in meeting those that he has had the privilege of conducting into the waters of baptism, I say if he experiences joy at reaching them, how much more joy will he experience when he meets those individuals into whose hands he has placed keys of power and Priesthood that will enable them to pass from their present condition into the presence of the Father and partake of glory and immortality in His Celestial Kingdom; not only going down into the waters and being baptized for the individual who is unable to receive this ordinance for himself or herself, but coming up out of the water and receiving the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and if it be a brother of sufficient age, receiving the Holy Priesthood for him, and then all the other blessings that are necessary for him to enjoy. I say that if an Individual has joy in meeting them, what joy will they have when they meet the Individual who performed all the ordinances that saved them, doing the work for them vicariously. I cannot think of anything that would be of greater joy to the person when he meets his friend than this labor would afford. Then we have the simpler ordinances, that we term simple because they are so easy of accomplishment, by which they can have sealed husband and wife for time and all eternity, and have conferred upon them the privilege of coming forth in the morning of the first resurrection, clothed with glory, immortality and eternal life and all the blessings of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the other blessings that pertain to the new and everlasting covenant. Then if they have had children and the children have passed away without a knowledge of the Gospel, they gather the names and do the work that is necessary for them, and seal the children to the parents, and this is the work that was spoken of and looked forth to, when the Prophet Elijah should come to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. Now, this is why the Latter-day Saints build temples: They are calculated to exalt us in the Celestial Kingdom of our God. But there are labors for us to perform which should occupy every moment of time that we have to spare, going forth and laboring in whatever capacity we may be called upon to labor. And as the Lord blesses our labors, we should take a tenth of that which we receive and pay it to the storehouse of the Lord; then pay our fast offerings, that there may be plenty in the hands of the Bishop to provide for the wants of the poor in the ward where we reside; then going forth and performing every duty that is necessary for us to perform. If there is anything that has caused, my heart to rejoice in my labors in connection with this people, my brethren and sisters, it is the provision that God our Father has made for the redemption of mankind, both living and dead, and the opportunities that are afforded the people, those who are so disposed, of laboring to bring about His purposes upon the earth, assisting in accomplishing that which is necessary to firmly establish this Gospel in the earth. And if we do, as a people, all that is necessary for us to do, that is in our power, the heavens will be opened and the blessing of the Almighty will descend upon us, prosperity will atend all our labors, and we will have that peace of mind and that contentment and joy in contemplating the great plan God has instituted for the redemption of the people. I say we will have such joy in contemplating these things that will make us so happy that we will never regret laboring for Him and for His purposes in the earth.  
  
May God bless you, and may we as a people ever remember the importance of the age in which we live, and not lose sight of the signs of the times in which we live, and may be perform our duties to His acceptance, through Christ our Lord. Amen.
