24
Overflow
10 04 1898
Elder Seymour B. Young.
49
72-75

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I see in this assembly a large body of our Seventies, whom I am very glad to welcome to our General Conference.  
  
Some four or five weeks ago and also a month previous to that date, we published an invitation for the Seventies to meet with us in this hall, on Sunday,the 10th inst.,at 2 o'clock p.m. And I find that very many of the Seventies have come to accept of the invitation, and are here this afternoon.  
  
Yesterday the First Presidency advised us not to make of it an exclusively Seventies' meeting,but to have it an overflow meeting as usual, for the benefit of all the Saints that might wish to assemble. sConsequently their suggestion was the keynote to us, and we cheerfully and gladly adopt the counsel they gave us on this matter. But I believe that there was nothing in their minds to prevent us from saying whatever we considered necessary to say to our brethren of the Seventies who should assemble here today.  
  
Then, by way of conveying some of our wishes to the Seventies that are scattered through all the Stakes of Zion, we wish to remind you that we have 1,700 brethren, and nearly all of those are Seventies, laboring in the ministerial field today as missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ. They are laboring in all the states of the Union, they are also laboring in all the Scandinavian countries, that is, in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, also in Germany and in Holland, or the Netherlands; also a small corps of missionaries are now laboring in the Holy Land, under the direction of Apostle Anton H. Lund. We have a large corps of missionaries in the British mission, and upon the Sandwich Islands, upon the Society Islands, upon the Samoan Islands, in New Zealand, in Australia and pretty much in all the civilized world wherever Christian nations are known, and wherever Christianity is preached. We have missions in all those lands and islands of the seas representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We hope that our brethren of the Seventies have become impressed with the fact that they, to a large extent, are the missionary corps of the Church, and from these quorums of Seventies the brethren are chosen who go out on missions; or if they are chosen from the Elders' quorums, when they are sent forth they are ordained Seventies, and sent with the Gospel message to the nations of the earth — as minute men, calling upon the people of the world to repent of their sins. We have some very excellent missionaries in the field today. But we want to impress upon the minds of our brethren who preside over these quorums and those who are members of the same, and also upon the minds of the Elders the necessity of us all preparing ourselves to be better missionaries in the future than we have been able to send out in the past. We desire an improvement all the time. We desire that our brethren should be imbued with the spirit of improvement, and that in every Elder and Seventy that is called out, the Presidency of the Church and the Apostles shall find a fit representative of the Church of Christ, and a man that knows the hope that is within him and can give a reason for that hope in good, intelligent English language, or in whatever language he may be called upon to teach the Gospel, and that will depend upon the nation or people to whom he is sent. Now, in connection with this, I want to suggest to my Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and German brethren, and brethren from the islands of the sea, that you maintain the gift and power of speaking you: own native tongue or language in your family circles. And those who can speak German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian or French and who are natives of these countries, that every one will maintain their native tongue and dialect, speak it in the family circles and train their children to speak the same as well as the English, so that when they are called and sent out our young Elders may be prepared to preach and teach immediately, and thus gain an advantage in time, and time saved is expense saved. And those Elders who come from foreign missions and who have been in the habit of speaking foreign languages, by all means take every opportunity to speak in those languages that you may maintain the knowledge you have gained while you have been in a foreign nation, and continue to be able to speak fluently those different dialects and tongues, that when you are again called you will be prepared to go immediately into the field and labor as efficient Elders, having a thorough knowledge of the language in which you are called to teach. We also wish our Seventies and Elders to learn all they can, to make themselves proficient by attending to their Mutual Improvement Associations, and their Sunday schools, for in both of these institutions are to be found wonderful facilities for learning the principles of the Gospel, that they may be able to give a reason intelligently for the hopes that are within them. As I have said before, mutual improvement and individual improvement are the order of the day.  
  
Now, in regard to dealing with members of quorums who are careless or delinquent: There was a brother came to me today und presented his recommendation from a quorum in the south, also his genealogy, which was taken from the quorum record, and he stated that he had been identified with no quorum since leaving the south, and that was as much as eight or ten years ago. He said, "I have been very careless, but I hope the brethren will not cast me off. I have been a wanderer, a trader, a stock man, and I have been wandering around all over creation and not attending to my duties as a Seventy during all that time: yet I would like very much to be received into a quorum, where I am going to locate, and I would not like to be cast out from the midst of my brethren." I said, "Brother, there are no persons that I have ever met that were too old to repent of their sins, of their backslidings, careless ways and to turn over a new leaf, serve the Lord and keep His commandments. If you are one of those who desire to do this you can certainly receive the benefit of your good resolutions; and if you will prove to your brethren that you are indeed repentant and that you will do better, they will have no desire to cast you off." The Gospel of life and salvation is a Gospel of repentance. Jesus truly said, when Peter asked Him how many times we should forgive our erring brother, and said as a suggestion, shall we forgive him seven times? Jesus said to him, not only shall you forgive him seven times, but you shall forgive him seventy times seven, if he repent. Now, this is a wide latitude, and I am not responsible for it; but I am satisfied in this matter that it is a very great and inestimable favor and blessing that the Lord has given unto His children, that as often as they will repent and forsake their sins, He will forgive them. We all need to repent every day of our lives, and we all need the spirit of repentance, and we all ought to cultivate this spirit of forgiveness one to another. For the Lord has said, "If you forgive not each other his trespasses, the Lord will not forgive you your trespasses.' Now, in dealing with scattered and careless members of Seventies, we desire, as we have instructed out brethren of presidency of these quorums, that these brethren shall be labored with, that they shall be sought after, that they shall be earnestly taught with humility and kindness the way of life, that they shall be admonished from time to time in the quorum meetings. If you cannot get them to act with you, go to them and meet with them in their own houses and labor with them by their own firesides in the spirit of meekness and love unfeigned, seeking their welfare and salvation, and only desiring that through their repentance they may be forgiven, and learn to lay hold of the spirit of the Gospel.  
  
There has been very much said during this Conference regarding the way that we show our determination to be in accord with our brethren, to be in unison with them, to be united with them in every good word and in every good work. And who has not felt his heart or her heart burn within his bosom during the services of this great Conference, in listening to the voice of our President, Wilford Woodruff, and hearing his admonitions? He stands a living monument of God's mercy and pleasure in preserving his life and keeping a living witness within his breast of the truths of the Gospel that he embraced when in the days of his youth; always maintaining that same living witness that the same light burned brightly, for it has never gone out of his heart for one moment since he received it. See what a witness and testimony he has borne of these facts to the people during this Conference. I say never for one moment has the light gone out of his heart, and I do not think it has ever burned dimly; for the power of God has been manifest in him from that day and hour unto the present time. See the watch-care of the Spirit of the Lord and of the holy angels of God's presence, how they have been over that man and guarded him and preserved him to do the work that he is called upon to do at this stage and in this age of the Church. And so I believe we might testify of those associated with him — his Counselors and the Twelve Apostles, today. They have shown by their works, labors, teachings and constant endeavors among the people to lead, guide, counsel and admonish in all meekness and in all humility and by the power of God manifested to them, that their lamps have never grown dim, but that the Spirit of the Lord has burned within their hearts all the time; and there is burning within their hearts today a desire for the welfare of Israel, a desire for the gathering of Israel, a desire that the Gospel may be preached in every land and that the chosen seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob may be gathered from all the nations whither they have been scattered. Now, this is the course they are taking,and what ought we to do, my brethren and sisters, and especially my brethren of the Seventies and Elders, what ought to be our course in life? Should we not possess in our hearts the same light and the same love of truth that they have evidenced, and should we not stand shoulder to shoulder with them and be united in all things with our brethren who preside over us, seeking diligently to know the mind and will of the Lord, and be led by that Spirit which comes from Him all the time, into the way of life and truth, making our words and actions agree entirely? And when we testify that we have received the Gospel, that we have a living witness in our hearts, should we not keep that lamp constantly and brightly burning, that it may never grow dim through carelessness on our part?  
  
I wish to remind you today, my brethren of the Seventies, that there is a very great necessity for every one, every president and member of these quorums to be united together and to be ready for the word of counsel from our file leaders all the time, and to prepare ourselves for any field of action or labor, or any duty that we may be called upon to perform. Let us remember another thing, that though we may be called upon to perform some political duty or labors that are secular and not connected with our calling as Seventies, this should not take us outside of the influence of the Church nor of the brethren who preside over us. "We should be subject to the laws of the Lord, to the law of the Gospel, which means a determination to carry out all the requirements made of us and to perform every duty as servants of the Lord. Let us feel that we are in duty bound to so conduct our lives that no reproach may come to us, and that we shall not bar ourselves from having the light, even the lamp of the Holy Spirit constantly burning within our hearts. I felt called to make these remarks, for I have seen with some sorrow, recently, that some of our brethren who are in political positions have turned a deaf ear to the admonitons of their brethren, and who have seemingly put at defiance every wish or suggestion that might be made to them. And I want to raise my voice in admonition to my brethren about the matter, and to call the attention of the Latter-day Saints, one and all, to the fact that we owe allegiance to our heavenly Father, and that between us and Him stand our brethren who preside over us, and that if we wish to maintain an influence with God and with the heavens, we must subject ourselves to the counsel of our leaders, and labor diligently and faithfully in the cause of Christ. May the Lord bless us and help us to do good, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.  