25
Overflow
10 04 1898
Elder Jonathan G. Kimball.
14
75-78

None

None

I pray the Lord that I may be wise in what I shall say, and be under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord; for I have no desire to express my own feelings.  
  
I frankly confess that I am disappointed; and when I am disappointed you find it out, for it shows upon the very lineaments of my face. I am not like a brother I once had — and he was the only one I ever did have like that — when he was disappointed and felt badly, he could whistle and sing. I cannot whistle or sing when I feel disappointed.  
  
I have not learned the lesson of obedience yet, but I shall before I get through. It is our duty when we are confronted with anything that we do not understand, or go against any obstruction, to plow around it. I have always been accustomed to going over it. If I ran against a snag when plowing, it did me a whole lot of good to see my team pull, to test the plow and see how good it was. I have broken many a plow and done considerable damage by not plowing around the obstacle.  
 
There is an animal that when it reaches out with its feelers and runs against anything, it pulls Its feelers hack and crawls Into its shell, and I suppose remains there and reflects until the scene changes.  
  
Now, we were very desirous of meeting with the Seventies in a special conference meeting. We are not deprived of the privilege of talking to them as it is; for the brethren of the authorities have seemingly reconsidered the previous arrangements we made. It was with their consent, (I desire that fully understood by the Seventies), and their full approval that this notice was sent to you to be here, at 2 p. m. today. Out of it great good has come, because hundreds of Seventies would not have been here had it not been for the notice. Some have come long distances and they have been fully rewarded by what they have heard. If they will follow out the counsels that have been given to them by the Presidency of this Church, and by the Apostles, they need no further instructions from us, because when they return to their homes they will not neglect their duties as Latter-day Saints. You know, we should be like clay in the hands of the potter. We have got to be ground, moulded and fashioned into a vessel of honor. And a great many of us are lumpy, although some of these old Seventies have been ground for sixty years. It has taken a long time to grind them, so that they will become tractable like little children. It will take just as long, perhaps, to grind ah the lumps out of me, and other young men.  
  
I have a testimony that the Gospel is true. I can preach it a great deal better than I can live it. Under the influence of the Spirit of God men often say things that are a marvel to them. "Sudden strokes of ideas" come to them when they stand upon their feet that they never thought of before. It may be very sudden and brief; but every man that has spoken under that Spirit knows there is such a thing as the Holy Ghost; that is, the Spirit of inspiration and revelation. That is the lesson that we have to learn. I often think of our Elders that you have sent out into the world. Many of them were wayward, careless, and indifferent; their parents were unable to touch their hearts in some instances. They seemed determined to have their own way, even though it be a bad way. When a father or mother said anything to them about their bad associations, they would not believe it. I have done so myself when I was wayward, and when my mother counseled me that those young men were not proper associates for me, I could not believe it. I sympathize with a young man that has had bad companions and improper associates. Yet, when those young men repent of their sins, and get a glimmering of the spirit of the Gospel, they are just like clay in the hands of the potter. And, as one of the Apostles that has lately visited the Southern States stated to me, that when he compared what he saw in the South with what he had seen at home, the Southern mission grows bigger and larger every day. Yes, and it will keep growing larger, too. It is not the only mission on the earth either, for they are all growing larger.  
  
Now about your boys. I have labored among the Elders who are working in the South and I have never seen the time in my five years' experience there, that Elders have rebelled against the counsel that was given them. They sometimes put their own interpretation upon that counsel, but always acted to the best of their ability. When a man does that, he does pretty well; he is trying to do right and to carry out the instructions. I never had a difficulty in the South with an Elder, excepting one. He told the people things that never did transpire and never will. That was the only time I had occasion to say a harsh word and to correct an Elder. I have never felt the Spirit so manifest at home as I have when surrounded by our Elders in council meetings in the mission fields. It is often asked, What are they doing in the South? I speak of it because I am familiar with that mission. I am familiar with the workings of the South. There are few men as familiar with the Southern States mission as I am; because I have been in touch with it almost constantly for the last seven years. We find they are trying to educate your five hundred Elders to pay their tithing, and it is surprising how people criticise the President of that mission on that subject. If some of the kind people are moved upon by the Spirit to give your sons money, they pay their tithing, and it is sent to Chattanooga. And you will find every one of these Elders' names upon the tithing records. They paid a large tithing last year. The Lord will open the way before the Elders. They will not suffer in the South. They are treated like kings. What is the reason? They have struck the key note, and I hope they have struck it everywhere in the world, and that is, to pray, fast, travel without purse and scrip, pay their tithing, and climb out of old ruts. I heard that a missionary committee of brethren have been appointed to counsel with the brethren of the authorities, so that the European mission can be placed on a higher platform. It makes my heart rejoice. I wish they would take the headquarters in Liverpool and place it on a hill somewhere, that it may be seen. I pray the Lord to move upon His Elders that they may reach a higher standard of perfection. God intended His people to be progressive, and He never intended them to locate themselves in the slums of the world. And I told the Elders laboring in the South so. God does not ask you to go in the slums and remain over night, getting contagious skin diseases that are prevalent in such places. You can visit them, but I ask of you Elders, to go in respectable places when upon your missions, for you are servants of God. And if people do not keep themselves clean they are unworthy to have our Elders sleep in their beds. I would rather rest in the woods. Our Elders, through their great kindness, have brought upon themselves skin diseases that have afflicted them for years and years, and the Lord does not require it. The Holy Ghost will not dwell in unclean tabernacles, nor in unclean places.  
  
I desire to tell you how the South got out of trouble. You know the difficulties that Elder John Morgan coped with. And let me say here, that man laid a broad foundation, and no man can take the honor from him, because it is his, through his faith, perseverance and the blessings of the Lord. He worked under great difficulties, that very few men in this Church have met with, except the early Apostles and the men who commenced this work. He went to the South in abject poverty, and he made railroad officials his friends, and he built up a reputation for honesty that can never be shaken. He made business men his friends, from which associations all his successors have received benefit. The Chattanooga Times, in 1884, when bitterness was at its highest ebb, said, to shake the hand of John Morgan was to be his friend. I was introduced to a passenger agent at Memphis, Tenn., by the general passenger agent of the East Tennessee railway, and he said, "I can give you no better recommend of Mr.. Kimball than to say, if he applied to me for one thousand railroad tickets to Salt Lake City, and had no money with him to pay the same, I would feel perfectly secure in letting him have them." This is the reputation John Morgan established in the South. His successors have followed in his wake.  
  
The Latter-day Saints do not fully comprehend the persecution, hardships and difficulties Elders Morgan, Roberts and Spry had to meet. They and the Elders laboring under their direction were hounded, hunted, whipped, shot at, and some were killed. I stand before you as a living witness of these things.  
  
I was in the South on my first mission in the year 1884, and it was the dark period in the life of the mission. Hardly a day passed, that letters were not received at the office at Chattanooga, stating that Elders had been threatened, whipped or surrounded by mobs, and Elders would ask if they should hold the fort. All that could be said was as Jesus had stated, "When they persecute you in one place, flee ye to another."  
  
The Lord, through His servant, the Prophet Wilford Woodruff, told you Latter-day Saints, at the time that great Temple [pointing to the Temple) was being dedicated, that the bitterness would be taken out of the hearts of our enemies, and their hearts would be softened towards us.  
  
The Elders who were laboring in the South at the time of the dedication, and there were 160 of them, testify that a very marked and radical change has taken place in their experience, for the words of the Prophet are being fulfilled.  
  
Some Elders now laboring In the South fancy they are the only ones who ever traveled without money. Elders were never more faithful, energetic and persevering than at present, yet thousands of Elders have been just as true and faithful.  
  
I tilled my first mission, and thought money was an essential, which to some Elders it is, yet the only time I laid out in the woods was with a $10 bill in my pocket and I thanked the Lord when the money was gone.  
  
Brethren and sisters, cease your severe criticisms of the Presidents or missions. Stop finding fault, and refrain from troubling Elders about their returning home. They are being educated in the Gospel, and being taught to obey the laws of the Lord, that seemingly cannot reach their hearts at home. And this rewards them for all sacrifices. Our sons are there being taught to obey the law of tithing. Some of our good brethren's names would not be found on the tithing records if their wives did not pay tithing on eggs and butter.  
  
In conclusion, I desire to state that I feel well and honor and respect men who love God and keep His commandments; men who are truthful, honest and do not fear men. I love great generals and leaders like Moses, a man who loved God, and followed His counsel, yet was not afraid to express his views. The Lord loved him because of his manhood, and loyalty to His people.  
  
I desire to say to you, Seventies, and the Latter-day Saints the closer I get to the Presidency of the Church and Twelve Apostles, the more I love them, because I know they are kind men, and they love God, and they love His work and His people. That is my testimony. If you have feelings against the brethren, go to them. If your brother offends you, go to him. Try to fix things up and do not let us have jarrings and bitterness, do not let us have apostasy in our hearts. God bless you. Amen.  