26
Overflow
10 04 1898
Elder Marriner W. Merrill.
22
78-80

None

None

I wish to say a few words in testimony, relative to what President Seymour B. Young referred to. To my mind what he referred to is quite an important matter: With regard to the foreign people, the Scandianvian, German, French and every people who speak foreign languages, teaching their children to speak the mother tongue, to speak the foreign language that the fathers and mothers are acquainted with. In some instances where the mother is acquainted with the foreign language and the father is not, or the father is acquainted and the mother is not, a great deal of pains should be exercised by the parents in teaching their children their language. We are sending Elders to different parts of the world; and a great majority of our Elders, I believe, have to learn a foreign language, if they are sent to a foreign country. This should be measurably avoided in the future, because our foreign population is scattered all over the country. We have a great many Scandinavian and German people in the country and I am sorry to say that a good many of those people who emigrated here a number of years ago have utterly failed to teach their children their own language. I had occasion a short time ago to look for some missionaries to go to Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and of course, among that class of people I expected to find young people able to speak their mother tongue, but in this I was sadly disappointed. I only found a very few that could speak their mother tongue. In no case did I find any one that was reared up and born here and of foreign parentage, that could read the language. Now, I think this is a great mistake. The children may just as well learn two languages as to only learn one, and they can do it quite readily when they are young. I remember marrying a couple, I think it is about thirteen or fourteen years ago; the brother was an American and the sister a Swedish lady, and she could talk English very fluently, as also the Swedish language. When they came to get married, I asked them if they would promise me, should they be blessed with children, that they would teach those children the mother tongue, that is, teach them the Swedish language. Of course the brother could not speak that language. They promised me that they would. and I took occasion to visit them about six weeks ago, and after hunting them up I went into the house to renew acquaintance. Of course they knew me, but I would not have known them. I asked them about it, and the mother said, "Yes, we have four children," they had lost one or two, and every one of these can now talk Swedish to you, if you can understand them." They brought those children to talk and sing for me, and the little children were quite young, the oldest being about twelve years old, or nearly so. The mother said they talked very correctly. Of course I could not Judge as to that, but suffice it to say they could talk their mother tongue; and that sister carried out and kept the promise they had made, to the very letter. The father comes in and takes the little girl on his knee, but he does not know a word she says. I was very much pleased in listening to these children talk their mother tongue. Now this will apply to all the foreign brothers and sisters. You brethren that have been to Germany, do not forget the German language, the language that you have so studiously acquired when you were preaching the Gospel. Now, the German people are quite numerous in this State, and every one of them ought to take greater pains in teaching their boys their own language. Now, Brother Young referred to this, and I thought you were not impressed with the idea so fully as you ought to be with regard to this important matter, for I tell you it is important. There was a young man raised by the side of me and his family lived by the side of me for forty years; they had a family of boys, and they were good boys too, Both father and mother were Norwegian. A little while ago one of the boys was sent to Norway on a mission, and it was with a great deal of difficulty that he learned the language. He had not learned it at home and did not make a success learning it on his mission, did not make a success learning his mother tongue. Now, if you take children in their infancy you can soon teach them a foreign language. Talk in that language to the baby and it will soon learn what you are talking about. Now, this thing ought to be observed throughout the whole Church. We are here to preach the Gospel to all people, nations, kindreds, tongues and tribes. If we can learn the language here at home, how much better it is than to spend months when you go abroad to learn the foreign language. You people that know the French language ought to cultivate it and not forget it, but practice, talk and read it. The Germans ought to read their language and have the children read it, and so with the Scandinavian people. They ought to have books and teach the children to read the language as well as to speak it. It is one thing to read it and another thing to speak it. It is not everybody that can speak it that can read it correctly. We ought to take these matters into consideration. I think we have time to devote to this important matter. Now I think that is enough.  
  
I want to say something in relation to what Brother David H. Cannon, President of the St. George Temple, said.  
  
Temple work has been my theme and labor for a great many years, and, of course, those subjects naturally impress themselves upon my mind. It is a very important matter, laboring in the interest of our kindred dead. We feel sometimes that we have done a great amount of labor in the Temple. We have four Temples now in operation, and they are open most of the year, and people are going there, but we are just commencing now; we will continue during our life time to work here, and the life time of our children, and the life time of our children's children, and then through the Millennium, and how much longer I am not prepared to say, but suffice it to say the work will go on and continue to go on during these periods. Now, I suppose there are people here in this congregation that have almost lived under the shadow of some Temple, and have done nothing. You are liable, as well as myself, to be called to the other side to meet your children and relatives that have died without the Gospel, and who will, no doubt — no question in my mind — receive the Gospel if we will give them the opportunity.  
  
Now I want to exhort you, my brethren and sisters, to consider these matters more seriously. Remember the obligations to your ancestors. If it had not been for them, you and I would not have an existence. Remember our kindred, and our fathers, and see to it that the hearts of the fathers are turned to the children and the hearts of the children are turned to the fathers. God bless you. Amen.