3
Morning
06 04 1898
President Joseph F. Smith.
36
9-11

None

Righteousness brings temporal as well as spiritual blessings — Some professing to be Saints not consistent.  
  
As a few minutes remain, I have been requested to bear my testimony. I think I can safely declare that the morning which we have heard this morning from President George Q. Cannon is, from first to last, true; and I do not hesitate to believe that all this congregation of Latter-day Saints can bear testimony to the truth of the remarks which we have heard. I certainly bear my testimony to these things; for I not only know by experience of their truth, but the Spirit of the Lord bears record of it to my heart, as I know it must do to all the Latter-day Saints. The Lord has sustained His people. He has guided His servants. He has opened up our way, and from time to time has lifted the clouds of persecution and of darkness that have lowered over our heads, and caused the sunlight of joy and truth to shine down upon the Latter-day Saints. The Lord has blessed us in these valleys of the mountains, and has given us of His abundance; for He has made the earth fruitful for our sake. He has blessed us abundantly with the products of the earth and with rich return for our labors, wherein we have labored wisely and with prudence have used the blessings that the Lord has bestowed upon us. Many of us may have been unwise in the management of our affairs, and because of this unwisdom we today suffer the results of our own short-sightedness and folly. Where this has been the case, I hope and pray that we may profit by this experience for all time to come, and that in the future we will live nearer unto the Lord, that we may have more abundantly the light of His Spirit to guide us, not only in our spiritual affairs, but also in all temporal affairs. The work that we are engaged in is not designed to be limited by the spiritual necessities of the people alone. It is the purpose of God in restoring the Gospel and the holy Priesthood, not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally. The Lord has expressed this many times, in the word that He gave to His servant Joseph Smith the Prophet; He designed that His people should become the richest of all people. And this not only means the richest of all people in heavenly gifts— in spiritual blessings and riches, but it also means that the people of God shall be the richest of all people with regard to temporal matters, lf faithful we have a right to claim the blessings of the Lord upon the labor of our hands, our temporal labors. The farmer has a right to ask the Lord for blessings upon his farm, upon the labor that he bestows upon it. He has a right to claim the blessings of the Lord upon the animals that are necessary to the cultivation of his farm. He has a right to ask God to bless the grain that he sows and the seeds of the fruit that he plants in the soil. It is his privilege, not only to ask and claim these blessings at the hand of the Lord, but it is his right and privilege to receive blessings from God upon his labor, upon his farm, and upon all that he puts his hand unto in righteousness. It is our privilege to ask God to remove the curse from the earth, and to make it fruitful. If we will live that we shall be entitled to His favor, and that we may justly and righteously claim the blessings and gifts that He has promised unto His Saints, then that which we ask will be given, and we shall receive and enjoy them more abundantly. It is our privilege to ask God to bless the elements that surround us and to temper them for our good, and we know He will hear and answer the prayers of His people, according to their faith. Read the Scriptures, if we believe them, and the testimonies that are there borne of the dealings of God with ancient Israel, and see how God blessed the people when they were faithful in keeping His commandments. The earth was made fruitful for them. Their vines did not cast their fruit before their time. They were free from mildew, and from rust, and from the devouring insects, and from drouth, and from every casualty and destructive evil. They were prospered in their outgoings and in their incomings, and they had abundance, when they served the Lord. This is according to the history that has been written of the dealings of God with His ancient people. They were blessed with the early and the latter rains, and the earth was made fruitful for them. When from necessity they went out to battle against their enemies, their enemies fled before them seven ways, as the Scriptures tell us. In every way did God bless and prosper them, and made them notable among the nations of the earth. But when they forgot their tithes and their offerings; when they forgot their prayers, and became rebellious and disobedient to the laws and requirements of God, then were the rains withheld, and the earth became dust beneath their feet, their vines cast their fruit before their time; they yere cursed with the blight, and with the mildew, and with the rust, and with the grasshopper, and with the devouring insects, until they were brought down low in poverty ana in distress. The Lord felt after the people in ancient times in this way. (See Deut. 28.)  
  
Now, what was true respecting God's dealings with the people of Israel in ancient days is true and applicable today.  
  
This is my testimony and I believe this would be the testimony of every faithful Latter-day Saint. Every man and woman who has labored in faith and humility, putting their trust in the Lord, have this testimony in their hearts. But those who have labored without faith, without hope, without charity; those who have not put their trust in the Lord, who have become worldly; who have allowed the spirit of skepticism to enter into their hearts; who have labored as the infidel labors, without regard to the duties that men owe to God — such as these may indeed be barren of this knowledge and testimony, and may be without the consolation, assurance and strength this testimony gives.  
  
I am not unaware of the fact that there is more or less infidelity and skepticism in the hearts of the people. I am aware of the fact that some are indifferent to the duties that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints. We have exhibitons of this spirit of infidelity, of ridicule and of recklessness day after day as we walk along the streets and as we observe the conduct of men. We see it upon the Sabbath day, when men professing to be members of the Church should be but are not honoring the Sabbath and keeping it holy. We see it when we take into consideration the requirements the Lord has made of His people with regard to the Word of Wisdom and contrast the same with their doings. As we pass up and down the streets, and as we go from place to place we see how little regard is paid by a certain class to this instruction that has been given to the people to make them Saints. We only need to go to the mercantile houses in the country and enquire there as to the amount of useless and hurtful things which are imported into the country and sold day by day and year by year to the people. Some of our pretended pious people, a few years ago, Avert? shocked and horrified by seeing the symbol of the All-Seeing Eye find the words "Holiness to the Lord" in gilt letters over the front of Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution. Especially was this the case with sonic of our brethren when they found these letters over the drug department of Z. C. M. I. Why was it? Why some of these pious(?) Mormons round that Z. C. M. I., under the symbol of the All-seeing Eye and the sacred words, "Holiness to the Lord," sold tea and coffee, and tobacco, and other things possibly that Latter-day Saints ought not to use; and at the drug store, Z. C. M. I. kept liquors of various kinds for medicinal purposes. It was terribly shocking to some of the Latter-day Saints that under these holy words liquor should be kept for sale. Has it ever injured me, in any sense of the word, because Z. C. M. I. drug store kept liquor for sale? Has it made me a drunkard? Have I been under -the necessity of guzzling liquid poison? Have I made myself a sot because liquor was kept for sale by Z C. M. I.? I am not the worse for it, thank the Lord. And who else is? No one, except those pious Mormon(?) who in open day or under the cover of night would go into the drug store and buy liquor to drink. They are the ones, of all others, who of course would be horrified at the fact that liquor was sold in a place of merchandise. Those who were the most horrified at seeing the All-Seeing Eye and "Holiness to the Lord" over the front door of Z. C. M. I., I will guarantee are the ones that have bought the most tea and coffee, tobacco and whisky there. Anybody will apostatize with that sort of a spirit, if they do not repent of it, because it is a sordid, bigoted, short-sighted and hypocritical spirit. Latter-day Saints cannot afford to indulge in such actions or conduct as this, nor to harbor this spirit in their hearts. It does not matter to me how much tea and coffee Z. O. M. I. sells, so long as I do not buy it. If I do not drink it am I not all right? And if the poor creature that wants it can get it there, that ought to satisfy him. If he could not get it there, he would not patronize Z. C. M. T, at all, but would go somewhere else to deal.  
  
But the object I had in view in referring to this matter was to bring to your minds how reckless some of the people are with regard to keeping the commandments of God, and how many of us will strain at a gnat and swallow a camel; how many of us will criticise and find fault with that which exists only in our own imagination, while we ourselves are guilty of a great deal worse things than that which we criticise and condemn.  
  
May the Lord bless the people, and although many of us are not living up to our privileges and are not worthy to claim the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel upon our heads, I pray God that He will forgive our sins, that He will bear patiently with us, that He will extend to us long suffering and forgiveness and the assistance of His Holy Spirit, that whereas today we are beset with weaknesses and imperfections and we come far short, we may in time improve, repent of our sins, and become regenerated, that we may enjoy the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel, which I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.  