4
Afternoon
06 04 1898
President Lorenzo Snow.
40
12-14

None

Necessity for Divine assistance — Leading object of our present life — The Saints should be progressive — The United Order.  
  
I take pleasure in occupying this position a short time, and with the aid of your prayers and the exercise of your faith, I would like to say something that will prove of mutual benefit. It is the privilege of Latter-clay Saints who have entered into covenants with the Lord, who has revealed Himself in these latter times, to constantly improve, and especially under circumstances of the present where we assemble together and can exercise our faith in the interest of those who address us. And no Latter-day Saints should withdraw from an assemblage of this character without having received something that will be of importance in the future scenes of their lives. In and of ourselves we cannot possibly comply with all the commandments that God has given unto us. Jesus himself could not without divine aid from His Father accomplish His work. He said on one occasion, "I can of mine own self do nothing, as I hear I judge and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will but the will of the Father who sent me." And we, if it was necessary for Him, our Lord, to have divine assistance, will find it all the more important to receive His assistance. And in every circumstance and condition surrounding the Latter-day Saints, while in the performance of their duties, they are entitled to supernatural aid from the Holy Spirit, to help in the various conditions surrounding them, and in the duties that they are required to perform.  
  
It is a mighty and glorious work in which we are engaged, and its benefits, so far as we accomplish the labors assigned us, are attended with the highest advantages to ourselves. I cannot imagine anything that is so vastly important as to work for and obtain one's own individual exaltation and glory. That undoubtedly is one great purpose for which we came into the world. When we lived in the other life we had no doubt some understanding with reference to our duties in this life when we were permitted to come to this our second estate. And very likely we put ourselves under certain obligations that we would discharge certain duties devolving upon us when we came here into our second estate. And we had rendered ourselves worthy to come upon this earth for the purpose of securing those blessings that could only be obtained by observing the laws pertaining to our present estate. There are many important things required at our hands, and many things which we can do, when assisted by the Spirit of the Lord, which may at times seem almost Impossible to accomplish, and no man or woman should be discouraged when they feel that they cannot complete what they would like to perform, but we all should do what we can toward carrying out the grand work for which we are here. Paul said, he pressed forward toward the mark in the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Now this is a very good principle for us to keep constantly before us day by day, month by month and year by year. We should labor for perfection so far as possible, and seek to go onward. There is no man or woman who can stand still any great length of time. In this path over which we are moving we are very likely to go backward if we undertake to stand still or act indifferently. We must push forward, because as the Church moves on, it is very evident that things of a more difficult character are occurring constantly, and we will find it far from easy to overcome them. Unless we improve as we move along we will find it very difficult to magnify our callings and to perform the work required at our hands. Latter-day Saints should not permit themselves to stand still. It is a privilege we have to serve the Lord and enjoy His spirit in our labors, but many of the people lose that portion of happiness that they might enjoy because of not reflecting seriously upon their duties and acting wisely and prudently.  
  
We are told that the Lord will reveal unto our minds things past, things present, and things to come. There is a certain amount of qualification that could be had by becoming possessed of a knowledge of things that are past; that is to say, in reference to ourselves, to the things we have done in the past — those duties imposed upon us. There is a satisfaction and an enjoyment in such reflections. And then when we reflect upon the future, and the exaltation that the Lord proposes to bestow upon us there is joy in that. There is great enjoyment to be had in having done right in the past and meditating upon the fact, and feeling that we are doing right now, because it is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to know when he is doing that which pertains to the things of the Lord. If our past conduct has been such, and our present conduct is such that we will be entitled to receive glory and exaltation, and have our bodies free from disease and death, and be crowned with immortal glory in the midst of our wives, children and friends, worlds without end, these are contemplations which cause us to enjoy ourselves. This is the way Latter-day Saints should live. At present a great deal of trouble, anxieties and vexations are experienced by the Latter-day Saints, but we want to overcome these things and be qualified for the important duties required at our hands. The man who is sick is disqualified to act in things required of a healthy man. There is this privilege that every Latter-day Saint should seek to enjoy, to know positively that his work is accepted of God. I am afraid Latter-day Saints are not much better and perhaps they are worse than other people if they do not have this knowledge and seek to do right.  
  
Paul was caught up to the third heaven, and he heard and saw things that were of the highest advantage to him, and, although he was not permitted to say what he saw and heard there, on account of the hardness of the hearts of the people, we can see the effects of it in his teachings and writings in that day. Paul said: "Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God." Well, that was an extraordinary expression for Paul to make at that time, but there was something in it. John says: "Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when He shall appear we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself, even as He is pure."  
  
Every man having this hope in him purifies himself. There then naturally arises a determination to work for that high and noble position, to work for those wonderful promises made. There is an inducement to pursue a course of righteousness.  
  
In this system of religion that you and I have received there is something grand and glorious, and something new to learn every day, that is of great value. And it is not only our privilege but it is necessary that we receive these things and gather these new ideas. This Church, in its travels from the beginning, has passed through, as was told by President Cannon this morning, the most severe trials which tried the heart and soul of every man and woman in it. Now if we had not been pretty fair Latter-day Saints in the past we could not have done as well as we have, and we could not have looked back with so much pleasure on what we have accomplished. When we get into the other life and look back upon our past as, which we will undoubtedly understand, some of our actions will be of the highest pleasure to reflect upon, and will add to our enjoyment in the future life. For instance, Abraham, then he reflects upon what he accomplished in this life, when in obedience to the command of God he took his only son, through whom he had been promised glorious blessings, up on the high mountain and was about to sacrifice him. The Lord praised him for doing this. Now if Abraham had not been faithful for some time before this happened he would not have been able to accomplish this thing. We ought to improve ourselves and move faster toward the point of perfection. It is said that we cannot be perfect. Jesus has commanded us to be perfect even as God, the Father, is perfect. It is our duty to try to be perfect, and it is our duty to improve each day, and look upon our course last week and do things better this week; do things better today than we did them yesterday, and go on and on from one degree of righteousness to another. Jesus will come by and by, and appear in our midst, as He appeared in the day when upon the earth among the Jews, and He will eat and drink with us and talk to us, and explain the mysteries of the Kingdom, and tell us things that are not lawful to talk about now.  
  
We are going back to Jackson county, Missouri, one of these days. Now if it was proper to wish it I would not care if it was tomorrow, if word should come for us to go back to Jackson county and build up a great city there. The day will come when Latter-day Saints will be selected — all may not be called at once, but those who are worthy will be called. There will be no poverty in that day. There will be plenty of food, clothing and other necessaries of life; and the father who has a family, if called suddenly to depart this life, will know that his wife and children will be taken care of, that provision will be made for their sustenance and comfort. But this is the United Order that we sometimes hear mentioned, but the time perhaps has not yet come to establish it. But the Latter-day Saints will never be satisfied with any other arrangement that might be proposed. The nations of the earth have for a long time been trying to establish some principle by which they can be financially sustained, united and live in peace, but have not succeeded. But the Lord has revealed a principle clearly and definitely so that there will be no mistake about it. The system will bring financial union to the Latter-day Saints, and we will be satisfied with it as we are now with the principles of the Gospel. It will suit us. It is something that is natural. And then you and I will have no trouble about our children's temporal welfare. This will take place and whoever goes to Jackson county will meet with that sympathy and friendship that were not met with in early days, and because of the absence of which the people were allowed to be driven out.  
  
These are things for the Latter-day Saints and for every man and woman to think about, and we should commence to prepare and fit ourselves for the United Order. As far as spiritual things are concerned we are pretty well united, but when it comes to temporalities we often differ. But you will see the day, if you live properly, observe the Word of Wisdom and do that which is required, you will go back to Jackson county, many of you whom I am addressing this afternoon. I am sure of this.  
  
God bless you brethren and sisters, and also President Woodruff, the most remarkable man that dwells on the face of the earth, and whom the Lord has most wonderfully blessed during all the scenes of life. It is grand and glorious to think what the Lord has accomplished with Brother Woodruff, and with the Saints generally. God bless you, is my prayer continually, Amen.  
