Afternoon
08 10 1905



ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

I esteem it a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this gathering this afternoon, and I also feel it a privilege to speak a few words here by way of testimony in behalf of the wonderful work in which we are engaged. I have felt during the meetings of this conference much as the brethren who have addressed you have felt. All seem to have had a spirit of joy and thanksgiving for the light of the glorious Gospel, and all have been filled with a desire to bear testimony to the truth of the great work which the Lord has established. 

1 believe that the Latter-day Saints who have assembled together during this conference have felt in very deed, as suggested in the words of the opening prayer this afternoon, to glorify the Lord of heaven. There has been no spirit manifested that would indicate in the slightest degree that there was any lack of faith in the hearts of the brethren, or any lack of confidence as to the outcome of the work that our Father has established upon the earth. I do not suppose that any of those who have spoken understand in detail how God's work is to be wrousht out, or how it is to be made victorious, and overcome the opposition with which it will have to contend. We only know that the Lord of heaven has spoken; that He has revealed the authority of the Holy Priesthood; that He has made promises in connection with the powers of the Priesthood, and decreed the ultimate triumph of the work which He has introduced. It certainly is a very great thing to be blessed with this spirit of confidence, and to» 

ELDER JOSEPH 

feel in one's soul that the work will be successful. As one of the speakers closed his remarks this morning, a brother patted the knee of his associate and said, "We are going to win out." He felt so impressed by the remarks that were made by Brother Ellsworth regarding the spirit, manifested by the people of the city of Nauvoo— people who had once looked with contempt upon the Latter-day Saints and entirely misunderstod their motives, now were beginning to change their opinion, and to feel that there was a something about them that was most commendable and desirable. 

When we look back over the history of the people for the past 75 years we discover there has been a steady and wonderful growth. We realize that the promises that have been made, through the voice of inspiration and revelation, concerning the growth and development of the work of the Lord, have all been verified as far as we have advanced in our history. If some of the aged men and women who had part in this great work in the early days were to give their testimony, I imagine that that testimony would be to the effect that the condition of the Latterday Saints at the present time was beyond what they anticipated in the inception of the work. In those days the lives of the leaders of the people were constantly sought. They were hounded from place to place, their homes were broken up time after time, and they were compelled to be almost constantly upon the move, seeking new locations where they might establish themselves. I very much doubt if those heroes and heroines of the past ever saw, while looking into the future, the mighty growth and strength of the people as we see it today. Surely the promises of the Lord have been marvellously fulfilled, and the efforts of those who have so strenuously sought the destruction of the Latter-day Saints have been brought to naught in a most wonderful way. Our course has been an upward course. We have been constantly advancing. In spite of the 

W. McMURRIN. 35 

misrepresentations so widely circulated regarding us, there are many thousands of people who are beginning to be acquainted with the Latter-day Saints. Many of those who journey through our country, and who come in contact with the people in their homes, go away impressed with the feeling that there is a power, a strength, a goodness, and a virtue, connected with the work of the Latter-day Saints that they little dreamed of. It is my faith that this growth will still continue, and that the promises made by our Father in heaven will be accomplished. I take a great deal of comfort in reading some of these promises, and I would like to read to this great congregation a few words of revelation given in the early days of the Church. It has been written in the Old Scriptures that where there is no vision the people perish.' When the Lord does not reveal His will to the inhabitants of the earth they are in a perishing condition. 

Our Father in heaven, because of the love He has for His creatures, has manifested His will in all ages of the world, and has spoken to the prophets. The testimony of the Holy Scriptures is, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secrets to His servants the prophets." When we have a promise of this character, that has been given by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, we can understand and know that the great and marvelous work, spoken of by all the prophets, will not be accomplished without the Lord revealing to the prophets of the latter times, what He intends to do. Our Father has always raised up men and filled them with the power of the Holy Ghost, that they might communicate His will to the people. As God in times past has looked in compassion upon mankind, and has raised up men who were filled with the Holy Ghost to deliver His words, so in these latter times He has manifested the same manner of love for His children here below, and He has declared: 

"Wherefore I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the  GENERAL. < 

inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jr., and spoke unto him from heaven and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world, and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets. 

"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh. 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fullness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers." 

The reason the Lord called upon Joseph Smith was that all the children of men, the great and mighty as well as the humble, might have the truth of the everlasting Gospel proclaimed unto them, that through hearing the Gospel, through repenting of their sins and turning to the Lord of heaven, they might escape the judgments and calamities that are coming upon the inhabitants of the earth. The mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his fellow laborers is a mission of peace, glad tidings of good things, the preaching of the Gospel of the Redeemer of the world. There is no spirit in connection with the preaching of this gospel that will do injury to any man that lives. The Lord has said: 

"And -again, the Elders, priests and teachers of this Church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel; 

"And they shall observe the covenants and church articles to do them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the Spirit; 

"And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith, and if ye receive not the Spirit, ye shall not teach." 

The commandment that was given in the very beginning was that the Gospel should be preached by those who 

INFERENCE. 

were called and authorized, as it is contained in the Bible and in the Book of Mormon; and the men who were authorized to preach the Gospel and to call men to repentance have been commanded by the Lord that if they do not have the Spirit they shall not preach. It is evident from this great concourse of people, and the great gathering in the Assembly Hall, and the hundreds of thousands of Latterday Saints who are not able to come unto this conference, that the Spirit of the living God has been upon those who have been crying repentance among the nations of the earth. It is also apparent that that same spirit has taken possession of the men and women who have hearkened to the testimonies of those who have been chosen and commissioned of the Lord to cry repentance. A more stupenduous testimony concerning the power given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Spirit of the Lord resting upon him and upon those who have been commissioned from that day to the present, could not be imagined than is witnessed in this great Tabernacle this afternoon, and witnessed still more wonderfully in these mountain valleys from Canada to Mexico. God has taken possession of the hearts of the people in every land. He has drawn them together by the power of the Holy Ghost, and He has revealed unto them the truth of the everlasting gospel. Men in the world imagine that we are not free, that we are priest-ridden; but the truth is that by the power of the Holy Spirit men have been drawn from the east and from the west, from the north, and from the south, to this land of Zion. They have come here thirsting for the word of God, thirsting for information concerning the purposes of the Almighty, and their souls have been filled, they have been established in the truth, and they cannot be moved. This is empressed upon us by this gathering. It is still more evident from the mighty gathering of the Saints from the nations of the world. The predictions made by the prophets are surely being fulfilled when they declared that it should "come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the top of the mountains and many people should say: "Let us go up to the house of the God of Jacob, that we may learn more fully of His ways and walk more perfectly in His paths." If the prophets have written by the power of the Holy Ghost and their words are to be fulfilled, then there must transpire in the latter times just what has taken place since the commencement of the preaching of the Gospel introduced in this dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Who is there in all the religious world today who believes in the fulfillment of these predictions of the prophets? Who is there calling the attention of the people to these great prophecies pertaining to the latter times? As far as I know, we are the only people who seem to understand these predictions, and the only ones who are laboring to accomplish them. AVe are the only people who are possessed of that power and spirit that was tc characterize God's work in the last dispensation. It was to be a marvelous work and a wonder. Surely this work has been a marvel; in the eyes of the world it is a marvel today. We can rejoice when we look into the future and read of God's promise relating thereto. This is the promise: 

"And the warning shall be unto all people by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days; and they shall go forth, and none shall stay them; for I, the Lord, have commanded them." 

If this be a revelation from the Almighty, there is no power that can stay the preaching of the everlasting gospel, Of that can prevent God's servants from delivering the message that has been committed to the earth; not because of the might of the preachers of "Mormonism," not because of the strength of the Latter-day Saints, but because the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob has decreed that this warning voice shall be carried to all the inhabitants of the earth, and that none shall have  power to stay it. We believe in th-; power of our Father in heaven. We believe His arm is not shortened. We behove that He can accomplish His decrees. And .while we do not know what means He will use in the accomplishment of His purposes, we do know within our souls that this promise will be verified, that this Gospel will be preached in all the world, and that the hearts of honest men and women, and the hearts of wicked men and women as well, will be pricked by the power of God, their feelings softened, and they will be turned from darkness and error to the Lord of heaven, and from all the points of the compass, as has been the case in the past, so in the future, the Israel of God will be gathered, and His mighty purposes will be accomplished. Well may our great choir sin t ?, and well may the preachers cry out. "Rouse, O ye mortals, and hearken to the message of truth." May God help us to bear our responsibility well and faithfully, is my prayer through. Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Restoration," sister Judith Anderson rendering the solo part. 

PATRIARCH S. W. RICHARDS. 

My brethren, sisters and friends, quite unexpected to me prior to coming into this meeting, I have been requested to say a few words to you on some matters touching my history and experience with the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am thankful that I can say E was quite intimate with him while he was living upon the earth. There is a, little experience I had with him that perhaps no other person living today could relate. In the winter of 1843-4, about six months prior to the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, a messenger was sent to me from Nauvoo to ask me if I would be one of a company of pioneers to explore the Rocky Mountains and to find a place for the Church to g» to. That request came from the Prophet Joseph Smith. At the time I thought it a little strange that I should be called upon for a mission of this kind, as I was but a young- man, in my teens; but my acquaintance up to that time with the Prophet Joseph was such that I could not say no. I replied, Yes; I will do anything that the Prophet Joseph wants me to do, that is in my power to do. Consequently I gave my name In to be one of a company of twentyfour young men. who were selected to travel and explore the Rocky Mountains and find a place for the Church to go to, because the persecution was getting so strong then in Nauvoo that the Prophet Joseph foresaw that the Church would have to leave, retire from the civilized world, and go into the mountains. This was then a wild country. 

I am reminded that when I was in Europe, in the early fifties, it was reported to the British government that I was emigrating many people from Great Britain into a wild country, where they were liable to perish, and it was thought that this emigration ought to be stopped. Because of this I was ordered to appear in London and give an account of what I was doing. I was then presiding over the British mission, and emigrated many people to this country. I responded to this call, and spent about five hours before a committee of 16 members of Parliament, telling them what I was doing. I had been to this valley myself and knew what it was. I told them that I was sending people to a country where they could own a farm and be as independent in their living as the lords and peers were there. I satisfied them, and they all shook hands with me at the end of our interview and wished me well, and I was invited by a number of them to come again to London and spend some time with them. I speak of this to show that the feeling of the people at that time was that this was a wild country, and we were coming here to perish. 

It was the purpose of the Prophet Joseph to come here and locate with his people. He organized this company and held weekly meetings with them for several weeks in Nauvoo, and when he had them sufficiently instructed, as  thought, to properly understand what was to be the character of their mission and fit-out, he went across the river and made a start to go toward the mountains. It was his intention to go to the mountains with us, as a company of pioneers. But he was followed by those that did not like the idea of his leaving, and while they were pleading with, him to return, he told them, "If I go back, I go as a lamb to the slaughter." Nevertheless, they determined he should return, and he went back to Nauvoo. From there He went tc Carthage, and we all know the history of what followed. , 

Suffice it to say, I attended four meetings of this company, and at one of them, which was in charge of Hyrum Smith, and three or four of the Twelve were also present, it was said that Joseph the Prophet had remarked that he wanted young men for that mission who could go upon the mountains and talk with God face to face, as Moses did upon Mount Sinai. When I heard that statement. I felt in my soul that I was not the one to go; and just before the meeting closed I got up out of my seat for the purpose of going to Brother Hyrum Smith and telling him I was not the one to go. for I did not feel that I could meet the conditions, but as I got up there was a voice came to me, and I heard it distinctly as from one standing by my side, saying, "Stop; rest awhile." I took my seat again, and instead of telling the Prophet Hyrum that I did not feel I could go, I went home, and before retiring I knelt by my bedside and prayed to my heavenly Father. If I ever prayed in earnest, it was then, that I might know before morning whether I was a suitable one to go on that expedition, under the terms specified. The idea of going into the mountains and talking with God face to face, as Moses did upon Mount Sinai, was more than I, as a boy, could think of encountering. 

No one perhaps need wonder that I should shrink from such a consideration. I retired to my bed and remained there about four hours, and during that four hours I got the answer to my pray, and when I awoke I was prepared to go upon that journey and do just as the Prophet wanted me to do. During that four hours I saw all that I expect to see if I should live a thousand years. Someone came to me and told me where to go, and I performed that journey that night while I lay upon my bed. I came to this valley first. I don't know how I got here, but I went down through these valleys and into Southern California. It had been stated that possibly we might have to go that far. When I came here 1 had to pass four sentinels, and in passing them I gave a countersign, which I got direct Irom heaven at the time it was needed. I passed them all, and went on down into Southern California. Then I was prompted to go farther, and I went into the northern part of Mexico. I returned from there to Jackson County, Missouri, and there I stayed and helped build the temple. I saw that temple thoroughly completed; in fact, I labored upon it until it was completed. When this was done, the vision continued, and I went and laid down my body in the ground, and my spirit left this tabernacle. Then I traversed this continent from end to -end. I saw the Garden of Eden as it was in the beginning and as it will be restored again. It was a land filled with verdure and vegetation, and with all manner of fruits, on which man was living. I saw it filled with cities, towns and villages, and people happy, living under the administration of divine providence. It was a Garden of Eden in very deed. 

Now, all this I saw while I was sleeping, and it was so impressed upon me that it can never be forgotten. I saw that this was the result of the Latterday Saints coming to these valleys of the mountains and following the direction that the Prophet Joseph indicated. I could tell a long story about this matter if I had the time to do it, but it is not best that I should. I wish, however, to make the statement distainctly, that this coming to the mounains of the Saints of God and establishing themselves here was under the special direction of the Prophet Joseph 

Smith. Although there are those who say to the contrary, this is my testimony. The Prophet Joseph Smith had all this planned, and if he had been allowed to have had his way, I believe he might have been with us even today. 'He would certainly have gone with that company to these mountains and have located the people. I was one of that company, and I think I have the names of the rest. However, the conditions became so severe at Nauvoo that the people had to pick up and leave in a body, before there was time for this company to make the proposed exploration. .The Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were martyred in Carthage, and the mob would not let the people remain in Nauvoo. 

These are the facts in regard to this matter, and I am proud and thankful that I know of these things, and am glad that the Saints are building up these valleys of the mountains as I saw them built up in vision. If the people of God will only go on and keep His commandments, the time will >come when this whole land will be filled with towns, cities and villages, and the earth will bring forth all that is necessary for the support and sustenance of the people thereof. Amen. 

A quartet selection. "One Hundred Tears," was sung by Lottie Owen, Mabel Cooper, George D. Pyper and Horace S. Ensign. This is a composition by Prof. Evan Stephens in commemoration of the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and was splendidly rendered by these well known singers. 

BISHOP ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The honor of addressing a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is one that I very much appreciate; though I feel somewhat strange in responding to the call that has been made upon me, realizing as I do that these are occasions when the people of God assemble for the purpose of listening to their leaders, and that it is more a time for exhortation and testimony than for doctrinal discourses. Where the time is so limited, and the speakers are so many, it is not to be expected that the privilege can be extended very far. Therefore it is not one that I have anticipated; at least I did not anticipate it until notified by President Smith that he intended to call me. And this is only one of many courtesies, many acts of kindness and consideration that I have received at his hands. 

The main reason, I presume, why he has asked me to speak, is because I happen to represent, in a way, one of the general institutions of the Church. Since the opening of the year 1899 I have been connected with the Church historian's office. While 1 have not been asked to make any report, I will say that that institution, during the period of which I am qualified to speak, has kept pace with the general progress of the Church. It is not my purpose to draw any invidious comparisons between the present and the past. There is no need to do so. We all understand that the Lord's work is progressive, and that it was intended to be. It is no reflection upon the past to say that the present overtops it, that we are in advance today as a people over any former period in our history. When I express the belief that the Church of God, now presided over by President Joseph F. Smith, is in a better condition, spiritually and temporally, than ever before, I do not cast any reflection upon the Prophet Joseph Smith, who founded the Church, nor upon President Brigham Young, his worthy and lawful successor, nor upon any of the servants of God who have in turn presided over this great latter-day work. It is simply a recognition of the general principle of progress, that is inherent in the work of God, and is among the things predestined. So, also, when I say that the Historian's office is in a better condition than it has ever been, I do not cast any reflection upon the faithful services of former historians. But it gives me pleasure to testify to the wisdom, ability and energy manifested by President Anthon H. Lund, the present historian. He has watched over the institution with all the care and anxiety of a father for his favorite child. He  given it what time he could spare from his duties, as one of the First Presidency. He has come early and remained late, and has put in more hours of willing and cheerful toil than any of his subordinates. I attribute much of the present good condition of the office to him and to those who have directed his labors. 

I wish I could say all that is in my heart to say. I wish I could utter the thoughts that arise in me as I gaze upon this great congregation. I see men and women from the north, from the south, from the east, and from the west, assembled here for the purpose of being instructed, counseled, strengthened and renewed, that they may goforth from this conference with the spirit of it upon them and within them, to carry the same to the remotest parts of the Church. While contemplating the scene I have mentally compared this multitude to the waters of the ocean, that are taken up into the clouds and sprinkled over the earth, to moisten and refresh the dry places; rivulets becoming streams, streams flowing into rivers, and the waters, through the rivers, finding their way back to the ocean. Why do they continually thus return? Why this eternal round of renewal and progression? It is because it is necessary, in the processes of nature, in the great plan of God, that it should be so. that these waters, which become stagnant and turbid by remaining too long upon the surface of the earth, may be cleansed, revivified, and sent forth again over the face of the globe, to make it bloom with verdure and blossom with beauty. As often as they are scattered, they are gathered again, to pass through the bosom of the "selfpurifying, unpolluted sea." 

It seems to me that we can learn something from this lesson, written by the God of nature in the great book of nature. The Latter-day Saints are gathered together periodically in general conference. "My people shall meet tcgether often," the Lord says, to partake of the sacrament, to receive instruction, to be reminded of their du as Saints, and to have their spiritual strength renewed. When the call goes forth from the First Presidency, "Come to the general conference," it is the duty of the Saints not only in Utah, but also in Idaho, Arizona, in Canada, in Mexico, and throughout the intervening region, to lay aside their everyday labors, and come, as many as possibly can, to these gatherings of God's people, where the stagnant waters of their souls may be purified and set in motion, where they may receive new strength, new energy, and go hence to moisten with the Spirit they here imbibe the dry and barren places; to stir up the people of Gcd, rouse the indifferent, reform the erring, and bless all with whom they come in contact, by imparting to them the good things they have here obtained. "Freely ye have received, freely give.". 

What has been the purpose of the scattering and the gathering of the House of Israel? What is the significance of sending into the world a chosen race of spirits, called upon earth the children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but known to us to have been the children of God before Abraham was born? They were chosen in the heavens, before they came in the flesh, and were sent forth from the presence cf God with a mission. We who call ourselves Latter-day S'aints are a branch of the house of Israel, gathered out from among the Gentiles; we are a portion of that martyred nation, chosen of God and sent upon earth to suffer and endure for His sake and for the sake of all mankind; to bear the oracles of God, and be His representatives in the midst of the human race. Read what Moses says in the eighth verse of the 32nd chapter of Deuteronomy, if you doubt that Israel had an existence before the earthly days of Father Abraham. The passage runs as follows: 'When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set tiie bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel." This was before  birth of Abraham. The Lord had nations upon the earth before that time, and he set their bounds according to the number of the children of Israel . What does this mean, if not that Israel was a pre-existent race, ordained before the world was to p*erform the great and important mission that has rested upon them all down the ages, and a portion of which is now being performed by the Latter-day Saints, the gathered children of Ephra im. 

If this be true of the whole house of Israel, how much more true of those mighty ones who have risen in the midst of the people of God, who have been called to be His prophets and apostles, His spiritual ministers to mankind? If it be true of the Latterday Saints as a body, how much more true of those whom we sustain as our leaders? What should be our conduct towards them I know what the Prophet Joseph said: "Brethren, in all your kickings and flounderings, see to. it that you do not betray the servants of God; there is no sin that can be compared to it.' "Touch not mine anointed, do my prophets no harm,' 'is the warning word of the Lord that has ccme down through the centuries. A great lesson is taught, - one that all men would do well to heed, in the Savior's description of the last judgment: 

"When the Son of man shall come inhis glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall He sit upon the throne of his glory: 

"And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: 

And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 

"Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 

"For I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: 

"Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 

'"Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? 

"When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? 

"Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 

"And the King shall answer and say tinto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 

"Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: 

"For I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: 

"I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 

"Then shall they also answer him. saying, Lord,- when saw we thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? 

"Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. 

"And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal"— Matthew 25: 31-46. 

I learn from these solemn words that God will judge the world by this standard: "How have you treated my servants?" I say it to the friends of these men who sit upon this stand, and I say it to their foes: How will you stand the issue when this test is applied, Inasmuch as ye did it, or did it not, unto these my servants, ye did it, or did it not, unto me? 

I bear my testimony that these are indeed the servants of God. I do not need to laud the virtues of President Joseph F. Smith; that has been well done already. But I can say Amen to all that has been said. He knows what I think of him. He knows that I love and honor him and he knows too, I trust, that I do not love and honor him simply because he has been good and kind to me. I love and honor him because God loves and honors him. I hold it to be my duty to sustain any man whom God has chosen to fill any position in His Church, whether that man loves me or loves me not. That has nothing to do with the principle involved. I must be loyal, independently  anyone 's feelings toward me. Doctor Bernhisel was a great friend of the Prophet Joseph. He lived with him in the Mansion House at Nauvoo, and whenever the Prophet came into the dining room, if the doctor was there first, he would arise and remain standing until the Prophet had taken his seat. Joseph asked him why he did this, for he sometimes felt embarrassed by it. The answer was immortal: "Brother Joseph, I love to honor the man whom God has honored." That is the principle upon which we should love these men who stand at our head — because God has honored them, and they are His servants. It does not matter whether they love us or not (though I believe they do); they are the Lord's servants, and it is our duty to stand by them, to defend them, and to lay down our lives for them if necessary. 

I have a testimony that President Joseph F. Smith is the right man in the right place; and this not because he is the nephew of the Prophet Joseph Smith, or the son of the martyred Hyrum Smith. It is in his own right that he presides over this people. He is God's man, and has been chosen upon his own merits to hold this exalted position. That is my conviction; and the same with regard to his Counselors, and the Twelve Apostles, and all the leaders of the Church. No mistakes are ever made in the selection of such men. When the servants of Go I, filled with the Holy Gkost, nominate a man, and the Holy Ghost in the hearts of the people testifies that that is the choice or God, it is His choice. It is impossible for a mistake to be made. Every man that has been called to preside over this- Church, or to stand among the leaders thereof, has been pointed out by the finger of God. There was no possibility of a mistake, for the Spirit of Truth does not lie. These men come ti> the earth with the mission upon them to be prophets, apostles, ministers of life and salvation. They were chosen before the world was to hold these positions; and they were eligible for thes> offices; it does not matter what their names are here. 

I believe with all my heart that when men are chosen to be servants of God, it is because of their own worth and integrity, and not because of their names and connections. I remember hearing a brother say that he thought his promotion in the Church was due to the fact that his father, or grandfather, who had passed behind the veil, had exerted an influence for him .there. That may be. but I do not believe it was the main reason. The teachings of the Prophet Alma, in the Book of Mormon, give the real reason why men are chosen to bear the Holy Priesthood. They were ordained, he soys, to these sacred offices and callings, by the Lord God, "that thereby the people might know in what manner to look forward to his Son for redemption. And this is the manner after which they were ordained: being called and prepared from the foundation of the world, according to the foreknowledge of God, on account of their exceeding faith and good works; in the first place being left to choose good or evil; therefore they, having chosen good, and exercising exceeding great faith, are called with a holy calling." That, I believe, is the principle upon which these men were chosen. They came into the world with the ordination of God upon their heads; and there are others who have been ordained in like manner. High Priests after the Order of Melchisedek, though it may never be. theirs to sit among the leaders of Israel. But they are numbered with those whose mission it is to follow the Lamb wheresoever He goeth, and they are here to help prepare the way before the glorious coming of the Son of God. 

It is said that without the Melchisedek Priesthood no man can look upon the face of God and live. And yet, Joseph Smith, when a boy of fourteen years, gazed upon the Father and the Son, and it was nine years before he held the Priesthood in the flesh. I once asked President Lorenzo Snow concerning this matter: "Why is it, if a man without the Melchisedek Priesthood cannot look upon God's face and live, that Joseph Smith could see the Father and the Son, and live, when he held no  at all?" President Snow replied: "Joseph did hold the priesthood; he came with it into the world." I believed it before he said it, but I wanted him to say it first. Joseph Smith, asmuch as any Prophet that ever lived, was ordained a prophet before he cam? into this mortal life. He held the Melchisedek priesthood in the spirit, when he came here, or he could never hav? received what he did from God. And these men who have followed in hi& footsteps are spirits of the same class. The Prophet Joseph declared that every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of this earth, was ordained to that very purpose before the world was. 

Then I ask you again, brethren and sisters, can you afford to treat lightly these men, these representatives of God, these ambassadors from the courts of heaven? And I say to those who are attacking them and assailing them, In what plight will you stand, at the day of judgment, when it is said unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these, my servants, ye did it unto me? Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. (Closing Address.) 

Love, goodwill, and devotion manifest by the people.— Blessings pronounced upon all the faithful, Priesthood and Saints.— Words of blessing, commendation, and encouragement for the singers, their leader, the organist, etc. — The Apostles, Patriarch, and veteran workers for Zion blessed.— Earnest prayer for mercy upon his slanderers and enemies of the Church— Appeal to the Saints to be living witnesses, that "Mormonism" is God's work. 

I desire, very briefly, as tne time is already spent, on behalf of myself and my counselors, and alsu on Denalf of the Quorum of the Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, the Presiding Bishopric and others of the g=aerai .tutnorities of the Church represented at this conference, to offer to juu, ye men and women of Israel. ~ur most sincere thanks and gratitude, both to you and to our Father iii neaven, for your prompt, faithful and numerous attendance at this conierence, for the splendid spirit you have manifested, for the union that has characterized all our assemblies, for tne iuve and goodwill shown by an who ncive met here in the name of the Loiu; and I say, in the name of the i^ord, ue ye blessed, in your basket ana in your store, in your outgoing and in your incoming, in the labor of your hands and in the labor of your minds, ana in your prayers and your devotion to tne cause of Zion. May the Spirit and power and light of the living God shine upon you, and move you to acts ul rignteousness, of truth, of union, or strengtn and of power in the Priescnood of God which you hold, and wnicn blessings have been pronounced upon you in sacred places by those wno n^d the keys and authority to biess on earth and you will be blessed in neaven, to bind on earth and it will be bouna in heaven, and to loose on earth and it will be loosed in heaven. God ble»a y;j. These mighty men who sit before tms stand, clothed with power ircm Aimlghty God, they are not self-called. They have not been chosen by ma.i. They have not chosen themselves. But they have been called by the power of the Almighty to stand in high places in the Church Of Jesus Christ of Latter-nay Saints, as Presidents, as fathers to tne people, as counselors, as judges, and as leaders, walking in the way that the people of God should lonow them into all truth and into the possession of greater light, greater power and wisdom and understanding. God bless you, my brethren. And while you stand unite'}, as you have stood in the past, and as you have manifested your union here during this conference, so God will magnify you before your flocks and in the midst of your people, ana win increase your power and your strengtn to do gcod and to accomplish His j 'u poses, until you shall be satisfied witn yo'ir laDors and have exceeding great joy tnerein; and your peopie win rise up and call you blessed, tney win pray for you and sustain you by their faith and good works. Let us go nome strengthened, built up, encouraged, and more determined than ever oetore to serve God and Him obey. No matter what the  thinks or anybody says, let us do our duty; and in the language of Joshua let us sav, "as tor me and my house, we will serve tiod." Let this be the sentiment oi every heart represented at this vast conference. 

In behalf of you who are assembled here, my brethren ana sisters, i desire to extend thanks and gratitude to Evan Stephens — a man gifted of God, talented m music, in poetry and m song, and above and oeyonu an mat, a man gifted with humility and with faith in the Gospel of Jesus jurist; who is not only diligent in nis labors here with this great choir, but wno is faithful in his soul to the cause of Zion. He bears testimony to tne truth in song and praise. ± -want to say, in behalf of this vast assembly, Brother Evan Stephens, vjod bless you and keep you long in the service In which you are engaged for tne people of God and for the cause of Zion, and in behalf of this great choir. And then, in behalf of this congregation, too, 1 extend our appreciation and our gratitude to Brother John j. lVlcCielian, and his assistants. We thank God that He has given us boys and girls, born and reared in our midst, mat possess talent equal to that posses&eu oy any men or women born in the world. We will not admit that they are second to any. I thank God also, in your behalf, for this choir, wno have devoted hours, days, weeks and months, aye, and years, in the service or tne people; who have won a name mat is enviable, not only among the Latter-day Saints and the people of Utah, but a name that has extended beyond our borders to the uttermost parts of the earth. God bless you [speamng to the choir], you men and boys ot Israel and you daughters of Zion. Peace be unto you. May your voices ever ring clear auu true in the songs of pialse and tnanksgiving unto God for His mercies and kindnesses unto His people. The Lord preserve you. Be not discouraged easily. Attend to your duty, follow your file leaders, be united, and peek to make melody in the worship of Almighty God, who has gWen to you your pre voices and has put it into your hearts to labor in tne capacity of a choir for the benefit of Zion. The Lord bless you, and. He will bless you; and in the name of Israel's uoa, as a servant of the Lord, I bless you. 

Again, in my own benalf, and in behalf of my counselors, President "Winder and President Lund, I want to thank these my fellow-servants in the Apostleship. They are true men. They are honest men. They are God's servants, and I know it. I am intimate with them, I live witn mem, I labor with them, and I know their hearts and their works. Their lives are open unto me, and unto tlie living God; they are true men, and i bless them. God bless these my brethren. They are true to the Father, and 1 know that so long as they are true to Him they will be true to all the interests or His peo pie, and true to His servants, and no power can turn them from aod's cause. 

God bless and preserve m> Drother, the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. May the Lord lend unto Him the enlightening, invigorating power of the Holy Ghost, that in His administrations as a Patriarch to the peopi c he may speak the truth, and only tne truth, and that his words may be words of soberness and knowledge, \vords of comfort and consolation to tnose on whom he lays his hands, tnai they may go away from his administration blessed in very deed. 

I want to bless some of my veteran friends who are nere. j. say, God bless you, brethren. You and I have grown grey in the cause or ziion. You have ever been on tne iron tiers of danger, as protectors of the rights of the people and as protectors or the servants of the Lord trom those who would injure and do them harm. I say, God bless you, and He will biess you, and I bless you in the name of Israel's God. 

Let the Lord God have mercy upon those, that seek to nurt the cause of Zion. O God, pity the misguided, the erring, the foolish, tne unwise. Put Thy Spirit in their hearts, turn them from the error of their ways and from  follies, and bring tnem back into the way of righteousness and into Thy favor. I ask mercy lor my enemies — those that lie about me and slander me, and that speak ali maner of evil gainst me falsely. In return, a beseech God my Heavenly Fatlier to nave mercy upon them; for those who do it not knowing what tney are doing are only misguided, and those who are doing it with their eyes open certainly need, most of all, the mercy, compassion and pity of God. May God pity them. May He have mercy upon them. I would not harm nair of their head, for all I am worth m the world. I would not throw a block in tneir way to prosperity. Nc; and I beseech my brethren that they keep hands off the enemies of our people and those who are paving their own road to destruction and will not repent, who are sinning with their eyes open, who know that they are transgressing tne laws of God and villifying and lying against the servants of the Lord. Have mercy upon them. Do not touch them; for that is just what they would like. Let them alone. Let them go. Give them the liberty of speech tnty want. Let them tell their own story, and write their own doom. We can afford it. They do not hurt us, and if it affords them any amusement, I am sure they are welcome to it. 

I feel like blessing the quorums of the Priesthood, every one of them, from the High Priests to the Deacons. I pray God, my Heavenly Father to remember them in their organizations, to help them, that they may magnify the Priesthood they hold and do the will of the Father; that the Seventies may be minute men, instant in season and out of season, ready and willing to respond to the calls that are made upon them to go and preach the Gospel to the world. Gather in irom the Elders quorums those who have proven themselves, worthy and who nave gained experience, and make Seventies of them, so that the quorum of the Seventies may be replenished; and the aged ones, whose physical condition will not permit them any longer to do missionary duty in the world, let them be ordained High Priests and Patriarchs, to bless the people and to minister at home. Gather in the strong, the vigorous, tne young, the able-bodied, who have the spirit of the Gospel in their Hearts, to fill ud the ranks of the Seventies, that we may have ministers to preacn the Gospel to the world. They are needed. We cannot now meet the demand. 

I feel like blessing the auxiliary organizations, which are so powerful in wielding influences for good among the youth of Zion. May the Lord bless them, one and all, and make them to continue to be useful in their callings, that they may be abie to magnify them in honor before God in all the world. Peace be unto those that preside in all these organizations, that they may be equal to the duties tnat devolve upon them. 

God bless you all. xvlay peace abound with you. Let this assembly of His people come up as a witness unto God and unto the world tnat "Mormonism" is a living, moving entity; that it is not dead nor sleeping, but that it is alive and awake, growing and advancing in the land; and let the world know it. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "When Thou Comest to the Judgment," Sister Lizzie T. Edward rendering the soloparts beautifully. 

Benediction was pronounced by President John R. Winder. 

The conference adjourned for six months. 