Second Overflow
08 10 1905



ELDER THOMAS E. BASSETT. 

(President of Fremont Stake.) My heart is filled with joy, my dear brethren and sisters, at witnessing the wonderful success, the very large attendance and the moat excellent spirit that has prevailed at this conference. Never, in my experience in this church, have I felt that the subjects treated upon have been more timely than they have been at the meetings of this conference. Seeing the very large attendance assures me forcibly that the evil speaking and comments derogatory to the character of our leaders, that are being indulged in by our opponents, are beneficial, bringing this people together, and demonstrating to the whole world that we are true to each other. We do not fully realize the love and affection that is down deep in the hearts of this people, toward each other and toward our leaders, until we are attacked. Then are manifested those ties of affection and love that bind our hearts together, and make us one in Christ Jesus, more than family ties. I thank my Heavenly Father for this feeling that we have in our hearts toward each other and toward our leaders, the kind and generous feeling that we enjoy when we are in the discharge of our duties. I appreciate that as much as any other blessing I have ever enjoyed. There is no joy that can come to the human heart, there is no blessing that is more appreciated, no feeling more  than the love that characterizes every true Latter-day Saint. Our Savior said that the first great commandment was, "Thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, with all thy heart, with all they might, mind and strength; and the second commandment is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Upon these two great commandments hang all the law and the prophets." I have often been impressed with the fact that it would be extremely easy for us to perform every duty that is required of us, as Latterday Saints, if we really possessed that love to the extent that we should. Of all the 'duties of the Gospel, all the requirements that are made of us, whether it be to contribute our mites for the support of the poor, for the erection of meetinghouses, or institutions of learning for our young people, for the sending of missionaries abroad to the nations of the earth to preach the Gospel, or whether it be the sacrifice of our homes and all that we possess on earth — all these things would be cheerfully given did we but love the Lord, our God, with all our mind, might and strength and our neighbor as ourselves. There would be little need of admonishing the people to attend to their prayers; and little need of admonishing them to pay their tithes and offerings, and attend their meetings and to do other things that are incumbent upon Latter-day Saints. 

The burden of the instructions during this conference has been to the Latter-day Saints to banish from our hearts all feelings of animosity, bitterness, hate and enmity that we may entertain toward any one. If we do not forgive our brother his trespasses there remains in us the greater sin. The object of the Gospel is to build up, to benefit, to strengthen and to bless and comfort the human family. That is our mission, we are here to do good, we are here to build up, we are here to extend a helping hand to any brother or sister who is oppressed, to reach out the hand of kindness to each other, to be forgiving. 

"We are all full of weaknesses, faults of mortality, there are none of us that  perfect. There is not one within the sound of my voice this afternoon that has not transgressed to a greater or less extent during his life. When we are inclined to find fault with our brother or sister, let us investigate our own soul and it is probable we will then find more fault with ourselves than we can with our brethren and sisters. 

Another admonition of the prophet of the Lord to this people for several years has been to get out of debt. These two points, as they have impressed me during this conference, have been sufficient to repay me for the time and means I have spent in coming something more than 200 miles to attend this conference. I sincerely hope that these two great principles, the importance of the Latter-day Saints loving each other, being true to each other, standing (shoulder to shoulder, extending the hand of kindness to each other, and the other great principle that has been advocated, to get out of debt — I sincerely trust that these two great topics, may burn down deep into the heart of every person who has attended this conference. 

It was a source of regret to listen to the statement of one of our brethren yesterday who rather questioned whether the Latter-day Saints were any more out of debt today than they were when the Prophet Joseph F. Smith gave this counsel two or three years ago. If we have not profited by this admonition, the responsibility rests upon our shoulders, for it has certainly come to us in no unmistakable terms, as being the mind and will of our Heavenly Father. If we continue to remain in that condition, without lifting the obligations that are resting upon our shoulders, we t shall have to stand the consequences. The day may come that the people will be urgently required to pay their obligations to those that they are in debt to, and perhaps have their hemes and farms sold in consequence. It would be a fearful thing, brothers and sisters, to contemplate that, in the face of this good and wholesome counsel coming from men whom we revere as inspired of our Heavenly Father. I hope that we will feel the importance of this, my brothers and sisters. Latter-day Saints should not be obligated to the people of the world. Our Heavenly Father has said to Israel that they should be lenders and not borrowers. Every good and perfect blessing that can come to mortal man is the right of every Latter-day Saint to enjoy. All the wealth and riches of this earth, and all other blessings that our Heavenly Father has vouchsafed, the Latter-day Saints are entitled to through faithfulness. I do not know of any greater trouble or vexation that can come to the human heart than to be burdened with a load of debt. To be thoroughly miserable a man needs only to obligate himself, to become involved in debt. If we want to bi happy let us extricate ourselves from this bon.dage. Let us be a free people, as our Heavenly Father has designed that we should be. He has established us here, in the midst of these rocky mountains, for a wise and glorious purpose, in fulfilment of utterances of the prophets made many hundreds of years ago. He designs to make us a great people. Let us be true to each other, and true to our file leaders, which I feel sure we will be. We will be true to our brethren who are called to lead us. We know they are men of God; we know they are humble, and that they do not seek to aggrandize themselves at the expense of their fellows, notwithstanding all the hard things that are said against them by those who are seeking to tear them down. 

I bear testimony to you that I know this is the work of God; I know that our Heavenly Father has a watchful eye over this people, and all we need to do is to remain true to the covenants we have made with Him, and He will sustain us. May God be with you, and bless you. my brothers and sisters. May love abound in your homes, at your firesides, in your gatherings; may the peace of heaven be with us all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER OLEEN L. STOHL, (President of Boxelder Stake.) My brothers and sisters, I most humbly desire that what I shall say to you this afternoon may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord. I have very much rejoiced in being permitted to attend this general conference of the Church; and, beginning with the first meeting and continuing to the present time, I have felt that it was never my privilege to attend a conference of the Church, where I experienced a greater outpouring of the power of God than I have done in this. We frequently hear it stated by our brethren and sisters who attend these conferences that the last conference is always the best. I believe we can testify to that truthfully, in the case of this conference; and I believe further, thai this is just as it should be. If the Latter-day Saints are living their religion, as God has required of us that we should, we will be entitled to increased outpourings of His Spirit; consequently each conference we attend will appear to be the best. I have thought that I never witnessed more enthusiasm, nor did I ever notice a more hearty vote for the authorities of our Church than that which was manifest in sustaining them at the conference meeting on last Friday afternoon. It was gratifying to me to see that, when our file leaders are attacked, the rank and file of the Latter-day Saints are ready to resent those attacks by showing to their leaders their loyal support for them. They also must feelgratified in seeing the loyalty, and enthusiasm with which the Latter-day Saints have come to this conference and taken part in its proceedings. I am thankful that I can say that I was born in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, that I was born here in the valleys of the mountains. Under tho direction of my parents, it has been my privilege to attend the conferences and meetings which have been held in the locality where I have lived. I have had great interest in reflecting over my past life, and my experiences in connection with this Church, and in considering  which I have heard come from our leaders. It was my privilege to listen to President Brigham Young instruct the Latter-day Saints, and, though I was only a boy, I remember very distinctly a number of the discourses I heard him deliver, and the counsel I heard him give to the Latter-day Saints. Since that time I have heard all of the leaders of the Church, the presidents of the Church, and the Apostles that were associated with them, instruct the Latter-day Saints. I say to you, my brothers and sisters, that during my entire lifetime and experience-, I never heard one of those brethren enunciate a doctrine unto the people, that was in any degree degrading, or that, in any respect, would tend to lower the manhood or womanhood of any son or daughter of God. On the other hand, I testify to you, sincerely, that everything I have heard them teach, the principles they have brought before the people, the counsels they have given, have been of a nature to uplift the sons and daughters of God, if they would live in accordance with them. I feel to say, thank God for the men who have stood at the head of this Church, for the leaders whom He has raised up to direct this people*. I do not know that there is any greater evidence of the divinity of their work than that which we see at the present time. There never was a time in the history of the Church when it was stronger than it is today; and I believe there never was a time in the Church when we experienced more of the power of God in it than we do today. 

I am pleased to say to you that, in the stake where I have the honor to preside. I have never seen a time when the presidency and the High Council of that stake were more united, or more anxious to perform their duties than they are today, anxious to labor among the people, anxious to do their duty and direct in the affairs of that part of the Lord's vineyard. I have been well pleased in noticing, during the recent month or two ,the great interest manifest in the opening of our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement . "We have never before seen such devotedness and zeal manifest as we have observed during the opening of this season's work. We hope and expect, to see the same earnestness in relation to the young men's M. I. associations when they begin their work, and so also with the quorums of the Priesthood. Now, this all shows to me that there is faith among the Latter-day Saints, they are not dead, they are not waning from their first love of the Gospel, but that it still burns in their hearts, and they are desirous and anxious to do all that lies in their power to perform their duty in building up the kingdom of God. How is it that we occupy this position today, that we are stronger than we ever were before? I bear my testimony that it is because God has raised up great and good men as our leaders, who have been inspired by His Spirit to lead and direct the Latter-day Saints in the way that they should go, and because of our obedience to their teachings and instructions, we have attained the growth and strength that we now witness and enjoy in the Church. 

How inconsistent it is, my brothers and sisters, for our enemies to say to the body of the Church, "You are all right, you people are all right; those who are wrong are the leaders of the Church. It is that body of men we are after, that we desire to pull down, because they have transgressed; but you are going in. the right path, everything is well with you; the leaders are the ones that have stepped to one side." How ridiculous and inconsistent it is for anybody to make that kind of statement. We are what we are today, as the body of the Church, because we have accepted the counsels and teachings of our leaders; and, if we had only lived closer to their councils and teachings, as a Church, we would have been much stronger today even than we are. I say to you that if we will continue in the future to abide by their counsels we will become a strong and mighty people. I am thankful for the testimony I have in relation to the divinity of this work, and for the standing I have in the Church of Christ today; and I feel that this is something every Latter-day Saint must appreciate. We certainly must admit that the Church has been a great blessing to us and that through our allegiance to that Church, and affiliation with it. we have received many great and wonderful blessings. We know that those who are living their religion today in this Church, and who are endeavoring to keep the commandments of God, are not the disgruntled ones, they are not the ones who are complaining about the authorities of the Church. We find that those who are making complaints, and expressing dissatisfaction are those who have not kept the counsels and admonitions of God that have come to the people through our leaders. Nor are they the ones who have lived in accordance with the Gospel as it has been made known to us. 

We know, those of us who have obeyed the doctrine, that great blessings come to us through obedience to the law of tithing. In connection with this I say it is not they who pay their tithes who are complaining today in relation to the principle of tithing. It is not they who are fearful as to the handling of their tithing, of as to whether it is properly distributed or not. You will find, upon investigation, that those who are finding fault, who are making these complaints, are those who fail to pay their tithes. I believe this principle is attacked because our enemies think they can have more influence with some of the weak members of the Church. They have an idea that if you attack or touch the pocket of a man, you can appe'al to him by virtue of that supposed fact and may thus succeed in turning hint away from the church, and get him to refuse to lend his support. Those who have tested this principle, who have proven this doctrine, will not be influenced by that sophistry. That kind of argument will not appeal to them, because they have proven the doctrine for themselves; they know that it is true, and that blessings are poured out in obedience to that principle, as God ha? promised that they would be. They arci blessed, not only in a spiritual way, but  are also blessed temporally. They are satisfied and contented, and acknowledge to their Father that they have been built up spiritually and temporally through obedience to that law; not only by the observance of that law but every other law pertaining to the Gospel of Jesus Christ as we have accepted it. If we will thus prove the doctrine, brethren and sisters, put it to the test, we will never apostatize from the Church. They who apostatize and leave the Church are they who have failed to prove the doctrine, and who have not got faith in it. We may increase our faith by putting these principles into daily practice, thus testing them, and finding out for ourselves whether they are true or not. I testify to you, that my experience, short as it has been in the Church, is this, that whenever I have obeyed a principle of the gospel and put it to the test, I have never had any doubt in my mind in relation to the divinity of that principle. These principles are divine, and eternal, and if you practice them in humility, in accordance with the spirit of the Gospel, you will have a testimony of the divinity of the work. 

As I said before I thank God for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I thank God that I am permitted to live in the day and dispensation of the world when He raised up a prophet, and when He and His Son came to earth, and visited and did commune with that boy, and counseled and instructed him, and continued to instruct him until the result was the complete organization of the Church. I thank God for this, my brethren and sisters, and for the testimony I have that I know this is the work of God. Let us progress, let us be faithful, upright and God-fearing in that which we have to do. Let us serve the Lord. Let us uphold one another and the authorities who preside over us. I feel that when a man attacks the President of this Church he attacks me. I feel that when President Joseph F. Smith is villified and belittled by those who are our enemies, I also am attacked and belittled, and they are trying to besmirch my character, for the reason that I am inELDER NEPHI 

strumental, as one of the members of the Church, in helping to support and sustain President Joseph F. Smith in his position. And I feel that when he Is attacked, it is my duty, and it is your duty— or when any of his brethren are attacked, who stand close to him— it is our duty, as supporters, who have held up our hands to sustain them in positions they occupy, to lift up our voices in their defense. May the peace and blessing's of heaven continue to abide with us, as Latter-day Saints; may we have strength to perform our duties; if we will do so there never will be a time in the Church but what greater blessings and greater things than we have yet experienced will be poured out upon us. And that this blessing may follow in our behalf I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang, "S'peak to My Soul." 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS, (President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

At the conclusion of each meeting of this conference I have felt in my heart a deep sense of gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the personal assurance he has given me of His presence with the Saints in this great conference. I don't know that the Church ever saw more splendid exhibitions of unity, perfect harmony of feeling, a more magnificent display of priestly influence than that which has been exhibited during this conference. The days of small things are past. The Kingdom of God shall not again be reduced to anything like its infancy; year by year we see it moving onward, increasing in strength and power, increasing in intelligence and in the virtues of the Gospel, until it has become a light unto the world placed upon a hill top, and it cannot be hid. No matter what circumstances may surround the Church, no matter what attitude the world may maintain toward it, no matter how devoutly some work for its destruction, all the world must admit that "Mormonism" is moving steadily onward in the face of the opposition of the world. 

I rejoice in this exhibition of power and progressiveness, because the work 

L. MORRIS. 77 

of God is dear to me. and is, in fact, the dearest thing I know. There is nothing on earth which has from me such reverence, such an abiding confidence, as this latter-day work. 

I can easily conceive of institutions of 'the earth going to pieces, of na-. tions falling, of races being annihilated or absorbed by greater nations. But it is not within the scope of my mentaility to conceive of the destruction and annihilation of the work of God. Where that conviction or that feeling comes from, I leave you to judge. Whether it be from a steady growth of faith, from tradition or parental teachings, I am not, perhaps, prepared to say definitely. But there appears to me to be nothing on earth so strong, and so abiding, and so certain of triumph as the work of God. This too in the face of all the predictions that aremade to the contrary. 

The remarks of Elder Stohl regarding the compliment which is paid by our friends, the enemy, to the Latter-day Saints as a people, wherein they say, "we have nothing against you Mormon people; in fact you are a very good people; you are industrious, you arehonorable; you are, indeed, a good people; but your leaders are bad!" What a silly piece of sophistry this is. "Your leaders are bad, but you are good." Do you pluck grapes from thistles? Where do these leaders come from, are they not the fruit and the product of the people? When we desire to install one in any quorum to preside, do we go outside of the Church to find him? Invariably they are taken from the rank and file of the priesthood, from the people, and they are the fruit, the outgrowth of the people. What gives me great encouragement is that the people and the leaders are one, and that the people are like the leaders; if the leaders are corrupt and bad, then so are the people. If the people are good, then so are the leaders, they are the same kith and kin. The same spirit characterizes them that characterizes the people as a whole. What finer compliment could be paid to men than to say, that the great body of industrious, honest people known as the Latter-day Saints have unlimited confidence in their leaders? This is the compliment which the opposition pay to the leaders, when they say they are bad, for the people, four hundred thousand strong, represented By leading men from every ward and quorum in Zion, assemble and lift their hands, 10,000 strong, to support those leaders whom the world say are corrupt. I wonder if as much could be said of the leaders of the opposition, if there are people who have confidence in them to trust their tithes, and if necessary their lives, in the hands of those leaders? From my personal acquaintanceship with some of these men, I doubt if anybody on earth has confidence in them; I know I have not. I have traveled with them, corresponded with them, conversed with them, and have had business associations with some of them for years, but I have absolutely no confidence in them, and I know whereof I speak. Among us things are altogether different. It is the most inconsistent proposition I ever heard made that a people have bad leaders when those leaders are taken from and out of the people. Now to a stranger, and perhaps to some of our old members, these compliments which we pay to ourselves may be a little offensive. I admit we might go to the extreme in defending ourselves, but we must not forget, my brethren and sisters, that we are put on the defensive. The war which is waged against the Latter-day Saints compels them to speak in their own defense, or they stand condemned in silence; and since it is their right to speak no one can object to their speaking if they wish to. We do not look upon our leaders as being without blemish and perfect. We know they have weaknesses, and for their weaknesses we have sympathy and charity, because like weaknesses exist in us. If the leaders and the people were perfect there would be no use for the Gospel, so far as we are concerned, for the Gospel is the power of God unto perfection, or salvation. It is a means  an end. and it has imperfect beings to deal with, and that is why we have the Gospel to correct our evils and improve our lives. We do not admit, however, that the leaders of our people, or that the people themselves, are in the slightest degree below the average of Christian morality and discipleship. I was thinking while the brethren were speaking of a familiar passage found in the Gospel according to St. Matthew. Thej' are a few of the sentences which fell from the Savior's lips while delivering His great sermon on the mount. Let me read three verses: 

"Blessed are thev which are persecuted for righteousness sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." 

"Blessed are ye when men revile you, and persecute you." Have we not been taught throughout this conference, and throughout our lives for that matter, the principles of forgiveness and charity and loving kindness? If the world did not persecute us and revile us we would have nothing to forgive, and we would suffer a great loss if we had no one to offend or oppose us. "Blessed are ye when men persecute you," because you then may exercise the highest virtues in the human soul, the virtues of forgiveness and charity. Our blessed Savior, the man of sorrows, came to earth to teach us how to live that we might live more abundantly, that life might be made large and beautiful in its nature, that it might be progressive in its course; and His life above all other lives teaches us the sublime principle of forgiveness. He, however, was not always meek and submissive. Not always did he seem to allow evil and sin and iniquity to pass by unrebuked. Sometimes His soul was stirred to indignation, and in nobility, yea sublimity of character did he denounce  hypocrite, and all who loved iniquity and unrighteousness, calling them hypocrites who garnished the ^sepulchres and so on, made the external look clean and white and beautiful, but within they were full of dead men's bones, and their hearts were corrupt and their inner lives unholy. They were not what they seemed or professed to be. But as we reach the climax in His sublime career, I fancy He almost needed this quality of denunciation and rebuke, and in the Garden of Gethsemene, on Golgotha's hill, He opened not His mouth but to utter the sublime words which made Him very God, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do." This is no doubt the highest ideal ever given to the world, and every true disciple of Christ must strive to attain to that beautiful holy type of discipleship, to forgive when offended, to be longsuffering and charitable, not only with offending brothers, but with the- enemies who avow their wrath and hatred for you. Then in this light, for a moment, contemplate the unique position which the Latter-day Saints occupy in this world. Where is there such a people-, who have an opportunity of forgiving and blessing those who revile and who would persecute. There is only one thing upon which the Christian world are united, and that is in persecuting and denouncing the Latterday Saints. The love of God has been unable to unite the Christian world for two thousand years, but the hate of the work of Christ has at last united them. Now, this is rathe-r strange doctrine, but that is how it appears to a Latter-day Saint, and we claim the right to speak as we feel, so long as we respect other people in the same capacity. 

I am reminded of an incident, or rather of a few remarks made by President Smith not many moths ago, during the recent tirade of slander, of which he has been the extreme object. He came into a convention of Sunday school workers, was weary and exhausted from his day's toil, but was asked to speak to the convention, and  his address he gave expression to these thoughts, these feelings, rather: "To answer our enemies in the same angry spirit with which they attack us, would be to take the soison of the adder into our own hearts, and thereby debase ourselves to their level. It is better for us to say, 'Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.' But," he added, "I know that they do know what they are doing." Now, President Smith (since we are not in his preesnce, we may speak freely of him, for among the other virtues which he possesses is the virtue of modesty, and in his presence I should not feel free to sneak of him in this light); knowing him to some degree at least as I do, I thought I saw in such an expression as this a splendid triumph in his character, for he is not a man like our friends cut in alabaster; he is a man whose blood is warm within, filled with impulses, passions, strong in intent in his nature-, and after he had endured the most furious assault which had been made, carried on for months together, he could arise in public and speak with such meekness of spirit, I thought what a splendid victory he has gained over himself. How blessed is he in being able to say, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do," and he would not debase himself to answer back in the same angry spirit which characterized the assault made upon him. And then, as this is his experience, so it is the experience of every Latter-day Saint, for we are one, and we- all have similar splendid opportunities of exhibiting these true marks of discipleship, forgiveness and charity. 

There is still another phase of this opposition which is developing quite a philosophy among us, the philosophy concerning opposition, for the. Book of Mormon has told us that there must be opposition in all things. We begin to appreciate the benefits of opposition. We now see that the curse that seeming curse, which was pronounced upon Father Adam and Mother Eve, was a blessing in disguise, and today the disguise is removed and we see it plainly. The. Lord, when He cast Adam and Eve out of the Garden of Eden, told them to subdue the earth and conquer it, and have dominion. That was no curse. That was the greatest blessing which ever came, to the human race, when He told them to get to work, to conquer and subdue the earth, He showed them the pathway to dominion, to sovereignty, to power. What a splendid journey mankind has traveled from that day to this! How the earth is his, and serves his purpose; how the beasts of the field and all the creatures of the earth are a service to man, because he has conquered the earth and made it his. So down through all the vicissitudes of human life, opposition, resistance has been a cause of development in men of powers and faculties which they would not have known had it not been for this opposition. Does not the eagle dash his beak harshly on a rock before the Igneuman comes; but with the fight he takes on new life, increased powers are developed, and he is made stronger and heroic for the viscissitudes through which he has passed. In national life the same principle holds. Where will you go for your ideals as American citizens, to wMch particular period will you appeal for the highest types of American citizenship, for the finest samples of patriotism? You will not go to the long period of prosperity. You will go back to the dark days, to the crisis in national history to a Nathan Hale, or an Ethan Allen, who, when being led to the scaffold and asked if he had anything to say, his words were, "My only regret is that I have but one life to give to my country." You will go back to Washington who, with his sons at Valley Forge, faced the thrills and difficulties of adverse wintry elements, scantily clad, foraging for food, but forced his way to victorious deliverance. You will go back to the critical period of Lincoln for another ideal. And so we must always go to the dark hour, the day of adversity, to discover our real strength, and see the development of the highest principles and virtues within us. And  us as a people does not the sameprinciple hold? Since we have endured the hardships of expulsion from Missouri and Illinois we could be no more paralyzed or frightened by such things, because the work of God has triumphed over these things, and grown stronger withal. In fact, I believe we may lay down as a fundamental principle in human experience, one which history will bear out satisfactorily, that men seldom do great things voluntarily, that the greatest achievements in the world have come out of necessity. Men do things because they have to; at least that has been our experience. Locally, what has been our history in this respect. We have spoken of the increased number, the increase of territory which is occupied by our people. We speak with pleasure and pride of the vase expanse of territory occupied by the Saints of God. We point to Mexico on the south and to Canada on the north, and the splendid stretch of land between that is more or less within the domain of Mormonism. How did we happen to acquire our foothold and standing in Mexico? Not because we wanted to, but because we were compelled to, because things were uncomfortable in Utah, and we had to go to Mexico. How did we discover and acquire our foothold and promising commonwealths and prosperity in the Gem state on the north? Not because we wanted to go to Idaho, but because under peculiar existing circumstances we had to go to Idaho, and the same thing may be said of Canada as well. So that opposition and necessity have brought to us the greatest blessings we know; and if we ever move from here, in part or in whole, (I don't see how that will be) history suggests that we thereby might move another step forward because it will be conformable for us to do it. So that we have nothing to fear in opposition, but we need to rejoice and be exceeding glad because of the blessings which come to us by reason thereof. 

I am reminded of the words of the Prophet Joseph, which let me read in conclusion, because they are a source of encouragement to me, and they will be  all Latter-day Saints; and if he who had passed through the trying- ordeals that he experienced, if he could speak this way, surely we, seventy years later with all the splendid achievements passed before us, we may also echo his words. Said he: 

"No unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing. Persecution may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may vent her venom, but the truth will go forth, nobly, boldly and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished and the great Jehovah shall say the work is done." Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

Arising to speak to you at this time puts me in mind of a story I read not long ago. It was during the late war, when some soldier* were around a camp fire, trying to keep themselves from freezing to death, a preacher came along to hold services. He looked around among the soldiers, and said, "I will take for my text Chilblains." So he instructed the soldiers what to do, which was to put soft soap in their shoes, place them on their feet and wait till their feet were healed, and then he would talk to them about the Lord the next time he came. You can't talk to people when they are uneasy, not if you are like I am. You can't preach to people when they want to go home. Now if any of you want to go, please go. and the rest of us will stay till we get through. 

I am not going to announce any blood and thunder doctrine to you today. I have not been radical for four long months, not since I had appendicitis. I came very nearly being operated upon. I tho"~M I was going to die for a few hours. People said to me, "Why, brother Kimball, you needn't be afraid, you'll get justice." "Well," I said, "that is what I am afraid of." Well now, the Latter-day Saints need not get frightened; they will get justice. You have been fed on  diet during this conference, and now I will give you a little coarse food to. help you out. 

I am not exercised about the triumph of this work. I air> not lying 1 awake nights any more, wondering how the Lord is going to do it. Notwithstanding the fact that I am laboring in the Church, I don't know what the Lord wants in all things, if I did I would be willing to try and carry it out. The Lord's ways are not as man's ways, and He does thiners so differently from the way we want to do them that many of us are oftentimes surprised, and it requires constant faith to stay in this Church. I believe it is the hardest church to stay in that there is on earth, because you have always got to keep exercising faith. I remember hearing of a man that apostatized from the Church, and he was asked what was the matter. He said, "Well' I have got tired of exercising faith." That is true. Some people that called themselves Latter-day Saints would have destroyed this Church long ago if they had had the power, but they couldn't do it. I will tell you something, brethren: Don't get too much exercised about the outside people. I feel a good deal, I think, like my father did one time when he was praying. You know he was rather peculiar, and prayed in his own way. He was praying about some one, and he stopped in his prayer and laughed very heartily, and then said, "O Lord, forgive me, it makes me laugh to pray about some men." Now it makes me laugh sometimes when I think about the puny efforts of men to destroy this work, how feeble they are, and how utterly they do fail. They can't hurt the work; it is absolutely impossible. I thank the Lord I have a testimony that this is the Joseph Smith Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I love the authorities of the Church; I tell you, though, the poorest way in the world to show that you love them is to be always talking about it. I will tell you how to prove you love the authorities of the Church; help them by working for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Work like Elder Ben E. Rich and others, who have been in the missionary field for seven years without any possible hope of remuneration as far as earthly things are concerned. All they get is blessings. That is the way to manifest love for this work. The Lord told my father, when He sent him off to preach the Gospel: "Trouble not thyself about thy family, for they are in my hands, and I will see that they have fathers and mothers, brethren and sisters and friends, and they shall not want for food or raiment, if you will preach my Gospel." Now if any of you love this work devotedly, go out in the world and preach it, there are many millions of people that have never heard the Gospel. 

I don't think we need spend very much time troubling over our enemies, and I don't believe in sticking pins in them. Take no more notice of them than you would of a fice dog. One time, in the south, it was my companion's turn to ask for entertainment, and he stood on a platform nearly as high as my head, and knocked on the door; just then one of those little fice dogs bounded out the doorway, ran right between my companion's legs and landed on top of my head. That is the only time I ever was frightened by a fice dog, and I never have been frightened since. 

I say, we need not be anxious about the triumph of this work; we need not be so exercised about it that we will lay awake nights. But I tell you, every man and woman in this church should be exercised and anxious about the salvation of the souls of the children of men, and about the preaching of this Gospel. Loot at our Savior, thing of the anxiety He had for the souls of men. Just think of the sleepless nights He must have spent. I can not be converted to the idea that ihe Savior sweat great drops of blood because they were going to crucify Him. But, He so loved the souls of the children of men. and His sorrow was so great for them that He sweat great drops of blood. Now you  to get a little bit anxious, and go home and get a little healthful exercise, and not sleep too much; lie awake a little and think about this work. Now, I am not exercised about the sectarian ministers. I wish they would take a little fatherly advice from me, but they won't do it. But I wish they would take my advice, and stop making false charges against the Church authorities. Why don't they adopt the plan of the "Mormon" Church. Our Elders in California, in the Southern States, in the Eastern States, and all over the world, follow the instructions of the Prophet Joseph, a command in fact, that they should not tear down other churches. I confess I deserved a good licking quite a number of times in the south, it is so easy to tear down, and it is so difficult to build up. See what it has cost this Church; see the number of lives that have been lost in preaching the Gospel. See the hundreds of Elders that have been broken down in their constitutions, absolutely and utterly, in the Southern States. O. how I pity some of those Elders in the South, their blood is poisoned by malaria that nothing but the rower of God will ever heal them. Why. you don't realize what it costs_to build up this Church. 

I am proud of this work. I am proud of the authorities, and God being my helper. I will show my integrity to them, by following their instructions, and when they want me to go to work, to work I'll go. 

Now, brethren, the Lord bless you. You shouldn't get yourselves tied up by debt. Of these Seventies 8,000 men . I am sorry there is not more than one out of a hundred that is prepared to go on a mission, because of debt, or infirmities. When a man claims that he would lay down his life for this work, that he would place all that he has and all that the Lord has given him on the altar, and you invite him to go on a mission, you sometimes find him full of sorrow, and trouble and in debt. It is the most inconsistent thing in the world. 

Now, brethren, the Seventies are not 

OUTDOOR 

all that way; among them are a lot of aged men, too old to go on missions, it is not wise they should. These old men ought to be ordained High Priests, and allowed to labor at home. And then there are a lot of physically disabled Seventies, good faithful men; but they are not suited for missionary work, they also ought to be ordained High Priests. And I pray God that we may in time have an army of Seventies like the soldiers of the government of the United States, young, able-bodied, qualified to go to the south and to the north and all over the world. We ought to have an army of men prepared to go out and preach the Gospel, so that these brethren, presidents of missions, can have efficient and capable men to assist them. 

I believe there was a time in the history of this church when it was necessary to send all kinds of men! God magnified them, and made them marvelous; but I tell you He does not look upon ignorance now with any degree of allowance. There is no need of our Pristhood being ignorant; there is no Tieed of our Priesthood going out as ''the fishermen went out. They ought to go out well equipped and fitted for the work of the Lord as special witnesses i of Christ. I know what the Lord wants in this respect, just as well as if He gave me a direct revelation. When missionaries are wanted they should be found in the Seventies quorums instead of any other. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir tendered the anthem, "Jubilate." Benediction by Elder T. A. Clawson. 

OUTDOOR flEETING. 

Hundreds who were unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly hall, congregated in front of the Bureau of Information building, and an outdoor meeting was held there. Elder Benjamin F. Goddard presided. 

The congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." Elder Louis A. Kelsch offered prayer, after which the great throng joined in the hymn, "Now let us rejoice." 






