Afternoon
07 10 1905

NAME MISSING

Ye nations now look up. it waves to all the world; In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land. On Zion's mount behold it stand! Permanence and perpetuitv of the Church.— Its growth and development.— No hiatus in its history.— Kevs given to Joseph Smith not to be taken awav. — Organization of First Presidency.— It is not hereditary.— The work of' God 

. will continue and abide forever. 

It is a great pleasure to me to look upon this congregation. We have come here from different parts of this state and of the surrounding states and territories that we might associate as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in general conference. I feel for one that we have been well repaid for such journeyings as we have had to undertake in order to come here. The Spirit that has prevailed in this conference from the very beginning has been such as to give comfort and joy and confidence to the Latterday Saints assembled, and to increase in our souls a determination that we will serve the Lord, that we will keep His commandments, that we will sustain His servants whom He has appointed to guide and direct the affairs of His Church on earth, and that we will place ourselves in such a condition that the Lord may use us for the accomplishment of His purposes, for  upbuilding of His kingdom, for the spread of truth and righteousness, and to help prepare the way for the coming of Him whose right it is to reign over all the earth. I am sure that every person present who knows anything about the operations of the Spirit of the Lord has had a testimony in his or her heart that the Lord is with His servants, that His power attends their ministrations, and that they are really and truly engaged in the Lord's work, and 'not in the work of man alone. 

A remark made by Elder John Henry Smith, I am sure was thoroughly appreciated by those who heard him, and recommended itself to my soul, and that was, that the Lord in the latter days was to establish a kingdom that should "not be given to another people," that should not be overcome of the world but should stand forever, and it was to be given "to the people of the Saints of the Most High," and they should possess it for an everlasting kingdom. Now, we understood in the beginning, when we obeyed the Gospel of Christ and became members of this Church, that this promise was in relation to the work in which we became engaged. That it was to be different from former dispensations. That while the establishment of the Church and kingdom of God in former times was such that it was temporary and was overcome by the powers of evil — the world, the flesh and the devil, this latter-day work was to continue and abide. That it should not cease, but that it was established here permanently. We applied to ourselves the remark of the Prophet Isaiah concerning the great latter-day work, that the truth which the Lord revealed to us should "not depart from us nor from our seed, nor from our seed's seed, from henceforth, even forever." We understood that while those former dispensations only lasted for a time, and then wickedness came in like a flood and spread over the earth, that the dispensation of the fulness of times which the Lord ushered in through His servant Joseph Smith, was to continue and prevail over every power beneath the eternal heavens, to establish truth and righteousness in the earth, to overcome the powers of evil, and bring to pass the purposes of God in the establishment of His kingdom and the coming of Jesus Christ, our Lord, to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. That while in former times the powers of the world had overcome the saints, in the latter days, in the last dispensation, the people and kingdom of God were to prevail over the kingdoms of this world and the powers of darkness, until Satan and his hosts should be bound and evil should be exterminated from the earth, and righteousness should come in, and "a king should reign in righteousness and princes should rule in judgment." 

Was not this the understanding that we had in the very beginning of our career in the Church? And has not the Lord strengthened that faith in our souls by the manner in which He has caused this work to prevail and progress in the earth? When we look upon the congregations of the saints in this conference and realize the fact, repeatedly stated here, that we are only representatives of the great body of the Church located in different narts of the world, we may exclaim as one did when the telegraph line completed, "What hath God wrought!" He has brought us from afar; He has congregated us here in the mountains, in fulfillment of that which He predicted through the Prophet Joseph, that before the Lord should come "Zion should rejoice on the hills and should flourish in the mountains." Zion, that has brought good tidings, as the Prophet Isaiah predicted, has come up into the high mountain, and as he and Micah both predicted, the people of God have come from the nations afar off. They have gathered up into the heights of the mountains. They have come here "to learn the ways of the Lord and to walk in His paths." They are building the house of the Lord, as he foresaw it, "in the tops of the mountains." 

An effort has been made for some 

 past to make some of the Latter-day Saints believe that at a certain period of the Church's history there was a great hiatus, that the Church became disorganized, as it were, because Joseph the Prophet died, martyred with his brother Hyrum for the word of the Lord and the testimony of Jesus, and that because the quorum of the First Presidency was disorganized the Church was disorganized and rejected. Now, my dear brethren and sisters and friends, if that were the case, then the hopes planted in our bosoms by the power of the Spirit of God in the beginning were vain, the promises made to the Church in the start were not true. God declared that He had set up His Church upon the earth "in the last days for the last time," and that it should prevail and should not be prevailed against. The idea that the disorganization of one quorum of the holy priesthood disorganized the Church is in itself an absurdity, and might be rejected by every sensible Saint. But you know there are evil influences abroad in the earth, and different spirits have gone forth to deceive the children of men, and we who are the servants of the Lord ought to be well posted on these matters, so that we may be able to dissipate doubt and uncertainty, and explain that which may seem a little mysterious to some people who are not fully in the light, because we do not all have the same degree of faith. Certainly, I believe that the congregations that have assembled here have not the least dubiety in their minds. The spirit that has prevailed here has testified of this. The unanimity with which the servants of God who have been appointed and called to lead the people in the latter days were accepted and endorsed by the congregation, without any dissenting voice, testifies to this. But there are others who are not up to the mark, not up to the standard, and they need encouraging, and need to have things explained to them, and we should be ready to expound, explain and exhort with all long-suffering, that the faith of the saints may be confirmed, and that they may understand things as they are. 

Now, when the Lord established the Church, as you know, it was but a little thing. As one of the writers of the Book of Mormon said, "out of small things proceedeth that which is great." That has been fulfilled, so far, in the history of this Church. Yet this is only the beginning of the magnitude of the great latter-day work, which shall prevail over everything that is evil and establish the kingdom of God in all the world. When the Church was organized, only six members were present at its organization; at any rate that number took part in the legal organization of the Church, and if all those who had been baptized at that time were counted they would make a very small number. The Church gradually grew and increased. It illustrated what the Savior said in regard to the work of God. It came forth, "first the blade, and then the ear, and after that, the full corn in the ear." It is a growth, as all the works of God are, so far as we can understand. Even the worlds commenced with a nucleus, and they gradually accumulated and grew, as God ordained, until they filled the place that God had appointed. The kingdom of the latter days was to be like "the stone cut out of the mountain without hands," which was to grow and increase until it became a "great mountain and filled the whole earth." So on the 6th day of April, 1830, when the Church was formally organized, and the Prophet Joseph was accepted as the first Elder in the Church, and as a prophet, a seer and a revelator, and the people were commanded to observe all things that he brought forth by the power and Spirit of God — on that day there were not enough persons in the Church to organize it in its fulness. It was like the little blade that comes out of the ground after the seed is planted; but as the years rolled on the Church increased in numbers, and the Lord brought into use the different men and women who came into the Church, that they might be utilized for the purpose of spreading the Gospel and building  His kingdom in the latter days. The Lord foreshadowed that at a certaintime there were to be Twelve that should be ordained to hold the keys of carrying the Gps.pel to the uttermost parts of the earth. And so variousquorums and organizations were added. They grew out of that organization that the Lord established in the beginning. The germ, the form, the potency of it was right there, but it was not developed. It took time and circumstances and people to bring it into a condition that it might be fully organized according to the mind and will of the Lord. 

In the first place, the Lord gave theProphet Joseph Smith the presidency of the Church and the keys of this latterday work. The Lord tested and tried him, to see whether he would stand, before he conferred upon him the fulness of the power of the Holy Priesthood to build up His kingdom in its fulness. I will read a verse or two from the 28th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which shows how the Lord led along His servant in the beginning, and that this work was tocome forth by degrees. The Lord gavea commandment to Oliver Cowdery as early as September, 1830, that he was to speak by the Holy Ghost, and that he should have the revelations of the Lord for himself and to aid him in his teachings; but although he had been ordained an Apostle when the Prophet Joseph was ordained by Peter, James and John, he was not to command the man who stood at the head. The Lord said: 

"And thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the church; 

"For I have given him the keys of the mysteries, and the revelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto' them another in his stead." 

Here is the possibility set forth that if Joseph was not true and faithful in all things, another might be appointed in his stead; and Oliver was commanded not to counsel him or to attempt to command him, but to receive the word of the Lord as it came from him. 

In the 35th section of the Doctrine  Covenants — a revelation given to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon — the Lord said: 

"And I have given unto him the keys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed, even things which were from the foundation of the world, and the things which shall come from this time until the time of my coming, if he abide in me, and if not, another will I plant in his stead." 

This revelation was given in December, 1830. and there are two or three more of the same kind, given in the very beginning of the Church, while the Prophet Joseph was, as it were, on probation before the Lord. The Lord gave him authority and put him into positions where he could be,. tried and tested, and He said, "If he abide not in me, another will I plant in his stead." 

I will read the 2nd verse of Section 65: 

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth." 

Now I will read from the 43rd Section, verses 3 to 7: 

"And this ye shall know .assuredly that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me. 

'But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him, for if it be taken from him, he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead; 

"And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments; 

"And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me. 

"For verily I say unto you, that he that is ordained of me shall come in at the gate and be ordained as I have told you before, to teach those revelations which you have received and shall receive through him whom I have appointed." 

There is still, you will see, the opening left that if Joseph was not true and faithful and worthy of his calling, another might be appointed in his stead. But I want you to mark this point: there was not to be another appointed in his stead if he abided in the Lord. 

It was only if he transgressed and became unworthy of his calling that he should have power to appoint another. Just put that down in your minds. So if dividers declare that somebody else was appointed to take the place of the Prophet Joseph, then they announce that the Prophet did not abide in the Lord, that he transgressed, and therefore another had to be appointed in hid stead. 

In a revelation given to the Church September 11th, 1831, the Lord said: 

"I will be merciful unto you, for I have given unto you the kingdom. 

"And the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom shall not be taken from my servant Joseph Smith, Jr., through the means I have appointed, while he live:h, inasmuch as he obeyeth mine ordinances.— Doc. and Cov. Section 64, verses 4, 5. 

Here the promise was made to the Prophet Joseph Smith that he should have those keys as long as he lived, if he obeyed the commandments and ordinances of the Lord. 

Our testimony is that he lived and died a prophet of God, and that he sealed his testimony with his blood. The Lord promised that the keys should not be taken from him while he lived, inasmuch as he obeyed His ordinances, so when the Prophet Joseph was taken away, the keys were with him, as the Lord promised they should be, both in this world and in the world to come. I will read a verse from the 112th Section. The Lord says: 

"Now, I say unto you, and what I say unto you 1 say unto all the Twelve, Arise and gird up your loins, take up your cross, follow me, and feed my sheep. 

"Exalt not yourselves; rebel not against my servant Joseph, for verily I sav unto you, I am with him and my hand shall be over him; and the keys which I have given unto him, and also to youward, shall not be taken from him till I come." 

Here is the promise of the Lord, not only to the Prophet Joseph Smith, but also to the Twelve, that the keys should not be taken from the Prophet until the Lord should come: for by this time he had been tested, proved, and found worthy. As he himself said, he had been swimming in deep waters and up stream, and he had struggled against false friends and those surrounding him who professed to be his disciples, but who spoke against him and had risen up against him. ' Now the Lord said to him and to the Twelve, that the keys, which had been given first of all temporarily, as it' were, until he should be tested and proved, should abide with him until the Lord should come, and with the Twelve whom He had called and appointed. Therefore, rest your souls easy in this security, that the kingdom, as the Lord says, is given to His people. I might read to you a dozen passages from the Doctrine and Covenants showing that the kingdom was given to the Church, and it was to abide and continue. The Lord said "'I have sent my servants out to prune my vineyard for the last time, for behold this is the eleventh hour." His servants whom he had called into the vineyard were called for the last dispensation, and, He said, the keys should not be taken from the Prophet Joseph, for he had been tested and proved and found worthy before the Lord, before the angels and before the Church. They should not be taken from him and from the Twelve (that is the promise) "until I shall come, saith the Lord." So the keys were to abide with the Church from that time henceforth, until the Lord Himself should come and reign "in Zion and Jerusalem and before His ancients gloriously." As further evidence that this work was establishe l for the last time, the Lord says in the thirtieth verse of the same section: 

"For unto you (the Twelve), and those (the First Presidency) who are appointed with you, to be your counselors and your leaders, is the power of this Priesthood given, for the last days and for the last time, in the which Is the dispensation of the fulness of times." 

Here is the promise of the Lord to His servant Joseph and the Twelvn that were with him, that the keys were given unto them, and they were to hold them and exercise them, and they were given in the power of this Priesthood for the last time, in the last days, and  the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

Now, as the Church progressed, the Lord, as I before remarked, added organizations and quorums, until the Church became perfectly established. The ear came forth in its beauty and glory. The little blade had measurably disappeared. "Mormonism," as I have said, is a growth. It is not the same today as it was yesterday; for it is growing, just like the flower that puts forth its leaves and its buds, and then its blossoms. It is the same plant, but it is continually changing, according to conditions and its environment and the necessity to develop itself in its beauty and glory. So also it is in the Church. Why, we have hardly attained the full corn in the ear yet. Every man read the 107th and the 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants from beginning to end. If you do not have the book, buy one; and if you cannot buy one, borrow one. In the 107th Section the Lord reveals to the Church His Holy Priesthood— two Priesthoods, the Melchisedek and the Aaronic, which are one in reality, but divided into two branches. He says: 

"Of necessity there are presidents, or presiding offices growing out of, or appointed of or from among those who are ordained to the several offices in these two priesthoods. 

"Of the Melchisedeck Priesthood three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith and prayer of the church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the church." 

Does the Lord say there that some man is to appoint his brother, or his uncle, or his son, to preside over the Church? No. "Three presiding High Priests, chosen by the body," upheld and sustained by the vote and faith and fellowship of the Church, form the First Presidency. That is how the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ was established, by the revelation and commandment of God. That is how it has continued from that time until the present. When the Prophet Joseph was taken he had remained faithful and true, and he had  keys of the latter-day dispensation, and he has them today. And if you think that he has departed from this people, if you think that his influence and power are withdrawn from the brethren here whom God has appointed to preside over us in the Church, you are sadly mistaken. The spirit and power of Joseph are in this Church and with this Presidency. Joseph the Prophet, although he has gone from our midst, holds the keys of the last dispensation, and will hold them till the Lord comes. But there were others appointed to act in his stead, in the place he occupied in the flesh, and he still holds his priesthood and power and authority and the keys of the dispensation behind the veil. He is doing a far greater work there than he could accomplish in the flesh. He has a wider sphere of labor, and more pcwer and influence, now that the infirmities of the flesh are gone. He is clothed with thi power of the holy priesthood, and the keys thereof abide with him. And he Is with this people, for "the powers of this priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers behind the veil;" and they, united together, will prevail over every power and influence that may be brought against them. 

When the Prophet Joseph was taken, and the quorum of the First Presidency was thus dissolved, it devolved upon the Twelve. Read t this Section and you will find that the Lord gave to the Twelve authority to hold the keys, equal with the First Presidency— that is, when the First Presidency was dissolved. The quorum of the Twelve came next, and they had power to set in order all the other offices in the Church. That is part of their duty, as the Lord has commanded in this section. Therefore, the Twelve came up, with Brigham Young at their head, the Lord having designated him by revelation to be the President of the Twelve, as you has commanded in this section. ThereDoctrine and Covenants. God gave Hyrum to be the man to hold the key* of the patriarchal blessings over the whole Church; but He gave Joseph Smith to preside over the Church, the whole Church— over Hyrum as well as  rest. He also gave him his counselors. Then He gave the Twelve, and He put Brigham Young at the head of the Twelve. God knew what was coming, and He so. ordered things that Brigham stood at the head of the Twelve; and when the Prophet Joseph, and the Prophet Hyrum, the Patriarch, were taken, the Twelve came up in their place, as the Lord had ordained. Satan then had twelve to overcome instead of three. Furthermore, you will find in the same revelation, in Sectioa 107, that even if the Twelve should all be taken away, then there are Seventy to come up. It puts^ <me in mind of the Irishman's wall. He built it five feet high and eight feet thick, and when they asked him the reason, he said tha* if the wind came and blowed it over it would be higher than it was before. 

Now, as to this Church — the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — the Lord laid its foundations broad and deep and high. He made it impregnable. Why? Because He had ordained in the beginning that it should be perpetual, that it should not be overcome, that it should not be left to another people, that the keys of the priesthood should continue and abide until Christ should come and reign over the earth. So the Lord ordained, in the order of the priesthood, that when the First Presidency was dissolved, the Twelve should succeed, having all the keys, power and authority to regulate the Church and to organize the quorums. Thus it was that President Young and the Twelve conducted the affairs of the Church for some time. There nvas a majority of the Twelve who ptood faithful, who were ready to do their duty, and the Lord s ays that' "a majority may form a quorum" when it is impossible to have them all together. The vacant places were filled up in the quorum; and when the proper time came, President Young, who was a Presiding High Priest (so are all the Twelve— God's High Priests— a presiding traveling High Council), and his two counselors, were upheld and sustained by the vote and faith and fellowship of the Church, and formed the Presidency of the Church, in the, way God had appointed. 

So it has been from that time to the present, my brethren and sisters. Whenever a vacancy has occurred, it has been filled. For the power of growth is in the Church. The power to regulate all its affairs is in the Church. The power to purge out all that is evil is in the Church. We need no outside pressure, or counsel, or instruction. All that is necessary is right within the Church. As we were told by Brother! Lyman, it is a living thing, a living organism, quickened by the power of the Holy Spirit, and it is the word of the Lord that is proclaimed through its leaders-. And so we have had tha quorum of the First Presidency organized according to the will and commandment of God from that day to the present. I testify to you, before the Lord, that the truth which God has given to this Church shall continue and abide, that the keys of the holy priesthood sent down out of heaven in the last days for the last time, will not be taken away again from the earth; that as the priesthood of Aaron will remain "until the sons of Levi do offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness," so the keys of the Melchisedek Priesthood shall remain and abide until Christ, who is the great High Priest shall come and stand at our head, and be our King. 

I know that this truth abides in the hearts of the people; but we ought not to allow any of our friends who are not strong in the testimony to be led astray by anything that may come along to lessen their faith and to weaken them. Let us be one. We have been one in these valleys. There never was a better spirit in the Church since I have known it, and I have been a minister in it for nearly 55 years. I know that the Spirit of God is with this people, and I have never enjoyed it better than I have during this conference. The Spirit of the living God has been present and inspired the utterances of those who have spoken, and they have found a place in the hearts of the people. The Saints have rejoiced. Why? Because the Lord is  us. My brethren and sisters, this is His work, not the work of man, and He will cause it to prevail. How absurd it would be for the Lord, after He had established His Church on foundations of perpetuity, to allow it to lapse, to remain dormant for a number of years, when the very keys that He had given that the Church might be perpetuated were still held by the Twelve and the brethren associated with them. The idea that the Lord would allow the Church to go to sleep and into darkness when He had declared it should stand forever, would be folly. But the Lord has been with His people and with His servants. Do we not know that the Lord was with Brother Brigham when he led the Saints out of trouble and bondage in the east, across the great plains, and planted the Church in these mountain valleys, and prepared the way for the building up of the great community and the Zion which the Prophet Joseph foresaw, for he talked about it and appointed men to go and prospect the land, that "the Saints might become a great people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains," that Zion might flourish upon the hills. 

The Church is still growing. The ear is still growing, and the full corn in the ear will be seen when Christ shall come. We have all the keys and powers necessary for that, right in the Church. Its organization is complete, with a Presidency, with Apostles, Seventies, High Priests, Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons, with the auxiliary societies which the Lord has inspired His servants to establish, both for the brethren and the sisters, that the women as well as the men might have something to do in building up this great latter day work. It is beautiful, it is glorious, it is perfect: for it has come from the hands of the Almighty. We are imperfect, we are feeble, we are not all fully carrying out that which God has placed upon us; but we will try, will we not? to do our duty. Let every man learn hia duty in the Priesthood. Let every woman learn her duty in the organizaBRIGHAM 

tions of the Church. Let us all perform our duties as members of the Church, meet tog-ether often, partake of the sacrament, remember our prayers, teach our children the principles of the Gospel of Christ and plant in their hearts that faith which has given us so much joy, satisfaction and contentment, and the work of the Lord shall go onward and shall prevail; the truth shall be carried to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, the honest in heart shall rejoice among the nations, the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel, the Lord will bring to shame the mocker and the scornful, the wisdom of this world shall come to naught and the understanding of the prudent shall be hid, but the honest and upright of heart shall rejoice in the Lord, the truth shall prevail, and the kingdom of our God shall come and His will be done on the earth as it is done in heaven, when "the meek inherit the earth and the wicked are cut off forever." God help us to be faithful azid true, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"One Hundred Years," a quartet composed by Prof. Stephens, to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the Prophet's birth, was rendered by Lottie Owen, Mabel Cooper, George D. Pyper and Horace S. Ensign. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

Of necessity the> subjects that are considered at our conferences are varied and numerous, in consequence of the work of the Lord being so extensive and consisting of both temporal and spiritual things. The Spirit of the Lord moves upon His servants to address themselves to the various interests in which the Church is concerned; and I hav-i taken pleasure in noting that all the interests and all the departments of work in the Church generally receive that word that is seasonable to each before the conference is concluded. 

Much has been said during this conference concerning the opposition that is waged against the work of God, and by the remarks made I have been reminded of a saying current in France to the effect that for a man guilty of 

[. ROBERTS. 4.3 

crime two courses only lie before him: one is confession, the other is suicide; and they add, "suicide is confession." So -with those who feel disposed to attack this work. They may attack the administration of it, or they may attack its fundamental doctrines and seek to disprove it altogether; and in either event the attempt will end in failure as surely as confession or suicide ends in one result. To attack the administration of the work of the Lord under our present circumstances, in this year of grace 1905, is vain; for the testimony of all who have spoken and the testimony in the hearts of the Saints of God bear witness that there never was a time in the history of the church, when individual liberty was more respected than now, and when the necessarily great administrative power in thf' presiding officer was exercised in more moderation. So that to my mind! those who assail the administration of this work proclaim their own unwisdom and fret out only their own folly. To attack the Church in its fundamental doctrines is useless; for they areinvulnerable, and not to be overthrown, by the efforts of the ungodly to disprove their truth. Therefore, if these people who interest themselves in our concerns will take a word of advice, I would suggest, in the language of one of old, that they would best let this work alone; for if it be of man, it will come to naught of itself; and if it be of God, they cannot do aught against it, and possibly they may find themselves fighting against God. 

The Apostle Paul, in his, epistle to the Ephesians, told them that the Lord had revealed to him that in the dispensation of the fulness of times God wouftl gather together in one all things in Christ, both things which are in heaven and things which are in earth, even in Him. I do not know that I quote this^ scripture for the purpose of having it foreshadow at all the line of thought that I would like to follow; but I believe it is profitable to remember in these great assemblies of the Church that we are living in that dispensation, of the fulness of times, in which God has promised to gather together in one all things in Christ, both in heaven and in earth. 

Accepting the doctrine as true that we are living and operating in that dispensation, and that to the Prophet Joseph Smith was accorded the supreme honor of introducing that last dispensation — that dispensation which should culminate in the redemption of tha earth and in the salvation of men; recognizing the truth, as pointed out in the remarks of Elder Penrose, that this institution of the kingdom is not to be left to other people, but is to grow and increase in the earth until it should fill the whole earth and the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our God and His Christ— after admitting these premises, for anyone to suppose that after that glorious dispensation had made but a few steps forward in the unfolding of its greatness it was suddenly halted to wait for someone to grow from childhood to manhood, is of all follies the most supreme. I call your attention for a few moments to the very palpable evidences that may be seen and read of all men that there has been no halting in this work, no cessation in its growth and development, from the days of the Prophet Joseph until the present time. And I base mv remarks upon the facts in the case; upon the word of God and His promise unto His people, given at a time when the fortunes of the Church were sunken to the lowest point in its history — I refer to the promise given to the Saints of God in 1834, in the month of February, when some twelve hundred of them had been exiled from Jackson County and were bivouacked on the Missouri bottoms, in most helpless circumstances. In that dark hour the voice of the Lord came to His Prophet and spoke these words: 

"Verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them. 

Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour, 

And by hearkening to observe all the  which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it for ever and ever." 

That was the promise of the Lord given unto the saints; and I say that the repeated triumphs of the Church over their enemies, notwithstanding the trials through which the Church has passed, the conditions that prevail in these 55 stakes of Zion represented in this conference, are the proof positive that God has vindicated His promise, so. far as increasing the number of the Saints is concerned and multiplying the stakes of Zion; and the number and condition of the Saints in these stakes is evidence that they have, largely at least, lived in harmony with the conditions named in the revelation upon which they were to have success over God's enemies. It is true, of course, that a few years after this revelation was given the Saints were again driven from their possessions in the state of Missouri; but mark this difference between the first expulsion that took place in our history — the expulsion from Jackson county — and the expulsion from Missouri five years later; 1,200 were driven from Jackson county in 1833, but when the Church was moved from Missouri 12,000 or 15,000 people were exiled. The work of God then certainly had not ceased to grow. It was the turning over of Elder Penrose's wall, so built as to be higher when turned over than before. The proclamation of the Gospel had been fruitful, and thousands had been brought unto a knowledge of the truth between the two expulsions. It is true also, that a few years later another exodus was forced upon the people. Expatriation took place, and our fathers were compelled to leave the beautiful city upon the banks of the Mississippi and come into this desert, mountain waste. But this time when they moved the Church they moved something over 20,000! And then, if such a thing were to be thought possible that we must again move.they would have to move something like 300.000 people from 45 mountains! So that in the matter of numbers, at least, there has been no retrogression in this work. It has steadily increased. The testimony of the Elders of Israel has been accompanied by the witness of God. It has appealed to the honest in heart, and in nearly all the nations of the earth there has been found a response. The gathering has continued until behold, the Saints have their feet made fast in these valleys of the Rocky mountains, where, in fulfillment of the prediction of the Prophet Joseph himself, the Latter-day Saints have become a great and a powerful people. 

In the matter of preaching the Gospel the work has not slackened. We have been true to that missionary spirit impressed upon the people who received the Gospel in the commencement. The history of the Church is unique in this, it seems to me, that every time our fortunes have fallen lowest we have turned to the preaching of the Gospel as a means of relief, and through the proclamation of it have found renewed strength and added increased vigor to the work of God. You remember, do you not, the first foreign mission that was conceived and executed in the Church? In those dark days, when clouds of jspinitual darkness (settled upon Kirtland, and men whom the Prophet had trusted fell upon the right and upon the left and were filled with bitterness and hatred towards him — you remember how the Spirit whispered to him that some new move must be made for the salvation of the Church, and he was prompted by the Spirit to send word to Heber C. Kimball that the voice of the Spirit of the Lord indicated that he must carry the Gospel message to a foreign land; and it was done; for Heber C. Kimball opened the work in England. Then, after |the exodus from Missouri, before the Saints were yet settled permanently in Commerce, while the bulk of the Church was living in wagons, tents and other temporary homes, behold, a mission for the Twelve, to go abroad and proclaim the Gospel! Leaving their families in  poverty, "many of them in sickness, and the Twelve themselves sick, they drew to themselves the spiritual strength of this work and went forth as messengers cf life and salvation. Again, true to this spirit characteristic of the Church when it was presided over by the Prophet Joseph, when the pioneers landed in this valley and began to settle this city and the surrounding country, before there had been any great development of material resources, the Twelve are again called out of this desert land, not only to preach the Gospel in England, but in Prance, Germany, Italy and Scandinavia. Thus this spirit of proclaiming those truths that God has deposited with the Church was characteristic of the Church when it settled in these mountains. These missions were appointed unto the especial witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ— to the Twelve Apostles. Lorenzo Snow went to Italy, John Taylor to Germany and France, Erastus Show to Scandinavia; and from all these lands sons and daughters of God have been brought into the fold of Christ. 

A week or two ago I attended a service held in this city, in which the Church of Christ was arraigned for having by its conduct so prejudiced the world that they would not listen to the message that we had to deliver, and in solemn tones we were warned that somebody was responsible for that condition of things. Oh, how my heart swelled with joy when he who uttered those words and that warning was present at the opening session of this conference and listened to the report of the President of the Church concerning the missionary work carried on in all lands by the Elders of the Church; that the harvest was so great and the laborers so few , that although we had nearly fifteen hundred Elders in the field— and keep about that number out from year to year — yet this host of the servants of God were not able to meet the demands that are made for the proclamation of the Gospel. It seems to me that we are in a pretty good condition to meet all the responsibility that we may be warned about concerning this matter. 

Take it in the matter of publishing to the world the American volume of scripture, the Book of Mormon — one of the incidents, we may say, with which this great work commenced in the earth. Who is it that has published that work in some ten or twelve different languages; and to as many or more nations? It is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And the end is not yet; for we heard the explanation of President Anthon H. Lund, wherein he told us in this conference that still more translations of this work were in contemplation, in the Turkish and other languages. So that we have been steadily employed in giving to the world this new volume of God's word. Our hands have not been slackened with reference to sending abroad the word of God as it was known to the Nephites upon this continent, thus fulfiling the decree of God that the inhabitants of the earth should not only have the testimony of the Jews, but that they should have the testimony of the Nephites also, and through them they should learn that Jesus is the Christ. I say the Church has been most faithful in publishing the word of God to the inhabitants of the earth. 

Another item. During the last few months of the Prophet's earthly career, the one subject which rested upon his mind more than any other was the subject of the salvation for the dead, the building of the Nauvoo Temple, the erection of a baptismal font and a house in which the keys of the holy Priesthood might be given to the servants of the Lord, where they might receive their conversations, as described in one of the later revelations to the Prophet, wherein they might receive that spiritual instruction that should better equip them for the work of the ministry which God had laid upon them. This was the burden of his discourses, this the burden of his' letters written to the Church from his place of exile, while being compelled to hide from the officers of the law under the false accusa of having transgressed the law— parenthetically: the Prophet Joseph was as frequently in that condition, aye, more frequently than any of the brethren have been since. But this temple work was the one thing that seemed to press most heavily upon him just previous to his death. Have this people been true to that spirit of temple building and temple work? Let this monument of granite to the east of us, a collective discourse in stone by the Latterday Saints, bear witness to the world that we have been true to that part of the work which was of such importance in the mind of the Prophet. Let the stone temple in St. George bear a similar testimony. Let the splendid temple in Sanpete county be another witness; and the one at Logan in the north, let it also testify to the same fact. Bring forth the records of those temples, and let the millions of baptisms for the dead answer whether this people have been true to the mission, in the redemption of the dead, which God has placed upon the Church. Let the records of sealings of husbands to wives, wives to husbands, children to parents and parents to children — let the hundreds of thousands of ministrations of this kind bear witness to the faithfulness of the people of God to this doctrine advanced by our Prophet in the last days. I say that the blending together, or, if vou will, in the language of Paul, the gathering together of all things in earth as well as of things in heaven; the uniting together of the past with the present, of the fathers with the children, is one of the most stupendous facts connected with this great work of the Lord in the last days. Do you not remember that this doctrine, which is now so gloriously developed among us, was a matter of early concern to the Prophet Joseph? This work was foreshadowed in the very first interview the Prophet had with Moroni, for he quoted the words of Malachi, though a little different from what they are in the Bible, to the effect that the Lord would soon reveal the Priesthood by the hand of Elijah, and the hearts of the children shall be turned to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. If it were not so, "he said, all would be consumed at the Lord's coming-. After that, step by step, line upon line, precept upon precept, this doctrine was delivered, until it has borne fruit in the manner that I have indicated to you by the administration of the ordinances of the Priesthood, wherein the power of godliness is made manifest, and without which ordinances of the Priesthood, we are informed, the power of God is not made manifest. 

So that we have been carrying out the projected work of the Prophet Joseph Smith in this respect. 

One other thing I desire to call your attention to. The President, in his opening remarks, rejoiced that we were taking a course that at least displeased the devil, or his advocates. I remember in this connection a saying of President Young's. He said, Tou may feel pretty safe as long as the devil takes exception to what you are doing, for he is not disposed to approve of righteousness, or to complain if through unrighteousness you play into his hands. Now then, it may be a miserable sort of evidence to refer to in connection with a theme so glorious as this, and yet I cannot quite resist the temptation to let him furnish a little evidence; and I do it in this way: Has not the same bitterness and hatred that characterized the Church under the presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the same determination to destroy the Church, followed the Church led to the mountains by the Twelve Apostles under President Brigham Young? Has not the same spirit characterized their ministrations among the inhabitants of the earth? Surely you know the Saints had no rest in the days of the Prophet Joseph. His life was one continual scene of conflict and contest with the powers of darkness, who sought to destroy him and also the work which God had ordained that he should bring forth. At every turn we have been confronted with the selfsame enemy. From the fact that that enemy recognized the Church of Christ 

 these mountains we may gather some evidence that this is the continued work of God. It was not the Elders of any of the so-called dissenting factions that have met mobbings and whippings in various countries of the world; It was not any of their representatives that were shot down in the State of Georgia, or the State of Tennessee. No; they were representatives of the Churdh of Christ in these mountains — the men who held the Priesthood — divine authority — and stood for the truth, and the fulness thereof. 

But I do not know that we ought to concern ourselves too much about these" matters, though it makes one rather rejoice to see the work of God grow and nourish, notwithstanding all the opposition that is aroused against it; to see stakes multiplied, missions increased, and the people grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, despite the efforts of the adversary. You will pardon me, I hope, for glorifying a little in the failure of our enemies, as well a^s rejoicing a great deal in the success of the work of God. 

I do not know whether I can make a thought I have in mind clear to you or not, but I am going to try. It has only passed through my mind a few times, and I do not know whether I have it well digested. As I pointed out in the commencement, we are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, in the which would be gathered together in one all things in heaven and in earth. Repeatedly the brethren have borne testimony that this work, in pursuance of the promises of God, should not be left to other people. It is not going to fail. In past dispensations there has been a seeming triumph for the powers of darkness, and I have often wondered how Paul could possibly continue to labor with such energy when he had such clear conceptions, by the spirit of prophecy, that the time would come when an evil power would arise, which should exalt himself above all that is called God, sitting in the temple of God, and showing himself that he was God— that is.usurping God's authority and ruling men with a rod of iron. Paul had the clearest conceptions, it seems to me, that the time would not be long- before clouds of spiritual darkness would rest down upon the people. And so, in dispensations preceding that of the meridian of time, one after another they seem to have failed of permanently maintaining themselves in the earth. But now at last we have the sure word of God that His work shall be established no more to be destroyed nor given to another people. What I want to call your attention to is, that this idea is in harmony with the age in which we live. Our civilization has taken on a promise of permanency, the like of which did not characterize the civilizations of former days. The great Greek civilization was overthrown to a great extent by the success of the Roman arms. True, in time it reasserted itself, and by their civilization the Greeks are general^ conceded to have subdued Rome. Rome in turn declined, and finally fell under the repeated assaults and waves of immigration of barbarous tribes from beyond the Danube, from the far north and northeast. This was the fate of the western division of the Roman empire. Later, in the fifteenth century, this was the fate also of the eastern division; for the terrible Seljuk Turks repeated the success over the eastern empire, that the German tribes won over the western. So the whole Roman civilization was crushed. And through all the ages civilizations have gone down and others have arisen in their place. But today the civilization of this age seems to have based on better foundations. Judge it by human wisdom, at least, one would say that we had arrived at a state of preservation of all light, truth and knowledge that has been confided into the human consciousness through the intellectual efforts of those who devote themselves to thought, science and philsosophy. There exists nowhere on the face of the round globe the barbarous tribes  ca» possibly overwhelm the knowledge and the civilization of the present age. And I believe that this permanency in civilization, the prospect of preservation of the light and truth that have been given unto the children of men, ought to be and necessarily will be accompanied by spiritual truth, spiritual philosophy, a true and permanent religion, that shall move side by side with this permanent civilization until it brings to pass the redemption of the children of men. So that this dispensation of the Gospel is in harmony with all other things with which we are surrounded. It promises permanency of civilization, and the preservation of all the knowledge that has been developed through the experience and researches of men as well as through the revelations of truth to the Prophet Joseph Smith. But I would say to those who pride themselves upon their attainments in science — and from the magnitude of their achievements I do not deny that they have a right to feel a little proud; I would say to those who glory in the philosophy that they have developed — and they too may well be proud of their achievements — I say unto them, scientists and philosophers alike, You are but lamely limping along far in the rear of the far-flung thought line of what God revealed through His servants the prophets. I will not have time to develop that thought; but I rejoice in the prospective triumph of the truth. We are going to win. We will not fail as a community, as an organization. Individuals, through human weakness and inclination to evil, may offend the Spirit of God and fail, as individuals; but as the throne of God stands sure so stands sure the foundations of this work and the structure that God is rearing upon it. That is my testimony in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang "The Uoxology." 

Benediction by Elder J. Golden Kimball. 