Morning
06 10 1905



PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(Opening Address.) 

Reasons for thanksgiving to God. — General condition of the Church highly satisfactory. — Injunction urgently repeated, "Get out of debt."— Many more missionaries needed. — "Zion is growing;" more and larger buildings needed for Church schools, etc.— The tithing accounts can be seen by tithepayers.— Satan and his agents cannot . stop the progress of God's work. 

I desire to say, welcome to all the Latter-day Saints, and to our friends and the stranger within our gates, at the opening of this seventy-sixth semiannual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am pleased to be with you, and am exceedingly grateful to the Lord for His kind mercies and preserving care that have been extended to us all during the past six months, in that we have been blessed with life, health and prosperity, and have been preserved to attend this conference in the enjoyment of so many precious gifts and blessings. I think we may consistently congratulate ourselves on the great goodness manifested toward us by Him from whom all blessings come, in preserving us in the truth, putting into our hearts and continuing' within us that earnest desire which we all must feel for the upbuilding of Zion, the spread of truth, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord, and for the establishment of righteousness in the hearts of our children, our associates and of the people of the world; and that earnest desire also which we all should feel for those who are misled and are sitting in darkness and know not the truth, that we may become instrumental in the hands of the Lord of extending to all such, as far as it may be possible, a knowledge of the Gospel which we have embraced, that they too may see the light, if they choose to do so; and if they choose not the light, but prefer to remain in darkness, that they may be left without excuse. I feel thankful every day of my life for that desire in my heart, and I would fear that the Lord was withdrawing His Spirit from me if I did not entertain that feeling, and did not have an earnest desire in my soul for good, and not for evil. I am thankful to the Lord that He gives me the desire to do good, and not evil; that He leads my thoughts in the channels of honor, virtue, uprightness, and integrity to those principles which I have espoused. And I believe that all Latter-day Saints possess thlat spirit and feeling in their hearts, and that they have reason to be grateful to the Lord every day of their lives that their ambitions, their hopes and their desires are for good, and not for evil. The Latter-day Saints possess the spirit of salvation, and not the spirit of destruction; the spirit of life, not the spirit of death; the spirit of peace, not of disunion; the spirit of love for their fellowbeings, not the spirit of hate. And for the enjoyment of this spirit by the saints of the Most High we all have great cause to render praise and thanksgiving to Him who has so ordered it, and who has given to us humility to receive and that measure of His Spirit which inclines our hearts to good and not to evil. 

Since our last general conference, the general authorities of the Church, 

I believe, have been performing their duty to the best of their ability, according to their strength and the gifts of God that they possess. They have been diligent. Not one of them has declined to respond to any call that has been made upon him. The Apostles and the Seventies have been faithful in attending to the various quarterly conferences of the Church: and from all the reports that we have heard of their labors, we are given to understand that the people have not only been satisfied with their ministrations, but the Apostles and Seventies, and the Elders who have accompanied them, have reported most satisfactorily of the condition generally of the Latter-day Saints where they have visited. 

The reports that we have received from the various missions are most encouraging, with this one exception: the demand from the missionary fields for Elders to preach the Gospel to the world  seems more than we can fill. The harvest is truly great, but the laborers are few. It seems impossible for us to meet the requirements that are made of us for missionaries. In this connection it may be proper for me to say that in some instances — far too many — these who have been invited to go on missions have replied that while they felt honored with the call they regretted to say that their circumstances were such that they could not see their way clear to go. as they were involved in debt. They had assumed pecuniary responsibilities that they could not discharge at that time, and they were obliged to ask for further time in order to liquidate their indebtedness and prepare themselves to go into the world to preach the Gospel. 

For three years and more my text, and the text of my brethren, to the Latter-day Saints and to ourselves, has been, pay your debts; get out of debt, and then remain out of debt, by living economically, by being prudent with means, by saving up and gathering in our resources, thus preparing ourselves to meet our necessities with ready means, instead  being inclined to go to the stores, to the implement shops, and to the various establishments, to purchase goods on credit — goods which it might be possible for us to do without, at least until we could pay down for them and .get the cash price. Reports have come to us from various parts of the Church that many of our people are still being gulled by traveling agents, and persuaded to enter into obligations for wagons, for agricultural implements, for sewing machines, for stoves and neaters, and for almost every imaginable thing, giving t/!ierefor ironclad notes, at highest prices, with agreements compelling them to surrender the goods whenever they fail to pay interest and principal as specified, under which they are liable to have the goods taken from them and lose all they have paid thereon. Many of our people are unwise enough to deal with -men in this way. If they would only save their means, and live so that they will have means on hand instead of being obligated to others, it would be far oetter for them, and there would be fewer excuses on the part of Elders who are invited to take missions, in consequence of their being involved in debt. Besides it would not cost them so much to live. We do not mind when a young man is not able to take a mission because he is building a home for liis wife and is under contract for it. That is all right. We will excuse him, he is at liberty to remain until he has accomplished his home work, and when he is ready he can report him.self as prepared to take his mission. Now, I repeat to the people present at this conference: My injunction, and the injunction of my brethren of the Presidency and of the Twelve, is, Get out of debt; pay your honest obligations, free yourselves so that you will be at liberty to perform any dutv that you desire or that may be asked of you for the upbuilding of Zion and the spread of truth. We do not care what the world says with reference to our preaching the Gospel, nor with reference to the necessity of young men l>eing asked to go out into the world to  the Gospel. In nine hundred and ninety-nine times out of a thousand the young men who are asked to take missions to the nations of the earth respond cheerfully and gladly, and rejoice that they are considered worthy to go out bearing the message of life and salvation to their fellowmen. It is a privilege, it is an honor to them to be accounted worthy to bear the name of God and the message of life and salvation to the world, and no amount of ridicule, no amount of false accusations and malicious charges, will ever change their thoughts and feelings with respect to this work. They know what they are doing. And there is no coercion used in matters of this kind. It is all free will, all tree grace. Never was there a man required to go on a mission to the world, or sent on a mission, who had any objection to going or who declined to go. Those who have gone out to preach the Gospel have gone willingly, cheerfully, gladly, because they have felt it was to their own advantage and a great honor. 

Then I repeat, the only difficulty we have to meet now with reference to the preaching of the Gospel in the various missions in the earth is that we are unable to furnish the number and the character of the help required. We would like the young men to prepare themselves, financially and intellectually, and above all spiritually, having the testimony of the Gospel in their hearts, that when they shall be called to go upon missions they will be ready to go. so that we may be in a position to supply the Elders necessary to preach the Gospel to the world. 

A large amount of means has been expended in the erection of meetinghouses in the various wards and stakes of Zion, and the Trustee-in-Trust has been called upon to furnish large sums of money to assist; and also, in many instances, to assist the people in the Creation of church jshoolhouses and houses of amusement. We would like all the world to know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints aims not only to provide houses of worship for its members, but it also aims to provide houses of instruction and houses of amusement as well, that the people of the Church, old and young, may have places where they can assemble in the dance, in concerts, in musical festivals, and in intellectual feasts, that they may have scope for the enjoyment of every desire of their hearts in righteousness. I will say to you that the Church has been as liberal in these matters as it was possible to be in view of the obligations that still rest upon the Trustee-in-Trust. Our Church schools are increasing, and the demand is increasing continually for means with which to keep them going, and also for the purpose of erecting additional buildings to accommodate the children. When we tell you that almost every Church school throughout the land is filled to overflowing, you may perhaps discern the growth of the people of God and the progress and advancement of our educational institutions. No sooner is one building completed than it is discovered that it is too small, and that more room is required. From time to time, therefore, we have to assist in enlarging and in providing accommodation for our children. I think that the Latter-day Saints will be able to discern in this fact a glorious truth. Zion is growing, and interest is being increased in the hearts of the people in proper education and training, to the end that our children may go to schools where the Bible is not excluded, where the Book of Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants are admitted, and where true> religion may be taught as well as letters and the sciences and arts. The Trustee-in-Trust has also assisted largely in procuring mission houses in Scandinavia, in Great Britain, in the islands of the sea, and in our own land of America. We are now helping to build a place of worship and a dwelling-house at Papeete, Tahiti. We have done the same in Samoa. Assistance has also been rendered to the New Zealand mission for a similar purpose, and to Australia as well. In these island missions we are  aid to our people in order togivo them a better standing and wider influence, that they may gain the respect they merit; for, as a rule, the people of those islands are very poor. 

Since our last conference the Scandinavian mission has been divided in two, for the convenience of the people. Sweden has been organized into a mission of itself, with headquarters at Stockholm; and the Scandinavian mission now consists of Denmark and Norway. 

Casting one's thoughts over all the field, we cannot come to any other conclusion than that the work of the Lord is alive, healthy and vigorous, in every land where the Gospel of the Son of God is preached by the Elders of the Church. It is spreading abroad, and the power and influence of the people is growing for good. The strangers whovisit us see the contrast between the false and slanderous representations that are sent abroad with reference to the Latter-day Saints and the actual conditions existing here, and they go away agreeably disappointed, delighted with what they see and hear, and convinced that no people, perhaps, upon the earth are so much villified as are the Latter-day Saints. I sometimes feel that I can see the hand of Providence in the work that is going on in the world; for surely it only takes an eye half open to discover the fraud and misrepresentation, the slanders and the lies that are circulated throughout the world with reference to the Latter-day Saints. If people will only come and see for themselves, if they will only take the pains to inform themselves of the truth, and compare conditions here with the false reports that are circulated, the very contrast will, make the truth more forceful to their minds. 

Brother Horace S. Ensign, who has presided for a number of years in the Japanese mission, has returned, and the presidency of that mission has been turned over to Brother Alma O. Taylor. A number of young men have recently been sent to that mission. The Elders that have been there have succeeded In.  the language, as is the case in other foreign missions. "Wherever the Elders of the Church go they are remarkable in acquiring speedily and thoroughly the language' of the people to whom they are sent. Everywhere the Spirit of the Lord whispers to the honest in heart who are faithful, and gives to them the assurance that His Tiand is stretched out continually over His people; that as, in the past, He has preserved them and delivered them out -of the hands of their enemies, so in the future He will continue to preserve and deliver them, and he will make the wrath of the wicked to praise Him and to accomplish the more speedily His purposes. We have every evidence to convince us that the work of the Lord is a reality, a living, active, progressive work in the earth. Let me say to you that the Latter-day Saints throughout the length and breadth of the land have faithfully and honestly, I believe, as ever they did in their lives, observed the law of tithing. I am happy to say to you that the tithes of the people have not diminished, but they have increased, notwithstanding the disasters that have occurred in some portions of the land. In some parts hailstorms have destroyed portions of the crops; in other parts there have been more or less drouth, and insects, which have cut short the crops in some degree; but this has only been to a limited extent; the most of the products of the land have been blessed and are abundant, and the majority of the people have reaped bounteous harvests, through the blessing of God upon their labors. I am happy to say this to you. 

I want to say further to the Saints, that your brethren to whom you have entrusted the care and management of the finances of the Church stand ready and willing, any moment,' to answer to YOU — to Latter-day Saints, to tithepayers, to those who are in the faith of the Gospel — for our stewardship. We can give you an account of our doings to the last senine; and I defy any man on earth to point his finger to a dollar that is wilfully wasted, or stolen by the  of God. The tithing books are kept as accurately and as perfectly a3 any books kept in any bank. Every man that pays a dollar tithing gets his credit on the books; and if he wants to see that his credit is there he can go and see for himself. But we do not propose to open our books and show your accounts to every Tom, Dick and Harry in the land that never did pay any tithing. We do not propose to do that, if we can help it. But you Latter-day Saints who pay your tithes and your offerings, if you want to see for yourselves, that you may be eye and ear witnesses, the books are open to you, and you can come and examine your accounts any business day you want. 

Now, we are thankful to the Lord that we are counted worthy to be taken notice of by the devil. I would fear very much for our safety if we had fallen into a condition where the devil ceased to be concerned about us. So long as the Spirit of the Lord is enjoyed by you, so long as you are living your religion and keeping the commandments of the Lord, walking uprightly before Him, I assure you that the adversary of souls will not rest easy; he will be discontented with you, will find fault with you, and he will arraign you before his bar; but that will not hurt you very much if you will only just keep on doing right. You do not need to worry in the least, the Lord will take care of you and bless you. He will also take care of His servants, and will bless them and help them to accomplish His purposes; and all the powers of darkness combined in earth and in hell cannot prevent it. They may take men's lives; they may slay and destroy, if they will; but they cannot destroy the purposes of God, nor stop the progress of His work. He has stretched forth His hand to accomplish His purposes, and the arm of flesh cannot stay it. He will cut His work short in righteousness, and will hasten His purposes in His own time. It is only necessary for us to try with our might to keep pace with the onward progress of the work of the Lord, then God will preserve and protect us, and will prepare the way before us, that we shall live and multiply and replenish the earth and always do His will; which may God grant is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang- the anthem, "Lift up the voice in singing." 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Admonition to the Saints to sustain President Smith as Trustee-in-Trust.— Testimony that he is worthy of their confidence. 

My brethren and sisters, my soul is filled with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for permitting me to assemble with you once more in general conference. I have rejoiced exceedingly in what we have heard from our President and I wish to testify that every word he has spoken is true and faithful. I am here to uphold and sustain him in the position he has taken in every particular. All I want to say to you this morning, my brethren and sisters, is in relation to the Trustee-inTrust. I say that your funds are perfectly safe in his hands, and, as he has said, not one dollar is used except where it belongs. I testify to this in your presence this morning, and that all things are well. He is doing just right; and the statement that he has made with regard to the books being open to those who have an interest, is a fact, and you can satisfy yourselves of these things. Now, let all doubts be removed from your minds, if you have any, though I do not believe the Latter-day Saints have any doubts in relation to this matter. There may be a few who have, but the true and faithful Latter-day Saints have no doubt in regard to this subject. I say to you this morning, my brethren and sisters, uphold and sustain the President as Trustee-in-Trust of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all things will be well with you. May the Lord help us all, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Willi- g "e.=s nrd dil'gence cf th^ missionari°F.— Erten'-'ivp c'rculat'on cf Crurch literature.— Djfflculti'-s in Turkey. — Su cess in Grrece. South Africa, and Japan.— Satisfactory conditions among the gathered Saints. 

I am indeed happy this morning to see this large congregation at the first session of our conference. It shows that the Latter-day Saints are alive in their religion and anxious to meet in these gatherings of the Saints. They want to be built up and refreshed in their holy faith. I was pleased to look at your faces and to note the attention with which you followed the remarks of our President and Bro her Winder. Like Brother Winder, I can endorse everything the President has said. We are in a position to know that it is the truth. 

I was pleased to follow the President in his sketch of the work being done abroad. We feel indeed interested in the missionary labors, and it is a p easure to tell you how gladly our brethren respond to the calls made upon them to go upon missions. I do not 1 emember more than one or two refusals during the last six months. The g eat majority have expressed themselves as honored in being car.ed to go, and they say that they feel it is their duty to go and let the world know what they themselves have received. It is pleasant to read these letters from our you g men, middle aged men, and even o d men, who have been called to go out and bear their testimonies to the world. 

A great deal has been done in diffusing the printed word to the world. I believe the British mission lead? in this, but, take all our missions together, the number of tracts and boo'cs tint have been scattered among the people has run up into millions. Our brethren are faithful in going from hou~e to house, leaving tracts, trying to get into conversation with the people, to let them know the glorious truth that God has again spoken unto man. The B~>ok of Mormon is sought after. The pr sidents of missions in the United States have printed large editions and are circulating thern everywhere, selling them as cheaply as possible, that the world may become acquainted with trat sacred volume, which has been given by God unto this generation. Our French edition is gone; another must be published. The Swedish edition of the Book of Mormon is out of print,  another must be printed there. The Turkish Saints are asking that they may have this volume printed in the Turkish language. It has been translated by Brother Hintze and assistants, and we intend to have it published, and try to get it into the Ottoman empire. It is hard to get printed matter into that country, as they are afraid of books, afraid that there is something in them inimical to the government. Whenever you land at a port the custom officers are suspicious of ycur books, and they have them examined before they allow you to take them into the country. Hence the difficulty we will have in getting the Book of Mormon to the people there. We would print it in Constantinople and thus have it in the country, but we find that should we try to get it into the other provinces of Turkey we would have the same difficulty to pass the custom officers, whether it has the government permit stamped on it or not. They say that anyone could print that on the book, and so it is left to the custom house officers to decide. But we believe we shall yet be able to get that work into the hands of the people of that land. The work of the Lord is progressing there; still our Armenian Saints are having a hard time. It is a poor country to live in, and the Saints are not yet recognized as a religious body by the government. We have not very many Elders laboring there at present, but will try to get more. At Athens, in Greece, there are several persons inquiring about the truth. We were indeed pleased a few weeks ago to receive from them several tracts printed in Athens in the Greek language. They are "Rays of Living Light," written by Elder Penrose, and had been translated into that language. These Greeks had received copies of those tracts, and they thought them worth translating and printing, and sending out among their countrymen. They are now asking for missionaries to be sent to them to officiate in the ordinances of the Gospel. This shows that the Spirit of God is working upon the people, and that men  seeking for the truth. We are trying to get the Gospel principles sent to every nation. Our brethren who were sent to South Africa found members of the Church who received the Gospel there many years ago, when the mission was first opened, and although they have not been visited by Elders, for many years, they have kept the faith and have tried to make others understand the truth as they have received it. Our Elders have been successful in baptizing new members, and the Church there is increasing in numbers. Brother Alma O. Taylor, president of the Japanese mission is engaged in translating the Book of Mormon. He has been wonderfully blest in learning that language. Several of the Elders with him are also able to preach in Japanese and are traveling amongst the people. Brother Ensign, who has recently returned accomplished a great work in translating hymns into the Japanese language and setting them to music, so that the Japanese can sing our hymns and feel the spirit that goes with them. They have not bapt'zed very many, though they have had many applications for baptism, but the brethren feel that before they baptize anyone he should understand the Gospel, have faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, and know concerning the work that God has established upon the earth. The method of preaching the Gospel to a people that do not bel eve in the true God is. of course, much different from the way we preach it to those who are believers in the Bible, and in Christ as the Savior of mankind. The brethren are seeking to reach the children there, and they have a large attendance at Sunday schools. The children are delighted to hear the teachings of the Elders and to sing our hymns, and in the streets of Tokio you can often hear the little ones sing our Sunday school songs. These children go home and tell their parents what they have learned in the Mormon Sunday school, and their parents get interested themselves. I consider that the Elders there are taking the right course to reach the hearts of the people of that nation. 

It is indeed pleasing 1 to us to see the progress that the work is making in the different parts of the earth, and I hope to see this progress accelerated and the benign influences of the Gospel he felt more and more among the people. At home, we feel that the Saints in the different Stakes are progressing in all good works. The quarterly conferences that have been held in all of the 55 Stakes have been times of rejoicing, and spiritual feasts unto all present, and we believe that the Saints are growing in grace with God. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I rejoice to be with you. I rejoice to be a fellowlaborer with you in building up the Church of Christ upon the earth. This work will prosper and it will not be given to any other people. The Lord has so declared it. This people will carry it on. and the Lord will crown their efforts with success. God bless ycu all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Gospel principles did not originate with Joseph Smith.— Joseph called of God to be a great prophet— Gathering and Temple building.— The Church of Christ, and His disciples, always persecuted.— The Saints loyal to the nation, and to the Church— The Church thoroughly established. 

I have been very greatly interested in the remarks of our brethren, and, with the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord I shall take pleasure in talking to you for a few moments. The congregation this morning is unusually large for the first meeting, which indicates that the Saints are interested and are anxious to participate in the conference. The testimonies that we have listened to from the Presidency find an echo in our hearts. The Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people, and every individual member of the Church has the same kind of testimony that is enjoyed by the Presidency. These testimonies are not confined to any quorum or council, but every member of the Church, whether his membership is of long or of short duration, has the same abiding  in his soul, and is established and fixed in his faith. For that reason there is no danger to this Church, because the members thereof enjoy the same spirit. We are one; and the doctrines so commend themselves to the judgment of honest people, that when we have tested them and realized how precious, reliable, and soul-satisfying they are, we are never inclined to depart from them so long as we are true and faithful. The principles of the Gospel have always been and will always be true. They have been revealed to us in the latter days. They have not been created in this dispensation. They have not originated with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but they have simply been brought to light and revealed to the children of men in this age. They are possessed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the only living and true Church established among the children of men — this Church that has been brought out of obscurity into the light and brought to »the attention of the peoples of the world. We have been preaching these doctrines as revealed through the Prophet Joseph, for seventy-five years. We are in the ministry, and are increasing gradually, steadily, and surely, spreading abroad and becoming more solid, substantial and reliable than ever. The work is so well settled that it cannot be disturbed, so we believe, and absolutely know, for it is the work of the Lord. The Lord has called and qualified His servants, commencing with the Prophet Joseph many years ago. He took him in hand, He gave him birth, He brought him forward, introduced him to the world, planted in his heart the doctrines of life and salvation, and early in the last century honored him with the sacred calling of an Apostle, a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, a man of God, a living minister, endowed with inspiration and revelation, a law-giver, such a man as has rarely ever been known among the children of men. I can hardly think of one who has been superior to him among the prophets and patriarchs of God. Of course, the Savior is far in  of all patriarchs, of all prophets, and of all men in the earth, that are, that have been, or that will be. He is at the front and is the head of all. But among the prophets of God born of women, no man has been superior to the Prophet Joseph Smith. This congregation of thousands of people know it. Hundreds of thousands of Latterday Saints know it well. We have entered into covenant with the Lord, we have become acquainted with the doctrines and principles of the Gospel, we have demonstrated and see and know most perfectly that they are the power of God unto salvation. Hence we are not ashamed of these principles. We love them and we honor them, and through our love and devotion and faithfulness to this cause we have obtained that remarkable testimony, which makes it difficult, if not impossible, for our brethren of other denominations to convert us to their ways. 

The Latter-day Saints possess the truth, and have many principles of truth in addition to what is possessed by the people of the world. Of course, we are peculiar for a- number of reasons. It is our peculiarities that make us different from other Christian people. One of our peculiarities is that we gather to the land of Zion, to those sections of the country that have been selected and set apart for the gathering of the Latter-day Saints. Other religious denominations have their churches and their branches where they are successful, but they do not gather as we do. No other people, that I can think of, at present, gather together as we do. This doctrine of the gathering is one of the remarkable features of this church, established by the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

We believe also in the building of Temples, and have built several. We believe it is necessary for the salvation of the people living and dead, that temples should be built to the name of the Lord and ordinances performed therein, without which men may not enter into the Celestial Kingdom of the Father. No other people, so far as I am acquainted, are building temples. They  houses of worship, tabernacles and the like, all of which are very useful, and we build them also, but we are remarkable for the building of temples. There are doctrines and principles sacred to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, revealed through the Prophet Joseph, which require us to make the sacrifice of gathering togethei\ of building temples and of laboring for our kindred that are dead. The living must perform that work for themselves or forfeit the blessing, but those who have died before the knowledge of the truth was among the children of men, we believe, are entitled to salvation, especially if they would have received the truth had it been presented to them. We feel that all such are entitled to ' salvation, and we make the sacrifice that is necessary for their redemption and for their union throughout eternity. We believe most earnestly and thoroughly that our family relations that we enter into in this life will continue beyond the resurrection. This doctrine has been revealed to us by the Prophet of the nineteenth century. We expect that those relations so sacred to men in this life will continue in the life to come; and we have been taught to be true and faithful men, and we are such. I say to this congregation that wa are true and loyal men, not only true and loyal to the Church and to the doctrines that we have received, but we are true and loyal among men, honorable as neighbors and as citizens. We love our country, we love its laws, its liberties, its institutions; we love the people of our nation, and we love to live with them, to neighbor with them, and to be friendly with them. We desire to share with them in the benefits of this nation. We desire to share with them the benefits of this city and of the states and territories in which we reside, not only in the United States, but where we have spread abroad into the neighboring commonwealths of Mexico and Canada. Wherever we settle and locate we desire to share with the people, our neighbors, the blessings that are given to mankind. We are a moral people, a sober people, a God-fearing people, who love the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Of course, there are exceptions; but this is a rule with the Latter-day Saints. I speak of those who are faithful and true to the doctrines of the. Lord Jesus and who are thoroughly established. They are not only here in Salt Lake, at headquarters, but they are in the cities and counties north, south, east and west of us. You cannot find a little branch or ward of Latter-day Saints but what they are so thoroughly settled and established that an innovator can have no influence over them, and they cannot be converted unto any other form of religion. But we are not all Latter-day Saints here, there are some of us who are fit subjects for the labors of missionaries of all denominations, whom they may make converts. "We thank the Lord when they are converted, if we have been unable to convert them and to redeem them. If others can do them good, the Lord be praised; we have no fault to find. But Latter-day Saints, followers of the Prophet Joseph, walking in his footsteps and in his doctrines received from the Lord Jesus, can no more be turned from their faith than anything in the world, for they do know, they are thoroughly converted, and they are established so that they cannot be moved nor led astray. 

This Church the Lord has estab'ished. He laid its foundations and has built it up. He hath taken care of it and will preserve it. You can always knew just exactly where the Church of Christ is, for where it is the darts of the enemy are always directed, and particularly against the head of the Church. Was not the Savior the head and front of all offending- in his life? Was not every dart of the enemy directed against the Son of God until His life was taken? And after Him, His apostles, one by one were destroyed; for at that tire the people would not endure the sound doctrines of the Lord Jesus. And is it not the same today? Did He not tell His disciples that if the world hated them it hue! Him also? The world loves its own; the world is friendly with its own; and if  were of the world and believed as they do, worshiped as they do, and lived as they do, do you think they would find fault with us here? No. We believe more and we do a great deal more in the direction of the saving of mankind than any other body of Christianity, and for that reason they dislike us. Our lives offend them, not because we are wicked, but because we are not of them. They were not offended with the Savior because of his transgressions; they were not offended with His apostles because of their sins. There is no need of sentiment being aroused in regard to people, who are wicked and corrupt, for the law is ready to take hold of them; and, if ww transgress the law, we are subject tp the law and liable to be handled by it. But as Latter-day Saints we live above the law. We observe the law and keep it sacred, that it shall not take hold of us. We are true to oui cities and counties, to our state and tc our nation. We are loyal, and, as I said before, we love the institutions of our country. We thank the Lord for the religious liberty that is guaranteed in the United States. We thank Him for the protection that has been given to this Church in the United States, and that we have been preserved and estab-= lished so solidly that we are in no danger of being removed. The kingdom will remain with this people, and not with any other. Many have, gone out from *n£>ng us. Among them have been men holding great and important authority, nearly as great as there has been in the Church— even the counselors of the Prophet Joseph. He could hardly get a man that would be true to him, aside from his brother Hyrum. They fell one by one, until every counselor that he ever had departed from his side. But he was true and faithful to the end, and, like our Redeemer, he almost trod the wine-press alone. There were falfe brethren in those, days, much more than today. Though the Church was on'y few in numbers at that time, false brethren were many. Now look over the Church today; can you find a Bishop, a Bishop's counselor, a presi of Stake or his counselor, or a High Councilor, can you find a President of Seventy, can you find a presiding authority in any mission of the world, or any branch of this Church, that is not true to the faith? There are individuals occasionally who show that they have received a bad spirit, b> which they are led astray, but you will find that every President of a Stake and every Bishop of a Ward knows just exactly how to take care of the flock. They are trained, they are inspired, they are established, and they have the same testimony turning in their hearts that burns in the hearts of President Joseph F. Smith, his counselors and the Twelve. I wanted to draw the attention of the conference to this fact, for there are representatives here from almost every Stake and Ward in Zion You all know that what I say is true. 

When missionaries go out among the Latter-day Saints, they find that th<. people are so thoroughly trained ana exrerienced in the doctrines of tht Gospel that they are not easily deceived or blinded. The work is so established and so thoroughly fixed upon the earth that it will endure. You will find the Latter-day Saints just as true as their leaders; for they have the same spirit and the same testimony burning in their hearts. These Pre=idenis of Stakes, these presidents of cju'rums.ana these men who stand at the head ot the wards and the missions at home or abroad, are filled with the same inspiration of the Lord. They know the voice of the true shepherd and they do not know the voice of strangers, and they will not follow them, but they will follow and listen to the true Shepherd. That is my testimony to you, and J thank the Lord th",i it burns in my heart as it does in yours. Blessed be those who are fortunate enough to mfintain their standing and their fellowship in this Church, for this is the Church of Christ. It is not the Church of the. Prophet Joseph, it is not the Church of any of his successors, or of those that may succeed hereafter, but,  is the Church of Jesus Christ: He has established it, and He will preserve, it among the children of men. Righteousness shall be cultivated among this people; corruption and wickedness will not be tolerated. 

Speaking of the experience of the Prophet Joseph in the early days, I want to say that though there were many who turned from him, yet he had true and devoted friends, who stood by his side and sustained him to the very last; and he rolled upon their shoulders the cause of the kingdom.and they have been true to that trust. This Church has been taken care of from that time to this, and these, men have walked in the footsteps of their tile leaders, in the footsteps of the Prophet Joseph, and they have bui.'t upon the foundations which he laid. They have magnified the doctrines that he taught, have sent them to the world, have advocated the.m, lived by them, and defended them in the earth;and the fruits are seen throughout this mountain country, where the Prophet Joseph saw by vision that this people would be established. He so announced it, and was prepared himself to lead the Church into this very location if his life had not been taken; but in the Prophet Bri°ham he found a devout, faithful and competent successor. The Church has been established and stands today on foundations that shall never be shaken. It is true and faithful. It is the Lord's and He will take- care of it, if you and I will only take care of ourselves and be sure that we are faithful and true, and that we are not deceived nor darkened in our minds. 

God bless you and all Israel, our neighbors, our friends, and all that love truth, righteousness and justice, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; We thank thee for sending the Gospel, To lighten our minds with its rays. 


