Morning
08 10 1905



ELDER RULOX S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, I rise before you this morning in response to a call from President Smith, and I can assure you that it is with a feeling of great timidity, and unless our Father shall come to my support 1 feel wholly unequal to the task that has been assigned to me. I feel now, as I have always felt, deep interest in the great work of our Father in heaven, which He has instituted for the salvation of His children here upon the earth, and a testimony of its divine truth burns in my heart at this very moment. To me the meetings of this conference have been in very deed spiritual feasts. The Spirit of the Lord has been poured out abundantly upon Hi|s servants who have addressed the congregations, and I feel that the people themselves entertain the same view that I have expressed. Indeed the gathering of the people this morning is a sufficient guarantee of this truth, and I rejoice that even this great Tabernacle is not sufficient to hold the Latter-day Saints who have come up hither to hear the word of the Lord, insomuch that it has become nfecess^ry* notwithstanding;the fact that the elements have been somewhat threatening, to hold an overflow meeting in order to accommodate the people who have come in such great numbers  hear His holy word. It speaks well for the faith and for the interest that the Latter-day Saints have in the work of the Lord. 

It has been said, during this conference, that the Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people, and sometimes I have wondered in what did this peculiarity consist. Wherever we go we find that we are somewhat different from the rest of mankind, so much so that we are pointed out and observed. In fact, we might say we are the observed of all observers when we go out into the world. Many times people have accosted me and spoken in reference to our missionaries. When I was in the missionary field they have said to me, "Your men are different from ours; they seem to be a different class of people." Why is it? Is it not the effect that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is producing among the Latter-day Saints? In our own community we do not realize the great change that has taken place in us since we have become identified with this peculiar religion. If we are living in harmony with the teachings of the Gospel it will have the effect to make those peculiarities still more pronounced. There is an influence that goes with the Gospel of Jesus Christ that is felt among the people of the world with whom we associate. I do not wish to convey the idea that we have so far advanced and become so perfect that we claim to be holier than the rest of mankind, but I do wish to convey the idea that there has been an effect wrought upon this community as a direct result of our religion. It has opened the eyes of our understanding. It has caused us to look at life from an entirely different aspect. We have been enlightened by the power of the Holy Ghost that was conferred upon us when we entered into covenant with the Lord. The peculiarity that is mora prominent with us than all others is the spirit of love. The spirit of the Gospel is the spirit of love, and there have been exhibitions of that love in the whole career of the Latter-day Saints. 

In pursuance of this quality which so distinguishes us from other peoples in the world, our young- men leave their fathers and their mothers, their wives and children, and go out into the world without remuneration to proclaim the glad message of great joy. Oh! what a wonderful manifestation of love towards their fellow men. "Where in all the world can such a thing be found, other than among the Latter-day Saints? There may be isolated instances of great devotion on the part of men who are sincere and honest in their motives, but where upon the face of the whole earth will you find a whole community who are willing to make this sacrifice because of the love which they hold toward their fellowmen? Th^ spirit of this work, the spirit that impels these young men to go out into the world, distinguishes them wherever they go and manifests itself in the spirit of love. You do not hear of the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints being full of hatred and venom and seeking whom they can destroy; you do not find them laying traps, or disseminating falsehood, or doing that which will bring their opponents into discomfort. No; you will find them laboring for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. You will find them going from door to door, holding forth upon the corners of the streets, and encountering all kinds of opposition. You will find them proclaiming the fact that God has spoken from heaven and restored to earth His everlasting Gospel. You will find them traveling without purse and without scrip, oftimes going hungry and submitting to great indignities and privations. These are not acts of men filled with the spirit of hate, but they are impelled by the spirit of love, a spirit to  and bless their fellowmen. There is a spirit of peace that acompanies them in their ministrations; there is an influence, which they carry with them that they themselves seem to be unconscious of. They do not realize the great force and influence that is with them when they go out into the world. The influence that impels the Latter-day Saints, as I said before, is the spirit of the Gospel, which is the spirit of love. God is love, and if we possess His Holy Spirit it will manifest itself in acts of love. 1 do not know how I can more specifically illustrate the feeling that is possesed in such measure by the Latterday Saints. Nevertheless. I will say this, that the man who is in possession of the Spirit of the Lord carries with him an influence that is a strange thing in the world, and it will cause those who come in contact with him to recognize the fact that he is different from the majority of mankind. 

In the 121st section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants you will find these words: 

45. Let thy bowels aiso be full of charity towards all men. and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from Heaven. 

46. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever. 

In these words you find a corroboration of that which I have said. If the Latter-day Saints will allow their hearts to go out in sympathy and love for their fellowmen, and especially for the household of faith, their faith will grow stronger day by day, they will increase in the knowledge of God, and their confidence shall wax strong Id His presence, and this doctrine of the Priesthood shall distill upon their souls as the dews from Heaven. Their whole being will be lit up by the power of the Spirit of God, and this power will make itself felt among the people of the . This is the great advantage we have received in yielding obedience to the Gospel. It is in this regard that we are different from the rest of mankind. That is not saying there are not millions of good people upon the face of the earth who desire to do the will of the Lord. But I would say to such that if they will also accept the truth as it has been revealed from Heaven, the same power, the same gifts and the same influence, will distinguish them from the rest of mankind. It is the marvelous power of the Holy Spirit; the doctrine of the Priesthood distilling upon the souls of those who allow their hearts to go out in sympathy and love toward their fellowmen, and who manifest that love in going out into the world to proclaim the truth as it has been revealed from Heaven. It is the same love that im~ bued the Savior of the world when He gave His life for the salvation of men. Greater love than this hath no man, that he will lay down his life for his friends. It is that love that impelled the Prophet Joseph Smith to lay down his life and to go as a lamb to the slaughter. It is that love that impels the servants of the Lord in this day to take their lives in their hands and go into the world, which is so full of hatred and prejudice against the work of the Lord. Those whom we fmd in the world rising up against the Latterday Saints, what justification can they find in that? What spirit is it that imbues the men and women who disseminate falsehood and misstatements, which have the result of arousing prejudice and hatred toward the Latter-day Saints? What spirit is it that impels men and women to rai3e their voices against men whom the/ know to be honorable and men of virtu-i and integrity, for the purpose of blackening their characters, and making them appear in the eyes of the world men of the vilest character? 

Contrast this spirit with the sp-rit that animates our missionaries. It seems to be the heritage o f the Saints  be hated of the world, and to have all manner of evil spoken against them falsely. It was so in the case of the Savior Himself. It was so with other Prophets and holy men who have spoken under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. It is that which has helped to distinguish them in the different periods of the world's history. They have always stood out prominent among the inhabitants of the earth, and their names have been had for good and for evil in all the world. The name of the Savior Himself was iiad for good and evil. The prophets of God have been despised and hated and .stoned to death. They have been spoken of both good and evil. The Latterday Saints in this day and age of the world, are no exception. They are spoken evil of by those who possess an evil spirit, and they are spoken well of by those who are honest in heart. 

Having said this much regarding the peculiarities of our people, let us, my brethren and sisters, continue to be a peculiar people. Let our influence be felt wherever we go. Let it be said of us that we are indeed a peculiar people, in this, that the love of God abounds in our hearts, and that we seek to build one another up, not to tear down. When we come in contact with the world let them feel that we have no spirit of hatred toward them, no spirit to tear them down, but that m the depths of our hearts we desire to save their souls and to do them good. I know that this Gospel is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation; that through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith it has been restored to earth, never again to be taken away and never again to be thrown down; that those whom God has chosen to stand at the head of His people today are inspired of Him and possess the spirit of their calling. God help all to attain this testimony for themselves, and may we uphold and sustain His servants with all our hearts, is my prayer through Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission). 

My brothers and sisters, there is a desire in my breast that our Father will bless me with His Spirit the few moments I stand before you to testify of His goodness unto me, and unto the Elders I am privileged to labor with in the Northern States mission. Though my knees tremble under the task of speaking to you, my heart rejoices in the privilege of visiting this conference, and hearing the testimonies of my brethren who have been called upon to speak. I rejoice in their testimonies because it warms my soul, and makes me feel that God has been good to me in giving me also a testimony of His Gospel, .and testifying to my soul that His Son Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. I know that for the past six months our Father in heaven has fulfilled His promises upon the heads of the Elders laboring in the Northern States mission, and that they have been inspired in the performance of their duties. Many of them, during the past few months, look as brown as though they had been working in the harvest fields at home. I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the progress of the work in the mission where we are laboring. Our cry to the Presidency of the Church has been, as I understand is the case with presidents of other missions, that we have too few Elders to answer the calls of the people who desire to hear from us. From the northern to the southern part of our mission, we have calls from the people for tracts and books, and for visits from the Elders, so much so that during the last six months we have been compelled to ask the Saints to stand alone, to look to God, to read the Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants, to go to their Father in heaven for wisdom, and permit the Elders to go out among the strangers who have not had the privilege of hearing the gospel. The efforts of the Elders this summer have been blessed, and for the past four months, we have had an average of about fifty baptisms per month; and we have dis 125,000 tracts, half of which are pamphlets, consisting of thirty-two pages. The Elders have sold hundreds of Books of Mormon in the last two months. Some of the big book stores in our part of the country have kindly consented to put our books upon sale along with others. We appreciate this kindly interest, it is a change ' from wha: has been in the past, for heretofore our books, if they have been in stores at all, have had a place among the shelfworn and second-hand stock. 

There is one incident that has occurred in the Northern States mission which I believe all Latter-day Saints will be interested in, that is the conference that was held in Nauvoo last Saturday and Sunday. If I may be permitted I will relate the circumstances under which the conference was held there. About one month ago the president of the Northern Illinois conference was looking for a suitable place to hold a conference, and, having done missionary work for the past year in Hancock county, and had been blessed by a number of baptisms, and having heard it remarked that the "Reorganized church" people were contemplating holding conference in Nauvoo, he decided to hold the conference there, if possible, for he understood that they had postponed their's for one year, because conditions were not favorable. When he wrote to us about this, we requested the Southern Illinois Elders to join the northern Elders in holding conference there on the 30th of September, and the 1st of October. In accordance with that appointment, forty-eight Elders and twenty Saints gathered at Nauvoo on the 29th of September. The people residing here unitedly opened ftheir homes and welcomed what they termed the constructionist division of the Latter-day Saints. They said that, if the people of Nauvoo had not driven the Latter-day Saints, that beautiful location would now be one of the greatest cities in the United States. They remarked that the people who were driven out of Nauvoo had gone into a desert and had made it a desirable place, and they have not imagination enough to conceive of what would have been done E ELLSWORTH. 

 Nauvoo, had the Saints stayed in that goodly country. Some of the Saints and Elders from the Central States mission, hearing- of our conference, visited us, as also some from the Southern States. The Spirit of the Lord was upon every Elder who bore witness to the truthfulness of the gospel, and the hearts of the people rejoiced. We had more houses offered for our accommodation than we could occupy. Eight Elders had the privilege of rooming in President Brigham Young's old home; four, I think, in Heber C. Kimball's house; and eight or ten in the Nauvoo Mansion House. We held our fast meeting in the Riverside or Nauvoo house. The Spirit of the Lord was upon those who bore witness in that meeting, and all present were much affected. We had the pleasure of having Brother Lorin Farr with us, who formerly lived in that city, and who filled a mission to the Eastern States under the call of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Nauvoo people Wire anxious to have him visit Them and t;.lk of old times. Some said they hod been praying for years that the Latter-day Saints, the people who had made a desert to blossom as the rose, would come back, and help them build up that city, which is now sixty years behind the times. The residents in Lii e Nauvoo House moved into that place four months ago. They had never met any of the elders before, but the Spirit of the Lord came upon them, and we heard that, the day after conference, that family, with others, were baptized in the Mississippi river. 

I rejoice that the spirit in that country, once the home of the Latter-day Saints, has changed, and the people there deplore the fact that wicked men drove out people who were gifted with the power to build up a country, and w ho had within their souls a desire to beautify this earth. The mayor told us we would be always welcome. Truman who owns the hall that faces east on the temple block said that we could have the use of that hall from this time forth. Heretofore we have had to hold our meetings on the streets. Our Sunday afternoon and Sunday evening  were attended by about five hundred people, and they expressed themselves sorry when the meetings closed, for, they said, they had never witnessed anything like it since they lived in that city. The comment was made that, if fifty elders and a few saints could make them feel that good, what would ten thousand, or twenty thousand Latter-day Saints do for them? The spirit manifested in Nauvoo is also exhibited in other parts of Illinois, with the exception that a few people are still fighting the truth. The honest people, the farmers, the working people, those who earn their bread by industry, seem to desire the truth, and though they may be blinded, and feel that in fighting the Latter-day Saints they are engaged in a good cause, yet when they meet our elders and come in contact with their influence, they admire their devotion and respect the sacrifice they make in proclaiming the gospel. People of honest purpose cannot withstand the influence of the men who are out preaching the gospel, young men from eighteen to twentyfour years of age, who go hungry and footsore, who pray by the roadside that they may find the honest in heart, who stop from time to time and hold meetings, laboring faithfully until their soult; and their bodies are weary. These young men, filled with the Spirit of God, plead on their knees for' God to bless the people; and they call them to repentance in a voice that would almost soften the heart of a stone. Thess young men, after they have notified the people of a little town that they are going to hold a meeting, and have labored all day with that end in view, ara filled with the Spirit of God when the meeting is held, and the people bless them, take them home, buy their books, and invite them to come again. I know of no one better prepared to preach to the people, and to plead with them to follow Christ, than these young men are after a hard day's work of this kind. I rejoice in the work they are doing. I rejoice in the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in the spirit of this conference, and in the spirit of the Saints wherever I go. May God bless them; may He help all of us to fulfill the calling - whereunto we have been called, that we may dedicate our all to the service of the Master, that we may spread the truth, to the end that all thy world may feel as we do, and rejoice In the name of the Lord for the Gospel that He has restored in our day. And though our knees tremble, may our hearts rejoice in bearing this witness to the inhabitants of the earth, that when we come up in the morning of the resurrection our Master may say "Well done," and the honest in heart of the earth rise up and bless us for our labors and for the time we spent in bringing them to a knowledge of the truth. May the sacrifice and the devotion of the Latter-day Saints draw to them the honest in heart of the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Horace S. Ensign sang feelingly "The Lord's Prayer." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. (President of Juarez Stake.) I desire, my brethren and sisters, to preface the brief remarks that I am about to make by reading a few paragraphs from the Book of Mormon. Six hundred years before the birth of our Savior, the Lord called His servant Lehi to come out from Jerusalem, with his family, to a land which the Lord promised to lead him to, and to give to him and to his descendants after him for an everlasting inheritance. He outlined to this man in vision the future of his posterity and of the world throughout its generations, until a time should come in the dispensation of the fullness of times when truth should triumph over error, and when God's kingdom should be established in the earth. In order that this vision might be made clearer, plainer, and more comprehensible, the Lord sent his angel to explain and enlarge upon it to Nephi, the son of Lehi. Among other things, he saw that after the descendants of this man should dwindle in unbelief, a great church should be established in the earth, a church which  called the mother of abominations., a church which should worship gold and silver, satin and fine-twined linen; and he saw that this church should dominate the entire earth. Then he saw the establishment of another church, which he called the church of the Lamb of" God; and it is just a few paragraphs relating to this epoch that I desire to read— the period of time, my brethren and sisters, in which we live, and in whose events we are actual participants: 

"And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all the earth, and she sat upon many waters: and she had dominion over all the earth, among the nations, kindreds, tongues, and people. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of God, and its numbers were few. because of the wickedness and abominations of the whore who sat upon many waters: nevertheless, I beheld the church of the lamb, who were the saints of God. were also upon the face of the earth: and their dominions upon the face of the earth were small, because of the wickedness of the great whore whom I saw." 

Now. my brethren and sisters, the thing to which I wish to call your attention is this: At the time the Book of Mormon was published to the world, the church of the Lamb of God did not exist. It had not come into being in its organized form. Now. think back for a little more than -seventy-five years, and let us ask ourselves whether or not the words of the Lord that He gave to Nephi more than two thousand years ago are not verified. I have always rejoiced in the fact that the Latter-day Saints are a people who live in the present. Their faith is not founded upon that which is past, although they delight to understand the past, because in contemplating it they can in a degree judge of the future. They are not a people whose hopes are founded altogether upon something that is yet future; but they are a people who live in the present. They are fulfillers of prophecy. They are a people who are enacting their part in the great work of the redemption of the human race, outlined by the ancient prophets of God. What is the condition  the Church today? I have been led to contemplate this question, because of the report which was made here by the President of thd> Church at the opening of the conference. The Latter-day Saints are firmly established in Canada; their possessions extend into Oregon; they are in Montana, in Idaho, in Wyoming, in California, in Arizona, in Colorado, in Utah, in New Mexico. They have gone over the wall, and are in the republic of Mexico, still further south. Not only are their possessions to be found in this district of country to which I have referred, but you may find them also in the States of the Union, in the countries of Europe, and upon the islands of the sea. The Saints of God are acquiring possessions in these countries, few it is true, if they were not few, it would not be in accordance with the written word of God. 

I am very pleased to report to you the condition/ of your brethren and sisters in the Juarez Stake of Zion. They are in a foreign country, a country which offers very few natural inducements to men and women who reside in the United States, a country with very little public land, a country where every inch that we have acquired we have had to do so by continuous effort. Nevertheless, there are, according to our statistics, 3,751 Latter-day Saints in that land. They are scattered over a large area. They are poor people, but industrious, God-fearing, and economical. They are exceedingly liberal with the limited means which the Lord has given them. This is illustrated in the fact that about 40 of them have come up to attend this conference, and I am certain that, taking a very conservative estimate, these people will have spent $5000 in making this trip before they return to their homes. These three thousand and odd Latter-day Saints paid $50,000 in tithing last year, which amounts to about $13.50 for every soul in the stake, including men, women, and children. But a man said to me last night, that is Mexican money, is it not? Yes, that is Mexican money, and a Mexican dollar counts with us just as much as an American dollar counts to you,  we get over the line, and they are cut in two, and call it fifty cents; but the Mexican laboring man receives no more for his work, the teamster or the freighter receives no more for his work in Mexico than he does in the United States, and at the same time we pay about three times as much for everything we consume as you do here. I said this to a broker who was down there once, and he said he didn't believe it. I simply called attention to the fact that the sugar we use to sweeten our food and preserve our fruits costs us from $15 to $17 a sack, against five or six dollars you pay here; the fruit jars we put our fruit in cost us thirtyfive cents a quart jar,as against eight or ten cents you pay here; the salt we put in our food costs us five or six cents a pound, I suppose you get it for about half a cent; the flour we eat costs us from six to nine dollare per hundred as against about two and a half dollars you pay here. So I could go on indefinitely, and am certain that the average of prices we pay for that which we consume in Mexico is three times as much as it is in the United States. Notwithstanding these conditions, my brethren and sisters, we are building up thrifty and prosperous settlements. The very best rural towns of their age and size that I have ever seen are in Mexico. You will see there more good brick houses that would be creditable to any community, than in any other towns of their age or size I have ever visited. "We are in a country where men can work three hundred and sixty-five days in the year. We are never idle. Men wear out their lives with hard labor. 

The Mexican mission and those who have been converted to the Gospel among the rative population are not included in the enumeration to which I have referred. There are several hundred people who are converts to the Church in and around the city of Mexico. They are Indians. There are about eight millions of pure blooded Indians in the republic of Mexico, and probably two millions of other people in whom the Indian blood largely predominates, while there are two or three millions of people who are foreigners. Wherever ive have gone among this pure blooded people with the Gospel, they have been ready to receive it. Our greatest effort is to keep them out until the time comes when we feel prepared to take care of them. They are a good people, devoted and God-fearing, that is, those "who have embraced the truth. While their skins are dark, they are a think, ing people, and understand the principles of the Gospel, and are capable of discussing them with any people that I have ever ccme in contact with. They are people of the covenant. 

The very fact that these Indians are beginning to receive the truth is of great importance to us. Have you ever stopped to contemplate, have you ever reflected upon the fact that Christ himself said to their fathers: 

"Verily, I say unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye mav known the time when these things shall be about to take place [referring to the fulfillment of the promises made to the seed of that people and to the restoration of the Jews]: * * * and behold this is the thing which I will give unto you for a sign: 

'"For verily I say unto you, that when these things which I declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost, shall be made known unto the Gentiles, that they may know concerning this people who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, and concerning this my people who shall be scattered by them: 

"Verily, verily. I say unto you, when these things shall be made known unto them of the Father, and shall come of the Father, from them unto you; 

* *  

"When these works, and the works which shall be wrought among you hereafte' 1 , shall come forth from the Gentiles unto your seed, which shall dwindle in unbelief because of iniquity; 

* * * 

"And when these things come to pass, that thy seed shall begin to know these things, it shall be a sign unto them, that thev may know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who are of the house of Israel." 

That time has come, my brethren and . The works of the Church are translated into the Spanish language. These millions of people who are south of us, and who are direct descendants of father Lehi, heirs of the promises made to him and to his descendants, are beginning to come to a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel. It seems to me that a great responsibility rests upon us regarding them. We are indebted to them for the Book of Mormon, which contains the fullness of the everlasting Gospel, and which is the greatest living prophecy that stands before the world today. We are tcld that if a man prophecy and the things which he declares come to pass, we may know by that that he is a prophet; and I say that if the Book of Mormon stood alone as an evidence of the divine authenticity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, it is sufficient to establish the fact that he was called of God. It has unlocked the door by which we are able to read the past. It declares to us the present, and it forecasts to us the future, by which we know that the triumph of the work of the Lord is sure. It stands, as brother Roberts has said, as a new witness for God before the nations of the earth. The fact burned into my soul in my youth that not one word of prophecy which is contained in this book will fall to the ground unfulfilled. If this is the case, we know that the destiny of this Church is very closely ::llied with the destiny of these darkskinned people south of us. We cannot avoid the responsibility. We must carry the Gospel to them. They must be redeemed, they must come into the fold of Christ, they must be numbered with those who are already members of His Church before the redemption of Zion comes, and before the center stake of Zion shall be built up. Read the prophecies for yourselves, and judge whether or not I am, correct in making this assertion. 

My brethren and sisters, we in Mexico are laboring, as you are, in humility and in faith for the establishment of God's kingdom in the earth. We believe that it will be established, that 

ELDER JOSEPH 

His purposes will be accomplished, and that despite the efforts of men or devils to stay the progress of this work, it will triumph, and Christ will come and reign in power and dominion with His Saints upon the earth. May the Lord help us to keep the covenants that we have entered into, to be true to each other, to be true to the Lord, increase our faith, our hone, our charity, our good works, and by so doing others may be led to glorify the name of our Father in heaven, and be brought into His fold. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. (President of California Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, my heart is lifted up in praise and thanksgiving when I hear the testimony of my brethren in relation to the growth and advance that the Church of Christ is making in -the earth. With Balaam of old, I feel to say. "How goodly are thy tents. O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel! As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river's side, as the trees of lignaloes which the I«ord hath planted, and as cedar trees beside the waters. Blessed is he that olesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee." 

The mission that I have the honor of representing is not so large as some other missions in the United States; but I believe it has as varied interests as any of them. Varied as is the state of California in its flora and fauna, so is it socially and religiously. Mt. Shasta at the north end of the state is nea>rly three miles above the sea. It is crowned with glaciers of everlasting ice. The only plant life near the snow line is fhe lichen and the moss. Then we have in the Imperial valley, at the south end of the state. 300 feet below sea level, the palms and oranges and dates of the warmer countries. Just as varied as is the growth of vegetation, and the character of animal life between these two extremes of altitude, are the religious beliefs of that people. Someone has said that there are 1,440 

E. ROBINSON. 57 

odd "somebodies" in the United States and 80,000,000 of "nobodies," and that California has one-third or more of these "somebodies." Though I have been there a few years, I have not come to know much about the "somebodies;" but I have learned that the "somebodies" and "nobodies" that are there have a great many different ideas of religion. During the last summer it was my privilege to attend some lectures that were delivered before the Venice Assembly — a society resort near Los Angeles. I came away from those gatherings with a fixed and firm determination to preach Christ and Him ciucifled whenever opportunity offered; for I found there that the men who stood up as social reformers, as ecclesiastical leaders, as philosophers of all the ologies and isms of the day, seem to have lost sight of the fact that Jesus is the very Son of God. Many of them mouthed the same sentiment as Lyman Abbot had expressed, wherein he said, "My God is an ever-present energy, manifesting itself in all the activities of human life and in all the workings of nature. I believe," said he, "in a God that is in all things, and through all things, and of all things" — pantheistic wholly in its nature. I heard one of the most eminent clergymen offer a prayer just before the great Baba Bhareta delivered his address upon the mission of the old world to the new — the mission of the Buddhists of the eastern world to the Christians of the western world; and in his prayer he said something like this: "O Thou Great and Infinite One, from whom we emanate, and from whence all things come, who is of all things and through all things and by all things, let Thy Spirit rest down upon these Thy children this day, that whether the message be from Moses or Job, of Christ or of Bhudda, or of Krishna, that all shall know that it emanates from Thee, the Fount of Love alone." I heard some of them say, in speaking of the Master, that although He was one of the greatest leaders, ethically and morally, that the world has ever produced, fhat He was endewed with miraculous gifts, that He was the greatest Prophet the world has, ever known, yet they could not regard him as the Son of God as do orthodox Christians. Two weeks ago today, in Los Angeles, one of our little Sunday school hoys, a non-"Mormon," asked why they did not make a picture of God. He said, "I have seen pictures of angels and pictures of Jesus Christ, but why don't they make a picture of God?" It brought to my mind the addresses I had heard in the Venice assembly. It was brought to my mind again yesterday, by the editorial in the Deseret News in relation to what Joseph Hamilton had said at Wilson, New York, to the effect that God is a Spirit, and at the same time he tried hard to make it out that He is a personal being as well, stating that He could at His pleasure assume a personal form. 

In California. Christian Science has a great following. In fact, the religious atmosphere of that great state is abnormal. Those who are religious seem to be abnormally so. They have built up an ethereal sphere, through perverted imagination or fancy, that is wholly untenable to the matter-of-fact man. Christian Science, friends and followers in that State have fructified to that extent that there are many branches of Home Love, of Faith Healing, and of Faith Cure; and it is their hope, so I have been told by some of their leaders, that it will not be long before th_ey shall live and never taste of death, through their knowledge of Christian Science. But these people deny Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God. 

It is a fruitful land also for Spiritualism. Many men and women there study what they call the occult sciences. They have gathered from all over the world This class of people, too, deny that Jesus is the Son of God. 

We have there also headcuarters of theosophy, with a temple of Isis, established for the very purpose of resurrecting the old theosophy of Egypt. They, too, deny that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. 

Then there is the Unitarian church,  has a large following. In fact, this assembly that I have been speaking of was conducted and presided over by a Unitarian, although he and his followers do not call themselves Unitarians, but they are nevertheless. They believe in one God — Love — an essence, a force; and they accept Jesus Christ, not as the Son of God, but as the expression of Love in human form. 

This has made it difficult for us to proselyte after the manner of the Apostles of old, and to use the Scriptures; for they have to be converted first of all to the thought that the Bible may be the word of God, before they will listen to the scriptural passages we can quote to prove the divinity of Jesus. 

In addition to those I have mentioned, there are many who are called Independent Christians. They claim, with the late Secretary John Hay, that they cannot find within the narrow creed of any of the orthodox churches a pure and full expression of their ideas of religion. Among this class of people we have greater freedom and are able to do the most good, because their minds are healthy, and they have not the vain imaginations that others have. They listen to our testimonies, encourage us, and give us the hand of fellowship. In some of their organizations we are privileged to speak, and In others we do the praying, while in others we have done the singing, and conducted burial services over their dead, because they do not attend to these things themselves; their organizations are merely for the cultivation of social virtues, and for beneficent purposes. 

Not a great while ago (I believe I mentioned it here once, but it will not hurt to tell it again), a Catholic priest came to me, and after he was assured that I was the representative of om people— for he had expected to see someone with a long, white beard, venerable and dignified in appearance— he disclosed to me his identity as a Catholic priest, and told me that he had come to the conclusion that no man could live a correct life in celibacy. He had heard of the wondrous growth and  of our people, their institutions, and their social economy, and he desired to cast his lot with us, that he might have a home and a family of his own. "But," said he, "there is one crucial point I want to be satisfied upon before I can accept your Gospel— do you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Soi» of God?" When I answered, "Verily we do," he remarked, "Well, I expect we are all in a measure the sons and daughters of God, but do you believe that He is any different from the rest of us, because I cannot think that he Is more than the natural son of Joseph or some other man." 

To my mind, it is just such doc~ trines as those put forth by Jos&ph Hamilton and Lyman Abbott that ar^ responsible for much of the infidelity in the world today and of the indifference towards religion. Men feel, so they express it, that they can see as far into the future as any other man. They do not care, they say, for a religion that deals with the dead past alone, and that has dead forms; they want something that is alive, that is tangible, that appeals to their material minds as well as to their emotions, and that can offer them something to dosomething that is reasonable and tangible. 

Such are the questions that we are confronted with in that land. Therefore, we have to learn something besides the Scripture, and be enabled tc bring forth strong reasons upon these matters before we can satisfy them that we have a religion that is better than other churches of the land have —something that within the very genius of it answers the demands of men'o souls, that is soul-uplifting, and that brings to men the benediction that always accompanies the truth. 

I note that Mr. Hamilton speaks of the fact that God created man in Hi* own image, male and female; that Ht, spoke to Adam in the Garden of Eden, that He reported to the council in heaven that Adam and Eve had become like unto them, knowing good from evil; that afterwards He visited Abram; that He ate and drank with  on the plains of Mamre, and, after the custom of the country, had his feet bathed; that He told Abram that He had come down to see if the reports in relation to Sodom and Gomorrah were correct; that afterwards He wrestled with Jacob, and that Jacob constrained Him, in fact, would not let Him go until He had blessed him; that He changed the name of Jacob at that tim& to Israel, because, He said, you have prevailed with the Lord, and Jacob rejoiced, because, said he, I have seen the Lord face to face and still live. He quotes the fact, too, that God spoke, to Moses face to face, as one man speaketh to another, and not in vision nor in dark sentences; that God rebuked Miriam and Aaron for their jealousy and reminded them that He spoke- to Moses as one man speaks toanother, mouth to mouth. He cites the fact also that Stephen beheld the Christ, after the resurrection, sitting upon the right hand of the Father, clothed with the glory that He had prayed for before the dread night of Gethsemane. when He asked that the Father should restore unto Him all the glory that He had with Him before the world was; the fact, too, that Jesus, the Christ, was born of woman, as we are, and that He grew up as a child, like other children. If we credit the writings of the early fathers, we learn that He used to fashion animals, birds, etc., of clay; that in His father's workshop He learned to fashion the yoke for the cattle, and make tools, and' build after the manner of that day. Wc learn that afterwards, when John had become converted because of the Holy Ghost descending upon Him in the sign of a dove, the same bore witness to His Apostles that He was the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world; yet this same Jesus suffered hunger and thirst, and the adversary strove to tempt Him and lead Him astray from the path of righteousness because of His hunger, fatigue and thirst. 

We understand that He went to Nazareth, the home of His youth, and took up the Scriptures as was His wont upon the Sabbath day to teach them. Clad w ith newer and greater authority, having come into the fulness of manhood and privileged, under the law, to take up the ministry, He taught as one having authority, and they resented it and cast Him out, saying, "Is He not Joseph the carpenter's son, and have we not His brothers and sisters with us till this very day?" How sad the words of the Master as He turns from them— "a prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and among his own people." They know how He was mocked by the Pharisees and the Sadducees, when, fatigued and ill with privation and with the wondrous labors he performed, they cried unto him. Physician, heal thyself. They watch Him through His course of life. They can read of it as do we. How He wept over the death of Lazarus; how He seemed as a man among men, aside from His miraculous powers of healing and divination. At the same time He promised that those who believed on Him should do the works which He did, and greater works, and that the same signs should follow the true believer unto the end of the world. We know, too, that the early Apostles did raise the dead to life, performed miracles, cast out evil spirits, opened the eyes of the blind, unstopped the ears of the deaf, and caused the lame to leap like the hart. They read of the Master as He went to Golgotha, breaking down like a weak man under the heavy cross. They read how He died as a man dies. Notwithstanding all these things they feel that He was no more than man. They lose sight of the fact that He was a perfect man, enjoying the full capabilities of man; and that because of His parentage He had more than manhood, that He had power inherent within Himself to break the bands of death and take his body up again. It is afTer the resurrection that we note the greatest difference. He appears before His disciples in the self-same body, showing the prints of the nails in His hands and feet, and the mark of the spear-thrust in His side, and asks the doubting one to come and test Him, for  spirit had not flesh and bones as He had. We see Him then partaking of food with His disciples and laboring with them for 40 days. We then read of His ascension into heaven in the same bodily form that He had while sojourning among the children of men; and angels testified to those sons of Galilee that as He ascended into heaven, in the same manner He should also descend. John says, "Beloved, when He comes we shall be like Him, and we shall see Him as He is" — not as the vain imaginations of men would make Him, but as the express image of His Father's person, in the likeness of His Father. 

It seems to me that if men would study these things as they are written, and not spiritualize them, they could not help but admit the fact that we are in the image of our Father; that as He is the father of our spirits He is also the Father of Jesus, the Christ. And more, that He was the Father of Jesus, the Christ, in the flesh, the only begotten in the flesh. And so I repeat. I have felt constrained to preach more strenuously "Jesus Christ and Him crucified," and the personality of our Father, and the fact that we are indeed His children, and that we are commanded to become perfect like Him, and we may become like Him if we follow in the way which the Master hath marked out. I believe that the greatest revelation given in these the last days was the vision of Joseph the Prophet when he saw God the Father and the Son, and made statement of the fact that man is in the image of Deity. This revelation abolishes icomplietejly the theory of the men I have quoted, and annuls the Athanasian creed, which obtains in the Roman Catholic and Episcopal faiths, and is printed in their creeds even unto this day. I believe if men would study more of Jesus, the Christ, they would come near to knowing who our Father is and what He is like. Then they might accept Jesus as the Only Begotten of the Father, and turn to Him, and love and follow Him, and rejoice in the prerogatives of the everlasting gospel. 

This is why we are striving to preach to the people the divinity of Jesus, because of their disbelief in the Son of God. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that in our lives we shall emulate the example of. the Lord Jesus Christ; for then we may become joint heirs with Him to the power and the prerogatives of our Father. When men have been told these things, it has uplifted their hearts, and their minds have been exalted with the concept that the Latterday Saints have of Jesus, the Christ. Many men have told me that they have had a new incentive to live aright, a deeper hope and a deeper faith had been implanted in their hearts because of the testimony of the Elders in relation to the personality of God the Father, and that Jesus is indeed His Son. 

God bless you, my brothers and sisters. Pray for us in the mission field, as we pray for you. We have the right to expect a great deal of you, that as we are looked upon as representatives of our people, that you at home shall do your part well; that all we say in our pride and love for you shall be maintained and upheld: that you will prove you are the people of God, that our mission in the world is the uplifting of humanity, and that in the due time of the Lord we shall succeed in it; which God grant, is my prayer in the name of Jesus, the Christ. Amen. 

The anthem "How beautiful upon the mountains" was sung by the choir, and the solo parts were rendered by Sister Lizzie T. Edward and Elder John Robinson. 

Benediction by Elder Charles F. Middleton. 

The Tabernacle was excessively crowded, and. soon after the morning meeting commenced, it was announced that an overflow meeting would be held in the Assembly hall. 
