21
Afternoon
05 04 1924
John H. Taylor 
164
73-74

None

None 

I presume that the time will never come when all of the people of this country or any other country will always speak good of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Such was the experience of Christ in the early days when he established his Church upon the earth. Such was the experience of his apostles, the experience of Joseph Smith and the experience of his people, as they have tried to live lives of usefulness and righteousness upon the earth. It is, however, gratifying as I travel among the people, to find that there is a spirit of kindliness towards the Church, a spirit that is being generated among the men of the country, especially among the business men, of tolerance and of good will towards the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am always glad when people are willing to listen to our explanation of the gospel, and pleased when they speak well of this great Western community of which we are a part. I delight in hearing the favorable expressions that are made in regard to our people. 

I notice on our streets and in our stores, signs which say: "Boost for Utah." We could say the same thing about Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona or Canada. I am glad that we are desirous of boosting for this great western country of ours, because it is a good country and contains a splendid class of men and women. 

Our missionaries are out in the world; and I know of no greater boosters. It is true that they are out preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, but while they are doing it, they cannot forget their mountain home, they cannot forget the hills and the plains and the streams of running water; they cannot forget how God has blessed this country of ours, and they are always telling the people of the glories of the same; In no instance do they express "if's" or "but's" about any of the people of this country of ours. They forget some of our so-called "friends" and the things they say about us, and about our leaders, remembering the splendid men and women not of our faith who live in this great country of ours. That is what I like. I delight seeing men and women boost for their people as well as for their lands, their herds, their hills and their wealth. I hope that the "Mormon" people will always speak well of their country and of the people in the places in which they live. 

I hope the world will permit us to direct our own Church as other people are permitted to direct their churches. I hope they will let us interpret the doctrines of our faith in the way we want to interpret them, the same privilege being given to others. If they will do this we can unite with them, and they with us, and we will go on and make this country one of the most splendid places to live in on the face of the earth. 

These men whom we meet from time to time speak well of the Church because of the manner in which it has built up the country. They point to our meeting houses, they point to our public places, they say: "You believe in your Church because you are going to stay, and you build well. You believe in your country as a great place to live in and you take part in the civic life of your communities." They say, "We like the kindliness and the courtesy that is extended to us through the Bureau of Information." This Bureau is one of the most wonderful institutions we have of boosting for the country and the people and the things we have. As we go from place to place we are told of the kind treatment and courtesy shown to the people when they visited here. They admire the way we take care of our young people in their recreational and their spiritual life; they admire the way we bring them together and teach them the word of God, setting them examples which they can follow, thereby becoming not only good members of the Church, but clean, fine, patriotic American citizens, who love their country and are willing to stand by it in every emergency. These young people of ours are a splendid people, and they come out into the world, and by the spirit and power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they bear testimony to the world; and kindle a desire in people to know something more about this great "Mormon" people living in this Rocky Mountain district. Above all, they impress their hearers with our sincerity. As has been said of Christ, he spoke as one having authority, so say they of the boys and the girls and the men and the women who go out into the world and visit among them — that they speak as men and women having authority to speak for God upon the earth. 

May this good spirit stay with us, may we live lives of usefulness and righteousness upon the earth, and then God's work shall grow and we shall become a greater people and a better people. May God help us to do this and to serve him all the days of our lives, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen.
