22
Afternoon
05 04 1924
Elder Brigham S. Young 
No Speaker ID
74-76

None

Missionary work 

My dear brethren and sisters, I desire while I speak that I may have a portion of the spirit that has thus far characterized this conference; namely, the spirit of instruction. 

I have the honor to preside over the Northwestern States mission and it is indeed an honor and an opportunity. I have the honor to have the association of young men and women who have been sent out into the world to proclaim the truth, and they are proclaiming it. They are learning its value and power. I was very much impressed by a statement in the prayer of Brother John W. Hart. He said in the course of his petition: "Magnify, O God, the missionaries in the eyes of the world." They are being magnified, brethren and sisters, God hears these young men and women. He knows the purity of their lives, and you find it expressed in the teachings of the Gospel as they give them to the various congregations and people with whom they come in contact. 

We have, in the Northwestern States mission, a mission among the Indians, established by President Melvin J. Ballard, when he presided over the Northwestern States mission. I have the pleasure and privilege of visiting that little mission every three months. We conduct there an Indian school, and the school superintendent of the reservation told me a few days ago that we had one of the best schools on the reservation. We know that in some of those schools conducted by other churches it is necessary for them to turn the key on their pupils in order that they shall be present when school is called for the following morning. That is not true in our school. The children love their teachers; they are as fond, almost it amounts to adoration, of their teachers as is the feeling between the white people and the teachers of civilization whom they dearly love. There is a great work to be done among the Lamanites, and these good men and women who are teaching the children of the Indians, are laying a foundation for a future work that shall be gigantic in its scope. 

This brother, whom I have mentioned, asked that the missionaries might be magnified in the eyes of the world, and my plea to you is that the missionaries on their return to their homes may be magnified in the eyes of the people from whom they come. These boys and girls who have gone into the world and have acquired a knowledge and a testimony of the gospel are full of its spirit, they are desirous of spreading a knowledge of God, and it is as desirable that that knowledge should be spread at home as abroad; and I appeal to the bishops, to presidents of stakes, to the men and women composing our communities, that they will foster, encourage, and help, and that they will see to it that these young men and women have the same opportunity to preach the gospel at home as they have had while they have been abroad. We, the presidents of missions, are endeavoring to teach them to be, as Bishop Nibley said this morning, courteous gentlemen and ladies. We are endeavoring educationally, to give them the best that we possess. They will come back to their communities rich with the glorious influence that they have imbibed on their missions. Let us, brethren and sisters, perpetuate the missionary spirit, that our boys and girls possess when they come home, for I testify to you that they are the dearest, most valued, the most beautiful of associates, and they find a place in the hearts of their mission presidents second only to our own children. 

May God help us to be kindly, to magnify our own boys and girls in our own community, as we have prayed that they be magnified in the eyes of the world, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
