25
Morning
06 04 1924
Hyrum Gibbs Smith 
32
87-90

None

Patriarchal blessings 

It is a wonderful opportunity to stand here and face this multitude of people, and I am sure some of you realize that it is a wonderful responsibility. I hope to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord the few moments I stand here, in keeping with the brethren who have already occupied this position. I have learned, to a certain degree, the weight of responsibility that has come to me as one of the youths of Israel, one of the young men of Zion, in these the last days. 

President Ivins has been speaking to us concerning the commandments of the Lord, and how these commandments have been taught to us of the Lord, at different times in the history of the world. We are aware of the fact that the Lord has spoken to us in plainness, and that his commandments are given to us in our own language, simple, plain and forceful, and yet many of us are so blinded by the conditions that surround us, perhaps by the fashions of the world, with which we are surrounded, that we fail in many ways to keep the commandments of the Lord. I suppose, my experience has given me as good a view as any officer in the Church, to judge about how well the Latter-day Saints keep the commandments of the Lord. I think also that the Lord has made me in a way rather sympathetic, and when I discover my brethren or sisters seeking the Lord, for comfort, blessings, strength, courage, faith, and for other gifts or blessings, or help, I stand ready, naturally, to do my part in assisting to see that the desired comfort, and consolation, are received. But I have discovered that the greater number of those who are seeking comfort and consolation and help from the Lord are those who are in trouble, those who have unfortunately stumbled over some of the obstacles that have crossed their pathway. And so there are a great many members of the Church who are constantly seeking for help, comfort, and consolation, and the Lord in his kindness, in the great and wonderful organization of his Church, has placed officers therein to assist in administering the comfort and consolation which his children naturally seek. 

I should like to bring to the attention of the members of the Church these noble and worthy officers whom the Lord has placed in his Church, they are stationed throughout the Stakes of Zion just as well as at the head of the Church. They are noble, exemplary and worthy men. They are the Patriarchs in the Church and are authorized with the powers and the keys of authority, to administer the blessings desired by the members of the Church. It is my purpose on this occasion, my brethren and sisters, to recommend these good men to you, to administer your blessings, in keeping with the instructions which have come to us from the Lord through his holy servants. They are modest in their character; they dislike very much to come to you and say: "Well now, here I am, a servant of the Lord, authorized with all the keys, authorities and powers to bless you, and I am ready, ask and you shall receive." It is not their purpose to come to you, particularly, but it is your privilege to go to them; they are authorized to act for you, and it is my faith and my testimony to you brethren and sisters, that they are humble and pure enough to act in their calling, and give unto you the blessings of the Lord, and not entirely the blessings of men. It is true that we, as fellow-men, can bless one another. We can encourage and comfort each other; but these men of whom I speak, who bear the holy Priesthood, have been especially authorized, called and set apart, they are authorized to comfort you with the blessings of the Lord. So I recommend that you do not slight or forget these good men. Pray for them as you would pray for your own household. Pray for them that they may enjoy the spirit of their office and calling in the Church. 

In olden days, patriarchs were placed in Israel to perform ordinances for Christ, by the laying on of hands. Adam called his posterity together and foretold unto them the great future that might befall them, for their benefit, comfort, and guidance, and in like manner these men are placed in our midst for that same purpose, to comfort, guide and sustain us in the fold of Christ. I have been convinced that there is a blessing for every faithful member of the Church. It is true there are many members who have had other blessings, and if they are considered in a proper light, I am sure they have done no harm, and perhaps will do no harm in the future. But I think every faithful member of the Church should receive his or her blessing. 

The first Patriarch in this dispensation, the father of our Prophet, when he was upon his dying bed, called his family around him and gave them his dying blessing; and when his oldest living son came, he said: "Hyrum, the only blessing I have for you is to reconfirm upon you your patriarchal blessing which you have already received." That was his dying blessing, with very few other remarks of comfort and consolation; this assures me that there is a fundamental principle in a patriarchal blessing when pronounced and recorded. It is an eternal anchor for our soul with the Lord; so it is not particularly necessary to receive a multitude of written blessings. But when these blessings are given and properly recorded, they are just as eternal and binding upon us through our faithfulness as were the blessines which were given by Adam, Abraham, Jacob or any of the former patriarchs in the times which have passed. 

I have open here before me the Book of Genesis, which contains the records of a number of patriarchal blessings. They are not long, they do not cover pages and pages of manuscript, but they are very brief and pointed; and it has taken generations of time, many years of time, for their fulfilment; in fact, they are not entirely fulfilled yet — blessings that were given upon the heads of the descendants of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, and upon the sons of Jacob. 

So, my brethren and sisters, if you will discover the keynote of your blessing it will not be a long one, necessarily, but an index that will point to you the book of life, the book of the way of your life, in the path that you should go to serve God and to keep his commandments. So, I say, do not wait until you are in trouble to go to the Lord, through his holy servants, but seek them out in their homes, in their offices, make appointments with them and get your blessings. 

My heart is filled, today, with compassion and with the blessings of the Lord for his people, and I pray that our Father in heaven will continue to pour out his blessings upon this Church, upon those who are called to preside over it, and in it, that he will sustain them with health, strength, wisdom, and with his Holy Spirit, that he will bless the people in their homes and in their fields of labor, the Saints both gathered and scattered, that they may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, and live exemplary lives, free from the follies and vices of the world, even though we are much surrounded by the world. Let us be that peculiar people which the Lord declared he would have. Let us hearken unto the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, and to the teachings given us, not only in general conferences, but in our quarterly conferences and in all of our local gatherings. And in the name of the Lord, as his humble servant, I bless this multitude present here today, and say unto you: Serve the Lord and keep his commandments. Hearken unto that small voice, which is the voice of the Holy Spirit, which will guide you in the way of truth, in the way of life, and then you will receive the precious blessings which you desire, in faithfulness and which have been nobly pointed out to us this morning by President Ivins. They are the blessings of the Lord, and they will be upon you and upon this people, so long as we will serve the Lord; the Lord of this Church, this land, this world; for this world is his, and we are his, and if we will only hearken unto his teachings, he will bless us temporally and spiritually. God bless you all through your faithfulness, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
