26
Morning
06 04 1924
Rey L. Pratt 
26
90-92

None

Missionary work 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I sense very keenly the responsibility of addressing you for a few moments this morning, and my only desire is to add my testimony to those that have been borne by the brethren who have spoken during this conference relative to the truthfulness of the work in which we are all engaged. 

Since the beginning of this conference the words of the Apostle Paul to the Corinthian saints have been passing through my mind, wherein he said: 

"For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." And I am most thankful to the Lord that in this day and age in which we live he has again set up his kingdom and established his Church and restored his gospel, and in them has placed his power; for I testify to you, this morning that the Prophet Joseph Smith was raised up of God, and did not take unto himself power, but from our Father in heaven received power to establish this great work; and the work of the Lord, in this day and age in which we live, is characterized by the power of our Father in heaven in all of its ramifications. We who have listened to the inspired words of our Prophet and leader and his counselors, and the Twelve Apostles in this conference, surely are witnesses of the power of God that has accompanied their words. I marveled last night, when we saw the body of this hall filled with men bearing the holy Priesthood, at the wonderful power there is in this Church for the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, for the preaching of the gospel, for the warning of all men everywhere in order that they may turn from error, from false traditions, and receive the principles of the gospel and be saved in the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, as one who labors in the mission field abroad, that the young men who go forth from Zion to preach the gospel unto the nations of the earth, are preaching it in power. They speak truly after the manner of the Master, and men marvel, and are led to comment and say, "They speak as men having authority." There is no doubt as to the genuineness, the sincerity, of the testimonies borne by the young men who preach the gospel message in the world. While many people do not accept their teachings, they do not question their sincerity. And this is a tribute, I take it, to the great power that accompanies their ministry in the world. 

I know that the gospel is true. I have no definite knowledge as to what my status or standing will be in the future. I do not know that I shall be able to maintain my integrity and my faith, but I do know, and bear witness to you here today, that the thing known as "Mormonism" is the gospel of Jesus Christ; it is the power of God unto salvation, and it is a means unto the salvation of every man who will believe and obey its principles. This is the message that we are delivering in the world. I care not what obstacles present themselves before this work. The Lord himself has said, that even though the gates of hell combat against it, they shall not prevail. I have faith in the fulfilment of all that God has promised unto his people in these days. Particularly I wish to refer to my faith in the promises of the Lord made by his holy prophets concerning the redemption of the Lamanite people. My heart was touched yesterday by the recital of Brother Levi Edgar Young of the Indian brothers who crossed this continent, going to the East, in an endeavor to bring back with them that which would save their people. The pathos of their having to go back without it was truly touching to me, my brethren and sisters. And now I rejoice that God has restored the truth, that he has made known a book and brought it forth in the world, that is the history of the forefathers of these people. And in that book is prophetically held out a hope for the redemption of the Lamanite people everywhere. 

We are laboring in a land beset by strife and turmoil, trouble and revolution. It would seem almost sufficient to discourage us in our efforts. But I wish to bear testimony that my faith grows, rather than diminishes, in the knowledge that I have, that God will, in his own due time and in his own way, redeem the Lamanite people. 

I delight to bring word to the fathers and mothers of the faithful boys and girls — for they are mere youths — who are in that mission, that they are enjoying good health, and above all, they are enjoying the spirit of their mission. They do not wish to turn to the right nor to the left, but are willing to face conditions as they find them, and humbly preach the gospel, in the hope that their testimony may touch the hearts of the people and bring them to a knowledge of God, and a knowledge of their forefathers, and the gospel whereby they may be redeemed. 

I am thankful to the Lord for giving me this testimony. I pray that it may always be with me, and with you my brethren and sisters, and that we may go on without fear and without doubt, remembering this, that in the Church is the power of God that can work his will for the redemption of all men everywhere. May the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
