31
Overflow
06 04 1924
Elder Joshua H. Paul 
No Speaker ID
109-111

None

None 

One of the most remarkable fallacies of modern times was well stated a few years ago by the late Professor Huxley, the leader of advanced thought, whose views on scientific truth were perhaps more widely accepted than those of any other man of his day. In a lecture, first delivered in 1866, and extensively quoted ever since (as in Ayedelotte, English for Engineers, page 207), this great scientist says that the business of thinkers of the Middle Ages was to deduce, from data furnished by the theologians, conclusions that agreed with the decrees of the Church; that to them nature had no fixed order; "that when good authority has pronounced what is to be believed and faith has accepted it, reason has no further duty." He adds that many excellent people still hold these convictions, and goes on to argue that the improvement of natural knowledge is effected by methods that directly give the lie to all these convictions. Then he says: "The improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses to acknowledge authority as such. For him skepticism is the highest of duties; blind faith, the one unpardonable sin. The votary of science holds his firmest convictions, not because the men he most venerates hold them, not because they are verified by portents and wonders, but because whenever he brings these convictions into contact with nature, nature verifies them. The man of science has learned to believe in "justification, not by faith, but by experiment." 

As far as I know, no very definite answer to the indictment which Huxley so shrewdly brought against the cardinal principle of religion has yet been made by the Christian world at large. If any such answer has been made, I shall be under great obligations to any one who will bring it to my attention. Yet it is well known among our own people that experiment has exactly the same function in religion that it has in scientific knowledge, and is the test, in fact, of religious as well as of all other forms of truth. When our parents walked across the plains, as so many thousands of them did, was this not an experiment? Did they not thereby put to the test these words of our Lord and Savior: "If any man shall do his will, [the Father's] he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." In other words, men are here bidden to make the experiment and to learn for themselves the truth. Real faith does not rest upon belief in authority. It is tested and confirmed by experiment — not by an experiment performed upon a table in a corner of a laboratory or under a microscope or in test tubes, but in the broad field of life and in such a way as to involve all the powers of man. True, it is not the result of doubt; it rests first upon testimony given by others; but so also does scientific knowledge. For the scientist hears of a theory or principle, and then proceeds to test it by experiment. The believer hears the good news that God lives and has revealed himself to man, and he accepts the testimony. But he immediately proceeds to test it in many ways, just as the scientist pioceeds to test natural knowledge. The only difference between the two kinds of belief is that faith rests upon and is verified by spiritual experience, while scientific faith rests upon physical experience. In both, the process of experiment is carried on; in both, the words of others are at first to some extent relied upon; and in both, subsequent experiments or experience will be necessary finally to prove or disprove what is accepted as probably true — the testimony of competent and trusted witnesses. The Latter-day Saints almost daily make the true answer to the criticisms of Mr. Huxley. They may not know that they are answering the skeptic when they make the claim that the all-important part of their religion is a testimony of the truth — a feeling of certitude that the gospel message is true. They say that every one may have this testimony, this feeling of certainty, if he will only live for it; if he will only take heaven at its word and do the will of the Father. We say it is the most important thing in life to lay hold of. It is not a theory, not a theological definition, not a dictum from the dark ages, but something to work at with your hands, not an abstraction; something to live for, something for which to aspire, something to be learned and re-learned, something old but ever new. 

When, therefore, my mother, like many of yours in this audience, walked across the plains to come to Zion, — was this a theory, a definition, a blind following of those in authority? Or was it not an experiment of great magnitude and reality? Not all, of course, in order to test the promises of the Almighty, can undergo such an experience as crossing the plains afoot, but there are universal tests — tests for every one — tests that no one can avoid — experiences or experiments that are arranged for all of us irrespective of our own choosing; and these commonly bring us to our senses, till we come to realize, even in our misfortunes, that God lives and all is well. For example: when a boy, I learned from my Wilson Reader a poem, "The Little Boy that Died;" but not till I was grown and had the same experience that the author had, did I understand the meaning of his verses. Now his verse seems to me to go far toward proving that we shall meet them again — all whom we have loved and lost. So when the Lady Lucile of our household died, we were ready only then to understand the scripture that she is not dead, not asleep, not gone. She is only in the presence of our Father, and he is with us, if we abide in him. Rossiter Raymond thus brought these truths to our attention: 

"Beside the dead I knelt in prayer, 

And felt a presence as I prayed; 

Lo! it was Jesus standing there. 

He smiled, 'Be not afraid.' 

"'Lord, thou hast conquered death, we know; 

Restore again to life,' I said, 

'This one who died an hour ago.' 

He smiled, 'She is not dead.' 

"'Asleep, then, as thyself didst say, 

Yet thou canst lift the lids that keep 

Her prisoned eyes from ours away.' 

He smiled, 'She doth not sleep.' 

"'Nay, then, though haply she doth wake 

And look upon some fairer dawn, 

Restore her to our hearts that ache.' 

He smiled, 'She is not gone.' 

"'Yea, Lord we feel that she is free, 

And moves upon some higher sphere; 

We are bereft; she is with thee.' 

He smiled, 'And I am here!' 

"'Dear God! how can we know that they 

Still walk unseen with us and thee, 

Nor sleep, nor wander far away?' 

He smiled, 'Abide in me.'" 

If we perform the great experiment, if we abide in him, we shall know for ourselves, and shall find our peace in the gospel truth. All shall be clear, he tells us, if we put the matter to the test by doing the will of the Father. And that we may do so is my prayer in behalf of one and all.