33
Second Overflow
06 04 1924
Edward H. Snow 
138
118-120

None

None 

As it will be appropriate for me to announce the speakers to you this afternoon, perhaps I would do well to begin with myself, by announcing to you that I am Edward H. Snow, President of the St. George Stake of Zion. 

The announcement of that to you has a tendency to fasten upon my mind the sense of my responsibility. It is said that every bird sings sweetest in its native forest, and I am quite sure that I am much more at home among my own people, where I am known, than I am standing here today. Yet I do not have in my heart any fear for you or of you, but only the fear of God, which I have always remembered, that I may not be able to do full justice to the great cause which he has established on the earth and in which I am called upon, in a measure, to form a part. I am always inspired in my attendance upon these conferences, and I never stand up with the brethren in the opening hymn of our conferences, when I look around and see the immense congregation joining in the hymn, but I feel a sense of comradship, of common cause, of inspiration, and of loyalty to the great work of the Lord. I am always thankful too that I was born and reared in the Church, thankful for its environment, for the influence which the gospel has had upon my life, for the high ideals that have ever been expounded by the leaders of the Church, for the safeguards which they have thrown around us. While giving us full free agency, they have magnified the good, the noble, the pure, and the true, and they have not left us in doubt as to the course that we ought to pursue, if we desire happiness here on the earth. 

Happiness does not come to us as a result of prosperity or of riches, but from the consciousness of our doing the duty that lies nearest to us, well and faithfully, which means, substantially, following the work, life, and examples of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in spending our time, talents and efforts for the good of his children. Thereby do ye manifest our love for God, our faith in him and in the ultimate triumph of his cause here on earth. The other morning, when we stood up to sing, I thought of the remark of Patrick Henry in the House of Burgesses, when the great cause of human freedom was hanging in the balance and when the foremost thought among the colonists was declaration of independence from Great Britian. He made, as you know, this memorable declaration, that three million people, armed in the holy cause of freedom, were invincible. Well, we do not reach that number, yet the cause that we represent in the earth, and which we have taken upon our shoulders to forward in the earth, is just as great, or perhaps greater than that which the colonists espoused; and, though we be few in number, yet it is my sublime faith that united and harmonious as we are today and have ever been, we will be invincible in the earth, and that this work will continue to grow and increase in power and in influence and prestige among the people of the earth, and the virtue which the gospel inculcates, and which we exemplify in our lives, will be the saving grace of nations and kingdoms and thrones, and we will be a power in the land. Those who stand for truth and righteousness will look to us as an ally in the great cause of human redemption, and the holding together of our inheritance and our civilization. 

I am thankful for the strength which we feel in being clean. I am thankful for the personal cleanliness that exists in the Church, and the high ideals that we have of it, and that there is such a vast majority of the people who form the membership of this Church whose skirts are free from contamination with the sins of the world. Thereby will we have our strength. Thereby will we keep our faith, inspiration, desire, and our power in the earth to do good, to magnify and glorify the name of the Lord. As a people we have passed the Rubicon. We are like the old drummer boy of Napoleon; we do not know a retreat. All that we know is to go forward, to charge, in the kingdom of God and to fight sin and unrighteousness, wherever it shall be found.

I sincerely pray that God will bless us as a people, that he will bless us here this afternoon, that those who shall speak to us may be filled with the inspiration of the Hold Ghost, and that we shall have, as a result of this meeting, our faith increased, and our desires to serve him increased, and that we shall depart from this meeting, so far as we are concerned, to fear God and keep his commandments, that we may emulate the love and the favor of God, which are the sources of all true happiness, and to this end I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
