35
Second Overflow
06 04 1924
Elder John A. Beckstrand 
No Speaker ID
123-125

None

Gathering of Israel 

My dear brethren and sisters. — As I have listened to the remarks of our brethren who have spoken to us during the sessions of this conference, there are two phases of this great work that I have been led to think about; and that is, the gospel as it is preached at home in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and abroad in the mission field by our elders that are laboring in this wonderful cause, and in connection with this, the great work that is being accomplished in the temples of the Lord for the dead. 

That I may be better understood, I desire to refer to the 110th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a most wonderful section, which means so much to us as Latter-day Saints. There, in the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his close associate Oliver Cowdery, a wonderful message came to them. The eyes of their understanding were opened; that is, their spiritual eyes that they were blessed with, and they saw the Lord, even the Savior, Jesus Christ, upon the breastwork of that temple, and in the comforting words that he spoke to them, he told them that their sins were forgiven, that they were pure and holy before the Lord, and that he had accepted the great work that they had accomplished in the erection of that building, and that he was satisfied and pleased with that which had been done and accomplished by the Latter-day Saints — a most wonderful revelation. And I am sure a great satisfaction came into the hearts of those two brethren as they stood under the voice of this heavenly messenger and heard those soothing words. 

When this manifestation cleared away, another one appeared unto them. The Prophet Moses of old, who held the keys of the gathering of Israel, appeared unto them and conferred this authority upon them, that they might have that privilege or that power in this dispensation of the gospel. Up to this time the gospel had only been preached in a few of the eastern states and in parts of Canada, but within a year of that time, missionaries were sent out in the various states of this nation and across the water into Europe, into Great Britain and the Scandinavian countries, and a most wonderful harvest followed the labors of those men; the spirit of gathering followed conversion to the gospel. Many souls were made members of the Church through the testimonies of these brethren who came to them; they accepted the gospel and the spirit of gathering followed it. Many souls were gathered into the fold of Christ; many joined hands with the Saints in this part of the land. And in addition to this, in part-fulfilment of that prophecy, Orson Hyde and John E. Page were set apart for a mission to Palestine. Their mission was to dedicate that land as a gathering place for the house of Israel. We are told that Mr. Page fell by the wayside; Orson Hyde continued that wonderful journey through privations and hardships, and after a year and a-half's labor and work and worry, reached that part of the country, and we are told that on the Mount of Olives, with his face turned toward the city of Jerusalem, he alone offered that dedicatory prayer that he was sent there to offer. And we, of course, have wondered and have looked with astonishment as to how that condition might come about. But we saw in the great World War a condition brought about indicating that those people may be gathered back to their home country. And that prophecy will be fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, there is no question in my mind as to the fulfilment of prophecy, as to the great work that is in store for the Latter-day Saints. 

And, in connection with this mission to the living as it has been preached in the various nations of the earth, we have the vicarious work that is being accomplished and done for the dead. When we think of the eight temples finished and completed, and the ninth under erection, of the vast amount of work that is being accomplished for the dead, and the desire on the part of the Latter-day Saints to perform this great labor and mission, what a blessing it is! Many souls who have gone to the grave without a knowledge of the gospel without the privilege of receiving or hearing it, are waiting for that work to be accomplished for them, that they, too, may join with the Latter-day Saints in the great blessings of the gospel. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of the Lord, that this is the plan of salvation. Every man, woman, and child who will obey and live it, will be saved in the presence of our Father in heaven. And may we be faithful in the performance of our duties, day by day as Latter-day Saints, is my prayer. Amen.
