5
Morning
04 04 1924
David A. Smith 
95
21-23

None

Priesthood

I am grateful for section eleven of the Doctrine and Covenants, referred to by President Grant. While this was given to Hyrum Smith, through his brother Joseph, for his personal guidance, the revelation, like all others in the Doctrine and Covenants, contains much information which is of great value to all of us. I was first attracted to this revelation because it was given to my grandfather, in answer to his prayer for further light and guidance. I enjoy reading it, and have received much encouragement from so doing; and, as I read it again and again, I get from it new thoughts and new encouragement. At the time this revelation was given, Joseph Smith was translating the Book of Mormon, his brother Hyrum lending every aid as he followed this work, believing it to be a sacred record. His soul was filled with a desire to spread the new light and knowledge among his fellowmen; he, therefore, asked his brother to inquire of the Lord that he might know the will of the Lord concerning this work, as it pertained to him. Hyrum was not yet prepared for the great change that was to take place in religious thought and doctrines. The Lord in his mercy found it necessary to restrain him until he had been prepared. 

It was the common belief that any man desiring to preach could take it upon himself to do so without being especially called and ordained by one having authority. The Lord's answer to this prayer was: 

Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my Church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine. 

And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith shall it be done unto you. 

Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit; 

Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken — yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind and strength. 

Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. 

But now hold your peace; study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained it, which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto. 

There was to be a new Church, or, rather, the old one restored. The word of the Lord was again being received through revelation, and the written record for many years hidden away was now restored, thus making the gospel more plain and restoring it in its fulness. These changed conditions required much thought, study and preparation. Hyrum Smith's work by way of preparation was to first keep the commandments with all his might, mind and strength, to study the word of the Lord: that which had been given and that which was about to be given. He was to seek not for riches but for wisdom, and the promise was that through his faithfulness, "the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich." And, after he had proven his faith by his works, then should his tongue be loosed, then if he desired he could have the Spirit and word and the power of God unto the convincing of men, and all things were to be added thereunto. From this we see the importance the Lord places on the need of humility; the importance of keeping the commandments and being prepared for the work called to do. This has been taught to me all my life and because of the teachings of my parents and the opportunity I have had for gaining knowledge, I have been highly blessed, and should have been better prepared for service in the ministry. I have discovered that faith, a sincere effort to keep the commandments, and a careful study of the gospel are not sufficient but are steps to service, which is the final and greatest qualifying feature in the Church. 

Service may be rendered in an indifferent or haphazard manner or as a matter of course, or daily act following fixed habits. When so rendered the greatest good is not accomplished. 

At the death of my father, I began to realize more and more how much I had depended upon him; for it was easy to ask advice; to get information on points of doctrine; all of which has been helpful, but not having him to rely upon I have been impressed more forcibly that it is necessary for each individual to stand firmly upon his own foundation. I am beginning to see more and more that the great value in having knowledge is to prepare one to render greater service, which is measured by the faith and diligence with which that service is performed. The Lord has shown the way and provided wisely that each one may have an opportunity of gaining knowledge, and of rendering service in his Church. His plan is perhaps not wholly effective, because of our carelessness and failure to fully do our part as leaders, nevertheless, the opportunity is given, subject to our acceptance. 

There are two priesthoods: The Melchizedek and Aaronic or Lesser Priesthood. The Melchizedek Priesthood deals with spiritual things, and the Aaronic, with the preparatory gospel. It has fallen to my lot to labor in the Aaronic Priesthood, with the young men holding the office of priest, teacher and deacon; helping them in their endeavor to lay a firm foundation upon which they may build, that further knowledge and service may be acquired. How wisely has the Lord provided for them. As deacons, the boys are expected to perform labors in keeping with their age and knowledge, thus they gain further knowledge; through service and study, encouraged by their officers and the Saints, in time they are prepared for greater service and so advance to the office of teacher. Here their mission is to "watch over the Church always, and be with and strengthen them: 

"And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking: 

"And see that the Church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty." 

This labor is to be among those who believe in the gospel, and who understand that it is their mission to help these young men to gain the experience necessary, in the spirit of love, having a respect for them and a desire to encourage them in their work. This encouragement and labor, comes to them during a trying period in a boy's life, being privileged to watch over the Church, to see that there is no iniquity, lying, back-biting and evil speaking, and to see that the Church meet together often, and that all members do their duty. 

I cannot conceive of any greater protection that can come to a young man and no greater opportunity for growth, and the gaining of knowledge, than in rendering this service, under the direction of wise leaders and kind Church members. With a few years of such training, they should be qualified for greater service, and when ordained to the office of priest, they are expected to preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize, administer the sacrament and to visit the homes of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret. This labor too, is with the members who are or should be sympathetic and anxious to encourage them in their preparation for greater responsibility which comes with the Melchizedek Priesthood. With this training, step by step, the young men grow in knowledge and experience, and in due time they learn to put their trust in the Spirit of the Lord, which leadeth to do good and to do justly, and if they work humbly, the promise is to them also, and they are entitled to the enlightening influence of the Spirit, which shall fill our souls with joy. 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have of laboring in this Church. I am grateful that it has fallen to my lot to labor among the young men, and I pray that the importance of this work will be impressed upon us, that we may encourage those holding the Lesser Priesthood and provide employment for them, even more than we have been doing in the past. During the last year there has been greater activity in the Lesser Priesthood work than in any other year in the history of the Church. There is room for greater development; for greater work and activity, and the boys need it. Upon those holding the Melchizedek Priesthood rests the responsibility of providing this training. May God help us to do so, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
