6
Morning
04 04 1924
John M. Knight 
213
24-25

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, it is a real pleasure to be here on this occasion and bear testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints. The remarks of our brethren this morning have impressed me with the importance of having a personal, living testimony of the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that he is the very Son of God, the Savior of the world; and also a testimony that Joseph Smith, the latter-day prophet, was raised up by the Lord to usher in a new gospel dispensation. 

I know that the gospel we preach is not after man; we have not followed cunningly devised fables, Joseph Smith did not receive it of man, but by the revelations of Jesus Christ. We have received the witness of the Spirit that the gospel taught by the Latter-day prophet is verily the power of God unto salvation. The Savior said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." So, today, as missionaries we lay down the gauntlet and say to all men, that if they will do the will of the Father, obeying the principles of the gospel as we teach them, they shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God or whether we speak of ourselves. Then will they receive the witness of the Holy Ghost whom God hath promised to all those who obey him. You will remember the occasion when Peter and companions appeared before the council at Jerusalem. The high priest asked them, saying; "Did we not straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name?" — Peter and the other apostles answered and said, "We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him." Acts 5:28-32. Paul in writing to the Corinthian Saints, said, "Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God, calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." 

It is important, therefore, as pointed out here today, that parents in Zion shall teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel, that as they grow in years they may grow in a knowledege of the truth; and, having received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, they may have the right to claim this testimony from our heavenly Father for he has said, "I the Lord am bound, when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say ye have no promise." Surely the Lord will impart unto us according to our obedience. 

I thank God with all my soul that it is my privilege to bear testimony to the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that he is the very Son of God, the Redeemer of the world; that by and through him, salvation will come to all the children on the earth. There is no other name given under heaven whereby we may be saved. I am grateful for the testimony that has come into my life that Joseph Smith was, and is, a Prophet of the living God. It was not my good fortune to know him in the flesh, but those who knew and associated with him in life, did not know any better than I know that his mission was divine. I appreciate the privilege of giving service today in this great cause, and bear you my testimony that the message we have for the world is the power of God unto salvation. We shall receive the companionship of the Holy Spirit in direct proportion to our obedience to the commandments given unto us. May the Lord give us power to live the gospel, to be exemplary in our lives, and to bear testimony to all with whom we come in contact that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
