Morning
04 04 1924

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It certainly is a very inspiring sight to see this house full and people standing at this our first session of the conference. 

THE CHURCH IN EXCELLENT CONDITION 

I rejoice in the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at home and abroad. I rejoice in feeling that we have every cause to be grateful to the Lord for the blessings that have come to us during the past year. I believe that I am within the bounds of truth when I say that the Church was never in a better condition than at the present time, that there was never greater unity existing among the general authorities of the Church, more anxiety and determination to serve the Lord, than today; that we never had more energetic and faithful men presiding over the stakes of Zion and in the wards and missions of the Church than today; neither have we had more energetic, faithful men and women, than have been presiding and are presiding at the present time, as general, stake and ward officers in our various auxiliary organizations. 

GOOD WORK BY THE AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS 

It fell to my lot, yesterday afternoon, to address the conference of the Relief Society for a few minutes. The Assembly Hall was filled to overflowing, and many people were standing. I am convinced that such a gathering as that of active, wide-awake, energetic women-members could not be witnessed among any other people, who are no more numerous than are the Latter-day Saints. Our Relief Societies are doing a very remarkable and wonderful work in looking after the sick and the afflicted. I remember one very good friend of mine, a non-member of the Church, said to his wife just before he passed away, so she told me, that no other people, in his estimation — and he had traveled nearly all over the world — took as good care of their sick and looked after their poor as well as do the Latter-day Saints. They are really one great family of brothers and sisters,  with a common bond of love and respect. Our young people, and those who look after the children of the Primary Association are also doing a splendid work. 

SATISFACTORY RFPORTS FROM THE MISSIONS 

The reports from our Missions from all over the world are very satisfactory; and the one call, claim, or plea that is made is, "Send us more missionaries." There is only one real exception to this, and that is in Japan. There is no exception in the call for more missionaries in that field, but, after twenty-odd years of labor in that country, we are convinced that not a dozen people have been thoroughly converted to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have seriously considered the question of closing that mission, but have not yet arrived at any conclusion. 

ENLIGHTENING STATISTICS 

It has been customary, at April conferences, to give some statistics to the people regarding the expenditure of their tithing. Nearly the entire tithing paid during the past year has been returned, in various appropriations, to the different stakes of Zion. 

General — The amount returned to the stakes from the tithes, for stake and ward purposes, during the past year and for maintenance and operation of the same, has been (I shall not read the odd figures) $993,000. 

The amount expended for the maintenance and operation of Church schools has been 835,000. 

The amount expended for the construction, maintenance and operation of temples has been 449,000. 

Expended for hospital construction 146,000. 

Since our last General Conference our hospital in Idaho Falls, costing in the neighborhood of $400,000 has been dedicated, and is open for the care of the afflicted. 

For Charity — For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment 171,000. 

Missions — For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions 586,000. 

The grand total — Taken from the tithes, and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools, temples, charities, and for mission activities is $3,182,207.22. 

Other Charities — In addition to charities paid out of the tithes, as before stated, there have also been distributed the fast offerings and Relief Society and other charities, amounting to $471,000 which, added to the $171,000 paid from the tithes, makes a total of Church charities of $643,060.47. 

Following statistics and other reports are compiled from the Church records for the year 1923: 

Church growth — Children blessed and entered upon the records of the Church, in the stakes and missions 19,199. 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 13,020. 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions 7,492.

The organized stakes of Zion now number 90. 

Wards and independent branches 972. 

There are 24 missions of the Church. 

There are branches in the missions, 635. 

The birth-rate in the Church is 35 per 1000. 

The marriage-rate is 14 per 1000. I think that ought to be increased. 

The death-rate is 7.2, which is certainly very satisfactory indeed. 

There are 157,990 persons in the Church who are married. 

There were 241 persons divorced in the year 1923. 

Families owning their own homes, 75%. 

Temple Statistics — In 1918 and 1923 — A comparison for the past five years — Baptisms, five years ago 175,000; last year 393,000. 

Ordinances, five years ago 154,000; last year 442,000. 

Total ordinances in 1918 329,529; in 1923 836,053 or an increase of more than 150% — over 500,000 more ordinances performed last year than five years ago. 

Missionary statistics — On Foreign missions, from Stakes of Zion, there are 1,798. 

Local elders laboring in foreign missions 83. 

Special missionaries laboring in the stakes of Zion 2,137. 

Total missionaries 4,018. 

Stake Presidents — There have been appointed since last October the following Stake Presidents: Wayne H. Redd, San Juan stake. Henry M. Mickelsen, Lost River stake. M. Howard Randall, Morgan stake. James Berkley Larsen, Shelley stake. Winslow Farr Smith, Ensign stake. William H. Callahan, Wayne stake. 

There have been new wards organized: In the Roosevelt Stake, Mountwel; in the Liberty stake, Yale; in the Los Angeles stake, Belvedere and Glendale. 

TEXT FOR AN IMPORTANT SUBJECT 

I am requested to read this announcement. 

"Mendelssohn's oratorio entitled, Elijah, will be given this evening, Friday, in the Tabernacle, commencing at 8:15. In addition to the choir of two hundred and fifty voices selected from the Tabernacle Choir, ten talented soloists, and an orchestra of forty men, will take part. The committee announce popular prices of 25c and 50c. Tickets may be obtained at the box office and at the Bureau of Information. The choir and musicians have been preparing this splendid oratorio for many months, and a musical treat is promised to all who attend. Will you kindly emphasize the above, and oblige, 

"Sincerely, The Committee." 

I have decided to emphasize it by devoting my talk, entirely, or practically so, to that subject. I had not made up my mind until this morning what I would talk about. 

On the 21st day of September, 1823, nearly seven years before the organization of the Church, Moroni, an angel, made the following statement to Joseph Smith the Prophet: 

"Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. 

"And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. 

"If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." 

In the revelation known as the Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants we are told: 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen.

THE APPEARANCE OF ELIJAH

In 1836, about thirteen years after the angel Moroni declared that Elijah should restore again the Priesthood, Elijah appeared to Oliver Cowdery and the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the Kirtland temple. The record of this appearance is to be found in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110. Not only did Elijah appear, upon that occasion, in the Kirtland temple, to the Prophet and to Oliver Cowdery, but the Savior and others appeared, and I will read not only regarding Elijah's appearance, but also that of the Savior. The Savior stated: 

"I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." 

OUR SAVIOR, THE LORD JESUS CHRIST LIVES 

I know of nothing for which we, as Latter-day Saints, should be more grateful than the absolute knowledge that every Latter-day Saints has, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, the Son of the living God. All over the world today, even among professed Christians, there is a lack of faith in the divinity of the Savior. Even some ministers of the gospel go far enough to declare from their pulpits that they do not believe that Jesus was the Son of God. There is no doubt in the mind of any Latter-day Saint living regarding the fact that Jesus is the Son of God, because when the boy Joseph Smith, not yet fifteen years of age, went into the woods to pray in the Sacred Grove, he saw God the Father and God introduced to him his well-beloved Son, and told this boy to hear Him. Every Latter-day Saint believes absolutely in the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, that they are true; and in one of these revelations we have this recorded by Sidney Rigdon and the Prophet: 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

We have an account of the actual appearance of the Savior in the first temple erected in this dispensation which was at Kirtland. 

"I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. 

"Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice. 

"Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name. 

"For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house." 

Then after the appearance of the Savior we have the following: 

KEYS TO GATHERING OF ISRAEL RESTORED 

"After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north." 

One of the Articles of Faith of the Latter-day Saints is: 

"We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion shall be built upon this [the American] continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." 

"After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. 

VISITATION OF ELIJAH IN FULFILMENT OF MALACHI'S PREDICTION 

"After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said: 

"Behold the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi — testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come — 

"To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse — 

"Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." 

This visitation of Elijah to the Kirtland temple was on April 3, 1836, the 88th anniversary being yesterday. 

THE FAITH OF THE SAINTS VERIFIED BY TEMPLES AND WORKS THEREIN 

I rejoice in the fact that the Latter-day Saints believe absolutely beyond the peradventure of a doubt, that Elijah did come, that he did commit the keys to Oliver Cowdery and to Joseph Smith, and the temple erected in Kirtland, the temple erected in Nauvoo, and the temples that have been erected here in this state of Utah, and those in Hawaii and in Canada, and the one that is now being erected in Mesa City, Arizona, bear testimony, to the extent of millions of dollars of money, of the faith of the Latter-day Saints that the keys have been given, whereby we can, in very deed, be saviors upon Mount Zion for those who have died without a knowledge of the gospel. 

AN AWAKENING ON THIS SUBJECT IN ALL THE WORLD 

And simultaneously, almost, with the declaration way back in 1823 by the Angel Moroni, (Section 2, Doctrine and Covenants that I have read to you,) all over the world there came into the hearts of people, not of our faith, a desire to organize genealogical societies, to compile records of names by the thousands, and tens of thousands. I have met in many lands and in many climes, men who have spent years, and a large amount of treasure, and almost their entire time, in compiling records of their ancestors. I have asked them why they did it. They said they did not know, they were seized with a great desire to compile records of their ancestors; and, as we know, these records are worth their weight in gold to the Latter-day Saints. 

INTEREST IN WORK FOR THE DEAD INCREASING 

It fell to my lot last night to make a brief address to the representatives of the Genealogical societies and organizations of the Church, on the top floor of the Bishop's Building. The auditorium there was crowded to overflowing. We have had a great many gatherings there at one time and another, but I have never attended a gathering in that building when the room was as well filled as it was last night. It was a meeting of enthusiastic laborers, whose works testify to the coming of Elijah, to the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and of the children to the fathers. This work is being carried on, and as I have read to you in the statistics here this morning, over five-hundred thousand more ordinances were performed in our temples this past year than were performed during a like period five years ago. I rejoice in the splendid work that is being accomplished, and in the wonderful loyalty of those who are working in the temples, and those who are gathering information for genealogical work of different kinds. 

I believe that the Committee will be reasonably well satisfied with my emphasis of the great oratorio here tonight, of Elijah. I hope the house will be crowded to overflowing. 

WE ARE ENGAGED IN THE MARVELOUS WORK OF THE LORD 

I rejoice in the blessings of the Lord, I rejoice in a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. We are engaged in the work of the Lord, and I wish to read the words of the Lord given to the grandfather of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, the father of the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. These words were given, remember, before the Church was organized: 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Amen.

THE GREAT PURPOSE OF OUR LABORS DECLARED

And before the Church was organized a revelation was given to the father of our beloved President Joseph F. Smith. I will not read it all, but it is Section II, given in May, 1829, nearly a year before the organizing of the Church. Hyrum Smith desired that his brother, the Prophet, should inquire of the Lord as to what labor he should perform. He said: 

"Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments," I desire with all the power that God has given me to emphasize that. That applies to every man, woman and child in all the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. "Keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion. 

"Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

"Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." 

Remember that, O all ye people: Say nothing but repentance. Teach and live the first principles of the gospel, and let the mysteries of heaven wait until you get to heaven. 

"Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. 

"Behold, thou hast a gift or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ or in my power which speaketh unto thee: 

"For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. 

"And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit * * * 

"Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; 

"Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; 

"Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. 

"I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own received me not; 

"But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen.

Please remember, Latter-day Saints, that this revelation declares that the Lord speaks unto all of us who have a desire to labor - to seek not for riches, but to bring forth the work of God, and to labor for the accomplishment of that purpose.

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS

Now I see the time that I desired to occupy has expired, but I want to speak just a little more and read a few words that I have been studying occasionally, now for forty long years, since it fell to my lot to be one of the apostles: 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

"For this shall be a law" — not an exhortation remember, but a law — "unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." 

THE SACRED DUTY OF COMMUNION WITH GOD THROUGH PRAYER 

And the way to teach our children to pray is to pray ourselves in secret and in our families. There is too much neglect in having communion with God on the part of many of the Latter-day Saints. I feel a joy and a happiness every day of my life in communicating with my Maker, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, my Redeemer. And those who do not have a radio communication, so to speak, with our Heavenly Father and our Redeemer, are losing the inspiration that comes from the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. 

"Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. 

"These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them; wherefore, let my servant Oliver Cowdery carry these sayings unto the land of Zion. 

"And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people. 

"These sayings are true and faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither take therefrom. 

"Behold, I am Alpha and Omega, and I come quickly. Amen."

TAKE TO HEART THE DUTY OF TEACHING FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST

I pray that the parents who are within the sound of my voice, and those who may read in the conference reports, or in our papers, what I say, may take to heart the duty that devolves upon them under a commandment from the Lord Almighty to teach faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, to their children, that they shall pray and walk uprightly. That the Lord may help us to rear our beloved children in the nurture and admonition of the gospel, and in a love of God and of our Redeemer, and that each and every soul who has a testimony of the divinity of this work may live the gospel in uprightness, in virtue, and in truth, that their lives may preach the truth to those with whom they come in contact, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

This is not the first time in my life that I have been taken by surprise. I felt quite content to sit on the stand here this morning and listen to the words of inspiration that have fallen from the lips of President Heber J. Grant, feeling that he would occupy most, if not all, of the time. I take great pleasure in bearing testimony to the truth of the things that he has uttered. Perhaps there is no need for that. I believe that that testimony is in the hearts of this vast congregation this morning. I enjoyed every word the President has uttered. I know that what he has said and read and testified of is true, and it came to us this morning in the life and power and spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to us in these last days. I enjoy meetings of this kind and teachings of this kind. They are more to my heart and soul than learned disquisitions of any kind. 

THE PREACHING OF THE GOSPEL TO THE NATIONS 

I rejoice in this gospel which the Lord has revealed for the salvation of the human family. I have labored in this Church for a good many years, and feel very thankful in my soul this morning that the Lord has preserved me to the extent that I have been able to labor up to the present time, notwithstanding the weaknesses and frailties of human nature, and the burdens, so to speak, of old age. God be praised for all his goodness to me, and to this people who are gathered here from many lands. What a great thing it is to look upon this congregation this morning and consider what God has already wrought; then to lift up the curtain and look to that which is coming and see something of that which will be in the future. This congregation is representative of the Church which is now occupying many lands. When the angel that John the Revelator saw in the vision was to come to the earth bearing the everlasting gospel, it was to be preached to "every nation and kindred and tongue and people," and they were to be called with a loud voice to "fear God and keep his commandments, for the hour of his judgment has come," and to "worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea, and the fountains of waters." That is a commandment to us. John heard the voice in the vision, and it has been echoed again in the last days, for the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith that this was the work of his servants. That which the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith stands today as the duty of this people, gathering from afar in fulfilment of what Isaiah and Micah, the prophets of old, saw in their visions. They saw that the people of this Church would come from all parts of the earth into the tops of the mountains, and that here should be "the mountain of the Lord's house," and the people would say: "Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; And the law shall go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among many nations, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks, and the time shall come when the sword shall not be lifted up any more; but the people will serve the Lord and walk in his ways, and prepare for the coming of their King; even Jesus the Christ." 

THE COMING OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE 

What a blessing it is to be privileged to look upon this body of people this morning gathered in from the various nations of the earth who have come up here, not merely to better their temporal condition, but to learn the ways of God and walk in his paths, and to prepare the way for the coming of the great King, Jesus of Nazareth — once of humble birth, but who now will come in glory to the earth. This is our work, my brethren and sisters, to serve the Lord, to learn his ways, to walk in his paths, that the law may go forth from Zion, and that nations afar off may be so influenced that they will cast away their weapons of war, and turn them into weapons of peace, and prepare for the coming of the great King who is the Prince of Peace. 

WE ARE HERE TO SERVE THE LORD 

I have had the privilege and joy and duty, for several years, of laboring in this cause, at home and abroad, and for this great honor I do thank and praise the Lord this morning. When I think of how the Lord has blessed and sustained me at home and abroad, and lifted up the veil from my eyes, and given me to see the things of his Kingdom, I praise him with all my heart. I rejoice in knowing that there are so many good men and women gathered from afar, and their children coming up after them, who are here for that great purpose; not merely to gather riches, not merely to make the desert blossom like the rose, not merely to subdue the elements and bring them into subjection, but to serve the Lord, to learn what he wants done, and then to do it with all their might and mind and strength. This is what the Lord said he wanted the people to do when they gathered into Jackson county, in Missouri, to endeavor to prepare the way for the coming of the great King and to fulfil the predictions of the Prophets and perform the great work of redemption for the living and the dead, which God had marked out for this great dispensation. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy might, and with all thy strength, and in the name of Jesus Christ, thou shalt serve him." That was the first great commandment to the people gathered, to the spot designed for Zion. The Lord made some great predictions there to the people, and that were contingent upon their doing this. The President has read some things that the Lord revealed at that time, which the people were to do. Go up unto the house of prayer on this my holy day. That was one of the things that we were to do. The rest of the commandments there and the blessings that he said should come upon the people were predicated upon their doing these things; and here is a truth that should be always present and clear to the minds of the Latter-day Saints: that the blessings which are promised them, whether it be in holy ordinances or in the words of the servants of God, or in the revelations direct from the Most High, they are all predicated upon this great thing; that we shall do the things which are commanded. 

BLESSINGS PREDICATED UPON SERVING THE LORD 

Every blessing that is pronounced upon us, whether in the temples of the Lord or elsewhere, is predicated upon our obedience to the commandments. Even in the Word of Wisdom, we are told there that we shall receive certain blessings if we observe certain rules, if we abstain from certain things that are not good for us. And then it says: And they shall receive these promises, if they also "keep the commandments." These are to be learned and obeyed, and it is our duty to teach them to our children as we have heard this morning. Now, do not forget this: A great many promises have been made concerning things to be done in Zion, but unless we keep the commandments of God and perform the duties God has placed upon our shoulders, we cannot claim the blessings. The Lord says he promises, and people do not obey, and then he revokes, and they receive not the blessings. What? Is it possible that God revokes? Yes; he says so. Commandments are given and revoked — what for? Because the people who were to observe the commandments do not observe them, and are not worthy or prepared to receive the blessings. 

In the 34th section of the Doctrine and Covenants we read of some things the Lord commanded to the people at that time, in that place. They have not yet come to pass. He has stated there, these things shall be done in that "generation." 

THE LENGTH OF A GENERATION 

Speaking of the word generation, I may make a remark or two that perhaps, will be timely because of some notions some of our brethren entertain in regard to this point. What do you mean when you speak of a generation? Do you mean some particular period of time? Not generally, the word does not mean that. You do not find it to mean that, if you search the dictionary. What do you mean by generation? Well, you take the Bible and you can begin by reading: These are the generations of Adam; these are the generations of Seth; and these are the generations of Noah after the flood. Does that refer to some particular period of time — one hundred years, as some of our brethren interpret it? No, it means the posterity, the generations, the families, the children that were to come. The generations of Adam, some of them, lived hundreds of years, not merely one hundred years. 

I remember that in the old Doctrine and Covenants, the edition with which I was most familiar, Elder Orson Pratt, of the council of the Twelve Apostles, who separated the book into verses, and made a great many footnotes, had one footnote which said most positively that a generation did not expire in one hundred years. Well, a notion has got into the heads of some of our brethren that it does mean just one hundred years, because, in the Book of Mormon we read of certain events that were to occur within four hundred years, and then, in another place, that they were to be in the fourth generation. Well, Brother Pratt said, it does not expire in a hundred years, and he had studied the matter from a philological standpoint. Now what I am referring to is this: a few of our brethren, some of them men of importance, declare that one hundred years from the date of that revelation, which is in the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, all those things that are there spoken of must be fulfilled. Well now, the Lord in that revelation sometimes says a thing shall be, when he is giving it by way of commandment. Sometimes the word is used in the way of a prediction, but in this very matter that I am referring to, we read in the 124th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants that God gave it by way of commandment — "I gave a commandment to my people that they should build a house unto me," building it in that generation in a certain place, pointed out by the finger of God to the Prophet Joseph who dedicated it. Now in the 124th Section the Lord declares that that was a commandment, the people were to build the house at that place in that generation. If you will read carefully the revelations I speak of now, you will find that the Lord refers particularly to this very requirement in regard to Jackson county, Missouri, and he declares that the people there were commanded to build a house to him at that time, and on that spot. But their enemies came upon them and prevented them from doing that which the Lord commanded them, and therefore the Lord accepted their offering. The Lord lays down there a principle which it is well for us to understand. The Lord says that whenever he gives a commandment, no matter what it is about, to the children of men, and they go to with their might and endeavor to fulfil his commandment, and do that which is required of them, and they are prevented by their enemies, or by any other means, from accomplishing it, he does not require it any more at their hands. He accepts of their offering. That has applied in the past, and will apply in the future, and we should remember it. If God gives a commandment, and we do not obey it, why he revokes it, and he revokes the blessings. If he gives us a commandment to do certain things, and we find ourselves unable to do them, either by restricted laws or any other obstacles in the way of physical force, the Lord requires them no more but accepts our offering, and he will visit his wrath and indignation upon those who prevent his people from accomplishing that which he required at their hands. 

NO DATE SET FOR THE COMING OF THE LORD 

Now that is worth understanding, so that the idea that is prevailing, or that some have endeavored to establish, that in about six or seven years what they call the "winding up scene" will take place; that everything will take place to finish up the work in that time. That is a mistake; that is all there is to it. And so we need not be deceived at any time by the notions and opinions of men in regard to times and dates of things that are to occur. 

There are a quite a number of people, who set the date to the time of the coming of the Savior. Only recently I have heard of such testimonies being borne in some of our fast meetings. That is all wrong; that should not be done. The Lord has not, at any time, so far as I am aware, in all my searchings in the revelations that have come to the earth, set a date for the coming of the Savior to reign on the earth. He said when he was upon the earth that he did not know, and even the angels of heaven did not know. When Joseph the Prophet tried to find out the Lord did not answer his question directly, but told him if he lived to a certain time he should behold the face of his Redeemer. So my brethren and sisters, do not be deceived by any means in regard to this setting of dates for the fulfilment of certain predictions. The Apostle Paul had to say to the Saints in his day that they were not to be deceived by any means as to the day of the coming of the Son of man, "for," said he, "let no man deceive you by word or by speech or by letter as from us; as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first." 

Do you see that the people were led away then, as sometimes now, by these ideas and notions that prevailed for a while? 

LET US PERFORM OUR DUTY AND THE BLESSINGS ARE SURE 

Now what we need to do, my brethren and sisters, is to do the work that we are gathered here for. God has brought us from many lands. There are people in this congregation that I have known in foreign countries, where I have labored, and I rejoice that they are here. I rejoice with all my heart. I rejoice that God is doing this grand work of gathering his Israel from the nations of the earth, bringing them to Zion and clothing them with the power of his Holy Priesthood. It is with us today, that power and influence and spirit of this gospel. It is with our President. It does my heart good to hear the sound of his voice, knowing that it penetrates throughout this congregation, and that it finds an echo in the souls of the Latter-day Saints. I am glad that my brethren laboring in the various missions can come here and hear the sound of his voice and feel the ardor and strength of his presence and carry it away with them to their respective fields of labor. And so with the presidents of stakes, the bishops of wards; it is a splendid thing to come here and have our souls refreshed in this way. The Lord's spirit is here, and his power is here, and the authority and keys of the Holy Priesthood, revealed in former times to Peter James and John, and brought to the earth in latter days to the Prophet Joseph and to Oliver Cowdery; those keys are with us today and that is the point that we should understand; that today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, receive the word today, find out the duties of today through the living oracles, perform these duties, the blessings are sure to come. "Search these things," the Lord said, as the President read them. They are true and faithful and they will be fulfilled. I know that they have been fulfilled hitherto in my own experience. God has been with me wherever I have been sent to labor in his cause, and wherever I have done my duty, and I have tried to do it, for a good many years, with all my might and soul and strength, his power has been upon me, the light of the Lord has shone upon my understanding, and I have seen the things of the kingdom afar off. 

A REMINISCENCE AND A TESTIMONY 

Years and years ago, laboring and traveling without purse or scrip, in poverty so to speak, in weariness and labor, without a place to lay my head — that I very seldom refer to, because they were times of very great trial — in those days the Lord was with me, and the song of Zion was in my heart; his strength, his salvation, was my daily portion. I have had pointed out to me, during the last few weeks, an article that I wrote for the Millennial Star about sixty-five years ago. It was published in the Millennial Star on Sept. 10, 1859, and in that I was able to portray, as I saw, the things that were coming upon this generation, this wicked and perverse generation of people, and I have looked up the Star and read the article, and it has done me good to be able to see the fulfilment of the things that God made plain to my soul those many years ago; that when I was laboring in the mission field at different periods his spirit and his power have been upon me, and the testimony of Zion has been in my heart, and I rejoice and praise the Lord this morning that I am still able to bear testimony that God, the great Creator, is our Father, the Father of our spirits, and that he has sent us on the earth at the right time, in the right place; and upon many of us he has given authority and the Holy Priesthood to minister for him. I know that is true, I know that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Son of the Eternal Father. He himself has declared that he was the First-born. How long ago that took place I do not know. I do not think anybody does know. We haven't heard the story, fully, of the early existence, the pre-existence of our Savior, nor of our own. We imagine a great many things concerning what we were and what we agreed to do and what we promised, but they only amount to our thoughts and ideas. One certain thing is this: that we are here, born on the earth in the latter days for the purposes of God; and he has led our footsteps here to these mountain valleys, and he has made our feet fast around about these hills, and the things that he has promised us will all be fulfilled if we will do our duty, if we will learn his word today and keep his commandments now, and teach them to our children, our generations will rise up and call us blessed. 

HANG ON AND KEEP FAST HOLD OF THE TRUTH 

I am glad to meet with you, my brethren and sisters, today in this great congregation, and I am proud to know that you were my brothers and sisters in the spirit world, and in the gospel kingdom on the earth in the latter days, and that we are bound together by sacred covenants which we should observe always and remember what we are. I meet with a good many of our young boys and girls when they come back from serving as missionaries. I am always glad to meet them, and I advise them to hang on, and keep fast hold of the truth, and advise them to be sure and work today, not to leave what they have done in the past and then go astray, but to continue in the way of righteousness and always be ministers, missionaries, at home and abroad; for they are called by the Almighty to help in this great Latter-day work which will go on to a glorious consummation. 

GOD BE WITH YOU 

I thank God for this privilege of bearing this humble testimony today, and praise him with all my soul for all his goodness and kindness and protecting care to me, and for all his providences and manifestations of his power to me. I praise him with all my heart, and in the midst of the congregation I say: Blessed be his name, forever. It always will be, no matter what I say or do, and his blessings will be ours, and upon you, my brethren, laboring in the ministry at home, or sent to minister abroad. God will be with you, and therein will be your strength. It will not be in worldly learning nor worldly riches, it will be in the revelations of the Holy Ghost to your souls, the power of your ministry, in the spirit of it. And in that you shall have joy, in that you shall have success, and God will open up your way and the increases that we have heard about this morning will continue and go on and be augmented. 

THIS WORK ONWARD AND UPWARD FOREVER 

This work is onward and upward, and it will be forever and ever. It will not be taken away from the earth again, it is here to stay. It will abide. It will prevail. It will overcome all its foes, all its obstacles, all its difficulties, and the Lord will inspire his servants, as he raises them up for the peculiar and special work in which they are to be engaged, and he will give them success therein as he has done with our brethren who have passed away, and our brother who has spoken to us this morning. He is our President and leader and the man holding the keys of the sealing ordinances in the last days, and he is our President in very deed. He stands at the head, and if God has anything to reveal to the Church, as a Church, it will be revealed to him as long as he remains on the earth. God be with him. I sustain him with all my heart and soul as the President and leader of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are witnesses to the truth of all that he has said to us this morning, and to the divine Spirit which has rested upon him. 

Now may God's Spirit abide with you, my brethren holding the Priesthood, that you may be able to perform your duties successfully, that you may go forth from this conference, renewed and refreshed and invigorated, to stir up the people to righteousness, to encourage them to be faithful and true and to perform the work for which they have come on the earth. God bless you with all the blessings that your hearts can righteously desire, through Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

It is a great privilege to meet, on occasions like this to hear the word of the Lord from his servants, and to be inspired with new resolves and desires. It gives us all an apportunity to examine ourselves, and to measure our standing in the Church, to see whether we are reaching the ideals the Lord designed us to reach. It enables us to go home with renewed determination to keep his commandments and to honor his name. I am satisfied this is the wish and desire of all who are here to-day. 

I thank the Lord with all my heart for the gospel, for the testimonies he has given me, for the privilege of gathering among his people and laboring in his ministry. I desire to serve the Lord, keep his commandments and honor his presiding brethren, and abide by their counsel and advice. 

The Lord has called us to labor in his ministry for the establishment of his mighty purposes on the earth, to build up his Church; and everything we do that will help to bring this about will redound to our blessing and comfort and give us joy in our ministry. 

Reference has been made by Presidents Grant and Penrose to the duty of the Latter-day Saints, of keeping the commandments of the Lord, and they have urged us to do so. Several important commandments have been mentioned, and I may be pardoned if I once more mention another, which comes to my attention in my labors as a counselor to Bishop Nibley, and that is a better and more prompt observance of the law of tithing. 

Great blessings will come to a man or woman who will observe this law. It will increase their faith in the gospel, their desire to serve the Lord, and they will be setting a good example. We should teach this law to our young people and see that they have an opportunity to pay tithing. If our children are given funds or acquire means, they should be taught and encouraged to tithe it, so that the habit of tithe-paying will grow with them. There is a statement made by King Solomon, in the book of Proverbs, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." This can be applied to the observance of the law of tithing. 

Let us not rest up with the idea that because father has already paid a tithe, the child need not pay tithing. The child, if allowed to pay its tithing, even though it be small, will develop a good habit, and it will stay with him. This is another duty of fathers and mothers, to teach their children the observance of this law. 

Then, at tithing settlement, father should see that his boys and girls go with him, particularly the boys who hold the Priesthood. He should not go to settlement with the idea of asking the bishop to credit so much to one child and so much to another, but take the children with him, and let them pay the bishop themselves, and receive the receipt of the bishop. 

I am glad to say that there are more tithe-payers to-day, in the Church, than have ever been reported previously. There were special efforts made a few years ago to encourage payment of tithing by all members of the Church. This matter was not particularly stressed, in 1923, but because of the faithfulness and devotion of the leading brethren in the stakes and wards and the teaching of this law to the people, the number of tithe-payers has increased. However, many have not paid tithing, as the records of the Church show, and therefore they are not receiving the blessings that the Lord has promised to those who will observe this law. He is willing and anxious to bless his people whenever they will obey the law upon which that blessing is predicated. 

The old habit of paying tithing once a year, at a special settlement with the bishopric of the ward, is slowly going out of use. There is growing in the Church a disposition on the part of the Saints to pay tithing monthly, or at other regular intervals. By this means the payment of tithing is more faithfully observed, and it brings joy and satisfaction to those who tithe their income before they use the balance. If this practice is followed by the officers of the Church in the stakes and wards, it will grow among the Saints themselves and, in my opinion, is the best and proper method of paying tithing. Tithing settlement will be easier and less burdensome to the tithe-payer when all he pays at the end of the year will be his tithing for the month of December only. 

I thank the Lord for the inspiration of his servants, for their advice and counsel, for their splendid example; and, no doubt, we shall all go home determined that in our homes, in the wards and in the stakes and missions where we may be laboring, we shall carry the instructions of President Grant, and use all our influence to see they are put into practice. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

Brethren and sisters, I cannot help but feel impressed with the sense of my insignificance, as I stand in the presence of our Church leaders and of Israel, assembled in conference; but I do rejoice with all my heart in this wonderful gospel. As I listened to President Heber J. Grant and to President Charles W. Penrose, I said in my heart: "I will go with these men because God is with them," and the words of the Apostle Paul came to me. He said: "For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?" 

Is there any uncertainty in the testimonies and the messages that have been delivered to Israel this morning? No. Doubt is swallowed up in knowledge and certainty. In the world there is doubt, there is uncertainty. One class of so-called religionists is teaching that Jesus is not divine, that he was not born of the Virgin Mary, and that the story of his bodily resurrection is a myth. We, the Latter-day Saints, standing on the sure foundation of revelation, and inspired by the testimony of the Holy Ghost, declare to all the world that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, the Redeemer of mankind, and in this testimony we are safe, and we shall win eternal life by obeying the commandments of our blessed Lord. Never in the history of the world, when God has sent forth his prophets, has there been uncertainty in their message. 

Unto Adam God declared: "If thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all thy transgressions, and be baptized, even in water, in the name of mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth, which is Jesus Christ, the only name which shall be given under heaven, whereby salvation shall come unto the children of men, ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. * * * For by the water ye keep the commandment, by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified." And thus may all become the sons of God, for this is the plan of salvation unto all men. 

In this dispensation, the Lord hath thundered forth the commandment in which these words occur: "Behold, the world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel." The gospel trumpet is sounding clearly and with certainty. The Apostle Paul said that God commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Remission of sins follows sincere repentance, the baptism of water and the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Brethren and sisters, your sons and your daughters in the world are proclaiming the message of life and salvation, and they are proclaiming it in the spirit of the Christ. Recently two elders in the Southern States mission, while delivering their message, were taken from the home in which they were preaching, by a mob of about forty men. Into the woods they were taken, and the mob declared that they had brought them there to punish them. One of the elders said to those hard-hearted and cruel men: "My companion is not well. He is sick. The punishment you are going to give him, give to me. I am willing to bear what you are going to do to him." These noble words and Christ-like spirit softened the fury of the mob to some extent. The elder bore part of his companion's burden. Woe, woe, to those men who persecute the servants of God. They are under the displeasure of him who said: "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay." 

I bear my testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, that through him the Almighty delivered a message to the world which is soul-saving, and which will exalt people to be sons and daughters of God. Brethren and sisters, in all earnestness and in all humility, I thank my heavenly Father that the leaders of this Church are not proclaiming mysteries to the people, but they are declaring the saving principles of the gospel; and inspired by their teachings we missionaries look at them and say: "There stand the First Presidency; there we stand, too." 

God said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: "And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." This is a continuing promise. The people of God will never, so long as they listen to the counsels of their leaders, be turned from those men who have been divinely appointed to counsel Israel, to be shepherds of the people, and to point the way to eternal life. 

"He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat; 

He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment seat; 

O be swift, my soul, to answer Him! be jubilant, my feet! 

Our God is marching on." 

I bear testimony that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) 

5
Morning
04 04 1924
David A. Smith 
95
21-23

None

Priesthood

I am grateful for section eleven of the Doctrine and Covenants, referred to by President Grant. While this was given to Hyrum Smith, through his brother Joseph, for his personal guidance, the revelation, like all others in the Doctrine and Covenants, contains much information which is of great value to all of us. I was first attracted to this revelation because it was given to my grandfather, in answer to his prayer for further light and guidance. I enjoy reading it, and have received much encouragement from so doing; and, as I read it again and again, I get from it new thoughts and new encouragement. At the time this revelation was given, Joseph Smith was translating the Book of Mormon, his brother Hyrum lending every aid as he followed this work, believing it to be a sacred record. His soul was filled with a desire to spread the new light and knowledge among his fellowmen; he, therefore, asked his brother to inquire of the Lord that he might know the will of the Lord concerning this work, as it pertained to him. Hyrum was not yet prepared for the great change that was to take place in religious thought and doctrines. The Lord in his mercy found it necessary to restrain him until he had been prepared. 

It was the common belief that any man desiring to preach could take it upon himself to do so without being especially called and ordained by one having authority. The Lord's answer to this prayer was: 

Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my Church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine. 

And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith shall it be done unto you. 

Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit; 

Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken — yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind and strength. 

Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. 

But now hold your peace; study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained it, which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto. 

There was to be a new Church, or, rather, the old one restored. The word of the Lord was again being received through revelation, and the written record for many years hidden away was now restored, thus making the gospel more plain and restoring it in its fulness. These changed conditions required much thought, study and preparation. Hyrum Smith's work by way of preparation was to first keep the commandments with all his might, mind and strength, to study the word of the Lord: that which had been given and that which was about to be given. He was to seek not for riches but for wisdom, and the promise was that through his faithfulness, "the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich." And, after he had proven his faith by his works, then should his tongue be loosed, then if he desired he could have the Spirit and word and the power of God unto the convincing of men, and all things were to be added thereunto. From this we see the importance the Lord places on the need of humility; the importance of keeping the commandments and being prepared for the work called to do. This has been taught to me all my life and because of the teachings of my parents and the opportunity I have had for gaining knowledge, I have been highly blessed, and should have been better prepared for service in the ministry. I have discovered that faith, a sincere effort to keep the commandments, and a careful study of the gospel are not sufficient but are steps to service, which is the final and greatest qualifying feature in the Church. 

Service may be rendered in an indifferent or haphazard manner or as a matter of course, or daily act following fixed habits. When so rendered the greatest good is not accomplished. 

At the death of my father, I began to realize more and more how much I had depended upon him; for it was easy to ask advice; to get information on points of doctrine; all of which has been helpful, but not having him to rely upon I have been impressed more forcibly that it is necessary for each individual to stand firmly upon his own foundation. I am beginning to see more and more that the great value in having knowledge is to prepare one to render greater service, which is measured by the faith and diligence with which that service is performed. The Lord has shown the way and provided wisely that each one may have an opportunity of gaining knowledge, and of rendering service in his Church. His plan is perhaps not wholly effective, because of our carelessness and failure to fully do our part as leaders, nevertheless, the opportunity is given, subject to our acceptance. 

There are two priesthoods: The Melchizedek and Aaronic or Lesser Priesthood. The Melchizedek Priesthood deals with spiritual things, and the Aaronic, with the preparatory gospel. It has fallen to my lot to labor in the Aaronic Priesthood, with the young men holding the office of priest, teacher and deacon; helping them in their endeavor to lay a firm foundation upon which they may build, that further knowledge and service may be acquired. How wisely has the Lord provided for them. As deacons, the boys are expected to perform labors in keeping with their age and knowledge, thus they gain further knowledge; through service and study, encouraged by their officers and the Saints, in time they are prepared for greater service and so advance to the office of teacher. Here their mission is to "watch over the Church always, and be with and strengthen them: 

"And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking: 

"And see that the Church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty." 

This labor is to be among those who believe in the gospel, and who understand that it is their mission to help these young men to gain the experience necessary, in the spirit of love, having a respect for them and a desire to encourage them in their work. This encouragement and labor, comes to them during a trying period in a boy's life, being privileged to watch over the Church, to see that there is no iniquity, lying, back-biting and evil speaking, and to see that the Church meet together often, and that all members do their duty. 

I cannot conceive of any greater protection that can come to a young man and no greater opportunity for growth, and the gaining of knowledge, than in rendering this service, under the direction of wise leaders and kind Church members. With a few years of such training, they should be qualified for greater service, and when ordained to the office of priest, they are expected to preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize, administer the sacrament and to visit the homes of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret. This labor too, is with the members who are or should be sympathetic and anxious to encourage them in their preparation for greater responsibility which comes with the Melchizedek Priesthood. With this training, step by step, the young men grow in knowledge and experience, and in due time they learn to put their trust in the Spirit of the Lord, which leadeth to do good and to do justly, and if they work humbly, the promise is to them also, and they are entitled to the enlightening influence of the Spirit, which shall fill our souls with joy. 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have of laboring in this Church. I am grateful that it has fallen to my lot to labor among the young men, and I pray that the importance of this work will be impressed upon us, that we may encourage those holding the Lesser Priesthood and provide employment for them, even more than we have been doing in the past. During the last year there has been greater activity in the Lesser Priesthood work than in any other year in the history of the Church. There is room for greater development; for greater work and activity, and the boys need it. Upon those holding the Melchizedek Priesthood rests the responsibility of providing this training. May God help us to do so, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT

(President of the Western States Mission) 

My brethren and sisters, it is a real pleasure to be here on this occasion and bear testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints. The remarks of our brethren this morning have impressed me with the importance of having a personal, living testimony of the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that he is the very Son of God, the Savior of the world; and also a testimony that Joseph Smith, the latter-day prophet, was raised up by the Lord to usher in a new gospel dispensation. 

I know that the gospel we preach is not after man; we have not followed cunningly devised fables, Joseph Smith did not receive it of man, but by the revelations of Jesus Christ. We have received the witness of the Spirit that the gospel taught by the Latter-day prophet is verily the power of God unto salvation. The Savior said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." So, today, as missionaries we lay down the gauntlet and say to all men, that if they will do the will of the Father, obeying the principles of the gospel as we teach them, they shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God or whether we speak of ourselves. Then will they receive the witness of the Holy Ghost whom God hath promised to all those who obey him. You will remember the occasion when Peter and companions appeared before the council at Jerusalem. The high priest asked them, saying; "Did we not straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name?" — Peter and the other apostles answered and said, "We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him." Acts 5:28-32. Paul in writing to the Corinthian Saints, said, "Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God, calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." 

It is important, therefore, as pointed out here today, that parents in Zion shall teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel, that as they grow in years they may grow in a knowledege of the truth; and, having received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, they may have the right to claim this testimony from our heavenly Father for he has said, "I the Lord am bound, when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say ye have no promise." Surely the Lord will impart unto us according to our obedience. 

I thank God with all my soul that it is my privilege to bear testimony to the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that he is the very Son of God, the Redeemer of the world; that by and through him, salvation will come to all the children on the earth. There is no other name given under heaven whereby we may be saved. I am grateful for the testimony that has come into my life that Joseph Smith was, and is, a Prophet of the living God. It was not my good fortune to know him in the flesh, but those who knew and associated with him in life, did not know any better than I know that his mission was divine. I appreciate the privilege of giving service today in this great cause, and bear you my testimony that the message we have for the world is the power of God unto salvation. We shall receive the companionship of the Holy Spirit in direct proportion to our obedience to the commandments given unto us. May the Lord give us power to live the gospel, to be exemplary in our lives, and to bear testimony to all with whom we come in contact that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lars P. Oveson, president of the Emery stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 