Morning
05 04 1924

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Of the General Authorities of the Church, there are absent from our conference Elders Reed Smoot, David O. McKay, John A. Widtsoe, and George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve. As you all know, Brother Smoot's duties prevent his attendance. We had hoped Brother Widtsoe might be here, but the Commission of which he is a member demands his attention, and he has written his sincere regrets for not being present at the conference. We have a cablegram from Pres. David O. McKay, that "the conference presidents of the mission in special assembly send greetings to the First Presidency and other authorities and the Church at home. God bless you." Brother George Albert Smith is absent on account of sickness. We hope he will be with us before the conference is concluded. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

Yesterday morning, as we were coming to conference and as the clouds betokened that we might have a storm, we heard on every hand the old saying, "Yes, its going to storm — the regular conference storm." Well, it did not storm, and to-day we have the most beautiful weather that could be found anywhere in the world. I do not know where you would go to equal it. So I feel happy this morning for the good weather with which we are blessed for our conference. 

I am grateful to the Lord for being permitted to labor with my brethren in connection with this great work, in which labor I have been engaged for many years. I rejoice in its growth and in its development, and I am glad to add my evidence or testimony to that of President Grant that I believe the Church, spiritually and temporally, is in a stronger, a better and more advanced condition to-day than it ever has been in its history. We are more numerous to-day than we ever have been and therefore we ought to be stronger, and are. 

I can speak, I believe, for the work that is under the care of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, the work of the Lesser Priesthood. I think I can safely say that never in the history of the Church has that work been in such good shape, nor has it been better looked after, nor indeed as well looked after by the bishops and those in charge of the responsibility of looking after the lesser priesthood, as it is to-day. So that also shows growth and development. Notwithstanding all that, we are far from doing and far from being what we should do and what we should be, but we are making progress, thank the Lord. 

This Church stands for all that is best in the world. "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things;" that which is best, that which makes for the success and prosperity and blessing of the people, that which extends and magnifies and upholds the principles of liberty. This Church has the gospel of Jesus Christ and according to St. Paul that system, that gospel is the perfect law of liberty, more perfect than anything else that has ever been devised, and I am thankful for that. I am grateful for this nation, for the privilege of living in this great nation, and that we are a part of it where there is more liberty for, and a better understanding of, human rights, and more of the respectful deference and tolerance for the views of others, religious Views, views of different questions, more of tolerance I say, in this nation than in any other nation under the sun. 

If you do not believe that, go and live awhile in the South American countries, or go down to Mexico, our neighbor on the south, or anywhere in Europe, Asia or Africa, anywhere outside of this nation, if you think you would be more contented than here, and you will come back and say, "This good old U. S. A., the United States of America, is the very best country, the very best nation, the very best people in all the world," and I am thankful that I am a partaker of it. 

This Church in its beneficence, in its helpfulness, goes far in its missionary activities, and the sacrifices that are made in that connection stamp the people with having done and trying to do better, and more in helping others and extending these principles, these blessings of liberty, than any other people in all the world. The missionary activities are not only to our own race, the white race, but we have gone to the islands of the sea. This Church established, many years ago, on the Hawaiian Islands, schools, educational helps, teaching the people also how to work, how to live, how to establish themselves and be independent, and to practice the principles of righteousness and liberty and thrift which the gospel inculcates. The Church has sent tens of thousands of dollars there, helping those poor people, during the many years that have passed; has done it recently and is doing it now, during this adminstration of President Grant. 

Then again, down in New Zealand, the Church has established there an agricultural college to help the Maori people. Of the tithes, the means that you have contributed, money has been sent down there to help those people, to educate them, to teach them the way of life and to help them in many ways, which have been a blessing to them. So also in Samoa. So with the Indians, up here in Washakie. The Church has spent a considerable amount of money to help the Indians there, to teach them and to be a blessing to them — a few of the Papago Indians down in Arizona also; a few down here at Cedar City and a few elsewhere who live around us. The Church has always been and is now helping in all these different directions, and it is a good work, a commendable work. I wanted to make a note of these items so that you may know, my brethren and sisters, how the means that you contribute to the Church are used. You have heard from the President how practically all the means contributed have been sent back to the people for schools, educational purposes, for the building of churches, for the operation and maintenance of church activities. Practically all of the tithes have been sent back to ihe people in the wards, in the stakes, for temples, for hospitals and in all these activities which are good, which are commendable and which are a blessing to the people. We should try to do a little more than we are doing, if we have, and we do have, the best principles to govern us, laid down by the Lord Almighty; we have a knowledge that he established his work and that he raised up wise men, as he says in one of the revelations, for the very purpose of establishing the Constitution of this land, this law of liberty and tolerance that we are enjoying and being blessed with. Having that, then, there should be further evidence to show that we have the gospel. I ought to be a better citizen in consequence of the religion of Jesus Christ, this perfect law of liberty, than I could be without this gospel. It certainly does not make me a worse citizen, more narrow or bigoted; but it enlarges my soul; it makes me tolerant; it makes me helpful; it makes me kind to my neighbor; it enjoins upon me all the duties of helpfulness and righteousness that pertain to the gospel of Jesus Christ; so that I should be better as a citizen, in a civil sense. My home should look as nice as the home of anybody else, and as good as my circumstances will permit. My fence should be kept up nicely; my surroundings should be clean; my home should be clean. Cleanliness is next to godliness. In fact, I think you will never get any great amount of godliness till you first get cleanliness. So our places, our homes, our gardens, all that we have, should be just a little better in consequence of the gospel. Our taxes should be spent more carefully than any other people spend taxes. We should be able to invite people to settle among us in consequence of low taxes and good orderly government, in comparison with others. So I say improve your homes, brethren and sisters, improve your fields, improve your stock. Clean up, plant trees, beautify Zion, make the desert as a garden, and the wilderness to blossom as the rose. In the old scriptures the Lord said he "will make the wilderness like Eden, and the desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody." The voice of song and melody should be extended also, and all that is good and all that is great, all that pleases mankind we should try to do, and the knowledge of God will be extended. We have heard repeatedly, and we will always hear it, for it is the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to make known the story of Jesus and him crucified. Just what he is, just what he stood for — that will always be the great endeavor and the great part of the mission of this Church; after we are all gone, it will still be going on. 

But in all of the little things of life we should be just a little better, a little more kind as husband and father, a little more courteous, a little more polite. Do we exemplify that in our lives, in our families? Are husbands — these husbands that I see by the thousands before me — are we just as good to our wives as we could be and should be? You know if you are invited out to a dinner party, it is quite customary, quite the proper thing, and a very genteel thing too, to say: "We have had an excellent dinner. It was very fine. I have enjoyed it immensely." Did you ever say that to your wife — do you, husbands? She has cooked for you many a good dinner. Did you ever say: "Wife, that is a fine dinner. That is just as good as anybody can cook." No; if she said: "Well, John, husband — how did you like your dinner?" "Why, it was all right, wasn't it? I didn't see anything wrong with it." It would be so unusual to get a word of courtesy and compliment from the husband to the wife. I recall a line or two of Burns on this subject: 

"Ah! gentle dames, it gars me greet, [it makes me cry] 

To think how monie counsels sweet, 

How monie lengthen'd, sage advices 

The husband frae the wife despises!" 

And it is often so. Of course, the counsel, good as it is, can be too lengthened. You sisters ought to remember that, too, not to make your advice and counsel so everlastingly long. Be tolerant and improve in that. "How many lengthened, sage advices the husband from the wife despises." Well now, we can be courteous with our children, and kind; we can teach them politeness — these little civilities, these little things after all distinguish between the savage and the civilized. That is all they are, decent civilities, politeness, courtesy, a little attention. How many husbands help their wives as they should? 

I stood at my window, only the other day, and watched a couple going down the street — a big, strong young fellow and his wife, a beautiful woman, tagging behind him. I thought, "They are married, all right." If he had not been, why he would have had hold of her arm, showing her a little attention and courtesy, and I felt like I would like to go out there and kick that fellow. She was good looking, too. That made me dislike him more. But after all, brethren and sisters, these kindnesses, these attentions are what make people better. Why, that man and woman put me in mind of the Indian with his squaw, she walking behind, tagging behind. She was not carrying any load. If they had had a baby, she would probably have been carrying the baby in her arms and he would have carried the door key. That is the kind of courtesy that was shown. 

Now, plant trees, take care of your farms, save your means. We are living in an extravagant age. Don't you know that there are very few people nowadays who know how to save a dollar. We know how to spend it galore; but to save it, to practice self-denial and say, "No, I can get along without that," we cannot do it, seemingly, any more. We just have to spend and spend. Now let me put this into your mind, brethren and sisters, you can always spend your money tomorrow; don't forget that. It will be good tomorrow. Keep it in your pocket today and then wait until tomorrow again. You can always spend your money tomorrow; practice many other good qualities which make for independence and well-being and which will deliver us from so much trouble; that which helps to keep us out of debt. Get out of debt and keep out of debt. Cultivate your farms; stay with your farms; make one acre produce what two are now producing — it can be done as a general rule. Why not do it; why not show to all the world that by our very surroundings, here are "Mormon" settlements, the best in the land. I remember the first time I went up into Canada. We rode through those endless miles of plains and not a tree. Presently we came in sight of some trees growing away up in the country there, and I said: There is civilization; there is a "Mormon" settlement, because it was different. There were settlements straggling here and there all along, but no trees. But when we came to the "Mormon" settlement there were trees, there were evidences of something more, something better than other people had. 

So in all of our surroundings and all that we have to do and to do with, we ought to practice those principles which the gospel teaches. And as President Grant emphasized yesterday, walk in obedience to the commandments. That is repeated all the way through, in almost every revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the revelation on the Word of Wisdom we are commanded to abstain from this and abstain from the other; if you do all these things and walk in obedience to the commandments as well, blessings are promised. Now walking in obedience to the commandments of the Lord, we ought to do all these little things, for they are commandments. I am commanded by those who have presided over me to get out of debt, to pay up my debts when I can, and as soon as I can; to keep out of debt, to practice every virtue — be honest, be true, be faithful, be courteous, be tolerant, be all that makes for the best citizenship in all the world. That is what should distinguish us from the world. The Savior said in his time: If you give merely to your sisters and your cousins and your aunts, (he did not use that phrase but that is undoubtedly what it amounted to) do not even the Publicans so? What better are you than they? 

We ought to be better, having the best government that there is, I mean Church government, which supplements, adds to and enhances and glorifies the civil government, good as it is, the Church government is still better. For as St. Paul said, "It is the perfect law of liberty." Having that, ought we not to show it in all our surroundings, in all our walks of life, in everything pertaining to us in our civil government with which we have to do — in treatment of our brethren and sisters, settling our difficulties one with another, in all things that make us better and more civilized, more polite, more generous, more big-hearted, more unselfish in all things; to build up the kingdom, to glorify our God and make us different, a little different from most other people. If the gospel does not do that, then it has failed with us. I say that it does accomplish these things. If you do not think there is a difference between the people here of this section and other peoples abroad, you just go and live abroad six months, anywhere outside of the confines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: you will find a difference. There is a power of godliness here that cannot be found anywhere else in the world, and I testify to it. The revelation to the Prophet Joseph, I think it is in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, says this, that with this Priesthood which he has given to this Church, the power of Godliness is manifest, and further, without this Priesthood and the ordinances of the gospel, the power of godliness is not manifest to men in the flesh, anywhere, at any time. Now having that influence and power, we know, my brethren and sisters, that it will make us better and that we are a little different in so many ways. It was pointed out to us yesterday that there is a brotherhood and a fellowship and an interest, an unselfish interest in people, more than most peoples have. 

I see that my time has expired. The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and bless this work. I testify to you, once again, that it is God's work. I believe most thoroughly, completely, and potently in the fact that the Lord Most High and his Son Jesus Christ did appear and teach and instruct Joseph Smith the boy prophet. I believe it as powerfully as if I had seen it with my own eyes; and that the angel Moroni did come and instruct Joseph Smith and reveal the Book of Mormon, and that that book was translated by the gift and power of God. I believe it as potently as if that angel himself had talked to me. I do not see how I could believe it any more if I had the ocular evidence. I know it is true, I feel it in my soul. God bless you, bless this Church, bless these servants of his who labor all the day long for your benefit and for the benefiting of the Church, and for the glorifying of the name of our God in the earth, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

The words of Bishop Nibley, concerning thrift and economy, should be hearkened unto by us all. It is our duty to live within our means, and to learn that happiness in life is in the spirit and not in  things. Benjamin Franklin said wisely: "It is not only important to earn a living, but to conserve a living." How true it is that the eternal needs the temporal. 

The sessions of this conference have reminded me, time and time again, of the words of the prophet Isaiah: "And a highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called the way of holiness." And Robert Browning said once: "I thirst for truth, but shall not drink until I reach the source." This was the thought that the little boy Joseph Smith had, when he went into the woods on a spring morning in 1820, and asked God for light. God answered him, and the boy beheld his God, and at his side, the Redeemer of the world. This is the greatest message of history during the nineteenth century. H. G. Wells has shown in his Outlines of History that the world has had great epochs when mankind has risen to a higher life. Such epochs have been the rise of the Jewish race to religious power; the birth of Christ, the Renaissance and Reformation, and finally the French Revolution and the rise and development of modern science. But the advent of God into the world when he answered the little boy Joseph Smith is an event that the future world will yet have to reckon with. It is one of the great events in history. To Joseph Smith, life was one supreme duty, and it was to be filled with days in which he should seek for truth. He knew that a "highway should be there and that it should be called the way of holiness," and he was not satisfied to drink of truth until he had reached the source. The gospel of Jesus Christ was given to the world at a new period of history. It was when the Government of the United States was in its infancy, yet it had been launched with the greatest political and civic ideals that were ever known to modern times. It was a new period of social and economic life, and during the period or two decades from 1830 to 1850, there was more advancement in industrial history than there had been in all the history of the world up to that time. With the coming forth of the gospel, new life and understanding of the ways of God came into the world, and we who bear the Priesthood understand those ways and we should live them to the best of all that is within our spiritual powers. You recall the gracious prayer of Paul the apostle as he wrote to the Ephesians: 

"For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God." 

Joseph Smith lived when men were doing new things and solving new problems in life. And I wish to say that Joseph Smith was such an important figure in our religious history that attention cannot be directed to him too often. He was the prophet of a formative, idealistic age. "His is a voice from the heights bathed in the sunshine of the spirit." He spoke with his Maker, and the gospel of the Lord has come back to his children. And so, my brethren and sisters, in thinking of the great latter-day prophet, I think of the last lesson of life, "the choral song which rises from all angels and is a voluntary obedience, a necessitated freedom. When man's mind is illuminated, when the heart is kind, he throws himself joyfully into the sublime order and does with knowledge, what the stones do by structure." Joseph Smith thirsted for truth, but did not drink until he had reached the source. 

The gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is to-day being carried to all the world. Of all people who are to be taught the divine message, the American Indians will, I think, accept it as quickly as any. The Indians of America are naturally believers in the Great Spirit, and their traditions and myths indicate that they know something of the depths of religious feeling. Soon after the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in 1830, four Indians, we are told, appeared on the streets of St Louis. They were wan and haggard after a journey of many hundred miles from the wilds of the far West. They were of the Nez Perces and Flathead tribes and explained that they had heard of the white man's book from heaven and had come to find it. General George Clark, commander of the military post at St Louis entertained them, and they were shown about the city which to the Indians was the civilization of the "pale faces." Two of the Indians died within a few weeks, and some days later the other two determined to leave with a fur-trading company for their homes beyond the Rocky Mountains. General Clark gave a dinner in their honor to which were invited a number of military officers and citizens. At this dinner Rabbit-Skin-Leggings and No-Horns-On-His-Head, for these were the names of the two Nez Perces, were told about the Bible and the desire of the white men to treat all the native Red Men of America with equity and justice. Then one of the Indians arose and spoke, and according to some accounts, this is what he said: 

"I came to you over a trail of many moons from the setting sun. You were the friends of my fathers who have all gone the long way. I came with one eye partly opened, for more light for my people who sit in darkness. I go back with both eyes closed. How can I go back blind to my blind people. I made my way to you with strong arms, through many enemies and strange lands, that I might carry much back to them. I go back with both arms broken and empty. The two fathers who came with me — the braves of many winters and wars — we leave asleep here by your great water. They were tired in many moons and their mocassins worn out. My people sent me to get the white man's Book from Heaven. You took me where you allow your women to dance, as we do not ours, and the Book was not there. You took me where they worship the Great Spirit with candles, as we do not ours. The Book was not there. You showed me images of the Great Spirit and pictures of the good and the Beyond, but the Book was not among them. I am going back the long trail and sad trail to my people of the dark land. You make my feet heavy with burdens of gifts, and my moccasins will grow old in carrying them, but the Book is not among them. When I tell my poor people, after one more snow, in the Council, that I did not bring the Book, no word will be spoken by our old men, and our young braves. One by one they will rise and go out in silence. My people will die in darkness, and they will go on the long path to other hunting grounds. No white man will go with them and no white man's book to make the way plain. I have no more words." 

The two Indians went back to their homes, and soon after the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions, of New York, sent Marcus Whitman, Samuel Parker, and Dr. Henry Spaulding to teach and convert the tribes beyond the Rocky Mountains. Both Whitman and Spaulding took their wives, and they were the first women to go to Oregon and to cross the Rocky Mountains. They established missions, and opened schools for the Indians, and Mrs. Spaulding printed chapters of the Bible on an old printing press. The work of the missionaries did much to bring the Oregon Territory, later, a part of the United States. 

I hope the day will come when the gospel of Jesus Christ will be taken anew to the various tribes of American Indians, and I have confidence that they will understand the true message of the Redeemer. I pray God that all mankind may awaken to him who giveth eternal life. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have enjoyed with you, my brethren and sisters, the testimonies of the brethren. The Lord has placed great weight upon two sources of testimony. We might call one the divine witness and the other human witnesses. Moroni, in the last chapter of the Book of Mormon, calls our attention to this great witness, the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, who will teach us of those things that we may not perfectly find out from mere human evidence. I am persuaded that the Lord has also placed weight upon mere human evidence, because it was foreordained more than twenty centuries before the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon were actually selected, that there would be three such witnesses; that there should be the one witness to whom the book should be delivered, and there should be three special witnesses, "and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him good will he establish his word." Read II Nephi 27:12, 13 and 14, and you will get more fully the force of what I am trying to present. 

Of course, Joseph will always take first place among human witnesses. His testimony is very satisfactory, examine it from whatever point you may. He lived twenty-five years after the first divine manifestation to him, and his every act and word, and his whole life's purpose, were in accordance with the great message which he had received. His testimony has good carrying power, just as the apostle Paul had good carrying power in his testimony that he had seen a vision, as he went on his way to Damascus to persecute the saints, and was miraculously converted. Indeed there is a similarity between the carrying force of the testimony of these two witnesses — Paul in his day and Joseph the Prophet in his. Inasmuch as it was an event of importance to have these three witnesses, their testimony has good carrying force, if you get my meaning from that expression. Test it in any way you may care to test mere human evidence, and it is satisfactory. 

David Whitmer, in the early 80's, was interviewed by Elder James H. Hart, and was asked concerning his testimony introductory of the Book of Mormon. This interview was placed in verse form, and afterward read to and approved by David Whitmer: 

He lifted up his voice, and thus replied: 

"My written statement I have ne'er denied; 

I saw the angel, and I heard his voice 

And wondrous things that made my heart rejoice. 

"This interview was sought with earnest prayer, 

The Prophet and three witnesses were there, 

But Martin, conscience-struck, declined to stay, 

And wandered off alone, to watch and pray. 

"I do not know the angel's rank, or name, 

Who on this great and glorious mission came, 

I know that he was clothed with power and might, 

And was surrounded with effulgent light. 

"No tongue can tell the glory and the power, 

That was revealed to us in that blest hour; 

The plates of brass and gold the angel took, 

And placed before us like an open book. 

"We saw the fine engravings on them, too, 

And heard the voice declare the book is true; 

No power on earth could from our minds efface 

The glorious visions of this trysting place. 

"We've done, as then commanded we should do, 

And testified the 'Mormon Book' is true; 

And was translated by the power given 

The Prophet Joseph, by the God of Heaven. 

"Thousands of people have been here to see, 

The 'copy' Oliver has left with me; 

The characters, moreover, Martin took 

Professor Anthon — words of sacred book. 

"Some visit me who 'Mormonism' hate, 

Some ranking low, and some of high estate; 

I tell them all, as now I say to you, 

The Book of Mormon is of God, and true. 

"In yonder room I have preserved with care, 

The printer's copy, and the words so rare; 

The very words from Nephi's sacred book, 

That Martin to Professor Anthon took. 

"If this be not the truth, there is no truth, 

And I have been mistaken from my youth; 

If I'm mistaken, you may know from thence, 

That there's no God, no law, no life, no sense. 

"I know there is a God — I've heard his voice, 

And in his power and truth do still rejoice; 

Though fools may ridicule and laugh today, 

They yet shall know the truth of what I say. 

"I've suffered persecution at the hands 

Of hireling preachers and their Christian bands; 

I've braved their hatred, and have them withstood, 

While thirsting for the youthful Prophet's blood. 

"They came, four hundred strong, with visage bold, 

And said, 'Deny this story you have told, 

And by our sacred honor we'll engage 

To save you from the mob's infuriate rage.' 

"A mighty power came on me, and I spake 

In words that made the guilty mobbers quake; 

And trembling seized the surging crowd, and fear, 

But left unharmed, I felt that God was near." 

And this same witness gave this testimony as his dying statement, as did the other two. Martin, now buried in Clarkston, concerning whose resting place there is a friendly rivalry between sections of the country where he is buried, as to which shall have the honor in their cemeteries of having the ashes of this witness finally to repose — it was the dying statement of Martin as also of Oliver. 

David called a physician to certify that he was of sound mind and memory, and not under undue influence of any person, was rational in every way, and then gave his testimony. There is a significance that I would call your attention to in connection with this testimony, being the dying statements of these men; because peculiar significance is attached to testimony that amounts to a dying declaration or a dying statement. One of the early common law jurists said of such testimony given "when every hope of this world is gone, when every motive to falsehood is silenced, and the mind is induced by the most powerful considerations to speak the truth," that "a situation so solemn and awful is considered by the law as creating an obligation equal to that imposed by an oath administered in court." 

The law as it prevails in the United States, notwithstanding the sixth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which secures to the accused "the right to be confronted with the witnesses against him," attaches such powerful weight to a dying declaration that under certain circumstances hearsay testimony will be received of a dying declaration. One American jurist expresses the rule as follows:

"When dissolution is approaching and the dying man has lost all hope of life, and the shadows of the grave are gathering in around him and his mind is impressed with the full sense of his condition, the solemnity of the season and hour gives to his statement a sanctity of truth more impressive and potential than the formalities of an oath." 

We find that Shakespeare well understood this principle, because in his play of "King John," he makes one of his characters, one Mellon, who is in extremis, and who is testifying under those circumstances, to disclose contemplated treachery on the part of King Louis. When disbelieved by those to whom he tells his story, he exclaims: "Have I not hideous death before my view, retaining but a quantity of life, which bleeds away, even as a form of wax resolveth from the figure against the fire? Why in the world should I deceive, since I must lose the use of all deceit? Why should I then be false, since it is true that I must die here, and live hence by truth." 

So we may gather from that, something of the force that we are justified in attaching to the testimony of these three witnesses, who never varied in their statements, notwithstanding this one, a part of whose interview I have read, did not live long enough to come back into the full fellowship of the Saints; yet he was always impressed with the sacredness of this testimony. These men whom it was determined centuries in advance should occupy the important position of special witnesses, should be indeed men of integrity and of fidelity, and of rare courage, so that they might ever stand for the truth of that which they gave. And Joseph, as I said, who would always be the principal human witness to the divinity of the restoration of the Gospel and the restoration of the Priesthood, went consciously to his martyrdom at Carthage, just as anciently the Master went voluntarily and consciously to the great sacrifice of his life at Golgotha. 

And so we have had testimonies reflected here of both these varieties — the testimony of the brethren of that witness which has come to them by the great Testator — the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, spoken of by Moroni as a witness to the truth of the Book, when it should come forth, and we have had these other testimonies of various grades. Indeed we can scarcely pick up a magazine or a book in the world without receiving testimony of some sort to the divinity of so-called "Mormonism." 

I thought, while President Grant, yesterday morning, referred to the revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith of the obligation upon parenthood to take care of their children, of a recent article by Dr. Charles William Eliot, the president emeritus of Harvard, who stands as the grand old man of education, occupying the same relative position towards letters that our grand old man of the Church, President Penrose, occupies with reference to theology and religion in our Church. These men are the very nestors in their respective realms. Dr. Eliot, who just passed his ninetieth birthday — not quite so old, as you will observe, as our beloved President Penrose — is concerned at the way the youth of this land are being trained. He calls attention to three great divisions of life in this country, the Anglo-Catholic, the Protestant denominations, and what he calls the "unchurched." And then he gives us a picture of how these "unchurched," as he calls this great division of our citizens, bring up their children. This article was published in last month's number of the Atlantic Monthly. 

"Their children are not baptized nor christened; if dangerous illness invades the family no priest or minister is requested or even allowed to visit the sick one; when a death occurs in a family the funeral is conducted from the undertaker's 'Funeral Parlor' or 'Funeral Home' with such singing and reading as the undertaker cares to provide. Marriage is a civil process only. The great events in human life — birth, puberty, mortal sickness and death — receive no religious notice with them. No such experiment on so vast a scale has ever been tried since time began as this considerable fraction of the American people are now trying — namely, bringing up children without any religious instruction, or any transmission to the rising generation of moral traditions handed down through primitive, barbarous and civilized peoples in succession." 

While Dr. Eliot is of a nature inclined naturally to be optimistic and hopeful, one can perceive his concern as to this experiment, the like of which has before never been performed, as he says, on so large a scale as this. One writer gives these lines: 

"One ship drives east and another drives west, 

While the self-same breezes blow, 

'Tis the set of the sail, and not the gale, 

That bids them where to go. 

"The winds of the sea are like the waves of the fates, 

As we journey along through life, — 

'Tis the set of the soul that decides the goal, 

And not the storms or the strife." 

So we are trying to use the organizations of the Priesthood, and all good helps in government, and the literature of the Church, to give the youth the right setting to the soul. 

Dr. Eliot comments, you will note, on marriage being a mere civil process. In reference to this question of marriage, Chas. Franklin Thwinge, President of a University of our land, in January, 1924, Current History, confesses: "I for one, as a Protestant and as one ordained to the Protestant ministry, should be glad to see marriage lifted to the rank of a sacrament, with baptism and the communion." 

Which means to us, to the rank advocated by our brethren and in accordance with revelations of the Church. 

My time has expired. May the Lord bless us in this work, and help us to have the testimony that we are entitled to, the witness of the Holy Ghost, in addition to all the human testimony that supports this great cause, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California Mission) 

I feel that I occupy a very important position, my brethren and sisters, in standing up in your presence to make a few remarks. I appreciate very greatly the opportunity that is afforded me of bearing witness to the truth of the great work of the Lord, as it has been established upon the earth in the dispensation in which we live, and of bringing greetings from the people in the California mission, and from the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints, in various sections of the land, who have been appointed to labor as preachers of the gospel in this mission.  

While we are in a country largely given up to pleasure more than to the things of God, we nevertheless come in contact with a good many very choice people, and the labors of the missionaries are rewarded, from time to time, by finding honest-hearted men and women who hearken to the message that has been delivered in this age of the world, and are brought from the darkness that is in the world to the truth that has been revealed. We have a splendid company of young men and women operating as missionaries in the mission. They are very devoted to the work that has been intrusted to their care, and they are laboring to the best of their power to discharge their duty and bring their living testimony to the ears of as many people as possible. It has been a very great joy and satisfaction to me, my brethren and sisters, to be associated with these splendid men and women, one could almost be prompted to say, I think, "boys and girls." 

It has been a delight to note the workings of the Spirit of the Lord upon them, and the increase of testimony and knowledge concerning the things of God that has been brought into their souls by the Spirit and power of God. It is a source of very great satisfaction to be able to say that they are giving their time, in the preaching of the gospel, very cheerfully. They are not anxious to return home. It is a very common thing to find the missionaries in tears when announcement is made to them that they are honorably released to return home, and it has not been an uncommon thing to hear missionaries say that it is a greater trial to leave the mission field than it was to leave their homes and come into the mission field. And I am glad that the Lord thus works upon the hearts of those who are called to be his ambassadors in the preaching of the gospel, that is the power of God unto salvation. They come into the mission field in fear and trembling. They ofttimes have some question in their own minds as to whether the gospel that has been taught them by their parents is in very deed the real truth of God, and the power of God unto salvation. But thank God, by giving attention to the responsibilities that have come to them through being called through the channels of the holy Priesthood to be preachers of righteousness, they make a full discovery of the truth that has been revealed, and their hearts are given to the Lord, and they labor zealously to discharge the duty that rests upon them as men holding divine authority. And I am glad to say, my brethren and sisters, that not only do these young men, who have been clothed with the authority of the holy Priesthood, advocate the doctrines of the gospel and prosecute their ministry with very great zeal, but the sisters are just as anxious, they are just as willing, they are just as faithful, they are filled with the same spirit, and they bear witness in the same manner to the great truth that has been made manifest unto them by the power of God. 

I have thought some concerning testimonies, while listening to the words that have been spoken here by the brethren. We are sometimes found fault with in relation to the testimonies that we bear; men and women apparently entertain the thought that we ought not to be so sure in relation to the doctrines that we are teaching. They seem to entertain the thought that we are narrow in our views, because when we bear testimony to the things of God, and that we have knowledge concerning those things, it is an indication that other people do not possess that same knowledge. I just desire to read a word or two of scripture, and I thank God with all my soul that if men speak of us as being narrow-minded and if they find fault with us because we bear witness that we have a knowledge concerning the things of God, that we do not bear witness in any stronger language concerning the knowledge that we possess and the necessity of yielding obedience to the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, than the ministers of the Redeemer of the world used, when they were teaching the same gospel in the meridian of time. 

"This, then," wrote one of the Apostles, "is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie and do not speak the truth; but if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sins." 

I do not think any "Mormon" missionary makes testimony in any stronger language than that, if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not speak the truth. We teach men, and we feel that we are under obligation to teach men, that they must walk in the light as the Lord Jesus Christ is in the light, and that we can only have fellowship with our Redeemer, and with the truth of God, as we thus walk in the light. 

And the same writer, in similar language, teaches the same kind of doctrine: "Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son." 

And then this writer says with unbounded certainty: "If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed: For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds." 

And the same writer again makes declaration: "And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness." 

I do not understand that I have been sent to labor in the California mission with any instruction, in any way, to compromise the word of God and the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, but that I have been sent there to teach men that they must walk in the light as the Lord Jesus Christ is in the light, that they must turn from the doctrines of men, and the follies of men, and the theological nonsense that there is in the world today, and yield obedience to the truth that has been revealed by the Lord God of heaven. I would that I might make that clear to the understanding of those who are within our gates today. We have a message to deliver to the inhabitants of the earth, a message that has been revealed by the Lord our God, that has been sent to this world by the coming of the Father and the Son, as has been taught in our conference — divine authority restored to mortal men, by the sending of holy angels who, placing their hands upon the heads of mortal men, conferred upon them the authority of the holy Priesthood, and made them representatives of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving them power and authority to call men to repentance, and to administer legally the saving ordinances of the gospel. And this is in keeping with the revelations of God and the promises of God, made by the very apostles whose words I have read in your hearing — that there was to come a time when another angel should wend his way from heaven, "having the everlasting gospel, to preach to the inhabitants of the earth, to every nation, and to every kindred, and to every tongue and to every people, crying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." 

It is my responsibility to bear witness that that angel has wended his way from heaven to earth, that divine authority, the power to speak in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, has been given again to men, and by that authority we call men to repentance and to the waters of baptism, that they may be cleansed from their sins, and that they may walk in the light, as he is in the light, and there is no other way, and there is no other authority upon the face of the whole earth that can thus minister the ordinances of the gospel which are essential to the salvation of the human family. 

God help us to believe the truth, and stand for the truth, and teach the truth, let men say or think what they may, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I rejoice this day in the testimony of the truth that has been revealed from heaven through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith; in the truth of that gospel which has been restored to the earth, which I bear witness is the power of God unto salvation. The fool hath said in his heart, "there is no God." There are many who are willing to believe that there is some vague essence existing in the universe which they are pleased to call God, but at any near approach of that divine being, by whose power the earth and the heavens have been created, they begin to deny him. The poet has told us that "distance lends enchantment to the view," and so I think it is with reference to the faith of many men and women upon the face of the earth. The farther away and more remote they can locate their Supreme Being, the better satisfied they are; but when he reveals himself to man in the day and age in which we live, then they begin to deny him. When God manifested himself in the flesh in the coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, God was made manifest. He came near unto men and only those who had in their hearts a love of God were willing to accept of him as in very deed the Son of God, the creator of heaven and earth. Mankind are in darkness to a very great extent in their search after God. 

I rejoice in the efforts that are made by honest investigators endeavoring to find out something of the secrets of life. I have no desire whatever to criticize all such honest investigation. May the truth dawn upon their minds, and may the inspiration of the Almighty assist them in their honest endeavor to find out the truths of heaven. But if they desire to know the truth, they can only learn it by securing the Spirit of God that comes from his presence and reveals these secrets unto the children of men. But if we possess his holy Spirit, then may we attain to this divine knowledge, and not otherwise. 

My heart goes out in love and admiration and in adoration unto my heavenly Father, when I look out upon this beautiful world, and particularly at this season of the year when we see the buds swelling upon the trees, about to burst into a new life, when we see the grass coming out of the ground, vegetation making itself manifest, and when a few days hence all nature will be alive, quickened by the power of God. And my heart goes out in worship and adoration to the giver of this life, the creator of all things. I am inclined to refer to a couple of paragraphs which I committed to memory when I was a boy. They seem to carry the expression of thought that is now in my heart. The paragraphs referred to were written in the German language, and I committed them to memory while I was engaged in the study of that language. I will endeavor to give a free translation of them: 

"Things that are useful, benevolent and indispensable; things which pertain to our clothing, to our nourishment and to our shelter, and generally speaking that pertain to the sustaining of living creatures, we find in nature. Water quenches our thirst. All kinds of fruits satisfy our hunger. We find materials for the building of our homes, and for the clothing of our bodies. An Almighty hand distributes among us the things that we need; but also things that are beautiful, grand and glorious hath God created; things which we view with wondering ecstasy, things that arouse our admiration and fill our hearts with joy — the splendor of the starry heavens, the morning and the evening red, the different forms and colors of the clouds, the beautiful green of the meadows, the blossoms and the flowers show us a beauty and a splendor which touch our hearts and lift up our souls in grateful adoration to God that he hath so beautifully and so inimitably adorned his great creation work." 

These are the thoughts that come into my heart when I look out upon this wonderful world in which we live, and I feel to worship and adore my heavenly Father as the Creator of all things that are, in this world in which we live today. How I marvel at the infidelity, at the atheism, the agnosticism, that prevail among mankind, when they stand in the midst of these wonderful things that ought to fill their hearts with faith in God, and to turn them to him, to worship him in spirit and in truth. 

When I look out upon this vast congregation before me now and realize that here are many thousands of living human beings whose faces are directed towards me, and who hearken to the words which I now speak, my heart is filled with wonder to think what miracle stands before me when so many can be attracted, and possibly interested, in the words that I now speak. Oh, how I feel that God has manifested himself in his very children that dwell upon the face of the earth, living, intelligent beings, having the power to understand and to think and to receive knowledge and understanding or instruction. 

Men have endeavored to find out the origin of life. May they succeed in their honest endeavors to do so. Men have tried to prove that human beings have descended from lower orders of life. There has never been any satisfactory discovery to indicate that the human family have ever been anything else than human beings, the children of God, but, on the contrary they have always found that all life proceeds from some similar anterior life. With all due respect to what they have observed in the law of differentiation or of natural selection, they have never been able to satisfactorily show any change of species. Men have been formed and fashioned in the image of their great Creator. But even in the investigations which learned men have made, when they go back to the protoplasm, or the small cells to which they sometimes refer, even then the mystery of life is just as great as it was in the beginning. This world is teeming with this wonderful phenomenon of life. It is everywhere abundant. It manifests itself in the vegetation, in the grass, the trees and the flowers, in the animals that creep upon the earth, in the fowls of heaven, the fishes of the seas, and the beasts of the field as they are found upon the earth, and also in mankind. Mr. H. G. Wells in his "Outline of History" points out that this thing that we call life, this phenomenon, is within certain restricted areas to be found upon the earth, a few hundred feet beneath the surface, a few thousand feet into the air, and out into the streams of water and in the mighty ocean, but beyond these limitations there is no such thing as life, at least so far as the scientific world has any knowledge whatever; but within those limitations the world is teeming with life. Whence came it? We read and understand, and the philosophers and scientists tell us — and truly, too, I think — that there was a time when this earth upon which we live was a molten fiery mass, where the heat was so intense that no living thing could exist upon it. Then whence came all this life now manifest among us? Did it come by spontaneous generation? Did it create itself? Impossible! This same author points out that there are certain characteristics of life, one of them being that things that live have some motion of their own accord. It may be merely the movement of the roots of a blade of grass, but there is some self motion. Another characteristic is that all things that live must be nourished, receive nourishment or they will die, another is that living things will grow. Another characteristic is that having attained their maturity they propagate and reproduce their own kind, not any other kind. And still another characteristic of things that live is that they will die; all things that live must die. These are the characteristics of living things, different from the things that have no life, like the rocks, the metals, the gold, the silver, the copper, the lead, and the tin that have no life. Well, whence came this life that we see in abundance, this whole world teeming with it everywhere? Inasmuch at at one time, it could not have existed upon the earth; and go back as far as they will scientists do not explain the origin of life, but they freely admit: we do not know the origin of life, then let us go to the good book and there we shall find the only rational explanation of it: 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," and all things that in them are. 

And he "created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." 

There is the testimony of Moses, the Prophet of God, bearing witness to the fact that God is our Creator. 

Again in the days when the Savior came and administered in this world among men, Peter declared to him when he was asked, "Whom say ye that I am?" "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." 

That was his testimony. He knew that he was the Christ, the Son of the living God. The Savior told him: "Flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." But some people tell us that Jesus never claimed that he was the Son of God, that he never said it, and yet he declares here that Peter had received this knowledge from the revelation of God the Father to him. And again when Lazarus, the brother of Martha and Mary died, Jesus was away, but he came up and he was met by Martha who came out to meet him and said: "Lord, if thou hadst been here, he had not died." And the Savior replied: "He shall live again." Martha said: "Yea, Lord, we know in that last day in the resurrection from the dead." And the Savior made this notable remark: "I am the resurrection and the life, and he that believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." And then he declared: "He that believeth on me shall never die. Believest thou this?" said he to Martha, and she replied, bearing her splendid testimony: "Yea, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Joseph Smith received a revelation contained in Section 88 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and after setting forth the fact that the spirit and the body constitute the soul of man, this revelation reads: "And the resurrection of the body is the redemption of the soul." Then the next paragraph explains how the redemption of the soul is brought about, who brings it to pass. "And," declares the Lord to Joseph Smith, in entirely different words, but telling the same story: "And the redemption of the soul," or the resurrection of the body, "is through him who quickeneth all things." He quickeneth the grass and makes it grow. He causes the buds to swell and burst with new life, and causes the animal creation to live upon the earth. He gives unto us the breath of life. He quickeneth all things, the Savior of the world. Hence he is called the Redeemer of mankind. So here we find Moses, the Savior of the world, Peter, Martha, and Joseph Smith the prophet, giving utterance to the same thing, truly in different language, under different circumstances, but all bearing record to the self same truth that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world, the very Son of God. That is the testimony of the Latter-day Saints, and I bear witness to the testimony that now burns in my heart that this is the truth, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Wm. H. Richards, president of the Malad stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


