14
Afternoon
07 10 1938
President Heber J. Grant 
10
52-53

None

None

I would like again to call your attention to automobile accidents. Be careful, please. Do not try to go unless you have the right to go according to the signals. I hope that this building will be crowded tonight at the performance of Elijah. It is one of the finest things that has ever been here. If it were given in New York, you would have to pay about $5 to see and hear it, and you would not complain, either. 

I have heard some people complain that we ought to have a twenty-five cent price. It is mighty hard to give a $5 entertainment for twenty-five cents. 

If this were a picture show, you could stand it two hours and a half, but being a religious service, I suppose you are tired. 

THE MISSIONARY SYSTEM AS AN EDUCATOR 

But I want to say a word or two in confirmation of what Brother Bryant S. Hinckley has said. A man who had been around the world a number of times, to whom I referred in my remarks here once, his neighbor's boy was called on a mission to Germany. This man was living at the time in Soda Springs, Idaho. He laughed and laughed at the idea of that "clod-hopper" as he called him, being called on a mission to preach and to learn another language. "Why, it is a joke," he thought. 

After the boy had been away a year and a half, a letter came from the boy saying: "I have found some of your relatives living here in Berlin. I did not tell them that I used to work for you. Kindly send me a letter of introduction." This man told me that when he received the letter, he laughed and said to his wife: "My dear, that young man won't know how to behave himself in polite society. I am not going to humiliate him by giving him a letter of introduction." But he said: "After I had slept on it, I thought it was none of my aflair if he wanted to be humiliated. So I sent him the letter." 

"Some time later I received a letter from my relatives saying, 'Your young Mormon friend called on us. He is a very intelligent young man, and we have thoroughly enjoyed our visit with him.' Another year and a half rolled round, and I heard that he had returned home and was going to preach in the ward. I thought it would be a joke for that boy to preach a sermon, so I went to hear him, and I heard one of the cleanest-cut, finest arguments in favor of your Church and its doctrines that I had ever heard. Why, Mr. Grant, your missionary system through which you call young men to perform missions is the greatest educator and the greatest developer of young men of any system. It is superior to any university, or college, or seminary."

The Lord bless you. Amen.
