11
Afternoon
07 10 1938
Elder Frank Evans 
229
44-47

None

None

I am much pleased to be here again after another very busy six months period — and it has been indeed a busy period. I know that every mission president can testify to that, so far as his work is concerned. So could all others who are engaged in promulgating this Gospel, for there is such need in this day for what the Church has to offer that those who are carrying the responsibility of this message find plenty to do. However, an observation of George Klingle reminds us that, 

God broke our years to hours and days, 
That hour by hour and day by day, 
Just going on a little way, 
We might be able all along to keep quite strong. 
Should all the weight of life 
Be laid across our shoulders, and the future rife 
With woe and struggle, meet us face to face 
At just one place, 
We could not go; 
Our feet would stop; and so God lays a little on us every day, 
And never, I believe, on all the way 
Will burdens bear so deep 
Or pathways lie so threatening and so steep 
But we can go, if by God's power 
We only bear the burden of the hour. 

We have had in our mission some very interesting experiences of late, some of which I would wish might be known by the strong and valiant men who have gone before us. We are endeavoring to teach the same things they taught even a century ago, (for our mission is more than a hundred years old) but their teachings are being differently received today. Truths that our predecessors offered were rejected and ridiculed, and for their offerings they were persecuted. The same truths are today being received with favor. That is not to say that more converts are being made, for not all are interested as yet in the spiritual phase of our message, but they are interested in us and in the fruits of our doctrines. Principles do not change. We shall continue to teach these century-old doctrines. Our health standards are the same as those given to the world when the Word of Wisdom first came forth. The Book of Mormon has not changed. In the early days it was accepted on faith. Today it is read and praised even by those not of the Faith. Often times this praise comes from the distinguished and the learned. A short time ago a man who is well known throughout this nation and abroad, speaking not from our standpoint but addressing himself to the subject, "Books of the 19th Century," said in part that, 

Of all the religious books of the nineteenth century it seems probable that the Book of Mormon was the most powerful. 

The Doctrine and Covenants is the same as of old. Our interpretations of the Bible, I imagine, are the same as those learned and taught by our grandfathers in the School of the Prophets. We are taught the same principles of thrift as of old, that thrift is not mercenary, that although it has to do with material things, it has a moral and even a spiritual aspect. 

We have always been taught this doctrine which involves prudent giving and judicious spending as well as intelligent saving. It is the wise application of resources, whether they be energy or talents, or material means; it is the antithesis of waste. We have always been taught that it is evil to commit waste. 

Our social standards are very much the same as when the Articles of Faith were first published to the world, and we are practicing those principles which are expressed in that remarkable Thirteenth Article of Faith. Only a short time ago a man whose opinion carries much weight in his own community (in the city of New York) said to me: "I have been contacting your Elders for many, many years," and he turned to his card index and pointed out the names of many whom he had seen and talked with, particularly upon business matters, and said: "In all those interviews I have not heard one word, nor have I seen a single act that was not in accordance with the highest standards of ethics and good morals." And what interested me more was his statement that "There is something behind it all." 

"Yes," I said, "there is something behind it. Men do not gather grapes of thorns nor figs of thistles. A good tree bringeth forth good fruit, it cannot bring forth evil fruit. An institution which has made history may be approached by the investigator to determine upon its validity from two sources, first, by an examination of its fundamental principles. That is the approach that our fathers had to make. It is the spiritual approach, if you please. It is the approach which requires faith. We may all be thankful that they made that approach. If they had not, there would have been no Church history. The other approach is to examine into its achievements, to determine what it has done. Many people are doing that today. As to how many of them go farther than that remains to be seen." But this we do know, that the Church is being accepted as never before. We have seen the period of birth, of youth and of maturity. We have seen the period of resistance and persecution. I sometimes wonder if we are not now approaching a period which may sometime be known as a period of expansion. 

We are thankful that some, even though they may be humble, even though they may be unlearned, some still have the faith to appreciate the first principles, to approach this great body of truth from the first viewpoint, that of faith in its divine origin. You know when the disciples said to Thomas, "We have seen the Lord," he wanted a physical demonstration of the fact, he would not believe it, and he said, "Except I shall see in his hands the prints of the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe." He was making his approach from the second standpoint. Later, when the Lord appeared again and said, "Thomas, reach hither thy finger and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side and be not faithless, but believing," Thomas answered, "My Lord and my God." Then Jesus said unto him, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me thou hast believed, blessed are they who have not seen yet have believed." 

My brethren and sisters, I believe we feel the responsibility of the message which we are endeavoring to carry to the world. I appreciate those of your sons and daughters who are in my care for a time. I praise them for their sincerity, for their energy, for their obedience, and I bring this message to you, that they are doing well and that we are making progress. 

I pray that we may be able to uphold the high standard of those valiant men who have gone before us, who never compromised, and who knew no surrender or defeat. This I do, in Jesus' name, Amen.
