5
Morning
07 10 1938
Elder George Albert Smith 
31
25-32

None

None

Six months ago I was deprived of the opportunity of being here with you. I had been called, with President Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of Seventy, to visit the missions in the South Seas and to divide with our brothers and sisters down there, and with those who are not members of the Church, some of the glorious truths that our Heavenly Father has given to us. 

OUR EARLY HYMN BOOKS 

This morning when we were singing the hymn "High On the Mountain Top" I turned to the flyleaf of the hymn book as it was first published and found this introduction: 

The saints in this country have been very desirous for a hymn book adapted to their faith and worship, that they might sing the truth with an understanding heart, and express their praise, joy and gratitude in songs adapted to the New and Everlasting Covenant. 

In accordance with their wishes, we have selected the following volume, which we hope will prove acceptable until a greater variety can be added. 

With sentiments of high consideration and esteem, we subscribe ourselves your brethren in the New and Everlasting Covenant. 

Manchester, England. 1840. Brigham Young, 
Parley P. Pratt, 
John Taylor. 

This was in the first edition of the hymn book. The next page contains the following: 

PREFACE TO THE FOURTEENTH EDITION. 

The demand for the hymn book has been so general that it has been concluded to issue another edition, making the fourteenth which has been published. 

This edition is the first published in Utah Territory, and possesses one distinctive peculiarity — it is not only printed and bound at the Church Printing Office, but the type in which it appears has been manufactured here. This issue differs from the two which precede it in one respect only, there have been fourteen hymns added to the collection; they, however, are placed in the last part of the book, so as not to interfere with the use of the other editions in common with this. 

That this little work may accomplish the object for which it is designed, and prove a source of joy and consolation to the saints, is the earnest prayer of 
Your brother, 
Salt Lake City. 		George Q. Cannon. 
Utah Territory, March 21, 1871. 

A PROPHETIC HYMN 

I now call your attention to the prophetic statement contained in this hymn: 

High on the mountain top 
A banner is unfurled, 
Ye nations now look up, 
It waves to all the world 
In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land — 
On Zion's mount behold it stand! 

For God remembers still 
His promise made of old, 
That he on Zion's hill 
Truth's standard would unfold; 
Her light should there attract the gaze 
Of all the world in latter days. 

His house shall there be reared, 
His glory to display; 
And people shall be heard 
In distant lands to say, 
We'll now go up and serve the Lord, 
Obey his truth, and learn his word; 

For there we shall be taught 
The law that will go forth, 
With truth and wisdom fraught, 
To govern all the earth; 
Forever there his ways we'll tread, 
And save ourselves with all our dead. 

Then hail to Deseret, 
A refuge for the good, 
And safety for the great 
If they but understood 
That God with plagues will shake the world 
'Till all its thrones shall down be hurled. 

In Deseret doth truth 
Rear up its royal head; 
Though nations may oppose, 
Still wider it shall spread; 
Yes, truth and justice, love and grace, 
In Deseret find ample place. 

How interesting that a hymn published in so early a day should be sung by us today with a realization of the fulfilment of the promises contained therein! 

MISSIONARY WORK IN THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS 

In the South Seas we have had missionaries of this Church for many years. The first were sent by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Elders Noah Rogers and Benjamin Grouard went to the Tahitian Islands. Hundreds of missionaries have followed and preached in the other South Pacific Island groups since that time. They have continued to proclaim the Gospel of Jesus Christ until today more than thirty thousand members of the Church are found among the natives of the South Seas, in addition to those who are of European extraction. 

The Gospel has been taught to those people down there and the Book of Mormon has been published in most of the languages of the Polynesian race. It has not yet been translated into Tongan, yet in Tonga there are approximately thirty thousand of the finest people to be found in the world, members of the Polynesian race. 

I have heard the hymns of Zion sung in Hawaii, in Tonga, in New Zealand, in Australia, in Tasmania, and in both British and American Samoa. They were sung with the same spirit that they have been sung here, and it was most satisfying to know that this wonderful Tabernacle Choir and the great organ, by means of radio, contribute to the joy of worship down there. Thousands of people living south of the equator who do not belong to the Church listen in and enjoy the programs that go out from this tabernacle. The first choir of Singing Mothers that sang here was heard over the radio down there. The idea was adopted and we now have choirs of Singing Mothers among the natives of the South Seas. 

Not only does the spoken word touch the hearts of the children of men, but our Heavenly Father, knowing the importance of appropriate singing in worship, called Emma Smith and appointed her to select the hymns that were published in the first hymn book of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have been added to from time to time, until today the songs of Zion are sung in many lands, and the words of the Gospel of Jesus Christ have been interpreted in many lands, not only by the spoken word, but by the hymns that are sung from the hearts of those who accept the Gospel of our Lord. 

We do not amount to very much in point of numbers when compared with the multitude of our Father's children but we are intended to be the leaven in the religious world. As I looked into the faces of those good people in the South Seas I was moved in my soul to thank the Lord that his servants were sent down there, not only to teach them the Gospel by preaching it, but that this Church was wise enough to establish schools to train its youth, for out of those schools have come some of the best trained and most efficient men and women that are to be found in the islands where the Polynesian people live. 

AMONG THE MAORIS 

I wish I could satisfactorily describe some of the fine groups that we met down there. One was the Maori race. Brother Hardy went for the fourth time to visit them but they were deprived of a part of the joy that they had anticipated because he became ill just prior to the great Hui Tau, where more than three thousand members of the Church assembled at the lovely Pa of the Princess Te Puea Herangi, situated on the shore of the beautiful Waikato river, that flows through her property. We held a conference lasting three days there and everybody had a delightful experience and a real uplift. 

Brother Hardy was only able to attend part of the last meeting of that great celebration. If you could have seen the people weeping when he came into the meeting and when he talked to them and bore his testimony, you would have realized how fortunate one is who goes from this part of the world to minister among that humble happy people who have in their veins the blood of Israel, and you would better appreciate how their hearts are moved with affection for those who have served them as Brother Hardy and many of our brothers and sisters have. They are delighted to have Matthew Cowley back again after seventeen years. 

PREACHING THE GOSPEL IN AUSTRALIA 

Australia was tremendously large and interesting. It is a great field for missionary activity and we could use every Elder that we have in all the mission fields on the earth in that island continent. A wonderful race of Anglo-Saxon people dwells there. Ninety-two per cent of all the people are of British extraction, the race that has sent to us not only from England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales some of the most capable men and women that the Church has enlisted in its ranks, but from Australia have come to us those who have performed splendid service for mankind. The man who created this wonderful tabernacle organ came from Australia. He was an organ builder and knew the inspirational value of organ music. In the city of Sydney, Australia, there still stands the old organ after which I think this organ here may have been patterned. 

We received a warm welcome from the Lord Mayor, recently elected, when we visited the town hall in Sydney. He knew about our organ and choir. They listen in when there is a great broadcast. Not all the broadcasts reach them, I am sorry to say. There are seasons of the year when they cannot hear, but at other times they enjoy listening to the great choir and organ and the announcements that are made by Brother Richard L. Evans and others. Those people are becoming friendly to the membership of this Church because of the singing of our brothers and sisters and the glorious sacred music that goes out from here. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is not only taught by the written word and by the spoken word, but I say to you and I say to the Tabernacle Choir, that we all so much admire, that their part is one of the most important in allaying prejudice and disseminating the Gospel of Jesus Christ and giving people a desire to hear what a church has to say that sings as these our brethren and sisters sing. 

ILLNESS OF BROTHER HARDY 

Our missionary work is wonderful. We found your sons and your daughters in the various islands of the South Seas and we are proud of them, as you must be. Brother Hardy was unable to go to Tonga to do any missionary work. He was seriously ill. He held on just as long as he could in New Zealand but finally had to go to the hospital. The Lord was good to him and he gained sufficient strength to continue working and return home. After we had visited Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, spending two months there, I went to Tonga for a month accompanied by a native — Elder Alex Wishart. Brother Hardy later joined us at Nukualofa, Tonga, and we together spent a month in Samoa. 

I regret that our beloved Brother Hardy is not able to be with us today due to an illness that overtook him some three weeks ago, but we have promise that in a few days he will be out again. I hope that his strength will be renewed unto him, because there are thousands of people in the world who love him and who love his wife for their devotion to the Maori race and to mankind generally. 

FRIENDLINESS MANIFESTED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

It may be of interest for you to know that down in those South Seas the government officials in many places speak of the work of this Church with commendation. In Australia complimentary reference was made to our Church by two men who hold the positions of Lord Mayors. They were friendly; they had been here in Salt Lake City and had seen what had been accomplished. 

At Wellington Brother Hardy and I went to see the men who have charge of the Government program for the Maori race in New Zealand. The Judge and a Commissioner of the native court told us "We believe you have accomplished with the Maoris what the other people have not. We want to try out a new program for the betterment of the Maori race. We would like to cooperate with one of your groups at Korongata in testing our plan. We would rather experiment with them because we believe that they can succeed and if we can do it with your people there, then we are willing to try some of the others." 

Korongata — near Hastings — was where our Agricultural College was located that was wrecked by the earthquake many years ago that destroyed the cities of Napier and Hastings. The school had to be abandoned because the building was so damaged that it was not usable. But the effect of the school on that little community had been such that they were selected from among all the Maori groups in New Zealand as outstanding to try out the program of improving their opportunities for education and by developing their farms, etc. 

When the Government officials learned that we were planning to replace our old chapel with a new one they said: "If you want to build a chapel among those people and will work with us, we will furnish you the men to build the chapel if you will supply the material." Not members of the Church these men saw the benefits that came into the lives of our people because they kept the commandments of the Lord. They said: "Your people do not drink; they do not smoke; they are not careless morally as are some of the other natives of this country." I hope you will remember that, my brethren and sisters — "Your people do not smoke; your people do not drink" — and I want to say to you that real Latter-day Saints neither smoke nor drink nor profane. We may make a pretense of worthiness but we are not Latter-day Saints when we violate the commandments of our Heavenly Father in that particular. He said that the Word of Wisdom is "adapted to the weak and the weakest of all saints who are or can be called Saints." So He Himself has indicated that we should not be called Latter-day Saints unless we observe that law. 

We found the people down there clothed in their native costumes, the "Lava Lava" in the Samoan Islands, and the "Vala" in the Tongan Islands. 

NATIVE CLOTHING 

Both men and women were simply but modestly attired at our conference at Pesega, Apia, Samoa, where we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the arrival of our missionaries on those islands. There was an audience of over twelve hundred native members of the Church, not one of them dressed in European cloth but attired in native material. Two hundred of the sisters of the Relief Society wore cream colored dresses of tapa cloth that they themselves had made from the bark of trees. First they stripped the bark and reduced it to pulp, using a large log for a table. Then they pounded the pulp with a club, something like a rolling pin until they flattened it out like paper and made it of such a texture that they could fashion clothing from it. Those women were really dressed in garments of their own make and design. Each wore a purple and white Ula around their necks, this decoration also made by themselves. The dresses were generally one piece, nicely fitted like an American dressmaker might have made them. Most of the people had fine physiques and were modest and dignified in bearing — hair and eyes black, skin brown, teeth pearly white, all bareheaded and barefooted. They came in a group to greet us along with two thousand other people when we landed in Apia. It was an impressive welcome. They are a credit to the Relief Society of this Church. They are faithful and devoted to their society and are seeking to keep the commandments of the Lord. If our Relief Society sisters at home are as faithful as those native women I know that the Lord is pleased with them. 

MEN OF WISDOM AND ABILITY 

It was a joy to find among that dark-skinned people men and women who bore their testimony with power and with wisdom. One of the finest interpreters I have ever seen in my life was Fitsemann Malietoa, a Samoan Elder, who weighed three hundred and fifty-four pounds, was four feet eleven inches tall in his bare feet. He stood beside us and interpreted the messages of Brother Hardy and myself and others who spoke in English with a power and a dignity that was inspiring and made me feel more than grateful that such people identify themselves with the Church. Our interpreter is also the interpreter for the Governor of the Nation in the native court. 

Governor and Mrs. A. C. Turnbull attended the first conference meeting of the celebration where more than a thousand people sat on the floor on mats with their limbs curled up under them for two hours, yet at the end of that time they did not indicate that they were weary. First one group and then another from the various branches of the Church sang hymns, and the harmony and volume delighted everybody. The Governor said: "This is wonderful. Where do these people all come from?" I think he had never seen anything like it, yet he had been Governor there for many years. 

FOR THE BLESSING OF MANKIND 

The work of the Lord goes forward in the South Pacific. The Polynesian people are all the children of our Heavenly Father. It is your privilege and mine to divide with them the Gospel of our Lord, and to carry the message of life and salvation to them not only for their benefit but to earn our own exaltation. 

We will attain our exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom only on the condition that we divide with our Father's other children the blessings of the Gospel of our Lord and observe the commandments that will enrich our lives here and hereafter. 

I am grateful to be back with you again. I have never been more kindly treated or more courteously received as a servant of the Lord in any part of the wide world than I was down there in the South Seas among those fine descendants of Father Lehi. 

I pray that we will be loyal to the President of this Church and his associates and to our Heavenly Father. It is just such a group as this that will leaven the lump, and radiate such an influence among the children of men that they will be compelled to listen. With our sweet singers and our eloquent preachers and with our desire to bless mankind the time is not far distant when people everywhere will join in singing praises to the man who communed with Jehovah, — he who gave to us the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by direction of our Heavenly Father, in this latter day. 

I bear you my testimony that I know this is God's work; I know that Jesus is the Christ; I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the Lord; I know that the authority of the Priesthood is with this Church and knowing it I bear witness of it unto you in humility and in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen.
