13
Afternoon
07 10 1938
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley
154
51-52

None

None 

Through the kindness of our great-hearted and benevolent President, many of the mission presidents are permitted to come to General Conference, to bring their problems here, to discuss ways and means of promoting the missionary work, and of course to be inspired to a renewed dedication to the great task which is theirs. 

You will pardon me if I make some reference to missionary work. Before I left for a mission I talked with a man in this city of reputed wisdom, who argued that if the Church continued to maintain its missionary system it would become impoverished, broken down, and driven into bondage. The answer I made to him then was in broad terms something like this: If this Church or any other organization can, by some process, translate money into character and manhood and build faith in the hearts of people, and establish in their minds the great ideals that go with a settled faith in God, they have done something that will perpetuate them in the earth. 

I asked a man today how many years he and his family had given to the missionary work — and he is not an old man. He said: "Forty years, and members of my family have labored in sixteen different missions." If the men who are before me were to compute the years they have given to missionary service, and the money it has cost them, it would in the aggregate amount to something colossal. I am safe in saying that no other people of like number have ever made a contribution of this kind to the world. I do not believe the people who have done it are distinguished for their poverty. I do not believe the men and the women who have contributed to the great missionary cause walk as inferiors among their neighbors. 

It may seem as if the cost per baptized convert is great, and it is. But the missionary service has contributed to the Church much more than numerical strength. It has added numbers. There are people sitting in front of me who owe a debt of undying gratitude to some humble missionary who visited their homes or the homes of their parents, perhaps in a far-off land, and brought the Gospel to them. 

I should like for a moment to refer to one other phase of this work: What does it mean to the missionary? Much in many ways. He very soon discovers that it is impossible for him to answer the demands of his mission unaided and unsupported by the Almighty, and in great sincerity and deep humility he seeks Him, and he finds Him. When the fire of the Holy Ghost blazes on the altar of a boy's heart it shines in his eyes, rings in his voice, purifies his life, refines and elevates his thoughts. A great transformation takes place in his soul. Under these circumstances he learns that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, just as Peter learned it, and he comes to know it with the same certainty that Peter knew it. 

Fundamentally, this is the chief contribution which missionary work makes. It plants in the missionary's soul an implicit faith in the living God, which is the great principle upon which this Church is built, and the source of its enduring achievements. This faith in God is the foundation upon which the peace and perpetuity of society rests, and missionary work makes this contribution as nothing else in this Church makes it. 

This is my testimony, and I bear it to you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
