10
Afternoon
07 10 1938
Elder Carl F. Eyring 
231
43-44

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters: Once more I am back to General Conference as a mission president. Once more I feel the grandeur of your presence. Our congregations in the mission field are small, and to come here where crowds throng into this spacious building makes me feel that I have truly come from the outer fringe to the very center of Mormonism. 

More than you may realize, we of the missions look to you for our standards and patterns. As we come home we find you zealous for the cause of righteousness. We find you struggling with your might against forces which debase the young and old. We find the various organizations within the Church alert to their duties and responsibilities. We rejoice that your religious life is so dynamic and real. 

But we are interested in the stakes of Zion not only because we belong to the same great organization, but because these stakes are the nurseries in which our missionaries are reared. You furnish us missionaries who have been reared in true Latter-day Saint homes, who have been active in all the classes in the Sunday School from the cradle roll to the missionary training department, who have moved steadily through the Primary and Mutual organizations from the beginners in Primary to the M Men and Gleaner Girls in the Mutual Improvement Associations; who, through their mothers, have had a real contact with the Relief Societies; who have faithfully attended sacrament meetings; who have studied in Seminaries, Institutes and Church schools; who have had teaching experiences in Sunday Schools, Primaries, and Mutual Improvement Associations, and finally you send us missionaries who have a love of humanity in their hearts, and a real desire to give of their talents in service. When you do this, you send trained missionaries, missionaries with the type of training most needed in the mission field. To your training we add the laboratory for missionary service and additional help in the Mission Home and the mission field. But we cannot do our best without the years of background which you furnish — you the parents, you the ward and stake officers. 

As parents and officers in the Church do we fully sense the power of our system of religious education, the unique religious environment in which our children may grow up? Many students, the world over, recognize the uniqueness and strength of this phase of our Church. Let us truly appreciate the value of our ward and stake units as instruments for religious training. 

The restored Gospel is more than a set of theological doctrines, printed with patches of lifeless printer's ink in some gilt-edged book. The Gospel becomes enlivened only when its principles operate in human living, and then not completely animated till these principles operate in the life of a community. Too often we forget the community aspect of religion, and overlook the difficulty of putting dynamics into the restored Gospel without the Mormon community life. Mission presidents soon sense the difference between wards in the stakes and tiny branches in the missions. The difference is not one of doctrine, nor lack of faithfulness in the living of the principles of the Gospel, but the Mormon community life is absent, the religious education program of a completely organized stake is missing. 

In the early days of the Church we gathered the converts to Zion, and here we built the world-famous Mormon community. With forty per cent of the membership of the New England Mission scattered as isolated families, we sense the need of a Church-wide gathering suitable for this day, a sort of nucleation which centers throughout the world. 

In Section 29 of the Doctrine and Covenants we read: "And ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect; for mine elect hear my voice and harden not their hearts; wherefore the decree has gone forth from the Father and they shall be gathered into one place on the face of this land, to prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked." 

I am pleased to report that your sons and daughters, the missionaries of the New England Mission, are safe and well. With very few exceptions the members of our Church passed through the hurricane and floods of New England without loss. For all this we are indeed grateful to our Father in Heaven, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
