3
Morning
07 10 1938
President Joseph Anderson 
158
19-21

None

None

REPORT OF CHANGES DURING PAST SIX MONTHS 

Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, read the following report of Changes in Church Officers, Stake, Ward and Branch Organizations since last April Conference: 

New Mission Presidents: 

Joseph E. Evans appointed to preside over the French Mission to succeed President Octave F. Ursenbach. 
David A. Smith appointed to preside over the Canadian Mission to succeed President Abel S. Rich. 
John Alden Bowers appointed to preside over the Brazilian Mission to succeed President Rulon S. Howells. 
Frederick S. Williams appointed to preside over the Argentine Mission to succeed President W. Ernest Young. 
A. Lorenzo Anderson appointed to preside over the Mexican Mission to succeed President Harold W. Pratt. 
Apostle Richard R. Lyman released as president of the European Mission. 

Missionary Home Director Changed: 

J. Wyley Sessions released and Don B. Colton appointed. 

Members Appointed to General Committee — Church Welfare Plan: 

Antoine R. Ivins and John H. Taylor appointed advisers representing the First Council of the Seventy. 
Louise Y. Robison, appointed adviser representing the Relief Society General Board. 
Sterling H. Nelson. 
Clyde C. Edmonds. 

New Stakes Organized: 

Moon Lake Stake was created by a division of Duchesne Stake on April 24th. The new stake consists of Altonah, Bluebell, Boneta, Mt. Emmons, Mt. Home, Talmage and Upalco wards. Arcadia, Bridgeland, Duchesne, Redcliff, Strawberry, Tabiona wards and Utahn branch retained in Duchesne Stake. 
Portland Stake was organized on June 26th from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. The new stake consists of Colonial Heights, Eugene, Irvington, Moreland, Mount Tabor and Salem Wards and Hood River, Kelso and St. Helens Independent Branches. 
Seattle Stake was organized on July 31st from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. The new stake consists of Bellingham, Bremerton, Lincoln, Queen Anne, Tacoma Central, University, Vancouver, and West Seattle Wards and Chehalis, Everett, Grays Harbor, Olympia, Raymond and Renton independent branches. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed: 

Heber Moon appointed president of the Duchesne Stake to succeed Owen Bennion. 
Edwin L. Murphy appointed president of the newly organized Moon Lake Stake. 
Marion G. Romney appointed president of the Bonneville Stake to succeed Joseph L. Wirthlin. 
H. Roland Tietjen appointed president of the South Sevier Stake to succeed James R. Ware. 
Monte Lafayette Bean appointed president of the newly organized Portland Stake. 
Alexander Brown appointed president of the newly organized Seattle Stake. 
Arthur C. Brown appointed president of the Millard Stake to succeed T. Clark Callister. 

New Wards Organized: 

Price Second Ward, Carbon Stake, created by a division of Price Ward, making it Price First Ward. 
Bryan Ward, Highland Stake, created by a division of Emerson and Sugarhouse Wards. 
Colonial Heights Ward, Eugene Ward, Irvington Ward, Moreland Ward, Mount Tabor Ward, and Salem Ward, Portland Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 
Twelfth Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the former 12-13th Ward and part of the 11th Ward. 
Thirteenth Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the former 12-13th Ward. 
Bellingham Ward, Bremerton Ward, Lincoln Ward, Queen Anne Ward, Tacoma Central Ward, University Ward, Vancouver Ward, and West Seattle Ward, Seattle Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 
Claremont Ward, Oakland Stake, created by a division of the Berkeley and Oakland Wards of that stake. 

New Independent Branches Organized: 

Hood River Branch, Kelso Branch, and St. Helens Branch, Portland Stake, were formerly branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 
Edmonton Branch, Lethbridge Stake, formerly dependent on Calgary Ward. 
Spanish-American Branch, Maricopa Stake, formerly Mesa Branch of Spanish-American Mission. 
Modesto Branch, Sacramento Stake, formerly a branch in the California Mission. 
Chehalis Branch, Everett Branch, Gray's Harbor Branch, Olympia Branch, Raymond Branch, and Renton Branch, Seattle Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 
Pioneer Branch, Pioneer Stake, created from a division of Granger Ward, Oquirrh Stake and Cannon Ward, Pioneer Stake. 
Pendleton Branch and Walla Walla Branch, Union Stake, were formerly branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Branch Name Changed: 

Kilgore Branch, Yellowstone Stake, was formerly known as the Idmon Branch. 

Wards Disorganized: 

San Fernando Ward, Pasadena Stake, disorganized and annexed to Burbank and North Hollywood Wards of that stake. 

Branch Disorganized: 

Gordon Creek Branch, Carbon Stake, discontinued, members moved to other wards of church. 

Those Who Have Passed Away: 

Jonathan Golden Kimball, Senior President of the First Council of the Seventy. 
Harrison R. Merrill, member of the general board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, member of board of directors of The Deseret News, Professor at the Brigham Young University and former managing editor of the Improvement Era. 
M. Charles Wood, former president of the New Zealand Mission. 
Isaac Dana, bishop of Mesa First Ward, Maricopa Stake. 
