20
Morning
08 10 1938
Elder Elias S. Woodruff
99
72-74

None

None

I labor with my associates in a land made holy by the sufferings and the labors of our people in the early history of the Church. We have a great many visitors come, particularly in the summer season, wanting to see the points of interest through which our people passed, and where they lived. 

We try, as far as we possibly can, to give them proper direction and correct information, I have observed that after they have been to these points of interest in the State of Missouri, if they do return they invariably come back definitely impressed with the sacredness of these spots of ground. There comes into their hearts a great reverence for the deeds of their fathers, and I sometimes wish that every member of the Church could have the privilege of going to Liberty, and Richmond, Far West, Adam-ondi-Ahman, and Haun's Mill, on their way east or west, as they come through the Central States Mission, for the impression that it gives them, for the increase in their faith and their reverence for the work that has been performed in this Church by its founders and leaders. 

One cannot stand upon the hill overlooking the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman without being very deeply impressed with the sacredness of the place. When we go there we take Brother Joseph Fielding Smith's book, The Way To Perfection and read the fortieth chapter, which tells how that before he died our father Adam came with his generation of descendants, all the righteous, and blessed them, and where he will eventually return when the time comes for him to present to the Savior his children, and to turn over the kingdom to the Lord. 

At the present time the hill upon which the old monument stands — apparently an old Nephite look-out station — is covered with large weeds, and is very difficult of ascent. Nevertheless, it is quite worth the climb up the hill to see it. I have sometimes wondered whether or not I should urge that we attempt to acquire some piece of ground there that would include the hill and part of the valley, and make it easier and more acceptable for people to look upon that valley and to attain that eminence on the hillside. 

Those spots in Missouri are very very sacred, and it is a pleasure to go there. I think our people who read the history of the Church, if I judge them by myself, do not adequately understand just what occurred or how it happened. It is a new revelation to again read the history of the Church in Missouri after you have visited those points of interest. I believe that the time will come in Missouri, as it is now fast coming in the State of Illinois, when the people of the State will become more cognizant of the tourist value of these points of interest. 

I am happy to note that in Illinois two of our cities — that is, Nauvoo and Carthage — have become two of five points of interest to which tourists are directed who wish to see the interesting and historic parts of the State of Illinois. That feeling is growing in the State of Missouri. A number of men in Independence have stated to me at times that when it is convenient they would like to go with me and see those places. It will be a pleasure for me, of course, to take them. 

I can report to you that the work of the mission is going along, and we feel very much encouraged, because the Lord does bless us and his power is manifest as we proceed with our labors. The missionaries respond to the influence of the Holy Spirit; they try to teach the Gospel under his influence; they are prayerful and humble, and we feel that the Lord does direct our efforts, does guide us to the homes of the honest in heart, does give us utterance when we try to speak, does magnify us in the hearts and minds of people, and gives us influence as his servants, to teach them and to persuade them in the ways of righteousness and faith. 

I am grateful for the opportunity of reporting this mission to you. I am deeply grateful for the opportunity of laboring in the mission field. I trust that I may be ever found worthy, as long as it is the will of his servants that I shall remain there, to discharge my duties acceptably. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters, that you may have reverence and respect for the traditions of the past, as well as continuing to look forward, as Bishop Marvin O. Ashton has so delightfully pointed out to you, and not live in the past, but look to the future. But the past is glorious and sacred to us. It inspires us, and has something to do with an increase of our faith. 

May God add his blessings to you, and magnify this conference to our good, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
