27
Afternoon
08 10 1938
Elder Abel S. Rich 
208
87-89

None

None

I am indeed happy to have this privilege of speaking just a word to you at the conclusion of the mission from which we have returned so recently. The past three years have been one of the happiest periods of our lives, speaking of myself and family. I am convinced that the missionary system of the Church is one of the finest institutions in our Church for building the testimonies of our young people, and keeping burning alive that testimony in the homes from which those missionaries come. 

When I think of the many young men and women who came to the Canadian Mission and served while we were there, and saw their devotion to the work, the progress they made, the struggle many of them had to make to adjust to the new surroundings, and yet their willingness to go and do whatever was asked of them, and then to see the development made, the acceptance of responsibility, and the love that grew in their hearts for the cause they represented, and for the people among whom they labored, I say I am more convinced than I have ever been in my life, before, that this institution is of God. 

I enjoyed Canada and the Canadian people, a cultured, refined people. Bringing with them traditions from the Old World, they have been pretty well set in their ways. It is not infrequent that we would hear people who became interested in the Church say: "My folks have belonged to this or that religion for generations and generations, and I feel that I should remain where my ancestors were." With those well set ideas it has been most difficult to get the Gospel clearly before them. Those who have been converted in the Canadian Mission are honest, true, devoted. 

It is one of the oldest mission fields in the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith himself went through part of eastern Canada, and when he departed from that mission I recall that he had a prayer in his heart that God would bless those people, that all may have their minds enlightened and their understandings quickened, that they may be led to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Followed by the Prophet were Brigham Young and his brother, Joseph Young. Then later Parley P. Pratt and many others of the stalwart leaders of the Church went into that field, and they found many people receptive to the Gospel. It was in Toronto where a whole group joined the Church, and many of them came to Utah with the Saints. As nearly as I can discover, a large group joined the Church in Halifax and emigrated while the first companies of Saints were on the way to the West. Yet left behind in that country are scattered Saints here and there, with many pretty well organized branches of the Church, that are carrying on the work and finding joy and happiness in it. 

I enjoyed very much going through the mission with President David A. Smith, who has been recently appointed to preside over that mission. I was happy when he came, because of his understanding, and because the people loved him, and he loved them and loved that work, for I love those people, and I am sure that the work will grow and progress in that part of the vineyard. 

I am very grateful that during the past three years we have been privileged to build the first meeting house in the Canadian Mission. Many of those Saints who have been in the Church for thirty years, or more, have never been inside of a Latter-day Saint meeting house, and when we were told that we might build a meeting house, with a recreational hall and class rooms, I cannot explain to you people the joy and happiness that came to those people over the prospects. I understand that it is just about completed now, and it will be the first time that those people will have the privilege of meeting in class-rooms, where they are not disturbed, and meeting in a meeting house where clubs and other kinds of meetings are not being held; and I am sure that it will turn many peoples' attention to the Church. 

During the past summer we had the privilege of receiving a number of short-term missionaries, some of our school teachers, and they formed a wonderful addition to that mission. As they went about their work so earnestly and efficiently I could not help but think what a wonderful vacation it would be for many of our people, to go into the mission field for a short-term mission. If we had doctors and lawyers, business men, and school teachers, each would be able, possibly, to meet people in the profession to which he belonged, meet them on ground that he would be able to explain the Gospel to them. For it is not sufficient only to have the truth, but we must have the ability to explain that truth, and we must in some way have the ability to remove the prejudice from the peoples' minds, in order to get them to see the truth as we have it for them. 

I believe that each man may meet those people of his own profession, in such a manner that the Gospel will be preached more efficiently than could be done by some one of another profession. It seems to me that some day it may be the case, that this work will become so prominent and so popular that all our people will desire to go and spread the Gospel to the world. 

We do have a wonderful thing, brothers and sisters, in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. When we have grown up in it, and have had all these fine conveniences, these beautiful buildings, with the Authorities of the Church here to counsel with us, we sometimes fail to appreciate just what all these blessings are. If you go into the world and see people — just a little handful of them, not enough to make the great program of the Church active as we have it here at home — and see the faithfulness and the devotion and the love of those people, I believe it creates within our hearts a greater love for the work and a greater appreciation of it. 

I shall be grateful all my life to my brethren who saw fit to let me fill this mission in the world. I am deeply grateful also for the companionship and for the support of the Authorities of the Church, of the missionaries, and of you parents, and for your fine attitude in this great missionary work. 

I sincerely pray that our Father in heaven will bless this great Church, that we may stand unitedly together, working for the upbuilding of it, and that we may receive the blessings that the Lord has promised to us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
