15
Morning
08 10 1938 
Elder George F. Richards 
28
54-57

None

None

I am sure it is pleasing to the Lord, as it is to his servants, the Presiding Authorities of the Church, that so many of the Latter-day Saints and their friends have come from far and near, and assembled in a General Conference of his Church, to be fed upon the bread of life, to be renewed in their faith and determination to serve the Lord. 

As an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and a special witness for him in the earth, I conscientiously, humbly, and sincerely testify that I do know that this work in which we are engaged as Latter-day Saints is the work of God. I would like, if I could, to bear this witness to all the world. 

FRUITS ARE EVIDENCE OF THE WORK OF THE LORD 

The Savior said on one occasion, "Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits." 

The fruits of the Prophet Joseph Smith, of those who associated with him in the early days of this Church, and of those who have succeeded to the Presidency of the Church, from the days of the Prophet Joseph to the present time, are evidences that should be convincing and conclusive that this work is the work of the Lord, that those who are at its head are divinely inspired, for no mortal man, or men, could have accomplished what is being accomplished and has been accomplished in this Church up to the present time. 

TESTIMONY AS TO DIVINITY OF LATTER-DAY WORK 

I do know that the story told by Joseph Smith, that the Father and the Son appeared to him, is a true statement; that the world's greatest need was supplied by that visitation, for the people of this world are in gross spiritual darkness pertaining to the existence, the personality, and the power of God, the Eternal Father, and the relationship which we sustain to him. 

I do know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, the Son of God. I think I know it as clearly and as fully as did Peter of old; and that a belief in him and the efficacy of his atoning blood is necessary to a man's salvation; that in this work in which we are engaged there are all the principles, ordinances, power and authority, in connection with the atonement of our Lord and Savior, to effect the eternal salvation and exaltation of mankind, by being obedient unto the principles and ordinances of the Gospel. And I know that this cannot be truthfully said of any other organization in this world, for this is God's plan, instituted in the council of heaven before the world was. 

LEADERS OF CHURCH HAVE CARRIED ON THE WORK 

The organizations of this Church, as we find them today, were not in existence in the days of the Prophet Joseph. True, he established the Church, and the Lord through him made provision for its growth and development. But it remained for Presidents Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, and Heber J. Grant, as the Lord's mouthpieces unto this people, to carry on this work and give direction thereto, with the assistance of those men who associate with them. And the work has grown and developed, as we are the witnesses; and the auxiliary organizations of this Church have won the admiration of men and women who have given proper consideration to these organization and their accomplishments. 

There was but one auxiliary organized in the days of the Prophet Joseph — that of the Relief Society for our sisters. In the days of President Brigham Young the Church school system was inauguarated, the Sunday Schools of the Church, the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church; and under later administration — that of John Taylor — came the Primary organization, in itself a wonderful organization, of wonderful accomplishments, as in all these other organizations. And these are evidences that those who succeeded Joseph Smith as the presidents and leaders of the Church were inspired of God. 

I bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and that those who have succeeded him in the presidency have been and are prophets of God, including our present President. And under his administration other wonderful organizations have been inaugurated — that of the welfare work of this Church, the stake missionary work, added stakes and wards, etc. And the work will continue, of this I am also assured. 

And I want to say to this large congregation and to the world, that to me the witnesses whom God our Father raised up to the Book of Mormon, the Three and the Eight witnesses with Joseph Smith, the Prophet, associated are witnesses of all these truths of which I have been speaking. 

The Gospel has been revealed in its fulness; the Church and kingdom of God established in preparation for the coming of our Lord, the ushering in of the millennial reign of peace upon the earth, when Christ our Lord shall be the King of kings and Lord of lords, and all powers, kings, and dominions will be subject unto him. 

If we as members of this Church will just live up to the precepts the teachings and the standards of this Church, the favor of heaven will be upon us in life, and we will attain to the blessings of eternal life and exaltation, and no mortal man can comprehend the magnitude and the greatness of the blessings in store for us. 

At the beginning of this conference, in the opening prayer offered by President Marion Romney yesterday morning, he told the Lord that we had assembled in General Conference to learn his will concerning us. It is one thing to know the will of the Lord, and another thing to do the will. The Lord has said: 

He that knoweth the will of the Lord and doeth it not shall be beaten with many stripes. 

CHRIST’S PART IN THE REBELLION IN HEAVEN

And we read in the Pearl of Great Price, how that in the controversy in heaven, before the world was, Christ our Lord stood upon the platform of principles. "Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." A war was waged against sin and rebellion, and a third of heaven's host were cast out. 

We have reason to believe that we fought in that battle with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ as our captain, and with Michael and other great characters, and that we kept our first estate through being valiant in that fight. We are here upon the earth with a promise of the Lord that if we will be likewise valiant here and keep this, our second, estate, we shall have added unto us glory and honor forever and ever. The Savior's declaration that whatsoever the Father desired of him, his will should be done, referred not only to the spirit life, but to the life here upon this earth, for when he came here upon many occasions he made the declaration that he had come to earth because he had been sent by the Father, that he came to do the will of the Father, and he did the will of the Father under all circumstances and at all hazards, even to the laying down of his life, and all that He endured in life, in fulfilment of his mission. 

And after his resurrection he appeared to the people on this American continent, and addressing them upon the principles and plan of salvation, he made the declaration that he had come to the earth, having been sent of the Father, to do the will of the Father. 

Proceeding further, he said, "What manner of men ought ye to be?" And answered it for them, "Verily I say unto you, even as I am." This is found in the 27th chapter of Third Nephi, in the Book of Mormon. 

To me that means that not only those Nephites, but all the children of men are here upon the earth because we were sent, and we are here to learn what our Father's will is concerning us, and to do his will under all circumstances and conditions. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM GIVEN AS THE WILL OF GOD 

He has given us the Word of Wisdom as a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom he raised up to be the mighty prophet of this dispensation, and in that revelation he has said that it is his will that we abstain from the use of tobacco, intoxicating and strong drinks, and some of our people have taken the ground that it is no commandment of God, therefore they are not under the obligation to observe it as they would be had it been a command. 

I want to call your attention to what we find in the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the Lord by direct revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith said that we are to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. And that is given as a commandment; the Word of Wisdom did proceed from the mouth of God to us as a people, and as the will of the Lord, and therefore we are under command to observe it. 

Some of our people quibble over the matter of tea and coffee, and say there is no mention of tea and coffee in the Word of Wisdom. I want to say to you that from the beginning of this Church, in the days of the Prophet Joseph, down to the present time, the leaders of this Church have interpreted that Word of Wisdom to include tea and coffee and all drinks that are habit-forming because of the caffeine and drugs they contain. We, as Latter-day Saints, who by our uplifted hands sustain the prophet in our day and time, President Grant, are under obligation to accept the interpretations that are made by him and by his predecessors with respect to this matter, that the Word of Wisdom that has come to us from the Lord includes tea and coffee among those things which we should not partake of. This is the will of the Lord. 

Brethren and Sisters, may God help us to live by the word and will which he has expressed in various revelations, then will we be happy, and we will be saved and exalted, and what more can the Lord say, what more can he offer us as inducement. 

God bless us, brethren and sisters, and help us to be faithful I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
