24
Afternoon
08 10 1938
Elder Harold W. Pratt
173
83

None

None 

My dear Brethren and Sisters: I assure you of my humility in attempting to utilize part of your time again. I realize the responsibility involved in taking part of the time of this great congregation, and I shall not speak long this afternoon. I merely wish to thank you and the leaders of the Church and our Heavenly Father, in your presence, for the opportunity of service that has been mine in the mission field. 

During the past nearly five years it has been my privilege to serve in the Mexican Mission among a people that I love. It has been my opportunity during that time to labor with many of your sons and daughters, a privilege that I esteem above everything else. I feel that my life has indeed been enriched. 

I endorse heartily the remarks of President Hinckley and of President Rees with regard to the benefits reaped by your sons and daughters through service in the mission field. I exhort you, as did President Macdonald this morning, to look toward the sending of your sons and daughters into the mission field. No finer experience can come to them, I assure you. I appreciate fully the advantage and the progress that the missionary has in the mission field. I realize what this missionary system means to the Church, the advancement and the growth that come to the Church through the experience and the progress of the individual missionaries as they return to the Church, but I wish to sound one note of warning: Let not this be our purpose in sending out missionaries. 

The Master said: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Let this be our guiding spirit in sending forth our missionaries. Let them go forth not so much for the benefit that they may reap, or the benefit they may bring home to us as an organization, but let them go forth rather to serve the Master, and in serving him serve their fellow men; to take the Gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, to those who are yet in darkness. I assure you that if they go forth in that spirit, reaping the benefit that they themselves will reap, and reaping the benefits that we as an organization in sending them forth shall reap, we will all be greatly blessed. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives, that Jesus the Christ was sent by the Father and gave his life that we might live again. I know that his Gospel has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I bear you my solemn testimony before my Heavenly Father that I know that the present leadership of the Church is truly inspired, that it is authorized to lead us in the path of righteousness. 

Let us take seriously the advice that we are receiving at this conference, and go forth with a renewed determination to practice the principles of the Gospel and to live in accordance with the advice of our inspired leadership. 

May this be our lot, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.
