25
Afternoon
08 10 1938
Elder Legrand P. Backman 
250
84-85

None

None

My beloved brothers and sisters, I deem this a real privilege, to stand before you this afternoon, and I pray that the inspiration of my Almighty Father may be with me on this occasion. 

I bring to you the greetings of the members of the Church in the farthest mission of the whole world, with headquarters just fifteen thousand miles away. I can assure you, my brothers and sisters, that we have some of the finest people in the whole Church in the South African Mission. 

As I sat here today my heart went back to my mission field, and I thought of the many hearts that yearn for the privilege of coming here, to be here in the Tabernacle, to see the Temple, and to hear the inspired words of our leaders. Oh, how our people down there long for that, because up to the present time they have had no General Authorities of the Church visit that great land. I realize that South Africa is a long, long ways away from headquarters, and we only have a little over two million white people in the whole of the country, but nevertheless in our work with the white people in that land we have found them the finest people that I think we can find anywhere in the world. 

It seems that the people of South Africa are filled with the spirit of pioneering. They are open-minded. They are free to hear the truth, and I believe that we are showing wonderful progress in that great land. 

Just a little over a year ago I was in Rhodesia, near the great battle fields where conflicts between the British and some of the Kaffir tribes took place not so many years ago. On a little farm called "Fern Creek Farm," away up in that Rhodesian country, we have two families of members. We went to one of their homes one night, and there held a meeting. They had no electric light. We held our meeting by candlelight. There were just the four members of the Church and Sister Backman and two of the missionaries and myself. 

The old man and old woman, Brother and Sister Viljoen, could not speak a word of English, and so Brother Jubber acted as interpreter. After Sister Backman and the two missionaries spoke, he interpreted to them what had been said, and then I got up and spoke, and talked for some time, and as I noticed their faces I could see them light up with understanding, and they knew what I was saying. When I got through Brother Jubber said: "Shall I interpret what Brother Backman has said?" They said: "No, we understood every word the President has said to us." 

I am just mentioning this, my brothers and sisters, to let you know that in the farthest outposts of the Church our people are blessed with the same spirit and the same inspiration that we have throughout the world among those that are true Latter-day Saints, and indeed we have true Latter-day Saints in that land. 

I have had the great privilege of seeing a wonderful progress of the Church in South Africa, because in 1915, when I went out to South Africa on my first mission, I was held prisoner on a boat in Durban Harbor for three days because I was a Mormon missionary, and now, when I returned again to preside over that mission, after an absence of sixteen years, I saw that most of the prejudice had been done away with. The people were willing to listen to our message. In February of this past year we had the privilege of taking our chorus from the headquarters in Cape town and appearing in the City Hall of Capetown with the Cape Town symphony orchestra, and several of the outstanding artists in Cape Town assisted us in a fine program. 

I am just bringing this to your attention to let you know that as far as South Africa is concerned, prejudice is almost done away, and we are meeting some of the finest and some of the best people in that land, and they are willling to hear our message, and they are willing to give us of their hospitality, for which they are so well known. 

I thank God with all my heart for the wonderful privilege that has been ours during the last three and one-half years, to labor in that land. I love Africa because I know that is where I learned to know my God, where I learned to gain a testimony of this wonderful Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I come back from the firing line of missionary work, filled with enthusiasm for the work of the Lord. I know it is the grandest and the greatest philosophy in life, and I only hope and trust and pray that I might be able to continue to live as I know my Heavenly Father would have me live. I thank Him for this privilege. I thank the Presidency of the Church and the Authorities for the wonderful privilege that has been mine. 

The missionaries that have been with us have been all noble, wonderful boys. Forty of them have passed through our hands in the past three and a half years, and I can truthfully say not one of them has given us the slightest concern, and I am sure that that is a remarkable record. 

May God's choicest blessings be with us all, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
