30
Afternoon
08 10 1938
Elder Preston Nibley 
234
100-101

None

None

Brother Merrill remarked that each one who comes up here to speak has something thought out and prepared. I have been thinking pretty hard for two days, and I will have to confess that when I stand here before you, whatever I have thought of leaves me. 

In the last April conference that the Prophet Joseph Smith ever attended, April, 1844, he made this significant remark: 

"I have received instructions from the Lord that from henceforth, wherever the elders of Israel shall build up branches and churches unto the Lord in the states, there shall be a stake of Zion." 

These words have been my inspiration since I have been in the mission field. When I went out to succeed Brother Joseph Quinney, Jr., twenty months ago, I found a great many branches in the Northwestern States, and I found that about ninety per cent of the people out there had moved into that section from Utah and Idaho, and that they were prepared to govern themselves.

I am happy that the President of the Portland Stake is here on the stand today, Brother M. L. Bean. The Portland Stake was organized out of our mission in June, under the direction of President David O. McKay and Brother Melvin J. Ballard, and the Seattle Stake was organized out of our mission in July, under the direction of our honored President, President Grant, and Brother Ballard. 

We now have in process of growth probably five more stakes coming along in that mission, and I hope we can fulfill the words of the Prophet Joseph, that wherever the Elders of Israel shall build up branches unto the Lord, there shall be a stake of Zion. 

We continue to find many people in our mission who have not affiliated with the Church for years, and during the twenty months that I have been in the Northwest we have located forty-four groups of Latter-day Saints, numbering all the way from ten to one hundred, in forty-four different cities, where we have organized Sunday Schools and branches. These people had moved out in to that section, and had remained dormant until our missionaries found them. 

I want to say that your missionaries in the Northwestern States Mission are very fine young people. As far as I know, they all have a testimony of the truth of the Gospel. I saw some figures in the paper computing the cost of missionary labor, but brethren and sisters, although it may seem hard on you to send that money to your boys and girls, I want to tell you that it is money well spent, because they come home from their missions with a sound, solid testimony that this is the kingdom of God, and that the work they are engaged in is the truth. 

President Brigham Young once made this statement regarding a testimony: 

"The world, with all its wisdom and power, with all the glory of its kings and potentates, sinks into perfect insignificance compared with the simple, unadorned testimony of a servant of God." 

I glory in the work that is going on in our mission. I know that we are building up the kingdom of God, and I know that these troubles Brother Sylvester Q. Cannon has been telling about will all be overcome by this great kingdom as it grows and progresses. To that point I want to cite you a statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, made May 2nd, 1844: 

"I calculate to be one of the instruments in setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world." 

And in the same sermon: 

"It will not be by sword or by gun that this kingdom will roll on. The power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel." 

Brethren and sisters, our future and the future of this kingdom is very great. Our missionary work is prospering, and everything looks good, and we are all happy in the Northwest. 

May God bless you, Amen.
