21
Morning
08 10 1938 
Elder Thomas D. Rees 
200
74-75

None

None

I am very happy to be present at these services of this conference, happy to meet my friends and loved ones again. For three years I have been presiding in the Australian Mission, and I am constrained in the few minutes I have to report of the conditions in that far-off land. 

The members of our Church in that section of the world are a fine class of people. As a rule they are educated, courteous, and polite. Courtesy and politeness are the characteristics of the Australian people. Our Saints live in comfortable homes. Those who need employment have employment. Australia today is a very prosperous land. They have no depression, as far as I was able to see. Our Saints are faithful to their duties. They attend their church services. They pay their tithes. They look to us, hoping always to be led by the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am happy to report the wonderful work that is being done by our Elders in that far-off land. I wish to endorse the words of President Bryant S. Hinckley; there is nothing that can come into a boy's life or a girl's life as fine as a missionary experience. Two years in the mission field can teach them much, and bring to them a richness of life that cannot be found in any other two years of life. 

I am happy to state that the people of Australia are very democratic in their attitude towards our Elders. There is no hate, there is no animosity. They seem to invite our Elders to explain the Gospel. The mission covers a great territory, and after an Elder has gone across the great Pacific nine thouand miles, he lands in Sydney, a city of a million and a quarter people, all of whom are of British descent. He comes to the headquarters, he is given his instructions, and is surprised, sometimes, at the distance he is required to travel after he reaches his headquarters. If he is to go to an adjoining district, it is practically as far as from here to San Diego. Sometimes we tell him: "The mission district where you are to work is fifteen hundred miles away." One of our branches is as far from headquarters as Hawaii is from Salt Lake City. To find these young men carrying on in these great districts gives you such a thrill that you feel the wonderful privilege it is to be in the mission field with them. 

Those young men carry the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ with them, and I feel sometimes in their humility they approach very close to their Father in heaven. The question is ofttimes asked: "Why do you come to us? We are a Christian people, we believe in Christ, we have beautiful churches, we have our ministers, we have the Bible, what have you got that is different?" This is an opportune time for an Elder to begin telling them the things we have that are different. He whom they call their head, even Jesus Christ, who walked by the Sea of Galilee, and preached the wonderful Sermon on the Mount, that same King has come in this day to the prophets of the living God and declared himself as Jesus Christ the Redeemer of the world. It is that message that we have that is different, and we carry it to the world, and when an Elder has that testimony in his heart he is not afraid to step up to any door; he is not afraid to speak to any man. We have the words of the Lord Jesus Christ; it is the answer in this day as to the principles he wishes the people of the world to know and live. 

It is a glorious thing when we can say in expressing our message, "We are giving you the word of the Lord Jesus Christ," and that should take precedence of the opinion of the wisest of the wise, the most learned of the learned, for thus saith the Lord to his people in this day, and that should be sufficient to end all controversy as to what the Lord means. 

My brothers and sisters, those Elders go forth with that testimony in their hearts, glorious in their belief, happy in their faith in a living God, and in humility serving him. It is the most glorious thing that can come into their lives. Ask an Elder — it makes no difference how long it has been since he has been home — about his mission, and you will see his face brighten and his eyes begin to sparkle as he tells you of his missionary experiences. 

I want to bear you my testimony that the three years that I was in the mission field gave me a richness of years that I will never forget. May God bless us and help us to understand that our Advocate, even the Lord Jesus Christ, is at the head of this work. God bless us, is my prayer. Amen.
