39
Afternoon
09 10 1938
Elder David A. Smith 
95
122-123

None

None

On the 11th day of December, in the year 1907, I received a telephone message at the office of the County Clerk in Salt Lake County, where I was serving as chief deputy. That message said that my father wanted me to report to him at the Salt Lake Temple. The message came to me at about ten o'clock, and when I went to the temple I was ushered into the room occupied by the Presidency and Twelve, by Brother Salmon, and was notified that Charles W. Nibley had been chosen, to serve as Presiding Bishop of the Church, and that he had chosen Orin P. Miller as his first counselor and I was to be the second counselor. 

When the announcement was made I had not expected such a thing. It was not an unusual thing for father to call for me to look after his personal affairs. I turned dizzy. I steadied myself by the arm of the chair. 

On the 6th day of April, in the year 1938, I was confined to my home on account of a severe cold and sore throat. A few minutes before two o'clock President Grant telephoned to me and told me that a new Presiding Bishopric would be sustained, and admonished me not to worry as something would be found for me. 

Today only seven of the men are still living who constituted the General Authorities of the Church when I first became one of that body. I am grateful that I have had the privilege of knowing those who served then and who are gone. I am grateful for the privilege I have had of laboring with and knowing the men who now serve as the General Authorities of this Church. I have tried to serve faithfully, for I have had faith. Every fiber of my body testifies that God lives and as I have said to you many times it is not where we labor but how we labor that leads us to salvation. It is not the Priesthood that assures to us exaltation, but the manner in which we honor and labor under the authority of that Priesthood. As I have tried to labor in the past to serve my God, I assure you that in my new calling in the Canadian Mission I shall go with that same faith and with that same desire to support the authorities of this Church, with the same appreciation of the privilege which comes to me to labor with my fellows in the authority of the Priesthood, the object being to bring souls unto our Father. 

We have only a few members in that mission, about one-half the number that comprises the membership of the Ward in which my residence has been. I have met them in meetings and in their homes, conversed with them, and if I dare say so I would say I have found a people who put to shame many of those who live under the influence of this great building and the Priesthood, where they can partake of the bread as it comes from those who hold the authority to teach. 

I rejoice in this privilege, and I pray God that he will continue to sustain me, that I shall not fail in the trust which has been imposed upon me. I sincerely hope that he will continue those blessings to me and the people over whom I preside, that we may continue to rejoice in him and his work, and in the opportunity which comes to us to serve. 

These blessings I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
