44
Afternoon
09 10 1938
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
255
139-141

None

None

Since listening to that fine junior choir that sang so beautifully for us yesterday I have been much impressed by the strength of our boys and girls in this Church. If that same spirit of improvement is being carried on in all branches of this Church, both in the Priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary organizations, so that every note and expression will ring as true as did the voices of this youthful choir, the Church will make wonderful progress in the next few years. 

This Church has had a continual and steady growth. My testimony to all is that the youth of Zion are growing in faith, that they are firm and true, and that they will hold the places of those who are older when these pass on, for the youth of today are the men of tomorrow, and the training that they receive every day of their lives is the thing that will qualify them for positions of trust. 

We lost, through death, the leader of our Council, President J. Golden Kimball, whom so many knew and loved. His departure is a real loss to us. In just a short time, however, another man has been found who will be able to assist in the responsibilities of our work. And so the Lord provides. 

I was in the ministry long enough to see young men fill missions, go home, be married, and send me their sons and daughters. I saw fine improvement in them. I know that the training the father and mother received in the mission field was carried over and was evidenced in that boy and girl who came to me. I found faith among the sons and daughters of God at home. I found the fathers and mothers who had provided the means for the missionaries to accomplish their work and to develop into faithful servants of the Lord had in their hearts the spirit and integrity of Latter-day Saints. Many of them were not heard of, many of them lived their quiet lives, but they contributed of their means and of all they had for the preaching of the Gospel. 

In one of the stakes where I went to hold conference, I noted in the audience on the first day an aged brother, the kindness in whose eyes attracted me. I asked the president of the stake to call him up, but the president hesitated. I learned that the man's wife had died and that he was living with his children and grandchildren. His beard was unkempt, his hair likewise. But he attracted me. The second morning I asked again if this brother might speak. The president said: "I am very doubtful about his wanting to speak." 

In the afternoon that same impression came to me again. I said, "Go down and ask him if he wouldn't like to speak. I feel impressed to call upon him." And when the invitation was given the old brother said: "Yes, I should like to speak," and he stood up and said: "I have never been called on a mission, I have been called on to speak only once or twice in my life. I helped to build the town and make the roads and bridges. I sent every one of my sons on missions. Where the money came from I do not know but I have kept my pledge with my Lord." 

There are many such in the stakes of Zion. I pray the Lord to bless these noble souls in their valiant endeavors to carry on. I pray that the youth may continue to measure up to their glorious heritage, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
