38
Afternoon
09 10 1938
Elder A. Lorenzo Anderson
253
121-122

None

None 

I have been thrilled by the singing and by the remarks that have been given in this conference, and at this moment particularly am I thrilled at the words of President Grant when he tells us to be just as brief as our consciences will let us. 

I was thrilled this morning with the remarks of Brother Stephen L Richards, when he pleaded for unity of the membership of this Church, and while he was speaking I was reminded of the remarks of one of our great statesmen when we were having trouble in the United States. He was pleading for unity of the people of the United States, and he told them "If we will be united all the armies of Europe, of Asia, and Africa combined, with a Napoleon for a leader, could not take a drink of water out of the Ohio river." 

I should like to paraphrase that statement and say, that all the powers of this earth and hell combined, with Lucifer as generalissimo, could make no inroads on the membership of this Church if we would but be united. 

In the Mexican Mission we have a faction that has been causing us considerable trouble, they think because of the fact that they are the sons of father Lehi that they are the heirs of the kingdom and that we ought to turn it over to them and let them run it. 

I want to testify to you this afternoon that as Daniel said, the God of heaven has established his kingdom upon the earth again, never to be destroyed nor given another people. 

The Mexican Mission, aside from these few people to whom I have referred, who are illusioned for the time being, is in a healthy condition. We have nearly 3000 Saints there, and when I came to this conference I came with the idea that we were about the poorest mission of all. We have nineteen million of the sons of Lehi down there waiting for the Gospel to be preached to them, and we have only twenty-eight missionaries to do it. Eleven of those are descendants of father Lehi. 

Mexico, because of religious oppression in the past, has been forced to pass certain laws which make it impossible for the body of the Church to send us missionaries. We are dependent entirely upon the Juarez Stake and the Mexican Mission proper to furnish missionaries to preach the Gospel to those nineteen millions of the sons of father Lehi. I know the Lord is able to do a wonderful work. 

During the broadcast this morning I sat where I could not see Brother Richard L. Evans, and all I had to do was to close my eyes and then I was down on the tops of the Sierra Madres listening to him over the radio. I appreciate very much the power for good in the radio, the preaching of the sermons that come out over this radio to the people. We people who live so far away are able occasionally to listen to some of the brethren preaching the Gospel. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you all, that he will bless this great work, the missionary cause, that we may be able to preach the Gospel to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
