15
Second Overflow
05 10 1913
Elder John W. Hart. 
92
65-67

None

None

(President of Rigby Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I can assure you that I approach this duty this afternoon with fear and trembling; not that I am fearful of receiving any bodily harm from any who are here assembled, but I in my weakness feel that I am not competent to fill as I should this position that I have been called unto. I can assure you that, while I occupy this position, I rely upon your faith and prayers, and the aid of the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be led to say something that will be beneficial to us all.  
  
We have assembled from different parts of the land to attend this conference; yea, we have gathered from the north, from the south, from the east and from the west, and have come up here to the headquarters of the Church that we might receive and be edified by the Lord through His servants. I for one feel that I have already been well repaid for the journey that I have made, and the time I have spent, by the instructions received, and the good time that I have enjoyed thus far and I am satisfied that we will continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord thoughout the balance of this conference.  
  
As has been stated by Apostle Joseph F. Smith, Jun., I hail from the land of the north, and I am pleased to state to you, my brethren and sisters, that the people in that section of the country are growing spiritually, and that they are a prosperous, happy, and contented people. The Lord is blessing us both temporally and spiritually, and we are growing wonderfully. The membership of the Church of Christ in the State of Idaho numbers about 60,000 souls. I believe, if I am not mistaken, there are now thirteen stakes of Zion in Idaho, and we are still growing and increasing rapidly, and this we are thankful for.  
  
I think it is fitting that we should assemble in great numbers upon occasions of this kind, that we may exchange views, that we might understand thoroughly and more fully the conditions that prevail throughout this Church in various parts of the land. I am greatly interested in the progress of this work; I have labored in it a little all the days of my life. I thank the Lord that He has given me a testimony, that He has given me of His spirit to such an extent that my feet thus far have been kept safe in the Gospel path. I know that this Gospel is true, and I am satisfied that if we will live its principles we will gain for ourselves an exaltation in the kingdom of our Father. We find upon investigation that this great organization of ours has within it everything that is needful for the welfare, happiness, and advancement of mankind here upon the earth, and above all it has that saving power that will enable us to attain eternal life, if we are faithful unto the end.  
  
I remember a few years ago a gentleman came into the stake over which I preside, and he was representing a fraternal organization, and he came to me and wanted to know the reason why Latter-day Saints were opposed to "fraternalism," as he represented it. I told him that we were not opposed to fraternalism; that as Latter-day Saints we believe in it, we regard it as a glorious principle, and practice it in its entirety; but, "so far as your organization is concerned," I said, "we feel that we have all the blessings, all the privileges within the organization of our Church that you have to offer, and more too; and, as a consequence, we advise our people against identifying themselves with your organization. This was astounding to him; he could not understand how it was possible. I told him that we had within our Church organization, from the Primary Association to the Relief Society, that which promoted the welfare of all the people, both old and young, giving the young sufficient opportunities for social enjoyment, and that they could receive all the wholesome entertainment and blessings that they could receive in any organization that was created by men here upon the earth within their own church. I told him that our people believe in principles of true fraternalism. When I informed him concerning the Relief Society, and what they are doing, he was most astonished to learn that such conditions and organizations exist in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I went on further and told him that I considered our system the most perfect in the world today; that as Latter-day Saints we paid dues, even as members of his order paid their dues, that we paid tithing according to what we possessed; the rich in accordance with their plenty, the poor in accordance to their ability; that the blessings and the privileges of membership were enjoyed equally by all, rich and poor. I said there is no organization on the face of the earth today that has within it such a just principle as we have got in our Church, and that considering these things in connection with a great many other things we enjoy, it makes my heart rejoice to know that I am a Latter-day Saint. It gives me pleasure to defend this Church, and I have always taken pleasure in doing so. I have always made friends by taking this course, and so will every Latter-day Saint.  
  
I can say with the Apostle Paul, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that will receive and obey the principles of the same." There is no reason why we should be ashamed. It should be a pleasure and satisfaction to stand up against unscrupulous men who endeavor to tear us down. The Lord will sustain us in doing this; and I testify to you that it will help us in our business affairs if we will take a manly and consistent stand for this great work in which we are engaged; I know that the Lord will bless us. My testimony to you is that the Lord lives, that He has revealed His mind and will unto His prophets in this dispensation, and is doing it today. I have faith and confidence in those who preside over this church, and I know that the Lord will give them His Spirit, that they will be able to guide and direct the affairs of this Church in a way that will be acceptable in His sight. I pray that this may always be our condition, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
