16
Second Overflow
05 10 1913
Elder Mark Austin. 
68
67-68

None

None

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I have no desire, my brethren and sisters, to detract from your minds the theme of this conference that was made known to the Latter-day Saints in the opening address of our beloved President, the Lord's prophet unto Israel, and His mouth-piece unto all the children of men who dwell upon the face of the earth. This is my understanding — as it has been throughout all time, when the Lord has had a prophet upon the earth, He has revealed His mind and will concerning His people. His children everywhere, whether they belonged to the church or not.  
  
I think the subject of President Smith's remarks is one of the most important things, for the salvation of men while they live, that has been given to us. "How can we hope to have the Spirit of the Almighty abide in unholy tabernacles?" Assuredly it will not, therefore we see the necessity of being admonished, having the subject brought strongly to our attention. When I came into the Tabernacle I heard a brother, who evidently is somewhat weak, remark: "I am afraid those statements are too strong." Strong! Can truth be stated too strong? Can we have called to our attention too strongly the truth upon questions connected with which our very lives hang in the balance? The drinker, the smoker, and other weak men and women object to strong denunciation of their weaknesses. All mankind need to observe the Word of Wisdom, and if the world would adopt this fragment of the Gospel that has been given through the prophet Joseph, what a relief would follow, how much sorrow would be taken from homes, from mothers, from fathers, and children, because of those who foolishly indulge in harmful things.  
  
Just recently a gentleman who was carrying a great deal of responsibility in a business way, has many things within his charge, said to me: "I read sometime ago the Word of Wisdom, and I have adopted it into my life, and it has made me strong." The splendid body that had been given to him by sturdy Scotch parents he had found was weakening by indulging in things forbidden by the Word of Wisdom. Said he, "When I had observed this Word of Wisdom for two years, I found I was stronger than ever before in my life, my brain is clearer, and I am able to accomplish much work." If men outside of this Church have obeyed this law, how much more should we as Latter-day Saints observe it! I have noticed that most of the Latter-day Saints who have observed this law are able to stand against the tempter in other ways, and are not liable to fall and be led away. Those who ignore the Word Wisdom feel that it is only a small thing. It may appear small to them but it is really great, and is calculated to overcome the power of evil that tries to destroy the race.  
  
Now, the people of the world are beginning to discover these things, many of them, and how strange it is that some Latter-day Saints have not yet obeyed the principles of that important revelation! Parents should be examples to their children in regard to these matters. The Prophet of God, as true Prophets always have, exhibited great boldness, and spoke plainly to the people. That is what we need, we do not want to be sustained in things that lead down to sorrow and destruction.  
  
I pray that the Lord will bless us and help us to understand our mission in the earth, that we may be able to be bold in the defense of truth and righteousness. President Hart has set us a good example in this respect. You remember reading in the newspapers that when he was sitting in the Senate at Boise, a gentleman had the audacity to attack his religion. He rose in his seat, and rebuked him, and notified the Senate that never would he stand for it. The result was that all the members of that senate respect him, and all our people love him for it. May God bless you. Amen. 
