19
Outdoor
05 10 1913
Elder Nephew L. Morris.
69
74-77

None

None

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

The fact that we are forced to hold an open-air meeting is a source of gratification to me, and must be to you all when you consider that the spacious Tabernacle and Assembly Hall are not commodious enough to hold the hosts of Israel who have assembled to hear the word of the Lord. It is indeed a glorious and marvelous change since the day when our enemies predicted that the death of Joseph Smith would bring about the end of "Mormonism." Through the machinations of evil and designing men he became a martyr like many prophets before him, but it did not place the period to "Mormonism." Our enemies then foretold the end of our Church with the death of Brigham Young, but it does not appear today as though the death of either of our first great leaders had brought the end of "Mormonism," or in any way hindered its growth. For indeed, "Mormonism" has not only increased steadily in membership, but has become a more and more important factor in the betterment of mankind. I am thankful to be one who, by the kind providence of God has espoused that cause.  
  
I am reminded of a prediction made by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he stood by the side of a little jail, which had at one time held him and some of his brethren as prisoners. He prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer many persecutions, and that they would be driven west; many of them should die because of the hardships and vicissitudes through which they should pass, and that they should build many cities and towns and become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. That was in the year 1842. Scarcely seventy-five years have elapsed, and we see a remarkable fulfillment of the prophecy. Do not these Rocky Mountain states, with their million of prosperous people, afford a complete fulfillment of that prophecy?  
  
I do not know that we have any real enemies today. I have heard of a million women, (the W. C. T. U.), who wanted to do us some harm on different occasions, but I think their animosities have arisen out of their ignorance, because their minds have been prejdiced against the Latter-day Saints. I believe the world has grown more and more to an appreciation of the Latter-day Saints through the fruits of their social, industrial and religious efforts. I believe no man of modern civilization, not blinded by bigotry, would undertake to break down, or even limit the efficacy of "Mormonism" for human service. "Mormonism" has brought into existence in this great western country one or two generations of men that compare most favorably with the manhood of the country at large. "Mormonism," by its practical views and activities, has given to our nation this splendid country, teeming with its wealth and treasure, and its infinite possibilities. "Mormonism" has given to society, to the state, and the nation, thousands of splendid, patriotic, intelligent and forceful men and women that have been a distinct asset to the great national life. None but the bigot, the narrow-minded would undertake to restrain or crush an institution which can contribute so generously to the public welfare.  
  
What has been the dominating power, the element of strength in holding together this people? The Prophet Joseph Smith was once asked the question, how it was that he governed his people so well. His reply was, "I teach them correct principles and they govern themselves." This has been fundamental with the Latter-day Saints. It has been stated by those who would detract from us, that " 'Mormonism' thrives best where ignorance abounds." There could be nothing farther from the truth than this statement, and I speak as one on the inside, one born and reared in "Mormonism" and more or less active in its various institutions. I have grown through years of service, small though it may be, to regard "Mormonism" as a gigantic institution of education. If you will take time and pains to study the organizations of the "Mormon" people, I think you will agree with me in this idea, viz., that all the teaching and institutional work of the "Mormon" Church is educative in the broadest and highest sense.  
  
The great mission of the Church is to carry the message of truth to man, and teach him to live in conformity to that truth for his present and eternal welfare.  
  
Aside from that great office of the Church, which it performs most splendidly, the organizations within the Church, which have been designated "helps in government," contribute as auxiliary institutions to the great undertaking. The first auxiliary organization of the Church was established in the days of the Prophet and is known as the Woman's Relief Society. For over half a century it has ministered to the relief and comfort of the poor, the sick and the unfortunate. There is no more beautiful work in all the world than that done in the name of "sweet charity."  
  
The Relief Society sisters contribute systematically to the blessing of mankind wherever the Church is organized, without regard to race, creed or color. They hold regular meetings, with courses of study, choosing such subjects as will help them to become better wives and mothers, daughters and sisters, and more useful members of the community. Anything which makes for the refinement and preservation of the woman, the mother, the wife, is certainly a source of strength and power and virtue. Surely this is a work no one will undertake to destroy. It is a work which represents effort, expenditure of means and time and the betterment of all who participate in the work, as well as the benefit and blessings of those who are administered to. And behind it all is the element of education, the men and women thus engaged become more proficient in the service of their kind.  
  
Then we have the Sunday School, of which we may be justly proud, for I believe it surpasses all similar organizations in the world in point of efficiency and membership. One hundred fifty thousand children and men and women are enrolled in this splendid organization. They meet every Sunday morning, divide into their various grades and departments with trained teachers in charge of each class, who instruct them in those subjects which are best adapted for the physical, moral and spiritual welfare.  
  
It is primarily a system of education. "Where ignorance abounds, 'Mormonism' thrives?" It is exactly the reverse. The main strength of "Mormonism" lies in the intelligence of its members, and every institution in the Church aims at their education. Do you not know this to be true? Take the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, with from thirty to forty thousand members. They meet weekly to discuss such subjects as will make them better citizens, better members of their Church, and better members of society. Are these the means which would be employed by an institution that wished to keep its members in ignorance? Then there is the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, numbering sixty-five thousand, where the ladies assemble at least once a week to study domestic arts, science, literature, history, and everything that will tend to make of them a higher and more refined type of womanhood. Then you have the Primary Association, where once a week, or oftener, young ladies of scholastic training meet in the meetinghouse or in the schoolhouse, where it is permitted, and there teach the little children the first principles of service to mankind, and reverence for God. And then comes the last of our institutions, known as the Religion Class Work.  
  
The moral education of the youth is one of the most serious problems which is presented to the educators of our nation. The Bible has been tabooed for many years. I am not advocating religious training in public schools, but I do believe that there is not sufficient moral and religious training among the youth of our land today. The Latter-day Saints believe that children should be taught reverence for God and have developed in their hearts faith in Him, and a comprehension of their obligation even as children to God. Therefore the "Mormon" people have established this Religion Class Work to promote faith and moral growth in connection with the education of the youth. Now then, under these circumstances, it occurs to me that this is one great gigantic institution of which we may all be proud.  
  
May the Lord preserve and prosper this people to serve mankind and to promote His cause on the earth, is my prayer, in His name. Amen. 