20
Outdoor
05 10 1913
Elder Charles A. Orme. 
93
77-79

None

None

(President of Tooele Stake.) 

My brothers, sisters and friends, I have listened, with interest and rejoicing, to the discourse delivered by President Nephi L. Morris. I feel to congratulate our people on their achievements, on their success, and what they have accomplished and are accomplishing along an educational line, for the uplifting of the children of men, for the advancement of the human race, for acquiring the high intellectual condition that our Father in Heaven desires His children should reach while they are here upon the earth, that we may become educated and qualified for the future existence it is destined that the children of our Father should attain unto. All throughout this conference, the splendid meetings and discourses that we have had on this Temple Block, the declarations of the faith that this people have in Israel's God, and the demonstration thereof in the works that they have produced, show their desire to serve Him and to keep His commandments. Think of what appeared to the children of men an insignificant organization in the beginning, with only six members, poorly equipped or qualified to promulgate the truth, and destined to build up a marvelous missionary system in the future. Add to this system that which has been spoken of by President Morris, it seems to me would be worthy of our consideration for a little while.  
  
In the beginning, with only six men to start out and face an opposing world, nearly, all whom the elders came in contact with were opposed to that which they set forth. Even from the time when Joseph Smith the Prophet first declared the visitation of the Father and the Son, until the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the sending forth of the first elders to preach unto the people the words that had been given unto that youthful prophet, I say, to look at it from that beginning it would seem impossible to accomplish what we have at the present time. Consider also that they had not sufficient means to publish to the world the record that had been committed into their hands by a holy angel, to present unto the world as a testimony and a witness that God had not confined His ministrations, or His prophets, to one hemisphere, but that it had been extended further. Since that time we have succeeded in sending out thousands of elders to the various nations of the earth, at a great expense, amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars annually, for the promulgation of this Gospel. Many of our elders have been well equipped from an educational standpoint, and supplied with proper literature, so that they could visit the homes of the rich and the learned in civilized nations, as well as the poor, and present unto them those glorious truths that had been revealed unto the Prophet Joseph, giving unto the world a new witness for God and for Jesus Christ.  
  
There had been errors creep into the churches that had been organized by men, errors relating to the existence of God, His being and attributes. Men had no faith in the declaration made by Joseph Smith, that he had seen a vision, and that God had manifested Himself unto him, and that He was indeed a personage like unto man, and that the Son was in His image and likeness, as the scriptures had told. But the minds of men had been darkened on this subject, and it seemed impossible for them to believe his statement. He declared in very deed that he had seen God, and His Son Jesus Christ. The young man, fearlessly desiring to discharge the duty that the Lord had placed upon him, declared that God was not, as had been proclaimed, without body, parts or passions, but that He possesses a body, with limbs, head and all parts and organs as a man has them. He testified that he knew this, for he had seen with his eyes, that he had heard Their voices, and that he had conversed with Jesus Christ who was crucified on Calvary, according to the testimony of the apostles whom He had chosen from among men.  
  
That Christ had arisen from the grave, and ascended bodily into heaven, is a fact which seems to have been lost sight of by the children of men. This young man declared that it was a fact. He was a witness of it for he had seen Jesus and the Father. He had heard Their voices, and this testimony had been given unto him, and it was his privilege and his duty, as a new witness for God, to stand forth and declare unto the world, in this dispensation, those things that had been known in former dispensations, the saving powers and principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It was that testimony, borne by humble elders, sent forth without worldly means, but rich in spirit and with a testimony that God lived, and that His work had been established upon the earth. That was what brought our parents and grandparents, and many of us, into this goodly land, where we are surrounded with favorable conditions, with institutions for advancement and learning, that we have heard about this afternoon.  
  
I bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this work, that the world calls "Mormonism;" it is the biggest proposition before the children of men today, both from a worldly standpoint and from a spiritual or religious standpoint. I make that statement partly on the grounds of the educational system that is in our midst, making us acquainted with the things of the world, with the science and arts of the day, the high accomplishments and achievements along these lines. As for spiritual advancement, the greatest thing before the world, we believe in that also, and with all our hearts, for it deals not only with men in this life, for their betterment, both temporally and spiritually, but it reaches beyond the vail. We are informed that before this earth on which we live was framed, the spirits of men did in reality exist, that they were organized by the great Head, and He saw among them great and mighty spirits, choice men and women, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, chapter 3. Our Father in Heaven, recognizing the intellectual greatness of many of those beings that had been organized in that spiritual stage of existence, remarked to those in the Council with Him, something like this: "See, here is space, let us go down and create an earth on which these spirits may dwell." From that we learn and understand that this earth was created and made habitable for mankind, He said, "They who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate, shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; they who keep their second estate, shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever."  
  
My brothers and sisters, here is something for us to consider: intelligences in the beginning, before the organization of this earth, and this earth being brought into existence for their benefit, that they might become educated and qualified to become as their Father, God. The Savior of the world said that the children of men should become perfect as their Heavenly Father is perfect, and that they could reach that position by keeping the laws of God in these two estates. Latter-day Saints and all Israel should awaken to a realization of the condition that we are in here. We have obeyed the principles of faith and repentance, and yielded obedience to the doctrine of baptism in water by immersion for the remission of sins, and have had hands laid upon our heads for confirmation in the Church of Christ, and for the baptism of the Holy Ghost. We should comprehend our true condition and exercise ourselves in the performance of duty and responsibility before our Father, for, in yielding obedience unto these doctrines, we made a covenant to serve Him forever, to keep His commandments, and observe all His laws. If we fail to do this, we shall fall short of the glory that has been promised to all the children of our Father who are obedient unto His commandments.  
  
I believe that it is easy for men to fall from grace, even after they have received the principles of the doctrine of Christ and become converted. I believe that they can become lukewarm, as did one of the Churches in olden times. The Apostle John, the Revelator, seeing their condition, declared that they were neither cold nor hot, and only worthy to be spued opt of his mouth. I believe, that even Latter-day Saints can become in that condition. We ought to be faithful in the payment of our tithes, in observing the word of wisdom, attending to our prayers and our sacrament meetings, and take advantage of the institution? of learning that have been organized for our benefit and education, and accept the revelations of our Father, that He has given unto the children of men. I pray God to strengthen our testimony and create within us a desire to serve Him unto the end, which I ask through Jesus Christ. Amen. 
