21
Outdoor
05 10 1913
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
79-82

None

None

(President of Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren, sisters and friends, I have great pleasure in greeting you this afternoon, and trust that I shall enjoy the same spirit that has characterized the remarks of my brethren. If there be any strangers among you, from that which has already been said, they must be impressed with the comprehensiveness of what is called "Mormonism." Our last speaker dwelt briefly upon our belief in the preexistence of spirits showing that our existence did not commence upon this earth, but that we were fore-ordained to come and dwell here for a season, to perform the mission which God had given unto us.  
 
President Morris, in his remarks dwelt upon the organization of the Church, and the auxiliary branches thereof, and endeavored to make clear to you the special work of our Relief Societies, our Young Ladies and Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, our Primary Associations, our Sunday Schools and Religion Classes, and the wide field of activity occupied by these auxiliary organizations of the Church, for the special benefit of the various members thereof. But the Church does not exist by virtue of these organizations. God has given unto us something more than auxiliary work. One of the brethren referred to the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith received revelations from the Almighty. We declare that God the Father, and God the Son, appeared unto him in vision, and made clear unto him his great mission upon earth. In that connection he was assured that other messengers should come, who would confer upon him greater powers and give other instructions.  
  
Upon this block, I have the honor of meeting from day to day many of the strangers who come among us. At least two hundred and fifty thousand visitors come to Utah each year many coming to this "City of the Saints" that they may learn something of our faith. I am impressed with the fact that one of the revelations, often referred to by our elders, has been fulfilled in greater detail than we sometimes declare, not only by the gathering of the Saints who have fulfilled to the very letter these words, but by the coming of the strangers: "For it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's House shall be exalted above the hills and all nations shall flow unto it, and many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, and He will teach us of His ways and we will walk in His paths." Although many may not so view it, yet they do come to learn something of the ways of the Almighty with regard to the work of this people in the Rocky Mountains. And we have pleasure in telling them the story that has been recited in your hearing, with regard to the commencement of this great work, and that subsequently another heavenly personage came unto the prophet Joseph Smith.  
  
We declare in all soberness that the revelation is true, that John the Baptist, who holds the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, placed his hands upon the head of Joseph the Prophet and ordained him to that priesthood, giving him all the keys and authority pertaining thereto. And we go still further, to the astonishment of some who have never heard "Mormon" doctrines before. We declare that even then the Church was not fully organized, it was not organized as fully as God intended. They who were chosen by the Savior when He was engaged in His ministry upon the earth, they of whom He said: "Ye have not chosen Me, but I have chosen you and ordained you," even Peter, James and John, the resurrected apostles of the Lord, Jesus Christ came unto that youthful prophet, placed their hands upon his head and gave unto him the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Now what does it mean? It means that the Church in the Latter days has been organized as perfectly as in former days, with prophets, pastors, teachers, deacons, evangelists, etc., "for the perfecting of the Saints." And hence we say unto you, the Melchizedek Priesthood has been bestowed upon the children of men, and there are men within the sound of my voice who hold that priesthood, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, who possess all the authority possessed by the ministry in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there is also the Aaronic Priesthood, which we term sometimes the Lesser Priesthood, with its Priests, Teachers, and Deacons ministering for the salvation of men.  
  
Do you realize how much these truths have been impressed upon the hearts of our children? Let me tell you one little circumstance that occured upon this block. Sometime ago, while glancing through the window, I perceived a little group of strangers on the steps of the Assembly Hall, the building opposite to us. I wondered who was conversing with these strangers. It was of interest to me to find out, it being part of my work to observe that the teachings here are given by men and women who are authorized to do the work. I therefore joined the company. A stake conference was being held in the Assembly Hall, President Nephi L. Morris presiding over the meeting, but the group of strangers stood on the outside. Mingling with them I perceived that they were being entertained by a boy, a little fellow, who was standing on the steps so that they could see and hear him. The strangers were asking questions: "Well, my boy, are you a 'Mormon'?"  
  
"Oh, yes sir."  
  
"Well, are you a minister?"  
  
"No, sir."  
  
"What are you?"  
  
"I am a deacon, sir."  
  
"What is a deacon?"  
  
"A deacon's office is the first in the Aaronic Priesthood, and I have to work as a deacon, and that is why I am at the door."  
  
"And what is the Aaronic Priesthood?" was the question. The boy, not more than twelve or thirteen years of age, answered promptly:  
  
"Sir, the Aaronic Priesthood is the authority given by John the Baptist when he laid his hands upon the head of Joseph Smith, and it has come down and I have been ordained a deacon, and I hold the Aaronic Priesthood."  
  
Oh! bless the soul of that boy. I don't know today who he was but I felt like hugging him, because of the testimony he was thus bearing; for in the simplicity of his heart and by his youthful appearance he impressed those strangers so that, at least, they recognized the earnestness, frankness and sincerity of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
Our children understand these things. They are taught unto them and, hence, without hesitancy they declare that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is organized, fully and completely, for the salvation of man in the latter days. When we talk to the people in this manner they acknowledge that it is a wonderful work, and as they gaze at the beautiful building, our Temple, — that monument in stone so eloquently spoken of yesterday by Elder B. H. Roberts, they invariably ask "what is the building for?" We declare that it stands as a testimony of another principle pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. For we not only believe, as President Orme has said "that from the eternities we were prepared for this probation and that through this probation we are to minister to the children of men, giving the warning message pertaining to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ," but we are to extend that mission beyond the vail. We never expect to be through with our work. We worked before we came here, we minister while we are living, and we shall minister after we are dead.  
 
I remember a few friends standing near the gates here, some years ago, when the President of the Ministerial Association was entertaining them. Unobserved I joined them and listened a little while to the conversation and then pleasantly asked, "My reverend friend, can I assist you a little?" He turned, astonished to see me, and remarked to his friends, "This man will tell you the other side of the story." "No," I answered, "I may not; there is only one side, the true side, and, in your ministerial garb, you surely would not give any other." As he turned away he said, "You may tell them what you believe in. Now be careful, (speaking to his companions), or he will get you." "Now," I remarked, (calling him by name), "don't make your friends nervous, we shall get you by and by." "Oh! no, you never will," he retorted and turned away angrily. "Now, my dear friend," I said, "be good natured. Don't forget our teachings. We not only preach here, but we shall preach to the spirits in prison, and follow men throughout all eternity, or until they repent of their sins and accept the Gospel of Christ; that is our faith." The Master declared, "I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me." Some years ago, Rev. Mr. Guthrie, a Scotch divine said, when quoting a familiar passage of scripture referring to the Redeemer, "He is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only but for the sins of the whole world." "The whole world. Some say that this is a dangerous doctrine, but it is God's doctrine." Just so far he was preaching "Mormonism," for (pointing to the Temple), that sacred Temple stands for the redemption of the dead, for the ministry to "the spirits in prison," for the continuation of this work beyond the grave.  
  
Let us so live, according to the will of God, that we may be worthy to minister to the living and for the dead, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
