22
Outdoor
05 10 1913
Elder Hugh J. Cannon. 
67
82-84

None

None

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that I was born with a testimony of "Mormonism." "Mormonism" has always appealed to me. In the early days of my life, this faith was naturally due to the teachings which I received from my parents. Later on, when I was called to go out into the world, of necessity I had to be able to give a reason for the hope that was within me. But never in my life have I doubted the divinity of this work. As has already been stated, the Church provides for every spiritual and temporal need of its members.  
  
Here in Utah we have a school system which is the equal of any system in the United States. That is in addition to all these auxiliary organizations which have been mentioned, and the priesthood quorum work which we are doing. We have a system which appeals to the educated men of the world, and they investigate the Church and its teachings with great interest because of the time and attention which have been given to this subject.  
  
Brother Orme spoke about our belief in pre-existence. Brother Goddard spoke of that very briefly and also alluded to our belief in the hereafter. I desire to refer briefly to our present temporal condition. One of the greatest horticulturalist experts in the United States made the statement the other day in my hearing that "the horticultural exhibit at the Utah State Fair could not be equalled by any state in the United States." I heard the other day, at the dedication of this Seagull Monument, from one of the pioneers, that Jim Bridger had said when our people came here that there was frost every month of the year in this valley. In spite of that statement, and as we believe through the blessing of the Almighty upon this land, we are able to produce an exhibit, according to the testimony of this man, which cannot be equalled in the United States. There are certain sections outside of Utah, as you know, which pride themselves upon their peaches; certain sections which boast of their apples, etc. We can produce as good apples as the best sections which specialize on apples. We can produce as fine peaches, as fine prunes, as fine pears, as fine grapes, as can be produced in the sections which specialize on these particular fruits. Why is it? I give the Almighty the credit for it. He inspired his servant to say, "This is the place." And He has blessed this land and has made it fruitful because His children that were driven from the civilized communities were forced to come here and came with faith in Him, and wholly dependent upon Him. He has blessed the land for their sake.  
  
Think what this people has done for years and years in its missionary movement alone. I figured, very roughly in my mind, while sitting here, that we are spending perhaps more than one million dollars a year to preach the Gospel in the world. That money is going out of this community, and I think that one million dollars would not nearly cover it, and especially if we put a reasonable price upon the time of the men who go abroad. It would take very nearly a million dollars, as I figured it, in cash to support our missionaries, and then there is their time which would be converted into means if they remained at home. Where can you find a community in all the world that could stand year after year a drain of this kind? And still, what is the temporal condition of this people? I have not all the statistics in mind; I did not expect to speak this afternoon, and have not had any opportunity to get figures since I was asked to address you, but I believe that there is no community in all the world where the people are in as comfortable circumstances as they are in Utah. There is no community in the world where there is as large a percentage of the people who own their homes, and whose homes are free from mortgages, in spite of the fact that we are sending out one million dollars annually for which we get no apparent returns. Judged from the standpoint of the world, not one cent of that vast sum spent in preaching the Gospel to the world ever returns to us in the shape of money. But the Lord has made up to this people for that which they do in this respect as well as in all others, and I find in it a testimony of the Gospel, just as I find a testimony of the Gospel in all these other things which have been alluded to this afternoon. We have every reason to be proud of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart that I was born in the Church, and that the Lord was kind enough to me to give me a testimony of this work.  
  
May our light so shine that the world will see our good works and glorify our Father in Heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
