23
Outdoor
05 10 1913
Elder George F. Richards. 
28
84-86

None

Free agency of man a Divine law — The latter-day Gospel, the old Gospel restored — The Priesthood also restored — "Mormonism" the greatest organization on earth.  
  
While there have been a great many people moving to and fro upon these grounds I have been pleased to note that there are hundreds of people immediately in front of us who have scarcely moved out of their tracks during the time of this service. This is an evidence to me of the interest they have in this great work which we represent, and of which we have been speaking, and in the things which they have heard. We have a message to those who have not united themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a message of peace, of good will and of salvation, if they will but receive it. We would not if we could, force our views upon them and oblige them to join with us in this work. One of Satan's objects from the beginning was to destroy the free agency of man. But the Son, who gave himself willingly as a ransom for the sins of the world, secured to us our free agency. This principle is represented most beautifully in one of our hymns which reads:  
  
"Know this that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven; He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love and light; In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind."  
  
As a witness for the Lord I testify to you, my friends, that the things which have been spoken in your presence this afternoon are the things of God, the truth of God, whether you receive them or reject them. This is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and a savor of life unto life or death unto death, according as it is received and obeyed, or as it is rejected and fought against. It is the Gospel which Enoch taught to his people and was made a savor of life unto them, because they received it with glad hearts, and it wrought perfection in their lives, so that they obtained translation and salvation. It was a savor of death unto death unto the people in Noah's time, because they rejected it and gratified without restraint their carnal desires to their destruction and condemnation. This is the same Gospel that originated in the heavens before the world was. It is the same that was taught to our first parents, Adam and Eve. It is the same Gospel that was taught by our Savior and His Apostles of the Primitive Church. It is the Gospel which John the Revelator saw in vision, and declared as recorded in the 14th chapter, of Revelations:  
  
"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell upon the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue and people, saying: with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come; and worship Him that made heavens, and earth, and the sea and the fountains of waters."  
  
This Gospel has been restored to earth in this dispensation of the fullness of times, when all things which have been spoken of by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began are to be restored in preparation for the great day of the coming of our Lord, when He is to take possession of His kingdom, and reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. It has come in the way that was predicted, having been delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel; and by the gift and power of God he translated the records of the Book of Mormon, which contains the Everlasting Gospel as it was taught to the ancient inhabitants of this continent by Christ our Savior, after He left His disciples at Jerusalem. He told them in going that He had other sheep which were not of that fold, that He had to visit. And He visited the Nephite nations; He organized His Church, and told them that He had come in fulfillment of what He had told His disciples at Jerusalem.  
  
We have this Gospel, and there is just one Gospel recognized of God, that which He instituted in the heavens from the foundation of the world; as Paul declared to the Galatians: "Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed;" just the one Gospel which has in it the power of God unto salvation. In connection with this message of the Gospel, the Lord delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith the keys of the Priesthood of Aaron, and also the keys of the Priesthood of the Son of God, with power and authority to build up His church and kingdom, here upon the earth, and authority to admister the saving ordinances of the Gospel unto all who are prepared by faith and repentance to receive it. This Gospel, in connection with the Church and Kingdom of God which has been established upon the earth in this dispensation, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, constitutes what is know as "Mormonism"; and it is the biggest thing in this world, the most important thing with which mankind have to do.  
  
Reference has been made to the perfection of the organization of the Church; study of the organization with its quorums of priesthood its auxiliaries and helps in government, and the character of the work each is doing, convinces one of the superiorty of the organization and divinity of its origin. A few years ago at a Ministerial Convention being held in California a declaration was made by a member of that Association, that "The thing called 'Mormonism' is the greatest organization upon the earth, save possibly the German Army." And during the past summer, in a convention of Ministers in Portland, Oregon, one of those Ministers declared without any reservation, that "it is the greatest organization upon the earth." I bear testimony to the truth of his statement.  
  
It remains for us, my brethren and sisters, and friends, while here in mortality to receive the Gospel which is offered unto us gratuitously, and make use of our time and talents is establishing ourselves in faith and devotion to the cause of God, that we may have His favor and His blessing in life, and that we may obtain, as a reward of our integrity and faithfulness, eternal life in the world to come. God help us to these great blessings, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
