28
Morning
06 10 1913
Elder David O. M'Kay
18
103-107

None

Appreciation of Gospel truths increased by study— Treasures of Truth in Doctrine and Covenants — Latter-day Israel should not "halt between two opinions," but choose to obey God — Spiritual and physical power obtained by obeying God's laws — "What is the use of hearing and not doing?"  
  
This conference has indeed been an inspiration to Israel. I pray that the same spirit that has guided the brethren who have addressed the different congregations may direct my thoughts and remarks during the next few minutes. My heart has been filled with thanksgiving as I have listened to the admonitions from the Presidency of the Church, the council of the twelve, and others who have adressed us.  
  
It seems to me that more specific instructions and admonitions have been given to the Saints this conference than ever before at any particular conference. My heart is in hearty atune with the suggestion of President Smith, that the Latter-day Saints think more about the Gospel and spiritual things, that they give more attention to these matters, devote more time to the real things in life, and less time to those things that will perish. It is also in hearty accord with the admonition to resist the various temptations in our midst. Those two suggestions alone, if Latter-day Saints would adopt them in their lives, would be sufficient to make this people a light upon a hill, a light that could not be hid. We refer to such teachings sometimes as little things, but indeed they are the greatest in this life. If we were to pay more attention to such advice and devote more study to the modern revelations as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, we would grow in appreciation of the magnitude of the great work that has been established in this dispensation. It is often said that the Church is the greatest thing in the world — it is — but the more we give attention to it, and realize how well adapted it is to our individual life, to our home life, to our social life; when we study it from the standpoint of our environment from the standpoint of scientific discoveries, our hearts are made to rejoice for God's goodness unto us in giving us the privilege of knowing the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  
  
Nearly every passage in the Doctrine and Covenants is replete with admonitions, full of inspiration and wonderful revelations to men. Sometimes those revelations are couched in but few words, but by careful study one sees how closely related they are to all truth. Take for example the wonderful revelation, simply expressed, in regard to government by the priesthood: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by the priesthood only by persuasion, long suffering, gentleness, meekness and with love unfeigned." Just think of that use of the word "unfeigned." Love pretended has no influence. Love unfeigned always has the power to reach the heart. To continue: "Reproving at times by sharpness, and afterwards showing forth greater love towards him whom thou hast reproved lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." Why it is a wonderful admonition and lesson in regard to the government, not only in quorums of priesthood in the Church offices but in our home life and in all phases of association in society. Consider, again, the suggestion in regard to the worth of souls, "Remember the worth of souls is great." Also the revelation in regard to the true riches, "Seek after the riches I shall give, wisdom" and so on, "and the riches of the world will be added also." Such things are the real things in the world. And so we might continue, revelation after revelation as given in the Doctrine and Covenants, if studied and paid attention to by the Latter-day Saints, will establish faith in their hearts and make them rejoice at this great and wonderful organization placed among men for their salvation.  
  
Not the least among these by any means is that revelation on the word of wisdom. Now there are just one or two little paragraphs in it that refer to the use of strong drink: "If any man among you use strong drink, behold it is not good." Just a simple statement; it is unqualified, but there it stands. "Wine and strong drink are not good." That revelation was given over eighty years ago — the Word of God, not only to the people who are members of His Church but to the inhabitants of the world wherever that book has been published; wherever it has been distributed by the elders of the Church the word of God has been sounded to the world. People have thus been told by revelation that it is not good to indulge in these intoxicating beverages; but they have wavered, and some Latter-day Saints have wavered. They have been very much as ancient Israel with the gods of Baal. You remember when Elijah came amongst them denouncing their worship of idols. He had been hidden for several months, and during the three and a half years faming had kept away from the king. The famine became so sore that the people gathered near Mount Carmel, a projecting peak near the Mediterranean Sea. Elijah, determining to reveal himself told one of his friends to inform the king that he, Elijah, was there. The man hesitated to go. Elijah said, "This day I will show myself to him," and he did: and when the king saw him he said, "Art thou he that troubleth Israel?" and the prophet answered. "I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, thou has followed Baalim." Then Elijah suggested, "Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto Mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal, four hundred and fifty and let us determine here today whether the god of Baal is the true god or whether the God of Israel is the true god." The people assembled in that picturesque place and Elijah adressed them: "How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow Him, but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered not a word." It is suggestive. There the people were halting: many of them knew in a way that Israel's God was omnipotent, that He it was who could save them, and yet the other gods offered pleasure, offered indulgence; and the people halted; some trying to serve and yield obedience to both. "How long halt ye between two opinions?" said the prophet; "If the Lord be God follow Him, if Baal be god, follow him;" but don't try to mix in trying to serve one today and then falling back in obedience to the teachings of the other tomorrow. Well, you know the test that was decided upon; you know the result, and the death that came to the priests of Baal.  
  
While listening to the word of God as given in this conference by our President, who admonished Israel to refrain from indulgence in tobacco, and to refrain from indulgence in strong drink, I thought that instruction has been given to us now for eighty years, and still we falter in obedience. How long, Israel, halt ye between two opinions? The Lord has said that strong drink is not good. Eighty years ago that was declared. Only a few weeks ago, in this country, at a meeting of brewers, a man rose and said: "We don't want the people to drink more beer, but we want more people to drink beer." Which teaching will you heed? Which will the nation accept? Whose voice will the people heed? One declared in the voice of Omnipotence that beer, alcoholic beverages, are not good; the other declared it is good, and he wants to develop the appetite of the people so more people will drink. "How long halt ye between two opinions?" What does it mean to obey God's word? to refrain from indulgence in narcotics, and alcoholic beverages? It means stronger manhood; it means brighter intellects; it means stronger and more perfect physical organism; it means better and truer husbands, more devoted and affectionate fathers; it means parenthood that will transmit to children clean habits, and power in the will to resist temptations of appetite and greater temptations of passion that may come to them; it means happy Homes, contented wives, well dressed and better educated children; it means a safe and sound citizenship which goes for the building of a safe and sound nation; it means salvation for the individual in the kingdom of God. A little thing? On the other hand, what does indulgence mean? Weakened manhood, a weakened will, a physical organism that will transmit weakness to unborn generations; it means the cutting off of life by slow suicide; it means the derangement of mental faculties; it means the breaking up of homes, it means broken hearted wives, destitute children, a weakened society and an underminded Republic — that is what it means. Recent investigations by scientists confirm these statement.  
  
The American Society for the study of alcoholic beverages and narcotics, recently made a report also to this effect. You will find it in the Senate Document no. 48 issued May 17th, 1909. Their conclusions are these: that alcohol is not safe as a common beverage in any of its present commercial forms, or for ordinary prescriptions; that it is a thief of all the vitality of the tissues; that its promises of strength are mocking lies; its semblance of power is simply nerve center disturbances that end in ultimate weakness and destruction. That the whiskey problem is a greater problem today in this country than the great white plague. The intemperance in the United States today costs this country over one billion, eight hundred and eighty-three million dollars; that today in this Republic there are over three million drinkers who have been taught that alcohol is a mild stimulant and a pleasant tonic, and the worst of it is that nearly all these will say they can quit it, each says, "I can leave it alone." The demon is lying to them always, promising them something which it cannot give.  
  
I believe, Latter-day Saints, that it is time for this people to stand up in earnest in the strength of true manhood and declare against these evils. Let us think about them now; go from this conference determined, so far as we are concerned, that we will live in accordance with the admonitions given. This means that in our individual life we will refrain from the use of these things — whiskey, tobacco, tea and coffee. As you know the Latter-day Saints are not alone in declaring against the use of these beverages. Men have proved by scientific research that the word of God as given to the prophet Joseph Smith eighty years ago is the word of life and salvation to man. Then as individuals let us refrain. It grieved me yesterday, as I passed into a restaurant, to see some of our people indulging in some of those beverages, after having listened to the teachings of this conference. What is the use of hearing and not doing? Think! Be strong enough to introduce the principles into active life; and after doing that, as individuals, see that it is cleared up in our homes, use your influence with your children; and remember example in the home will go further in helping our children than our teaching. Parents, you cannot afford for the sake of your children, to use these things. You may want to, but I tell you have no right to transmit such an appetite and a weakened will to those unborn children whom God may give you; you have no right to do it. Children are entitled to a kingly birth, whether they must live in a mud hovel or in a palace; it makes no difference — a kingly birth, inherited strength, physical strength, moral strength, and a tendency towards spiritual uplift.  
  
Then after freeing our homes from forbidden things, let us clean up our towns, eliminate saloons from every city and county. I congratulate the Latter-day Saints that in nearly every town where members of the Church are in the majority, the saloons are closed. I trust that the time is not far distant when they will be eliminated from every town in our state, and from every city and state in our country. I believe with all my heart the sentiments of David Starr Jordan, as expressed in that excellent little work, "The Strength of Being Clean," part of which is as follows:  
  
"So far as the drink of the drunkards is concerned, prohibition may not prohibit; but to clean up a town, to free it from corrosion, save men and boys, and girls too, from vice; and who shall say that moral sanitaion is not as much the duty of the community as physical sanitation? The city of the future will not permit the existence of slums and dives and tippling houses; it will prohibit their existence for the same reason that it now prohibits pig-pens and dung heaps and cess-pools, for where all these things are — slums and cesspools, saloons and pig-pens — there the people grow weak and die."  
  
"Why halt ye, Israel, between two opinions? If God be God, follow Him; if Bacchus, then follow him."  
  
God help us all to know the truth and to have strength to live it, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 