31
Morning
06 10 1913
Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith.
32
112-113

None

None

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of being present at this conference, to hear the word of the Lord, and the testimonies of His servants. I can bear testimony to the truthfulness of all that has been said. I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel. I know that this is the work of the Lord, and that He has intrusted it unto us. It is our duty to deliver it unto the world. It has been given unto us freely, and freely we give it unto them; and as the different individuals all over the world accept the Gospel, — without regard to race, nationality, or creed — and live according to its teachings, they join with us in the love which is common to all faithful Latter-day Saints.  
  
During this conference we had the pleasure of listening to a prayer by one of our brothers of another race, offered in our language, and I rejoiced in his prayer. I rejoice with all my brethren and sisters who accept and faithfully live the Gospel, no matter where they come from. The Gospel is sweet to me, and to all who join in that common love for the truth, when it has been made plain unto them, and they have been blessed with courage and strength to obey its teachings. We rejoice together in the knowledge of the plan of redemption, for we are given the privilege to walk according to the teachings of our Savior, and by obeying them we shall return unto Him and share in that eternal love of our Father which is in heaven. This is my testimony and I rejoice in it.  
  
I thank the Lord for the many privileges that have come to me in associating with the general authorities of the Church, those whom the Lord has called to direct His work in the earth today. I rejoice in the teachings of the Gospel, and in the testimonies that have been borne in this conference, and in the instructions we have received; they are the word of the Lord to us. The many thousands gathered together in the different sessions of this conference have listened to these words, and they are words that should be remembered by all. It is our duty now, as Latter-day Saints, as children of our Father in heaven, to carry these teachings home and make use of them. We are weak — for we are earthly; we need reminding; we are frail creatures, to a certain extent, and are subject to weaknesses both of mind and body. We are very dependent creatures and need constant reminding of our duties. That is one of the purposes of this great gathering, and of other gatherings at our homes in the wards and stakes of Zion.  
  
I pray that our Father in heaven will give us strength, even if we are weak and mortal, to carry to our homes the great teachings which we have been reminded of, and then live according to our duties as Latter-day Saints.  
  
You know, brethren and sisters, that we are not of the world. We have come out of the world, therefore we are different from the world; these worldly things that we are prone to adopt in our lives, we have been warned to leave alone; and where they have taken possession of us, and we look upon them as weaknesses, from a spiritual and progressive standpoint, they should be overcome. We should go forth in the strength which our Father has given us, that spiritual strength by which we live, and we will grow fly receiving and putting into practice the teachings of this conference, and those we receive from the Lord, through His servants, from time to time. Let us rise above our weaknesses by commencing today to live better lives. It is a simple thing to commence, but it takes faith to endure to the end. There may be weaknesses in our lives which have grown upon us and become habits, so that it will be somewhat difficult for some of us to leave them off at once, or of our own strength, we must have the help of the Lord; and it can be secured through humility in prayer and in obedience to the laws of His Gospel.  
  
I thank the Lord for the teachings of the Gospel, and do pray that His Spirit will give us strength to commence now to reform and live as Latter-day Saints, and not as if we were living in Babylon. We can overcome our tendencies toward disease, sin, and decay, by heeding the remindings and teachings given by President Smith in the first session of this conference.  
  
Now, with the power that has been given to me to bless, I desire to bless this congregation and all Israel, that we may see and study the conditions by which we are surrounded, and in the strength that has been given us have power to overcome them, become better, and conform more nearly to the teachings of our Master; that we may prepare this earth for His coming. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
