32
Morning
06 10 1913
Elder Joseph E. Robinson.
79
113-116

None

None 

(President of California Mission.) 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the testimony of the brethren who have addressed us and in the fact that we are pointed back to first principles. It is a matter that I had thought upon because of some recent experiences. I had recalled the testimony of Paul to the ancient Galatians, wherein he said he marveled because they had been called so soon to another gospel which, however, was not a gospel, for there is but one, which is the power of God unto salvation; and as He told Timothy, men have lulled themselves to sleep, having itching ears, and they have had teachers after their own lusts, who have pleased their fancies and have drawn them away from the truths of the everlasting Gospel. In the world, men are declaring today that there is no such thing as sin, only as a person may conceive it in his own mind; that all things are as they should be, and that evil is only to those who think evil. One of our greatest churches, one of late growth too, is largely responsible, I take it, for this mental atitude of the people abroad. I was astounded, while coming to this city, to find among five gentlemen, who are well read and widely traveled, these very thoughts that I am expressing to you now, and that the pleasures of life were more desirable than the things which we look upon as of eternal worth, and that they were more punctilious in the observance of the so-called pleasures than they were in the obligations to uphold and defend the right and preserve the morals of the public, and to help maintain civic probity. So I take it as most timely, to the Latter-day Saints, that we should be admonished anew of the things for which our fathers came out of the old world and for which they planted us securely in the tops of the mountains, for which they denied their own appetites and made it possible for us to enjoy here, through their experiences, the blessings and the blessedness of the everlasting covenant.  
  
I rejoice today in noting the strength that has returned to Elder George Albert Smith, and I want to add just one testimony to the testimony of faith as expounded by him namely; that it is through faith that his life has been spared and that you heard him speak in such good voice and form today. I think I know as well as any man, the trials which he has undergone, how humble and patient he has been through it all, striving only to magnify his office and calling, and asking if he could not do so, that God would take him away from this earth that another might fill his place. The prayers of the Saints have prevailed, thank the Lord for that, and for his presence today.  
  
I miss, as I never believed I could, the presence of my fellow servant the late Elder Ben E. Rich; I miss the earnest and warm grasp of his hand, his kindly expressions, bis spontaneous wit and humor and cheerfulness that would disarm an enemy, and his magnanimous generosity that would make a friend of that same enemy. I have looked upon him as the ideal Seventy, almost, of this people; I have regarded him as an ideal missionary, and in the rich heritage of his testimony, in word and deed and pen. I feel that incumbent upon me with my co-laborers is the obligation that we shall sustain and uphold the standard of truth and of righteousness and the restored Gospel of the Christ as Ben E. Rich ever did in the world.  
  
I want to admonish you, my brethren and sisters, that we cannot neglect our duties and hope to escape punishment. As Paul said, how can we unto whom this great salvation has come hope to escape, if we neglect so great salvation; and there is such a thing as believing in vain. For, in addressing the Corinthian saints, telling them of the Gospel in which they then stood and by which they will be saved, he said, "unless ye have believed in vain." It has made me sad to hear, — I was going to say the admonitions, and I may say the spirit of some of those admonitions, that prove to me that among us at home, those from whom we expect so much, whom we hold up to the world as the very ensamples of light and truth, of honor and sobriety, proves that we have neglected at home, and that we forget and are unmindful of the teachings of our brethren and of the obligations that are laid upon us and that we ourselves have assumed. You expect much of us, my brethren and sisters, who are in the missionary field; you expect that we shall walk the line of strict propriety, that no untoward thing shall be done by us who are missionaries, that shall bring disrepute upon you at home and upon the cause of the Master, but that we shall give our whole heart-power, and all the virtues that we are possessed of to maintain the excellency of your good repute. Can we not expect as much of you? Have we not the right, when we turn our eyes Zionward, as we speak of these mountains and valleys, to think that here are the very elect of the earth, the salt of the earth, and that here there can and shall be no iniquity flourish? that there the standard of probity in all things shall be made unsullied?  
  
I want to tell you one little experience on the coast last year, that I had when speaking of the evils in the world. I was confronted with the fact that in Idaho and Utah alone, of all these United States, was book-making for the races indulged in the open race courses obtaining. I am glad to know that that has been curtailed since the time I am speaking of. I want to tell you that not only the eyes of some of the philosophers of the world, the thoughtful men, — and students who are loking into the future for the conservation of the integrity of the American people and the people of the world, not only the eyes of these men are upon us but from the lowly walks of life we receive daily testimony that we are being watched in all of our ways and all of our doings. A young elder bore testimony to me, three weeks ago, that frequently in San Francisco, recently, he had been asked by individuals: "Do you people intend to build here? Are you doing anything towards establishing yourselves in this city? We want to know." And his curiosity was aroused, and so to one man who seemed very earnest in the matter, he said: "Why do you ask this question?" He replied: "Because I want to tell you, young man, we are watching you, and if your people go out of here, some of us wil be close behind you." Thus indicating the fact that he felt in the actions of the "Mormon" people could be found an example that could be safely followed even in material things.  
  
Through the graciousness of the Trustee-in-trust, and some of our good friends who have assisted us, and the Saints in the mission field, we have been able to erect a most beautiful chapel in Los Angeles, with a home for the presiding authority of the mission, also mission home and office for our office force and elders. Commercially speaking, since this has been done, our stock has advanced a hundred per cent and more. People who before were indifferent towards us, when they see what we have done, have been led to interest themselves and to seek our society, to ask advice and counsel at our hands, and they want to know what we think of various conditions other than that which we call religious. This offers an opportunity for telling something of the Gospel; and it is good to know that the man who thinks, sees the hand of the Lord in our success in reclaiming the waste places of Zion and in building up in the greater centers of the land an evidence of the fact that God is with this people; that there is something virile and potent in the Gospel for by it and with the excellency of our institutions we realize many blessings — the longevity of the lives of our people, as recorded by the statistics given, the peace that obtains in our homes, the binding power of the everlasting covenant, the keeping of the word of wisdom, — all an outgrowth and product of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. Men used to look upon our success rather from a commercial standpoint, as communism and cooperation, but today they are beginning to see there is more than that in it; and it is significant to me, when men will say that they read in it the essence of religion, and that if it be the result of "Mormonism," so-called, that they see the need of "Mormonism" in their own homes, in their own communities, and in their own churches. I bear witness unto you that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a prophet; that we have, as we sang, founded our faith on a sure foundation, not only of prophets, apostles, evangelists, and pastors, and deacons as we have them, to dispense the living word to us daily, but in that same testimony that came to Peter when he bore witness to the Christ that He was the Son of God, and the Master said: "Man hath not revealed this unto thee but my Father which is in heavens, and upon this rock shall I build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." In this statement I read more than the fact that a knowledge was revealed to Peter, a philosophy, or an understanding that Jesus was the Christ, but the testimony itself, burned into his soul, that Jesus was the Son of God, that he knew that God lived; and this, we are told by the Master, is life eternal, and surely the gates of hell shall not prevail against the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ.  
  
May the Lord keep us in His love for ever more, guide us to His praise, and wean us away from the vanities of the flesh and the world, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. 
