37
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 
1
123-127

None

None

(President Northwestern States Mission.) 

Above all earthly things I esteem my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My heart rejoices in the joy and confidence which come through the security this feeling gives me, while the wars and strife are on in the world of religion, and new developments are taking place in the world of science, constantly disturbing other denominations, we are unmoved. We stand solidly and squarely where we began, or where the Lord planted our feet, and there is no necessity for the revision of creed, for changing the doctrines that have been given to this Church from the beginning, notwithstanding, when these glorious truths were given, many of them were new and ran counter to the opinions and theories of men, both in religion and science. The glorious doctrine we have heard so much about at this conference, known as the Word of Wisdom, there were no scientists advocating such truths when it was given. The Prophet did not give argument and reason in this revelation but announced, as all prophets do, the word of the Lord, to stand for itself without argument, to be finally demonstrated as a truth. I say the fact that we do not have to change our opinion with respect to these matters is a joy to me. One of the greatest testimonies to me is the fact that while this Church, founded as it was in a day of doubt, darkness and of superstition, still it took solid ground; clear cut, positive statements were made with respect to religion, the morals of life, the doctrines of God and of His Christ, with respect even to some of the sciences, notwithstanding a positive stand and position was taken by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we have not had to renounce any of these things. They stand as strong and firm today as the truth, vindicated by our experiences and by the wisdom that the Lord has given to men of learning and of knowledge.  
  
I have had the privilege, during the last summer, of attending some conventions, and conferences of some of the leading denominations, and what a difference as compared with the experiences we have had during the last day or two! Contention over the dogmas of religion occupied a very large part of the time. I thought with joy in my heart of the great wisdom the Lord had displayed in organizing this Church, with its ministry called from the body of the people — not hirelings, nor men working for filthy lucre's sake. The elders of this Church, who bear the word oi God to the world, are called from the ranks, from the lowly walks of life, fired with the power of God and imbued with His Holy Priesthood, even as living fires among the people, warning them, stirring the hearts of men, and bringing hundreds and thousands to repentance. The world has laughed at the method of our preaching and the kind of preachers we had, but I listened recently to splendid arguments, in one of the great denominations of our own land, denouncing the hired ministry and pleading for a change in the calling of men to the ministry, patterned and fashioned after the method the Lord has established in this Church. They want lay-men, men whose hearts are in the work and who are not filled with selfishness and covetousness, to enter the ministry. Behold how well the Lord established His ministry and the method of preaching the Gospel. When the world laughed at and criticized the efforts of this Church to establish the financial method the Lord revealed, in the payment of our tithes and offerings, for the building and establishment of His Church, it created a good deal of amusement among religionists; but this summer almost one-half of the time of one of the great conferences was occupied in a plea to establish the financial system this Church has received at the hand of God. They are now copying and imitating that which the Lord revealed to us many years ago. What a joy it is, I repeat, to be possessed of these truths and to stand as an organization that does not have to shift, while others are only now changing and moving toward the standards the Lord has fixed and established in this Church.  
  
Brother Talmage referred to the changing opinion of men with reference to the continuity of life after death. I thought while he was speaking, and have thought since this question has been discussed recently in one of the largest scientific gatherings in the world, by able scientists, that "Mormonism" gives to the world the greatest and best evidences there are that life exists after death, and that men and women are the same individuals, possessed of the same knowledge, the same intelligences after death that they had here, and are even added unto. Certain evidences have been given to the world from so-called spiritualists, who pretend to reveal the fact that life exists after death. Much deception evidently has been practiced, for some of these supposed mediums have given to the world communications from great men who have once lived upon the earth, Daniel Webster is supposed to have spoken, George Washington, Shakespeare and others; but the feeble efforts that come from those supposed sources are such doggerel as to be far beneath, in character, the wisdom and knowledge displayed by these men while in life. One able paper said, if these are true communications from those individuals, then heaven must blight the intellect and dwarf the mind of man, and they become weaklings. Deception has been practiced whenever one represents that he is a certain character who once lived on the earth, when the information given is beneath and inferior to that which the same character displayed while he was here upon the earth, you may know that it is a deception.  
  
This Church is founded upon the truth that men possess the same identity after this life. Behold the glorious revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, as contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. I assert that it reveals that Jesus is possessed of the same intelligence, the same knowledge, the same powers and understanding that He had while He dwelt on the earth. To make this claim is not to depreciate in one particular from the glory, knowledge and intelligence of the Lord Jesus, for the revelations contained in that book are the equal of anything that Jesus ever gave to man while upon the earth, and more comprehensive in some respects. This word of wisdom, the revelation of the Lord Jesus; is there anything in the scriptures or anywhere else in the world on that subject that is better, more to the point, than this? Think of the revelation known among us as the Vision. Where is there anything more splendid than that wonderful conception the Lord Jesus gave to the mind of the Prophet Joseph with reference to life here and hereafter, and man's place in it? Some of our ablest men have said, in commenting upon certain passages of the Doctrine and Covenants, that there is nothing in the English language superior to it. It is not doggerel; it is sense, the best of sense; and it displays, I assert again, the fact that the Lord Jesus, who gave these revelations is the same intelligent, all-wise Son of God that He was when He lived upon the earth, and that Joseph Smith told the truth when he said he received this knowledge from the Lord Jesus. It could not have come from any one with less knowledge and understanding than that source from which he claimed he received it.  
  
The world has marveled and wondered at the gathering of Israel in latter days from the nations of the earth and planting their feet in this goodly land, and it has all been done so successfully while others have failed. Here in this desert waste, the marvelous thing has been accomplished. Where did we get the key by which this was done? The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that Moses appeared to him in the Kirtland Temple, the great leader of ancient Israel, who held also the keys of the gathering of modern Israel, and he delivered those keys and the knowledge that comes with them, into the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I can believe that Moses has presided over many of the movements of Israel in modern days as a great instrument in the hands of God, a presiding genius looking after the welfare of the gatherings of Israel, directing many of these movements; and does it detract from Moses to say that we give him credit for delivering the keys of the gathering of modern Israel to the Prophet Joseph? Nothing since the time Moses was upon the earth and since Israel was gathered in his day excels, or comes up to the wonderful work that has been accomplished in the gathering of modern Israel; so that I assert again that Moses lives and is possessed of the same intelligence, knowledge and power he had while he dwelt among men upon the earth, and even excelled his former work as manifested in this great gathering in modern days, and we have not seen the end of that work.  
  
When the Prophet Joseph declared that Elijah delivered to him the keys of the salvation of the living and the dead he asserted a wonderful truth. Was Elijah possessed of the same knowledge and intelligence he had while he dwelt upon the earth? It has been asserted by some that the Prophet Joseph Smith obtained from masonry some or most all of the ceremonies had by us in our temples. Recently I have had an opportunity to investigate most thoroughly the history and connection of the membership of the Church with masonry, when certain lodges were organized in the city of Nauvoo and other places; and I satisfied myself, and without giving you the detailed evidence, I assert to you that the evidence given by masons themselves proves conclusively that Joseph Smith never knew the first thing of masonry until years after he had received the visit of Elijah, and had delivered to men the keys of the holy priesthood, and the ceremonies and ordinances had by us in these sacred temples, and had given the endowments to men long before he knew the first thing pertaining to the ordinances and the ceremonies of masonry. What is masonry? Why, a fragment of the old truth coming down perhaps from Solomon's temple of ancient days, and but a fragment, as Christianity is but a fragment of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was only to be had and enjoyed by those who hold the holy priesthood. The prophet Elijah revealed these truths; he possessed them anciently and he gave them in their perfectness, and simplicity and purity to the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
  
I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to know we are possessed of such splendid evidences of the truth of the statements of the Prophet, and to know that we have with us, as the brethren have expressed it, living inspiration that directs Israel. In my heart I say, Amen, to all of the counsels that have been given at this conference. I bear testimony to you that the brethren and sisters of this Church who will repent of their sins and accept the counsels of this conference, obey the word of wisdom, become moderate, become temperate in their dress and in their manner of life, they and their children shall win the plaudits of the world even in excess of that which their fathers and grandfathers have received. We may not build any more bridges; we may not subdue desert wastes but there is something for us to do, and we must round up our shoulders and do it, or the Lord Almighty will cast out those who do not do it. We have listened to these counsels a long, long time. Now, shall we respond? Shall we repent of these evils, master ourselves, and live in harmony with the counsels of this conference? If we do, great shall be our reward, eternal our glory, and the world will look to us as a pattern, an ensample in these things that are greater in their achievement than anything in the past. Our fathers and mothers believed and received the word of wisdom, on the statement of the prophet that it was God's counsel. In addition to that we have scientific evidences, proving the correctness of this counsel, greater is our condemnation, for we have the word of the. Lord and the scientific evidences that His word is true. We can satisfy our reason, and judgment on these things as well as our faith, hence the greater condemnation for our disobedience.  
  
God help us to put these things into practise, and not merely talk about it, but go home and do it. Fathers and mothers should set that example in their families; put aside the forbidden things. Let our example and precept be consistent before our children and joy shall be ours in this life and the life to come; which may the Lord grant; in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
