38
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Elder Charles A. Callis.
3
127-129

None

None 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

Members of the Church in the Southern States Mission mourn over the death of President Ben E. Rich. Never was there a more dauntless soldier of the cross than he was. For a long, long time the mission field will be lonely without President Ben E. Rich.  
  
As I listened to the splendid instructions during this conference, the words of the Apostle Paul came forcefully to my mind. In summing up his powerful and splendid defense of the Christian religion before King Agrippa, he said:" Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue to this day, witnessing to both small and great and saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did slay should come."  
  
My brethren and sisters, if we stand upon the revelations of Jesus Christ as contained in the standard works of the Church, we stand on solid ground; on other grounds are sinking sands. Joseph Smith preached and taught nothing but what the prophets of God predicted he would preach and teach. Martin Luther, in standing before that hostile council, said in defense of his position: "Here I stand, I can do no other; may God help me." Joseph Smith saw the Father and the Son. Like Paul he was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision, for he said that God knew that he had seen this vision, and if he denied it he would come under condemnation of the Lord; but praise be to God he did not deny the testimony, and he did preach the things which the prophets of God had foretold he would preach, and he did do the things which they foretold he would do. Our sectarian friends are great lovers of the prophecies, but they hate like the mischief the manner in which they are fulfilled. Look at this mighty stream of truth proceeding from this Church! When Columbus and his associates saw a mighty river issuing from the mainland, one of his men said, "That river drains an island." Columbus said: "It is a mistake. Such a majestic river comes from a continent." So this great stream of truth does not proceed from a man, nor from an isolated sect or church, but it proceeds from the only true and living Church of Jesus Christ on the face of the earth. And this river is going to grow and spread until, like a sea of glory, it spreads from pole to pole.  
  
In Chattanooga, this summer, we have witnessed two reunions that have stirred my soul to its depths. Last May, the Confederate veterans met in their annual reunion, and I saw those men to the number of twelve thousand marching down the street, under the shadow of Lookout Mountain, within a stone's throw of the bloody battle-field of Chickamauga. When I saw those old veterans, some with empty coatsleeves, being carried in wagons, the thought came to my soul, how can it be denied that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God? They were brave men, those confederate veterans, splendid characters, men who bravely fought for what they sincerely believed to be a principle; and as they marched down the line, being saluted by the cheers of thousands of admirers, I said again and again in my heart, Surely Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.  
  
Only a few days ago, the veterans of the Union army met in an annual reunion in Chattanooga; and as I watched those brave, splendid men marching down the street, some with empty coat-sleeves, many bearing the scars of battle, I said again in my heart, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that his prophecies have been literally fulfilled. Not that the prophet desired that the bloodshed and carnage should come, but God foreknew it would come, and He warned this nation, through his prophet of the great Civil war. His prophet proposed a remedy, a solution of the great question that caused the war, and which would have avoided the awful bloodshed and misery; but the solution was rejected. President Brigham Young said that where a prophet's words are fulfilled they are more solid proof of his divine mission as a prophet than all the miracles he can work. Another great man, not of this Church, said that prophecies are permanent miracles. Go look at the National Cemetery in Chattanooga, and the cemeteries in other cities, that are so well taken care of by the federal government, and look at those veterans, wounded and maimed and battle-scarred, marching past — all these bear eloquent and powerful testimony to the fact that Joseph was indeed a prophet of God. Talk about miracles! Talk about the day of miracles being past, so long as this war is a memory, so long as those granite monuments pierce the clouds, so long as those mighty monuments which people from the South and the North have erected to commemorate the valor of their sons, and brothers, and fathers! So long as these monuments stand, so long will there be a standing and permanent miracle to testify to the people that the days of prophets and apostles have not gone to return no more forever.  
  
Look at the communities in this great state and in the surrounding states. Did not the prophet predict that the people should be driven from Illnois and become a great and mighty people in this western land? Has it not been fulfilled? Behold a miracle, not only on this Temple block but throughout Zion; and these miracles are increasing. O, brethren and sisters, confronted by these miracles, do you think we shall stand or "halt between two opinions?" A thousand times no! But we will stand with our leaders, and with them we will fight the good fight. We will finish our course; we will keep the faith; we will, with God's help, win the crown of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began. Amen. 
