39
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Elder John L. Herrick
53
129-130

None

None

(President of Western States Mission.) 

My soul was made to rejoice upon the opening session of this conference, when our beloved prophet and president enunciated to this people a theme for our consideration which I believe to be a vital thing for, not only us in the valleys of the mountains, but for the people at large in the United States to consider. Solomon said: "Wine is a mocker; strong drink is raging; whosoever deceiveth himself thereby is not wise." At this late hour it would be presuming indeed for me to particularize regarding the Word of Wisdom, and the conditions that grow out of a failure to observe it, but will simply direct attention to a few figures that came under my observation, recently, in contemplating the subject. It seems apparent, from carefully compiled statistics, that the United States is vieing with other countries of the world to see which can consume the most liquor, and when I say other countries I refer more especially to France, England and Germany. In the year 1911, there was consumed in the United States 17.79 gallons of intoxicants for each man, woman and child. In 1912 that startling quantity had been increased by nearly five gallons for each man, woman and child, at a cost, as we heard this forenoon, from Elder McKay, of nearly two billion dollars. Besides that, there was consumed just about two billion gallons of beer, enough, I presume, if it were turned into a channel, to float a battleship; and then, too, there was more than two hundred and fifty million dollars worth of coffee used. When we come to tobacco we have probably a more stupenduous showing in figures, and maybe in evil results, than anything else, because of its almost general use throughout the country. During the calendar year 1911 there was used in the manufacture of tobacco, snuff, cigars, and cigarettes, sixteen and one-half billion pounds. I do not know what the average cost of the tobacco would be per pound, but I should say, since it was made into expensive cigarettes and cigars, that perhaps fifty cents a pound would be fair. So putting these figures together I take it that each man, woman and child in the United States consumed ten dollars worth of alcoholic liquors, coffee, tea, and tobacco each month of that year. Imagine, if you will, what absolutely unbelievable figures that would make if that money were saved. Ten dollars for a hundred million people would mean a billion dollars a month saved to this country, or twelve billions annually, if we desisted from using intoxicants and tobacco, tea and coffee. There would soon be no national debt, or scarcely any other debts, could that vast sum be used for more legitimate and necessary things.  
  
Emerson, I believe, said that "a man ought to be strong enough to overcome anything that can come to him. He is the strong man who can say No, and he is the wise man who through all his life can keep his mind, his soul, and his body clean."  
  
Speaking for one of the missions of this country, I cannot but refer to the occasion which brought five or six thousand people together in this building two weeks ago, yesterday, to pay tribute to the memory of our beloved friend and associate, President Ben E. Rich, a man whom I believe to have been one of the great missionaries of our Church. "And every one who hath forsaken houses, or brothers, or sisters, or fathers, or mothers, or children, or lands, for my name's sake shall receive an hundred fold and shall inherit everlasting life." So said the Savior of the world, as recorded by Matthew; and I think if there is any man who is entitled to eternal life, and to an hundred fold of blessing, it will be such men as Ben E. Rich, who have given the best part of their lives to this work, and those who die martyrs, as he did, to the cause of Christ.  
  
Let us, my brethren and sisters, heed the admonition of the prophet, seer and revelator to Israel. His warning voice made it known to us at the beginning of this conference that we should observe the Word of Wisdom; that we should heed the whisperings of the Spirit, that we should keep our bodies clean and our minds holy. May we be able to do so under the inspiration of heaven, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 