41
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Elder Walter P. Monson. 
94
132-134

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I can say, with my brethren who have preceded me, that I have rejoiced extremely in the spirit of this splendid conference, and the appropriateness of the singing, which has been soul-inspiring hymns, with music by our own composers, in nearly every instance. I feel that it is good to be here. I have received spiritual food in listening to the remarks and testimonies that have been borne in our hearing this afternoon, as well as in the other sessions of this conference.  
  
The Latter-day Saints have not turned their eyes unto a setting sun of spiritual glory; they are calling upon the world to look upon the dawn of a new era, and spiritual light has again been shed forth upon the souls of men. They are calling upon all mankind to rejoice in the advent of the dispensation of the fullness of times, when God will bring together all the dispensations that have ever been upon the earth, with all of their attendant blessings, all will be included in this last dispensation. We have heard, from the brethren, of the restoration of the keys of the gathering of Israel, keys delivered by Elijah, the prohet. All the keys and blessings that were enjoyed by the prophets and people of ancient days have come to us, and we are made partakers of those blessings.  
  
The Latter-day Saints do not have to look back into the days of Adam and of Abraham to find examples of sacrifice. While we were listening to the remarks of Elder Roberts, the beautiful tribute paid by him, suggested by monuments, that commemorate the sacrifice and achievements of God's people, I thought we must not forget that in this great American desert, the wilds of the western land and mountains, God has raised up a people whose sturdiness is not equalled in the world; and they have excelled notwithstanding their impoverished condition. They have produced literally, from elements that were rough and unhewn, an empire that stands for the glory of God in these the latter days.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony to you, before taking up my labors in the Eastern States Mission, that I know that God lives; that I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that the doctrines you have heard expounded in this conference are doctrines that receive the divine approval of Jesus Christ our Lord, and God our Heavenly Father. I also bear testimony to the divine mission of Joseph Smith, the prophet, who was instrumental in these the last days in restoring anew the Gospel light, which seems to stir the whole spiritual world from center to circumference. My heart is filled with gratitude and praise, and has been thrilled by the testimonies which have been borne. The Spirit of the Lord has caused me to see the glorious truths that have been portrayed. I uphold and sustain the prophet, seer, and revelator, who spoke to us in the opening session of this conference. He manifested the power of inspiration and the influence of the Spirit of the Lord; for the topics touched upon are the most timely that the Latter-day Saints could have presented before them. While I was in England, about three years ago, I had charge of what was known as Earl's Court Booth. I simply mention a little incident that occurred there to show how thinking people of the world are turning attention toward the Latter-day Saints, and occasionally show that they approve of their lives and actions in some respects. While I was handing out our literature and selling our books, at Earl's Court Booth, I met a learned man from the Oxford University, whom I was informed had set apart more church of England ministers than any other man who had held the same position in the history of the Oxford University. I had the oportunity of passing to him a six-penny booklet, that was written by Doctor James E. Talmage, "The Story of Mormonism." On the front was a triangular heading, with "The Story of Mormonism" inscribed within the triangle. He came back, in two or three weeks, and I recognized him when he came to the booth, and I asked him if he had read the little book that he bought when he was there before. He said, "Yes, I have; but why do you call this work 'Mormonism?' " I replied "we are called 'Mormons' for the same reason that John is sometimes called Jack. People gave us a nick-name, and the more we protest the more they love to call us that name; but we have no objections, inasmuch as 'Mormonism' stands for 'moregood.' everything that is pure and holy in the lives, of men." He said: "You did not catch my idea. If you would remove that name, 'Mormonism,' the whole world would be more ready to accept those glorious truths." He asked me if I was acquainted with Doctor Talmage, the writer. I told him that I was not intimately acquainted, but that I knew him. He said: "When you go home I want you to bear to Doctor Talmage one suggestion with respect to his work." I told him that I would, and I have delivered it. He said; "Instead of having this triangular affair on the front cover, and standing within the triangle, 'The Story of Mormonism, by James E. Talmage,' there should be a star or a crescent, more the shape of a horse-shoe, placed on the front cover, in two lines, and between these two lines it should read, 'These are they that have come up through great tribulation.'" I thought that, of all the beautiful delicate compliments that ever have been paid to the Latter-day Saint people, this by Rev. J. Barker Smith of the Oxford University was one of the finest.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I bear you my humble testimony that I know the work we are engaged in is the plan that has been established by our Heavenly Father for the redemption of human souls. May God bless us and help us to appreciate these blessings; that we may live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God; which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
