42
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Bishop Charles W. Nibley. 
24
134-135

None

None

We have had a splendid conference from start to finish, and now we are about at the close. It is not my intention to make any extended remarks, for there is not time. There is one matter, however, that it is desired I should call to your attention.  
  
You are all acquainted with the unfortunate condition of our people who have been expelled from Mexico, and who have had to leave their property and all they possess, ana flee for their lives. Quite a number of them are still located near the borders of Mexico, at El Paso and other places, but there is a large number scattered in the settlements, wards and stakes of Utah, Idaho, Arizona and the outside stakes. Brethren and sisters, wherever you can help our afflicted brothers and sisters who are in need — and they are all in need of assistance — to get work or secure employment, do all that you can in this direction, and where they are in actual need of sustenance, of food or clothing, it is our duty to help supply it. I know that in the abundance that you have, you will not withhold from these brethren and sisters, who are in this condition of want.  
  
We all hope that the time will soon come when conditions will be more settled in that land, and all who wish to return to their possessions, or that which is left of them, can do so, but that time seems to be a considerable distance ahead, and no man can tell just when it will be. In the meantime, let us do our duty towards them.  
  
Let me add another word, also. The Lord is showering His blessings upon the Latter-day Saints in rich abundance. The earth is wonderfully productive this season, in all of our settlements, and all the products of the field, farm and range are bringing fairly good prices. In the midst of all these blessings none of us should forget the obligations that we are under to sustain the Church of God with the means, or part of it, that He puts into our possession. 
  
I believe that this is the best people in all the world — I know they are, and yet we are surely not any better than we should be, or than we could be. There is room for improvement in the direction of paying our tithes and offerings, and sustaining the Church. The mission work abroad is now taking a great deal of the means of the Church. The improvements that you heard about during this conference, take considerable money. The operation of our temples, the building of meeting houses, and the general necessities of the Church, all require means. I believe that our attendance at this conference will remind us of this obligation to the Lord and His Church, that we will come forth with our tithes and offerings and help to build up the great work of God which is being established in the earth, and which is doing so much, and will do still more, if we only do all that we should to promote its interests. Amen. 
