43
Afternoon
06 10 1913
Prest. Charles W. Penrose. 
25
135

None

None

I am requested to present a matter before you, very briefly, which is in your interest and particularly in the interest of the newspaper which is recognized as the organ of the Church, the Deseret News. I am not now intimately associated with the paper, but I take interest in its welfare and progress, and wish to recommend to the Latter-day Saints that they subscribe and pay for the Deseret News; those who can receive it, should take the daily, and those who are in distant points, not connected with the railroads, take the semi-weekly. It is a good, reliable, able newspaper, as well as being the organ of the Church. There are many obstacles in its way. A newspaper is not generally supported financially by its subscription lists, but by its advertisements. There are classes of advertisements which cannot be admitted into the columns of the Deseret News, so that the paper is handicapped in that matter in a way that is not felt by other newspapers in this city. The News does not admit advertisements that relate to the sale of liquor and tobacco and other things talked about in this conference which are forbidden to the real Latter-day Saints. There are many other advertisements such as quack medicines, et cetera, which are not admitted into the columns of the Deseret News. And then there is the opposition of all supporters of the "underworld" and the lower elements in this city and other cities of the State, because the Deseret News stands all the time in support of the Word of Wisdom and of all the counsels and instructions of a moral and practical kind given by the leaders of the Church.  
  
Now, I will not enlarge upon the matter, because the time is almost up for closing our last session of this conference, but I recommend to my brethren, the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and the bishops and their counselors, that they endeavor to do what they can to circulate that paper and to help in its support by every legitimate means; and they will find that wherever that paper finds its way in the various parts of Zion a good influence is used and the work of the Lord is accelerated. The Lord has blessed that paper from the beginning; may it continue to prosper and receive the support of His people. Amen. 
