45
Afternoon
06 10 1913
President Joseph F. Smith.
36
138-139

Closing Remarks.

Gratitude expressed to all who assisted in Conference proceedings — Blessing invoked upon all engaged in the ministry, and all seekers after truth.  
  
Just a moment or two more of patience. I desire to express my gratitude to my brethren and sisters who are present for the attention they have given to this conference, and to the meetings of this day. I want to thank my brethren who have spoken from the beginning to the end, for the most excellent spirit they have manifested, and for the most excellent words they have spoken. I desire to thank our choir for their presence here on the Sabbath, and for the other members of the choir that have been able to attend during Saturday and today; and also to our beloved brother and fellow-worker, one worthy of honor and credit for his service to the Church, Brother Evan Stephens, for his music, for the poetry of his soul, and for those songs that have been written by him, which we often hear sung and which we sing ourselves with great satisfaction; and to our beloved brother, John J. McClellan. and his assistants at the great organ; and all others of our brothers and sisters who have taken part in the exercises of our conference.  
  
I think we have had one of the best conferences that we have held within my own recollection, and I can go back in my recollection to the early days, the days of Nauvoo at least. And the Lord bless you, my brethren of the holy priesthood, the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and high councils, the bishops and their counselors, and all taking part in the labor of the ministry whether in the regular quorums and councils of the priesthood or in the auxiliary organizations, we feel to express our gratitude for your presence and your heartfelt interest in the work of the Lord. We beseech you to continue to be faithful and more faithful than ever before. Let us all try to be a little better than we have been in the past, and let us try to treasure up the most excellent instructions that have been given to us during our conference.  
  
I know that the Lord is pleased with the proceedings of our conference, and that His blessing has been with us, and His spirit has been made powerfully manifest in all that has been said and clone. The Lord bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all honest, earnest seekers after the truth, everywhere, throughout the world. May the Lord bless those who, though ignorant of the revelations that the Lord has given to the world in these latter days, are still seeking to serve Him according to the light they possess, and the knowledge that they have. May God's blessing rest upon them, that they or their children after them may come to the knowledge of the truth at last and be exalted in the kingdom of God through the ordinances of the Gospel and obedience to all the requirements thereof.  
  
Sixty-six of our brethren have taken part vocally during our con. I expect we will have quite as many take part during the next conference, who did not have the privilege of being heard at this conference. We have a list of you all and we expect to give all a chance as far as we can, and we would like you to come prepared.  