Afternoon
05 10 1923


President Heber J. Crant presided. 

The meeting was opened by the choir and the congregation singing, ''How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Robert D. Young, president of the Sevier stake. 

Mrs. H. C. Snell sang a sacred solo entitled, "Fear Not Ye, O Israel." 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My dear brethren and sisters, I am very happy to be able to bear testimony to the inspiration of the addresses made this forenoon. I was deeply impressed by the opening address of President Grant, and, as to one of the stake presidents, to me. it seemed that seldom had we had such an opportunity to recognize the nearness of the prophet of the Lord who stands at the head of the Church to that divine power which we know guides this Church. I noted also with great rejoicing the constant reference to the great event that occurred in New York state just a little over one hundred years ago — one of the verygreat events in the history of the world. 

TRUTH NEEDS NO BOLSTERING 

I was reminded by a remark made by President Penrose of a statement made to me by one of my young friends not very long ago, who had been studying the Book of Mormon. Me said: ''1 have been devoting some time to the study of the pre-historic remains in South and North America and they are a wonderful confirmation of the truth of the Book of Mormon." "But," he added, and he added it impressively, "as I have read and studied the Book of Mormon I have come to the conclusion that I have no need of confirmation of the truthfulness of that wonderful book by the remains of pre-historic peoples found anywhere on the face of the earth, because I have discovered that the book, within itself, carries its own witness of its truthfulness." T was glad to have this young friend bear this testimony, for I knew thereby that he learned the chief lesson that comes to every member of this Church who discovers for himself, by the testimony of the Spirit, that this is indeed the work of God. It is almost a truism, that if we deal with high truth, a great truth, such a truth carries within itself evidence of its correctness. That is, one does not need go outside the truth for evidence to sustain that truth. This is one of the characteristics of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for within it are all the evidences that man may need to establish the conviction that lies at the foundation of a living, perfect and continuous testimony of the truth of this work. 

As we read the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, or the Pearl of Great Price, or any of the works produced through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, we observe this wonderful characteristic — that each revelation, within itself, carries to those who read, study, and live it, a witness of its truth. One does not need to search the world for evidence of the truth of this work. The evidence lies within the work itself. 

TRUTH ALWAYS COMES IN LIGHT 

In the remarkable visitation of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith, it seems to me, we have an illustration of the fact that truth carries with it the evidence of its authenticity. It may seem unnecessary to say this to Latter-day Saints, yet young" people especially, and sometimes older people think that they must go far afield to secure evidences of the truth of the revelations to Joseph Smith. 1 have been impressed deeply in reading, as I have done time and time again, the simple, direct story of the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the visitations of Moroni, with the internal evidence of the truthfulness of that account. Note for instance, as remarked by President Penrose this morning, that the angel came in light, not in darkness. Truth always comes in light, it can not come in darkness; It doe.suiot come hooded and covered and formless; it does not come as do initiations into the secret societies of the world; but it comes in open daylight, or in a light above that of daylight; which makes it clear and understandable tol the human mind. It has always been to me an evidence of the truthfulness of Joseph's simple story, that the Prophet declares in all sincerity that Moroni came in a burst of light; that out of thq light, as pictured by President Penrose this morning, came the figure and form of Moroni, as the Prophet's eyes, through the power resting upon him, were able to recognize the happenings in that room. 

The story itself, direct and simple, is a splendid piece of literature which carries with it conviction that here is a man who is telling the simple truth, just the thing he saw, just the thing that he believed to have happened, the thing that he knew, in fact, had happened. Those who tell falsehoods and attempt to deceive the generations of men, seldom speak with that lucid clearness, wiht that simplicity of style which characterize the wonderful story of Moroni's visitation, found  the Pearl of Great Price, which President Penrose recommended us to read. 

THE WONDERFUL PEDAGOGY OF MORONl's TEACHING 

President Penrose also called attention to the wonderful pedagogy of Moroni's teaching. The angel came to impress upon the boy Prophet the message that he had been sent to deliver. Three times! he rehearsed the message, and the night had passed by the time the third telling had been completed. The boy, worn with the night's vigil— because his spirit dwelt in a mortal body — went out to labor in the field, when for the fourth time the angel came to him, and there in full daylight, to make certain to the boy's mind char this ching was not a delusion of the night, in' the full glare of the sun, the angel came again and repeated the same message to the boy. 

I am an old teacher of boys and girls, and I stand in admiration before the wise method of teaching employed by the Angel Moroni in impressing upon the mind of the boy the tremendous story that he was to initiate in this last period in the history of the world. This is another evidence of the truthfulness of this remarkable vision. This seventeen-year-old boy had no background of experience or training, beyond that which belonged to the back woods of New York, to enable him to manufacture and lay before the world such a truly wonderful system: of pedagogy as lies in the simple story of Joseph's communication with the Angel Moroni. 

It has been said, and I believe properly, that if any person will read with care the account of the first vision referred to this morning by President Grant, when the Almighty Father of us all, and his Son Jesus Christ, appeared to the boy in the grove in Palmyra, and will read in that connection the full story of the visitation of Moroni, in those two episodes in the history of the Church, lie the germs of everything that happened later in the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith. At the very beginning of the career of the Prophet, before the Church was founded, at the initial time, the whole future was reviewed; as a seed is planted which produces a complete plant. Thus, in the seeds sown in the Prophet's mind and placed before his understanding in the first two great visitations lie the germs of all that the Prophet was to develop throughout his life, or that we are developing today. This, also, is a convincing evidence to me of the simple truthfulness of all that pertains to the work of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Wherever we turn, whatever we touch of the work he did. to those who care to read and think properly, comes the conviction, that here was a boy who saw, who knew, who told the truth, who was not capable of falsehood, who made no attempt to garnish or change or enlarge that which had come to him. 

THE DIVINE NATURE OF THE MANIFESTATION 

Not only are all these things wonderful, and many more, with respect to the great anniversary which we are practically celebrating at this conference, but one thing, almost above all others, makes us feel the divine nature of the whole manifestation. As the visit continued throughout the night, upon each occasion the Angel Moroni, at a certain time, not clearly described to us in the story as given us by the boy, quoted from the Bible. Certain quotations were quoted just as they stand in the Bible. Some few were changed. One in particular was changed and to such a degree that it is found among the latterday revelations, as Section 2 of the Doctrine and Covenants: "Behold I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the Prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." Moroni had shown the boy a picture of the past, of the present and of thei future, of something that had happened, that existed, that should happen. Then this seventeen-year-old boy was taught that to accomplish that which was pictured, the authority of the Priesthood of Almighty God would be necessary. The plan of a railroad may easily be projected, but it takes power to build the railroad. The boy was told that it would require the authority of the Priesthood to accomplish the coming work that had been revealed to him, laid bare to him, during that long night and on the following day, and that that authority would extend into the past, to save those who had died without obeying the law. Elijah was to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. P>y this doctrine, all time is made one, all events are made parts of a great progressive plan : all things and time are united, with God at their head. As this principle is elaborated, it becomes perhaps the most tremendous of all the principles restored in these latter-days through the instrumentality of the Prophe f Joseph Smith. Need I say that the fact that the need of this principle to cement all the other principles and teachings of Moroni is a great evidence of the truth of the Prophet's story of Moroni's Aasitations? 

TRUTH EVER SHAPES THE DESTINY OE HUMANITY 

Has the sword, the cannon, or the implements of warfare shaped human destiny? No. A truth; a true idea, presented to the earth has ever shaped the destinies of humanity. Men had forgotten the Gospel of Christ. Then the Christ came, laid down his life for our redemption and among other truths restored the one that man shall not sleep forever in the grave. This glad truth of eternal life, as it bursts upon the earth, has changed the field of human activity for nearly two thousand years. It has made wars and stopped wars, but the effect of the wars of the nations has been small in comparison with the influence of that tremendous truth that man after death shall live again. Similarly the boy Joseph Smith sent out over the earth the mighty truth that under the priesthood there is a coherence of all time;  that the dead shall not only live again, but may gain that which they failed to win on earth, that the power of the priesthood transcends the limitations of time, and is endless. Therefore we build temples. Already this truth is beginning to reshape the views of men, and in time it will help remodel our warring world. Truths guide humanity whether recognized or not. Let me paraphrase two lines from the Irish poet: 

"One man with a dream, at pleasure, May go out to conquer a crown; And two. with a new truth's measure, May trample a kingdom down." 

That is the power of great truths. 

WE ARE MADE FEARLESS AND UNAFRAID BY TRUTH 

Those who have truth are not afraid, they are fearless and unafraid. Latter-day Saints have truth; therefore, there is no fear in their hearts. Every page of the history of this Church proclaims its truth. Every line in holy writ proclaims the truth of this great latterday work. Every chapter in the history of this Church from the Prophet Joseph to the Prophet Heber J. Grant, proclaims the same truth. With the sword of truth we shall wiri the battle in which God has enlisted us. 

I remember reading, when a boy, a helpful passage from the Doctrine and Covenants. Let me read it here in conclusion. As a lad I felt fear, sometimes of men. but more often of the dark outside forces. I often wondered if this persecuted people after all would be able to accomplish all that was pictured in its destiny. Then I found in my reading of the Doctrine and Covenants this passage which has been a joy and a help and a strength to me all my life, for the Lord said to his people in Llarmony, Pennsylvania, before the Church was organized : 

"Therefore, fear not, little flock; d r o good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail. 

"Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and sin no more: perform with soberness the work which T have commanded you. 

"Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not. 

"Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven." 

What do we care for the slanderer or the liar; what do we care for the enemy who arises to defeat our holy purposes? We have the truth, the mightiest weapon God has given to his' people, and we shall win, in the end, if we do the thinsrs that God requires us to do. May we be strong in God's service and in that sendee may we be fearless and unafraid, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

While the President was speaking' this morning he referred to the very important incidents connected with the celebration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the visit of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith. While my soul was thrilled with the recital of that memorial service, I was asking- myself the question : 

What is the purpose in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon? What was the primary object and purpose of the Lord in revealing the existence of those plates to the world in this generation? I recognize that there are many reasons why the Book of Mormon was and is needed. What a comfort it brings, what enlightening knowledge it gives to us concerning the ancient inhabitants of the American continent, and also how it magnifies the Lord Jesus Christ in his ministry among men upon this continent, as another witness for him and for the Lord's work. 

TO BRING TO PASS THE REDEMPTION OF THE LAMANITES 

But I thought of one of the revelations in the book of Doctrine and Covenants that gives more specific information upon this subject, and with your permission I shall read a few verses from the third section. The Lord said : 

"Nevertheless, my work shall go forth, for inasmuch as the knowledge of a Savior has come unto the world 1 , through the testimony of the Jews, even so shall the knowledge of the Savior come unto my people. 

"And to the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephit.es, and the Zoramites, through the testimony of their fathers. 

"And this testimony shall come to the knowledge of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmaelites, who dwindled in the unbelief because of the iniquity of their fathers, whom the Lord has suffered to destroy their brethren the Nephites, because of their iniquities and their abominations. 

"And" for this very purpose are these plates preserved, which contain these records — that the promises of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to his people; 

"And that the Lamanites might come to the knowledge of their fathers, and that they might know he promises of he Lord, and that they may believe the gospel and rely upon the merits of Jesus Christ and be glorified through faith in his name, and that through their repentance the}- might be saved, Amen." 

For this very purpose, therefore, were these plates preserved, to bring to pass the redemption of the children of father Lehi, known in North and South America, in Central America, and in Mexico, as the American Indians and some of the natives upon the isles of the sea. I feel, therefore, that as we celebrate the anniversary of this appearance and the first knowledge and information concerning this sacred volume of Scripture, it is a most fitting time for our attention to be called to the uncompleted task which yet rests upon the priesthood and the membership of this Church — to see to it that the Book of 

Mormon accomplishes its full and complete mission in being an instrument in the hands of the Lord in bringing to pass the redemption of the Lamanites. Men have predicted the extermination of the Indians. They have foretold, as they thought, a time to come when the Indians would be no more. But the Lord has spoken upon that subject and said that the Lamanites shall flourish. No power can defeat the purposes of the Almighty. I have seen evidences in my own missionary work, having had the great privilege and pleasure of laboring a portion of the time at least, for ten years, among the Indians, which convinced me that the day of their redemption is coming. The Lord gave me to see and understand during that labor that he was performing many things in preparation for their redemption. He is giving them a language at the expense of the government of the United States, who in its generosity has spent millions of dollars in training and preparing the Indians in the English language, until the records show that in this country at least, nearly sixty per cent of all the Indians read or write the English language. The government has generously provided for them allotments of land that will be ample to sustain them and their posterity for generations to come, if only they will preserve these lands. I have seen the hand of the Lord at work in preparing the way for their redemption, and I wish to bear witness to you that their redemption shall come, and that the day of their redemption is near at hand, when these thousands, yea these millions of Lamanites on this Western Continent who have the blood of Lehi in their veins, or of his descendants, shall be touched by the power of the Almighty, and the day of their redemption, when it does come, will be one of power. 

I desire that the Latter-day Saints, young men and young women, shall appreciate the Book of Mormon and read it and prepare their hearts and themselves so that when the time does come that they shall ibe called to go forth, that they shall be prepared to go and discharge the obligations which the Lord has placed upon us as the custodians of this record, to see to it that it does fulfil its mission. Its mission is not completed yet. 

The Book of Mormon was given as a new witness to the wotld. The very best evidence, perhaps, that the Lord ever has given that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, is the Book of Mormon. Men may scoff at the idea of the Father and Son having visited him in the Sacred Grove; they may think that they can dispose of it to their own satisfaction at least, by calling it a fraud or a delusion, but the Book of Mormon is a real substantial thing. It is the miracle of "Mormonism." It cannot be disposed of in any such manner. It must be reckoned with, it must be accounted for, and all who diligently and earnestly seek to account for it shall come to acknowledge what Joseph Smith said is indeed the truth, that by the gift and power of God he translated the records from the plates that were placed in his hands, that record which is known among us as the Book of Mormon. It stands, and it shall stand forever and ever, and it cannot be defeated nor can it be thrown down. 

TO BLESS, BENEFIT AND SAVE THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD 

I believe also that the Lord raised up the Book of Mormon and brought it forth, and in connection with it the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith for a given and definite purpose, to be a benefit and salvation to the peoples of this world. I think that our Father in heaven is very much like an earthly father. He is more or less limited in his power to do things because of law that he observes and must observe. An earthly father cannot set aside the law of the land, nor can he veto the law of nature. If that father has a wicked and rebellious son who violates the law of the land or the law of God or the law of nature, that earthly father's great anxiety cannot save his son. All that earthly father can do is to warn his son of the danger, point out the difficulties that are before the boy, plead with him to change his course, and afier he has made his appeal he can point out the way of safety, and then the father's powers to save are ended. All his overweaning love for that boy cannot go further. Our heavenly bather is very much in the same condition. You will discover, if you will read the first section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, what the Lord said as he gave this wonderful address in the First Section to all the world through his servant the Prophet Joseph Smith. Reading from the seventeenth verse we find the following: 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets — " 

Let me now read from the twenty-second verse : 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established, "That the fulness of the gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

"Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and 1 were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." 

I understand from this that the Lord plainly knew the condition of the world, what it was in 1830, and what it would De today m the year 192'3. Knowing the calamities that were coming to his children, unless they changed their course, knowing their disposition that there would be no repentance in their hearts, and yet with a great desire to save them, he called upon his servant. Joseph Smith, to warn men, to call repentance, and others to join in this great proclamation to all men: "Repent, for the Kingdom of God is at hand.'' And not only to warn men that there was peril and danger ahead, but to offer the means of escape from the perils that would come. Our merciful Father never has left his children in a condition of dire peril from which  could not extricate themselves, either in the days of Noah, in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, or in the days of the Redeemer himself, or in these latter-days, — it is all the same. He has always in ample time given his sons and daughters full and complete warning - of the perils and dangers that are ahead of them, and has, in that connection, clearly pointed out the way of escape. That has been true in this dispensation, and the warning has been proclaimed on the islands of the sea, in the continents of the world, and through the states of the United States, and among even Pagan nations, the warning voice of the servants of the Lord has been heard, for nearly one hundred years, and it is a warning voice that also comes with a kind invitation to all the Father's children, showing the means of escape, which is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ restored again among men. I stand here without any fear and say without any danger of anybody successfully being able to prove the contrary, that if the warning voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the elders of this Church had been heeded by the nations of the earth, we would not have seen the dreadful calamity of war through which we have passed, that these problems could have been solved and averted. The means was provided, and the means was rejected, and then when our Father has clone this, though he be God, is yet limited -to law, by obedience to which he became God, and he must honor the same, he cannot step beyond those limitations and set aside the law. The law must take its course, and when men refuse the offer and tender the Lord has given by which they may be saved, they cannot blame the Lord if calamities, judgments and destructions come upon them. The Lord cannot avert it, it must take its course, and yet our Father in his kindness and mercy has offered the way and the means of escape. 

god's voice crying repentance through the elements 

Now 1 want to bear witness of something else : You will find it recorded in one of the revelations to the" Prophet Joseph Smith and the elders of this Church, that after the testimony of the elders should come the testimony of lightnings, of thunder, of earthquakes, of the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, and of destruction, the elements being" engaged in bearing testimony — the thunder would cry repentance. And yet in that same revelation the Lord said they would not heed that warning voice no more than they had heeded the warning voice of his servants. But I want to call the attention of the Latter-day Saints, and indeed if 1 had the power, the attention of all the world to the fact that God is speaking through the elements. The earthquakes, the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, bringing such dire destruction as we have seen are the voice of God crying repentance to this generation, a generation that only in part has heeded the warning voice of the servants of he Lord. Oh, that men would hear the voice of the elements proclaiming repentance, and if they shall not hear it they shall be visited with dire calamity, for this is the day of settlement, the day of reckoning, the hour of God's judgment has come. I rejoice not in the prospects of the chastisement that awaits the nations of the earth, I desire that they would save themselves. The means is yet at hand. By repentance and by turning to the Lord Jesus Christ they may find that salvation, but without it there is no salvation for this world. 

SIGNS OF THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST 

When Jesus spoke to his disciples in answer to their query : "Show us when the end of the world shall come, and the time of thy coming," he told of certain signs that would indicate the time of his coming, the very signs that the world, if they only had eyes to see, could be beholding today: Said he: judge the matter even as you would judge the coming of spring. When you see the fig tree putting forth its leaf, ye know that summer is near, and so when you see these signs, you may know that the coming of the Son of man is nigh at hand. I believe that the Lord Jesus Christ was just geologist enough to know the time when this earth would quake, when the processes of nature should go forth to cause great upheavals, and knew the hour, just as an astronomer can predict the time of eclipse. The Lord Jesus knew when that would happen, and he knew it was coincident and immediately preceding the wonderful events that would happen in preparation of his coming. 

YOU SHALL SEE WONDERFUL THINGS COME TO PASS IN THIS GENERATION 

These are the last days spoken of by the prophets of old. These are the signs. Oh, Latter-day Saints, let us, though we be in Zion, be not asleep, for this is the day when no man can be at peace, nor shall we remain at peace in sin or in transgression; for everything will be shaken that is not built upon righteousness, and every man, whether in Zion or elsewhere, who does not keep the commandments of God, shall be shaken and shall fall, and shall feel the chastening hand of the Almighty. Oh, let us be good, obedient children, that we may learn in time, the lessons the Lord wants us to learn, and if we shall do it, if we shall keep the advice and counsel of the President of this Church, in the address given this morning, the judgments shall pass over us as they did in the days of ancient Israel, and those who keep the commandments of God have no need to fear, and they will discover that the Lord has seen this from the beginning, and he has known where to plant this people, and this people shall here be preserved if only they shall serve the Lord. They need not fear anything else, only to serve God and keep his commandments, and you shall see wonderful things come to pass, even in this generation. 

THIS IS AN INDIVIDUAL TESTING TIME 

May the Lord teach us to be obedient, to be humble, to be peaceable, and to be faithful, to stand in this testing time, for  is a testing time, when individuals are being tested — no great assault against the Church, but a mighty assault on the part of the evil one against every individual. This is an individual testing time, and the enemy is at work, and he is in the midst of this people, seeking to capture souls that he may have them on his side in the coming conflict, for there is a coming conflict, and the powers of the evil one on the earth, and in hell shall be arrayed in deadly conflict for the victory of rulership and power and dominion over this earth against the Son of God. And the hosts of the righteous, living and dead, shall be victorious, and the evil one and all his power shall be overcome. But there is coming the time of strife, and there will be no peace from this day until that conflict is ended, by the victory that shall come to the Lamb of God and his faithful Saints. And may the Lord shorten those days for the elect's sake, and preserve us on the side of the Lord Jesus Christ, and his faithful sons and daughters, I pray in his holy name. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I have enjoyed the tremendous inspiration of our heavenly Father that has been poured out upon us during this conterence. Nearly every speaker thus far has referred to the visit of Moroni. When the 21st day of September came, very naturally, like the rest of you, I thought of this visit. I read from the Pearl of Great Price that wonderfully concise and convincing story of the life of the boy Joseph Smith. 

MORONI'S MESSAGE. 

As Brother John A. Widtsoe has already said, the Angel Moroni repeated his message three times, once, twice, thrice in a single night, .and by that time daylight appeared. Again the following day, September 22, the boy Joseph Smith, but seventeen years of age, found his way, guided by the vision of the night before, to the Hill Cumorah and there discovered the plates. The message was repeated for the fourth time. In this message many passages of scripture were referred to and quoted. I read these references. While but a part of the third chapter of Malachi was quoted, I read it all. 

THE LAW OF TITHING. 

The part of this chapter which refers to the law of tithing I read with very great interest. It says: 

"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have-we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. 

"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to xeceive it."' (Malachi, 3:8, 10.) This is a wonderful promise. It looks as if the faithful are to be rewarded in the near future. Reports I have heard of late are to the effect that the prices of our crops generally are very good. The price of wool, the price of wheat, the price of potatoes and the price of heets — all these prices are very satisfactory. We are comparatively large producers of alfalfa seed, and it is reported that in all probability we shall receive this year an unusually high price for this product. The prices of the products of our farms are also comparatively high. It looks as if the day of prosperity is coming. The hearts of the people are filled with good cheer. As a rule they are looking forward with fine satisfaction to the future. The Lord has said it. and his words cannot fail: ''Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." 

THE WORD OF WISDOM AND ITS PROMISES. 

The President in his remarks this morning referred in his usual clear-cut and forceful way, to the Word of Wisdom. In this Word of Wisdom, "the letter from the Lord," as President Grant called it this morning, there are four clear-cut and most desirable promises made to all Saints who remember to keep and do the things contained in the Word of Wisdom, "walking in obedience to me commandments." 

The first of these choice and desirable promises is health. What more desirable blessing can anybody Wish ? Yet the Lord says very clearly that all Saints who remember to keep and do the sayings in the Word of Wisdom, walking in obedience to the commandments, "shall receive health." Is health not a rich compensation for the effort required to live in accordance with the teachings in this "letter from the Lord"? 

After health what would we naturally select as a choice blessing if we were given the right to choose it? In this "letter from the Lord'' it says very clearly that all Saints who remember to keep and do the sayings in this Word of Wisdom, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall have this second choice blessing, which is wisdom. Certainly we all desire to be wise. Few of us see a single day in all the years of our lives in which, if we had wisdom, we could not use it to advantage. The second great promise to those who will keep and do these sayings is wisdom. 

After health has been secured and wisdom, what third great gift or blessing would we naturally desire? Would it not be knowledge, the third great promise contained in the Word of Wisdom? The promise, in this "letter from the Lord," is clear-cut and unequivocal, that all Saints who remember to keep and do the sayings, contained in the Word of Wisdom, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall find great treasures of knowledge, yea, even hidden treas- ures. Can you imagine greater compensation or greater reward for any effort? 

If to these three choice blessings or promises a fourth were added, can anyone imagine a blessing more choice or more desirable than the fourth promise in this Word of Wisdom, namely, that the Lord himself gives unto all those who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, "a promise that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

These four most choice and desirable blessings, the Lord himself promises to all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, and walk in obedience to the commandments. These four are, first health; secondly, wisdom; thirdly, knowledge, yea, even hidden treasures of knowledge; and fourthly, that the destroying angel shall pass by them as the children of Israel and not slay them. 

ENFORCE THE ANTI-CIGARETTE LAW 

Since this Word of Wisdom teaches that tobacco is not good for man; and, further, since I am a Mutual Improvement worker — one of the General Superintendency — and our Mutual Improvement organization has had a slogan referring to the use and sale of tobacco, I desire to make a few remarks concerning our so-called anti-cigarette legislation. I am glad to be able to say that so far as I know, in the whole State of Utah, there is not one individual who is not satisfied with the legislation upon this subject which we now have on our statute books. Since all the people seem to like the law, and since all the people seem to be in favor of enforcing it, as a Mutual Improvement worker I appeal to you now, stake presidents, high councilors, bishops, and bishops' counselors, and leading men in every part of the Church, and out of it for that matter, to do your utmost to have this splendid law enforced. Since it is unlawful for those under twenty-one years of age to have tobacco in any form in tneir possession, and further, since it is unlawful for any individual in the State of Utah to sell or give to minors tobacco in any form, we have a splendid opportunity by enforcing this law to keep our young people from using cigarettes. All good citizens too should be interested in seeing to it that only those who are paying a license for the privilege of so doing be permitted to sell cigarettes. A considerable amount of good is being accomplished too by suppressing, under the law, all advertising of tobavCO in any form on bill boards. If the citizens generally will see to it that this law is enforced, the number of boys who smoke cigarettes will be rapidly and materially decreased. 

Since we are placing such emphasis on this matter of the Word of Wisdom, some may feel as did the man in the mission field when he asked the missionary : "Do you mean to tell me that with this doctrine you call 'Mormonism,' you propose to conquer the whole world?" THE GOSPEL WILL ULTIMATELY CONQUER THE WORLD 

I can reply as did the boy missionary : "Well, I will not say that witli 'Mormonism' we expect to conquer the whole world, but I do desire to say to you that the gospel of Jesus Christ will ultimately conquer the whole world, and the gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel we teach." Men may criticize, men may ridicule, men may find fault, but nevertheless this is the Church and Kingdom of God. There is not one before me now in this great audience who cannot testify that he has been made better, he has been made stronger, he has been made happier in proportion to the degree of accuracy with which he has lived in accordance with the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He who has found sorrow, he who has found regret, has found this sorrow and this regret because he has failed to live in accordance with these teachings. 

We seek all that is virtuous, all that is lovely, all that is upright, all that is uplifting in all the world. It is our aim to secure all these things, to produce a generation of splendid people the like of which the world has never known. 

ANOTHER PROMISE OF THE LORD 

Before closing I desire to refer to one other promise the Lord has made : 

"Jesus answered them and said, my doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." (John 7:16, 17.) Keep the commandments. Live in accordance with the teachings. Struggle to live in accordance with the example of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Do these things and the promise is to all the people forever, you shall know of the doctrine. There is no uncertainty, there is no question, there is no doubt, positively none. The statement unequivocally is : "He shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

SPLENDID LEADERS IN THE CHURCH 

To be associated with you who are now sitting before me, you splendid men, wonderful men, remarkable men, and glorious women, is the joy and pride of my life. I thought as I sat here this morning when the President began calling some of the stake presidents : "Who can imagine what is contained in the hearts of these excellent men who are in this audience? Who knows what they could say if they were given an opportunity to stand before this audience and speak?" 

I was in a stake conference only last Saturday and Sunday. I wanted the Stake President to speak, but he said only a few words. At a later meeting I insisted saying : "speak again," Again he said but a few words. He did not seem to desire to make a real address. When Sunday night came, however, and the building was crowded with the young people of the stake at the Mutual Improvement meeting, I ex that on the regular program for that particular session there were three different topics intended for three different speakers. All the visitors but the two Mutual Improvement workers had returned to Salt Lake City. So I said to the president: "Mr. President, here is a topic upon which I desire you to speak. The subject is prayer." Without warning, without notice, up he stood : and by the Spirit and power of God he testified, and thrilled us, through and through, with his own personal experiences as a result of placing his confidence and trust implicitly in the Almighty. 

"we stand for divine guidance" 

In free America, in this Christian country, the country of Washington, the country of Lincoln, the country of Franklin, the country of Roosevelt, the country of Harding, can any loyal citizen object to the work that is being done by our great Mutual Improvement organization! As President Grant has already said, our slogan for this year is on the subject of prayer. Like those great statesmen who devised, who created, who under divine inspiration wrote the Constitution of the United States, we Mutual Improvement workers, one hundred thousand strong, today have for our slogan the following: "We Stand for Divine Guidance." May we have this guidance, may we be able to distinguish the whisperings of the still small voice, may we be able to live in accordance with the teachings of the great Master, thus placing our trust and confidence in divine providence. If we do this, our faith is founded on a rock, it will not, it must not, it cannot fail. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR 

(President of the Granite Stake of Zion.) 

I trust the Lord will inspire the few remarks that I may make on this occasion. I was delighted, and my being was thrilled with happiness, in the free and inspirational talk that was given this morning by our President. While listening to the remarks made, in the forenoon session, as well as this afternoon, I felt that I have a duty devolving upon me as the president of a stake of' Zion, to carry this message back to the people in our stake. It is true that only a .small part of the Saints can gather in these conferences. The great mass of the people are at home, and the strength and the efficacy of this work, in this conference, will be felt, I am sure, if the representatives who are gathered here will take the message given, and the spirit thereof, to their respective people at home. I feel that I should call the priesthood of our stake together and in a humble way impress them with the importance and dignity of the messages that we have been listening to, and will listen to, during the sessions of this conference. 

I sense very deeply the responsibility that rests upon me as a Latter-day Saint, and when I remember the convenants that I have made with the Lord, and recognize my membership in this Church, I almost tremble in the fear that I am not measuring' up to that which the Lord expects of me as a member of this Church. 

As a high priest in the Church, I should live a life that would be well worthy of imitation by all the people who live in our midst. I would like the high priests in our stake of Zion to cleanse themselves, to purify themselves, and put themselves in harmony with the divine will of our Father in heaven, so that they may enjoy every grace, gift and power pertaining to their high and holy calling in the Church, and stand as watchmen upon the towers of Zion, so that every boy and every girl observing their lives, and things that they do before their fellow men, can see hope and good cheer, and go on and do the things that are pleasing in the sight of God the eternal Father. 

I believe the seventies living in our midst should so order their lives that they may enjoy 1 the .spirit of that office and calling, and have a desire within their hearts to proclaim the word of the Lord to all who will give heed to their warning voice and the testimony that they have in their hearts. I realize that right in our wards, in our own communities, there are people who. I am sure, are hungering after the word of God. When seventies are called to a holy calling, it appears to me that they should so order their lives that they may always have within iheir hearts and souls, a burning witness of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the work that we are engaged in, and be in the front ranks always in the purity of their lives, in their example, and in delivering the word of the Lord that may come to them to bear off this message, both at home and abroad, and be magnified in the sight of all men in carrying this message. 

I would like to see the elders in our midst stand as a home guard, keeping the commandments of God, and ordering their lives so that they also may give hope, courage, and inspiration to their neighbors; that their neighbors may see in the work of the Lord, and in the lives of those who hold this holy Priesthood, an example that they will feel to follow after, and see in the work of the Lord those things which will convince them of its divinity; and that the children and the people at home, will see the power, the strength, and the inspiration that emanate from men who hold the Priesthood of God. 

I know it is pleasing in the sight of the Lord that men who hold this Priesthood should magnify it for the salvation of the children of men. I hope our boys of the Lesser Priesthood will see in the lives and examples of the elders in the Church, something that they can emulate and follow after, as they witness their acts and their deeds in the Church; that they may be led to go on and keep the commandments of our eternal Father. I hope that no man who holds the Priesthood will ever be a stumbling block to any boy who has a desire in his heart to keep the commandments of God. 

After hearing what I have listened to this day, especially from the President of the Church, I feel that I want to go back to my stake of Zion and try, with all the power that the Lord gives me, to  up our people in the faith of the Church of Jesus Christ, to have them keep the commandments and do that which is right in the sight of the Lord. 

There was reference made here by one of the brethren to our homes. I believe that I need to set my house in order. I believe that the people in this Church need to set their houses in order, and that their homes should be houses of prayer, where the Scripture is read, where the word of God is given, that the boys and girls may grow up under the fear of our Father in heaven, and worship him in our homes. I think that our auxiliary organizations are doing a wonderful work, which is accomplishing great good in the midst of Israel, and yet the Lord expects me, and you, as fathers in this Church, to be responsible for the faith of our boys and girls. I was pleased with the remarks of one of our brethren in speaking of what he termed our "home evening." I think we should return to good old principles again, and have our homes as places of worship, where the Lord may be exalted and his word taught, and the -right example set. I believe that we would not have so many of our boys wandering away from the influence, touch and power of their fathers, if we would gather them close together with us in our homes, more often than we do, and not depend too much upon the Mutuals and upon the Sunday schools and other organizations. The Lord has said that he will hold us responsible for the conduct of our children, and none of us will be held blameless unless we do our full duty along the lines of teaching them the way of the Lord. Our children are more valuable to us than our flocks and our herds, our bank accounts, and the honors of men. No man will be honored before God who neglects his children, and he will hold us reseponsible as to how we teach and how we are directing them. I feel, furthermore, in regard to our home evenings, that in these gatherings we ought to have worship of God the eternal Father, in view, and they should be occasions when the father can know his boy John, and John may know his father; where the parents may get up close to their children, so that there shall be such harmony, peace and love, as the Lord intends should exist in our midst. Furthermore, I believe that too many of us send our boys to Mutual, too many of us send our boys and girls to Sunday school, too many of us send our boys and girls to the amusement places, instead of going with them, we do not go to chaperon them, to be in touch with them, and find out what they are doing. In a measure we could give dignity and grace and inspiration to places of this kind if the fathers and mothers would put aside their earthly affairs and mingle more with their loved ones. In the future we should then have, growing up in the Church, glorious and well behaved boys, and beautiful and amenable girls, who would glorify the work of the Lord. May the blessings of our Father in heaven abide with us, that we may accomplish his purposes. May we return to our stakes and wards, carrying to our membership, the message of our inspired leader who stands as the representative of God upon the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER SAMUEL W. PARKINSON 

{President of the Franklin Stake of Zion) 

If I survive this shock, I .shall he very grateful. President Grant has afforded me a great honor, and also has placed upon me a great responsibility. I humbly pray that the few moments I may occupy I shall enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. I have indeed enjoyed the proceedings of the conference thus far. I have been coming to conference for many years, I think it will date back thirty or thirty-five years. I have attended conferences and have listened to the prophets of the Lord, and I assure you that my testimony has been strengthened. Indeed, I might say, I have received a testimony in listening to the prophets of the Lord explain the plan of life and salvation. It is a great opportunity to come and behold the wonderful sight that is before me on this occasion. I feel very grateful for it, to come into this wonderful tabernacle and be associated with men and women of the Lord, the leading authorities of the Church, and to listen to the beautiful music furnished by this world-renowned choir. 

I remember the dedicatorial services of the temple, thirty years ago, when President Woodruff was president of the Church; he stood out on the platform and said : "Attention, all Israel. We are about to dedicate this temple to the Lord." I remember going into the temple and listening to those services, and I want to bear you my testimony, at this time, that, although I was only a boy, I obtained a testimony, in that temple, of the divinity of "Mormonism." I have tried to keep a close touch with the Church from that time until the present, and I feel proud, and rejoice to know that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice to know that we have such great men and women at the head of this Church, men who are gifted, men and women who are qualified to advise us in the ways that we should go. My testimony unto you this afternoon is that Toseph Smith was and is a Prophet of the Lord, and that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet, seer and revelator unto this people. It is my desire to carry out the instructions of the authorities of the Church. T feel proud that I have been called to preside over the Franklin stake of Zion, in Idaho, one of the youngest stakes in the Church. T feel proud of this calling, and it is my purpose and my desire at all times, to carry back to the people the counsel and instructions that are delivered to us in these conferences, regarding their duties in the Church. May the Lord bless us and help us to magnify our callings, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER Q. HALE 

(President of the Boise Stake of Zion.) 

I have been thrilled beyond adequate expression by the instruction and the inspiration of this conference. The address of Pres Grant, in our opening session, seemed to affect me more deeply than I have been touched by anything I have ever heard from his lips. I know that he speaks with divine authority and that he stands at the head of the Church upon the earth as the representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

President Penrose referred to the commandments of God as standing out before us in black and white, which, fortunately for us, is true. This statement brought to my mind, however, a wish that all of life's problems might stand out as black and white before our eyes, that we might be able to differentiate clearly between the right and the wrong, the true and the false, as we differentiate and recognize the lines of demarcation between black and white. But, alas, too often life's problems present themselves as a mingling of the two as shades ot gray, and it is sometimes quite impossible to determine, with our natural minds, where the black leaves off and the white begins. 

One has said that it is given to every man to know so much as whether or not he knows. To know a thing, it must be made comprehensible and convincing to our understanding. In the solution of such problems as 1 refer to, we need human intelligence plus something else, namely : the light of the Holy Ghost. To him who has been baptized by authority, following his sincere faith and repentance, is given the championship of the Holy Ghost as a light to his path, illumination to his mind, and warmth to his soul. It is true that fires will not burn except they have fuel, whether they be fires of love, fires of industry, fires of achievement, or fires of holy zeal. These fires must be fed that they might burn. Those who receive the Holy Ghost should cultivate and encourage the Spirit, that light might be thrown upon their path, that their way may be made clear, that their minds may be illuminated, and that they may clearly differentiate between right and wrong. Keep the fires burning within your souls; do not let them go out; for remember, you cannot rekindle ashes. 

Dr. Widtsoe's interesting reference to truth brought to my mind something I read a few years ago to the effect that as air, fuel, and water, in proper proportions are necessary to sustain the body, so inspiration, truth and purpose, in equally proper proportions, are necessary to sustain the mind. As we reason upon this hypothesis we can readily reach, I think, three safe deductions: first, that inspiration with insufficient truth and purpose means lack of common sense, — insanity. It means a light without organizing truth and without a directing hand to make it applicable to the utility of life. Secondly, truth without sufficient inspiration and purpose gives to the world its mere theorists, its pedants; men who have fine theoretical conceptions, and yet without the practicality of their application to the needs of every day. Thirdly, purpose with scant inspiration and truth gives us our mere dreamers; men who project fine conceptions, but never reach a conclusion; men who are going somewhere always, but never arrive. P>ut the infallible outcome of inspiration, truth and purpose properly compounded by the hand of work, always brings personal power, achievement, success, wether it be in temporal or spiritual things. 

Our light may be a little one. but we must make it shine. The crying need of the hour is for us to do the very best we can with what we have and what we are. We must have confidence and faith in ourselves. We should see to it that we have confidence and faith in our brethren, and in our Church and in our God. As necsesary as these things are. it is likewise important that we should so conduct ourselves that our fellowmen and our God can have faith and confidence in us. 

I know with all my soul that my heavenly Father lives; that his Son Jesus Christ is my Redeemer; that he came to earth, that he marked the way, that he died on Calvary's hill, and redeemed a fallen world, and that he opened the door for the resurrection of the dead, as an actuality and not a mere belief. 

In the language of another, may I say : 

I asked an angel for some motto sweet, Some rule of life by which to guide my feet; I asked and paused : he answered soft and low : "God's will to know!" 

Will knowlege, then, suffice, dear angel. I cried. But ere the question into silence died The answer came: Nay, this remember, too: "God's will to do!" 

Once more I asked : "Is there more slill lo tell" ? And once again the answer sweetly fell : "Yea, this one thing all other things above : "God's will to love!" 

Oh, that we may love God's will and thereby be led to know his will and carry on to do his will, that through us his will may be done on earth as it is done in heaven, that his kingdom may come, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN 

(President of the Alpine Stake of Zion.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice greatly in the spirit of the meetings of this conference, thus far; and my spirit and feeling have been in accord with the principes of the gospel and the testimonies that have been borne by those who have spoken. 1 hope and trust that I may be able to stand true and faithful to the covenants I have made, that I may always be found sustaining those who preside over me in the Church; that in the stake of Zion where I have been called to , my life be such that it will not be a stumbling block to the members of the Church, but that it will be an inspiration, and help them to roll on the work which the Lord has established in this Church. 

I was impressed with one of the subjects that was asked and outlined for our consideration in the Parents' class of our Sunday school: "Wherein are we different from the people of the world?" It is a great subject, an important subject to the Latter-day Saints. The organization of the Church of Jesus Christ is a striking feature in which we are different from the people of the world. There is nothing like it in all the world. The Word of Wisdom was spoken of here by our President this morning. If the Latter-day Saints could live in harmony with that law and uphold the Word of Wisdom among the people, what a power this people would have in the world! We would certainly be different from many of the people of the world. When we speak of the law of tithing, the means by which the Church is supported, the method that we have of receiving and disbursing the tithes of the people, oh, how different from the people of the world! And when we speak of our marital relations, being united together in the bonds of matrimony by the authority of God, which binds on earth and in heaven, I say again, we are different from the world. May we, my brethren and sisters, let our light so shine before the world that they may see the good works of this people and be led to glorify his name. I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
