Afternoon
07 10 1923

The final session of the Conference was held in the Tabernacle on Sunday afternoon, October 7, 1923, at 2 o'clock. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Prayer and Praise." 

Invocation by Elder Nephi L. Morris, of the Salt Lake stake of Zion. 

The choir sang, "The Pilgrim's Chorus." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

My Brethren and sisters: I feel my dependence upon the Lord, as I stand before this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints. I have thought, since the beginning of the conference, that if answer were needed to the world, the people of the world who do not understand, justifying the faith and works of the Latter-day Saints, these great assemblies of people, which have come together on this occasion would be sufficient. 

"if this be the work of men." 

Soon after the death and resurrection of the Redeemer of the world, when he had commissioned his disciples to preach the gospel to all creatures, and their ministry had fairly commenced, they were taken on one occasion and cast into prison. Then people came to the Jewish high priests and said to them : These men whom we cast into prison are preaching among the people, they are healing the sick and causing the blind of see, and working great miracles. So the disciples were cited to appear before their accusers and they took counsel that they might kill them. Then we are told here in Acts that, 

"There stood up cue in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 

"And said unto them, Ye men of Tsrael, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. 

"For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves; who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered and brought to naught. CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

"After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him; he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. 

"And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will came to naught : 

"But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it." 

WHY THE SPEAKER THOUGHT OF THIS QUOTATION. 

I have thought of that scripture, my brethren and sisters, during the proceedings of this conference, and particularly so because of two clippings which I hold in my hand, taken from recent publications, one of them from a journal which is published by one of our most important religious denominations; the other, from a daily newspaper. From the first of these clippings I read as follows : 

OPPOSING THE CHURCH 

"Only those who have had occasion to live for a time in a part of the country entirely dominated by 'Mormons' are able to estimate, with any degree of accuracy, the strength and danger of 'Mormon' influence in our Western states. Never have I heard Christ preached, or the necessity of a personal Savior. Never do I hear of missionaries going out to convert people to Christ. They talk only of converting them to 'Mormonism.' In Sunday schools and Church schools emphasis is placed upon the Book of Mormon rather than upon the Bible, and in one text they are explicitely told that the Book of Mormon is higher authority than the Bible." 

WHY MAKE RESPONSE? 

In the clipping from the daily paper, if it is correct — and I have no< doubt that it is — a man professing to be a teacher of righteousness, in a, public address recently delivered, referring particularly to the proceedings at the memorial services recently held at the Hill Cumorah, declared that the "Mormon" Church was the most ignorant church in the world, and that the proceedings, upon this occasion, when the onehundredth anniversary of the appearance of the Angel Moroni to Joseph Smith was commemorated, were all rot, rot, rot. When I read it I thought of this scripture which I have read from the Acts of the Apostles. To this congregation of Latter-day Saints I suppose it would appear unnecessary — in fact I have heard' the word ridiculous used — that attention be paid to such statements as these which I have just quoted, and in fact that is true, but it nevertheless does at times become necessary for the Church to make response to statements of this kind, for there are people, many of them good people, people who love the truth and desire it, who are misled and strongly prejudiced because of statements such as this that I have quoted being made by men in whom they have confidence. If those charges were true, if it were true that the Church taught doctrines which led men and women away from Christ, rather than to him, if it were true that the Church encouraged or in any degree endeavored to keep its members in a condition of ignorance, in this age of enlightenment and intelligence in which we live, these criticisms would be justified. 141 

DOCTRINES BEST EVIDENCE 

But if on the other hand, they are not true, if they are not founded upon facts, persons making them assume very grave responsibility, for they either discuss questions upon which they are not informed, and in regard to which they are ignorant and thus convey improper impressions, or else they wilfully misrepresent the truth in order that they may prejudice their hearers. The doctrines of the Church are the best evidence of what the Church teaches. The Book of Mormon itself is the best evidence of what it is. The opinions of men may differ in regard to it, but when we take the book itself, when we carefully study it, when we understand its contents, we there find the evidence of its worth, or otherwise. I know that abstract statements, either mine in, favor of the Book of Mormon, or yours in opposition to it, would not be sufficient to convince thoughtful minds, people who desire to know the truth of its contents, hence, we go to the Book of Mormon itself. I wonder, and I have often asked myself the question, why people professing to be followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, people whose mission is to bring others to faith in the divinity of his mission, to convert the world to the great truth that he is its Redeemer, I have wondered why men who place so much stress upon this should object when other testimony comes, when other corroborating evidence is produced which justifies their attitude and confirms the very thing that they are teaching; and yet that condition has always existed. 

Elder Roberts declared to us this morning, better than I can say it, the importance of this scriptural record, particularly to the people of these United States. It is important also, to the people of the world, for it is given to the world. It is of special importance to the scattered remnants of the house of Israel. It is of special importance to the Jew, for it comes as a message to him as well; and the whole burden of the message which it brings is that great truth that Jesus of Nazareth, born of the virgin Man,', crucified upon Calvary, and risen from the dead, is the Redeemer of the world. The title page of the book itself, if you will turn to it, my brethren and sisters, establishes this fact. This title page, by the way, was not written by Joseph Smith, it was inscribed upon the plates and translated by him as he found it. and it gives evidence to the world of the purpose in its preservation. "It is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamani f es. — Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Tew and Gentile. 

.An Abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a record of the people of Tared, who were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to heaven." The special purpose in the preservation of the plates, and the bringing forth of the record in this dispensation is declared to be: "To the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations." That is the purpose of it. CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

TESTIMONY FROM BOOK OF MORMON 

At a time long ago, when the truth was brought into question, the Prophet Isaiah said : "To the law and to the testimony : if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them." In the mouths of two or three witnesses shall the truth be established. So I am just going to turn and read here, first from the Hook of Mosiah, the testimony which is borne in that book upon this important question : 

"For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity, to all eternity, shall come down frcm heaven anions the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight. * * * 

"And also his blood atoneth for the sins of those who have fallen by the transgression of Adam, who have died not knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly sinned. * * * 

"And moreover, I say unto you, that there shall lie no other name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent." 

And yet intelligent men. through the publications which they send out to the world, declare that they have never heard Christ taught as a personal Redeemer by the "Mormon" people. 

ANOTHER WITNESS 

These words of Mosiah were uttered one hundred twenty-five years before Christ, before his birth into the world. Again another witness : A great concourse of people were garnered together upon this continent, discussing the words of the prophets who had declared that Christ, after his crucifixion at Jerusalem, should appear here, when they heard a voice as though it came from heaven declare the Only Begotten of the Father. Casting their eyes up towards heaven, they tell us that they saw a man descending and that he was clothed in a white robe. He came down, stood in their midst, stretched forth his hand, and said : 

"Behold. T am Jesus Christ whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. Behold, I am the light and the life of the world, and 1 have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world." 

Evidence again of the divinity of the mission of the Redeemer and his teachings in this book. 

Now turn over again, long after his death, four-hundred years had elapsed, when Mormon, writing here in the book which bears his name, gives this witness : " And these things doth the Spirit manifest unto me; therefore I write them unto you all." — addressed to us, the people who live here in the time when this record was to come forth : 

"And for t His cause I write unto you, that ye may know that ye must all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the 143  human family of Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they be good or evil; , 

"And also that ye may believe the gospel of Jesus Christ, which ye shall have among you; and also that the Jews, the covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the very Christ and the very God. 

"And I would that I could persuade all ye ends of the earth to repent and prepare to stand before the judgment seat of Christ." 

"The Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus Christ." 

My brethren and sisters, I might open this book at almost any chapter, almost any page, and read to you there the testimony of one prophet after another, from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem, six hundred years before Christ, until four hundred years after his coming, in which the whole burden of the appeal which they made to their people and the burden of the testimony that they bore, was that in the meridian of time the Redeemer should come, and that through him the bonds of death would! be broken, and the people of the world redeemed from the transgression of Adam. It is a wonderful thing that in the face of all of this, men can, in some way, associate as they do the Book of Mormon as a publication tending to lead people away from Christ and from Christianity, despite its contents. 

this is Christ's church. 

The Presiding Bishop called our attention, yesterday, to the fact that this is Christ's Church; it bears his name. He opened, under the direction of the Father, this gospel dispensation. This Church was organized for the purpose that the world might know the Redeemer as he is, and be brought to repentance, redemption and everlasting life, through obedience to his gospel. Tt seems to me that this should set at rest the foolish statements made in this publication to which I have referred. I want the young men and women, if they are here, who are not familiar with the book, and I want the members of the Church who are not familiar with its contents, to know that there is no necessity for alarm because of the unjustifiable things that people say about the Church, for as I said before, the Church must be judged by what it is, not by what people say of it. Those words of Isaiah, uttered more than two thousand six hundred years ago, are just as applicable to us today as they were applicable to the people to whom he spoke : "If they speak not according to the law and the testimony, it is because there is no light in them." 

AS TO IGNORANCE 

Now, my brethern and sisters, just a word in regard to the statement made by this pretended teacher of righteousness, that the "Mormon" Church is the most ignorant church in the world. I want to ask the people of the world this one question : Can they point to an instance in the history of the past where ignorance and achievement and accomplishment have gone hand in hand? I am sure the answer would be, No. People do not advance in ignorance. People CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  not develop in ignorance. So far as I am aware, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the first religious body to declare that "the glory of God is intelligence," not ignorance; the first to declare that "men cannot be saved in ignorance." I do not mean to apply that to secular education, but it is only through the proper development of the intelligence of man, assisted by the gift of God, our Father, that men can come to understand his great purposes, the plan of human redemption which has existed from the beginning of time, and its application to us, who live in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I have thought of it as I have looked at these great congregations of people. Looking backward for one hundred years, does the accomplishment of the Church indicate the work of an ignorant people? It is not yet one hundred years since the Church came into existence. Its members at the time of its organization, were very few. It was in poverty, but thank the Lord, not in ignorance. From that small beginning, ask yourself the question : what has been its accomplishments? The people of the great congregation are here, and they are but a small representation of the whole, coming into these mountain valleys, to a place regarded as undesirable by all other people, not going to the Pacific Coast because of the gold that was there to lure people on, not to the great plains and fields of Oregon where it was evident that a country existed which was susceptible of a high degree of agricultural development, but stopping here in these valleys of the mountains, the Church gathered in its poverty. It gathered in from various nations, people in poverty, and from this spot reached out to the north and south, and the east and west, until towns and villages and hamlets sprang up. In every productive valley of the intermountain country, has intellectual development kept pace with the secular development which has occurred. We only need refer, and we do so with pride, to the educational status of the State of Utah today. There may be states which are slightly in advance, there may be states which have accomplished slightly more, but no other people under similiar circumstances have developed a system of education equal to that which has been developed by the people of these intermountain valleys, by the Latter-day Saints who came here in their poverty. I say it without fear of successful contradition. 

AS TO PATRIOTISM AND DEVOTION 

What does the record of their past history show, their record as devoted and patriotic citizens of the country in which they live? The great Mexican war — we would not regard it as a great war now, although in a sense it was at the time — came just when the Latter-day Saints were moving in their poverty with their families to seek a home here in the west. When the call came for men they gave them in the service of their country, a thing with which we are familiar, but which the world knows very little of. Those five hundred members of the Mormon Battalion accomplished a march which we are told is without precedent in the history of the world, the circumstances under which it was accomplished considered. 

The war of the Rebellion came, and the Latter-day Saints remained steadfast to the government, offered and gave their services. The war with the Philippines came, the "Mormon" pepole did their full share in bearing the burdens of that war. 

Then came the great World War. The government asked Utah for seven hundred forty-six men for the United States Army. She furnished two thousand, two hundred forty-four men. The government asked for one hundred twenty-six men to go into the marine service and the State furnished three hundred forty-six. Independent of this, Utah furnished one battery of artillery composed of one thousand five hundred men. The total number of men asked for was eight hundred seventy-two in all branches of the service, and the State furnished four thousand eight hundred thirty-one men. The Red Cross asked us for three hundred fifty thousand dollars, and we gave them five hundred twenty thousand dollars. The first Liberty Loan apportioned us six million, five hundred thousand dollars, and we took nine million, four hundred thousand dollars of that issue. The second Liberty Loan asked us to take ten million dollars and we took sixteen million, two hundred thousand dollars. The Young Men's Christian Association and other similar organizations asked us for one hundred thousand dollars, and we gave them one hundred five thousand dollars. The request was made that we furnish seventeen million one hundred thousand dollars, and we gave twenty-six million two hundred ninety-one thousand dollars. The third Liberty Loan came after this in which an equal proportion was given. This does not include the liberal contributions made by the auxiliary associations of the Church. It does not include the large amount of wheat which had been accumulated by the Relief Societies of the Church, the only incident of such a character that occurred in the war, or could occur in the world, for there was no other body that had so gathered together a large quantity of wheat that could be turned over in bulk in case of emergency as was done at that time. 

NOT THE WORKS OF IGNORANCE 

I quote these figures, my brethren and sisters, as a part of the evidence. The evidence, the law and the testimony are here to show that the works of the Latter-day Saints have not been the works of ignorant people. I myself have gone into a country where, for three hundred years there had existed what was called a high degree of civilization. I did not see a plow that was not made of wood and being pulled by oxen, with the yoke lashed to their horns. I did not see a modern wagon, but the old-fashioned carts and the old-fashioned plows, with which people plowed and bore their burdens in the valley of the Nile, thousands of years ago. Twenty years after the time that eight small "Mormon" colonies were established in the north of Mexico, CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  had accomplished more, looking to the advancement and development of that people in the introduction of modern methods of agriculture, modern agricultural machinery, improved varieties of fruits and grains, than had been accomplished before since the day of the conquest; evidence sufficient of the intelligence, the integrity, and the industry of the Latter-day Saints. "By their fruits ye shall know them." That has always appealed to me as a definite and certain law. Ignorant people do, not accomplish the work of intellectuals, and vice versa. 

So I wonder what can be the mental process by which a man reaches the conclusion that the Latter-day Saints are the most ignorant people in the world. It is not a new thing; it has been going on since the beginning of time, since the organization of the Church, and I expect will continue to go on just the same; and that is another thing that the Hook of Mormon here tells us will occur, and another one of the evidences of the truth of this book; for it seems to provide for just about every criticism that can be made. Moroni, the last man to write in it, says : 

"The Lord hath commanded men, yea, even Jesus Christ. 

"And I said unto him : Lord, the Gentiles will mock at these things, because of our weakness in writing; for. Lord, thou hast made us mighty in word by faith, hut thou hast not made us mighty in writing; for thou hast made all this people that they could speak much, because of the Holy Ghost which thou hast given them : 

"And thou hast made us that we could write but little, because of the awkwardness of our hands. * * * 

"And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying: Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness." 

This has been exemplified many times in the history of the Church. 

This book, as has been testified before, is the very embodiment of the spirit of Americanism. We hear a lot about that in these days. In its simplicity it lays down those fundamental principles of democracy upon which every republican form of government must be based and founded. It teaches us that there should be no king to dictate upon this land. It teaches us that the will of the people, the voice of the people shall govern, and that minorities should submit to majorities. It teaches us also that the time may come when majorities will go wrong, "and when that time cometh," saith the Lord, "then my judgments shall hang over this people." 

FEET UPON SAFE GROUND 

Now my brethren and sisters, where differences of opinion exist, whether it be in regard to our temporal affairs or whether it be in regard to spiritual affairs, or faith in God, by which we hope to attain to eternal life in his presence, there must be some basic law to which we can refer and from which there can be no further appeal, which is the end of controversy; otherwise I may assert and you may deny, and controversy would never cease. As it applies to our civil affairs, the temporalities and their control, that tribunal is the civil law, the law which we ourselves have made. As it applies to God and his purposes, the law is his written and spoken word. From it there can be no just appeal. So in civil affairs we honor and respect and uphold the civil law, and in things which pertain to the word of the Lord we adhere to his written word, as it is contained here in the Bible and in the Rook of Mormon. The Book of Mormon has been before the world now for nearly one hundred years. No one has ever pointed out an error in principle that is in it. Men may ridicule, they may scoff, but that does not constitute argument, nor evidence. They are the last arguments to which the vanquished always resort — ridicule, abuse, misrepresentation; and I suppose they will be applied to us. 

So I feel that our feet are upon perfectly safe ground, that all that has been said in testimony of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, and the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon, is true. I know it to be true, the opinions of men to the contrary notwithstanding. The time will come when men will know it to be true — just as the last words in the book tell us that it will. Let me read this last communication to conclude my remarks. These are the words of Moroni : 

A CALL TO COME TO CHRTST. 

"I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily comcth that ye shall know that I lie not. for ye shall sec me at the bar of God; and the Lord will say unto you : Did T not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out of the dust? 

"I declare these things unto the fulfilling of the prophecies. And behold, they shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the everlasting God; and his word shall hiss forth from generation to generation. 

"And God shall show unto you, that that which I have written is true. 

"And again I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing.* * 

"Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in nowise deny the power of God. 

"And again, if ye by the grace of God are perfect in Christ, and deny not his power, then are ye sanctified in Christ by the grace of God, through the shedding of the blood of Christ, which is in the covenant of the Father unto the remission of your sins, that ye become holy, without spot. 

"And now I bid unto all, farewell. I soon go to rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite, and I am brought forth triumphant through the air, to meet you before the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal judge of both quick and dead. Amen." 

Solo by Louise Watson, "The words of our God endureth forever." CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There are five members of the First Council of Seventy that have not had the opportunity of speaking to us, and I had the names of some of our honored returned missionaries who have presided in some of the foreign missions, on my list. Time will not permit of our brethren speaking to us, as I am sure they would like to do, but we are going to stay here — those of us who are not so hungry that we are anxious to get away — until we hear from these brethren of the First Council of Seventy. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

( Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have been impressed with the testimonies that have been given during the sessions of this conference. I believe firmly not only in the gospel of Jesus Christ but in the destiny of the Government of the United States. I am impressed more and more with the truth that the advent of the Government of the United States in 1789 w r as the great fore-runner of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I remember reading of the sinking of a German submarine by an American boat, in 1918; and the sailors and soldiers of the German government were finding a watery grave. The American boat put to and ran up on one of the masts a signal with the words : "Wait, we are coming to save you." And, sure enough, the American sailors, in life-boats, put towards the spot where the German submarine had been hit, and, in a few moments, the German sailors were placed in the life-boats and brought safely to an American boat, given food, and were assured that their lives would be spared. In commenting on this incident, the President of the United States declared that the policy of the American army and the American navy should be to spare German lives wherever they could. 

I have often thought of that event in our history, because I believe it is a symbol of Americanism. I know it to be the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the spirit of true Americanism. 

In reading recently the Constitution of the United States, I thought of the eloquent words of James Russell Lowell when he was at the court of France. Guizot, the French statesman, said to him : "How long will the Government of the United States endure?" And the reply of James Russell Lowell was :' "Just so long as the ideals of the founders of this government endure." This incident has been told in the remarkable letters of the great statesman Guizot, and it is something for us to remember. 

I believe that the English speaking race, represented by Great Britain and the United States, will be the race that will bring peace lo the world. The United States will work hand in hand with Great Britain, the nation that has stood for freedom and liberty — from the 149  of the Witenagemot, or the assembly of the wise men, of Alfred the Great, when that great 'king declared that the laws of England should be based upon the Ten Commandments. The Magna Charta, the Petition of Rights, the Bill of Rights, the Constitution of the United .States and its forerunner, the Declaration of Independence, all are the expressions of a liberty-loving race, which is intuitive. It is stamped in the very .soul of the English speaking race. From time of old to the present, the English people — the British and the Americans — have stood for the highest ideals of liberty and freedom and are standing for them today. 

Chief Justice Marshall on one occasion declared that the reason the Americans understand liberty and freedom is because their laws must be the expression of the economical, social and intellectual ideals of the people. When the Latter-day Saints came to these valleys the very first law was an economic one. It created roads and bridges. And another law established the first university west of the Missouri river. It was a law that was an expression of the intellectual life of the people, and I believe with all my soul that the words of Chief Justice Marshall have been exemplified in the history of the "Mormon" people. Their laws have always been just; they have been expressions of the lives of the people who have tried to live right, who have aimed to live justly and up to the very highest ideals that a God-given religion could place in their hearts. I believe that the "Mormon" people, in a sense, were the forerunners of that great ideal which today our nation stands upon. The Constitution of the United States was not a league of friendship, but it was a document that bound the states together in one great union; and though it took many years to work this idea out, and finally a great civil war to maintain it, it was the ideal of Washington, and of Hamilton, and Chief Justice Marshall and Abraham Lincoln. 

Following down that early period when the Church was organized and which grew in the wilderness, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Orson Pratt, and the host of other Americans who had come from New England stood for that expression of liberty. The Constitution of the United States is the embodiment of the organic law of the land, which is the highest expression of our civic and political liberties, whereby we live under government and whereby we come to know equality and justice. 

The Latter-day Saints stand for Americanism in the true sense of the term. A great French economist declares that the five institutions of civilization are the home, industry, the state, the school, and religion as expressed in the church. 

I bear you my testimony this day that our history proves, that we as Latter-day Saints have not only taken a stand firmly for the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence but have given meaning to those great documents. The pioneer history of this state declares that we stand for the five institutions of civilization, because by them and CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  them we may go back to our God, for one of these institutions is religion, and our religion, as we understand it, and as we hold it sacredly in our souls, comes in its purity, in its dignity, in its power from God whom we worship. And so. we are Americans, and the words of Lowell will be true so long as America is Christian; so long as we live to the ideals of our fathers America will live and it will be preserved forever and ever. The Abby Genty, the great French lecturer and scholar of the time of the French revolution, when he was noticing the beauty and grandeur of the new American government, in contrast to* the government of France, declared that the new nation across the Atlantic would not only be the nation that will usher in the new political and civic liberty of all the world, but it will be the nation to re-establish the go,spel of peace and the laws of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

( Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We have been instructed, admonished, and at times thrilled, by the exceptionally good talks we have heard, even from the beginning of this conference. Our thoughts have naturally turned, at this centennial season, to the circumstances connected with the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Those not of us have tried to account for the phenomena of "Mormonism" upon some theory other than the true one, just as they attempted to explain away the Savior and his works. The argument against the Savior has been briefly stated and answered thus : 

"Upon the theory that Christ was a mythical person, the result of the fancy and fairy stories of his disciples after his death, then we must conclude that the leader of the greatest movement for the converting, purifying, inspiring and uplifting of the race which the world has ever known is the product of myth, fancy, overwrought imagination, and pious disposition. If this be true, then it is also true that error is better than truth, and the race moves upward under the beneficient influence of falsehood. But this absurd and untrue theory which forces such conclusions must be rejected." 

The same argument may be applied to the rise and growth of so-called "Mormonism," said by Professor George Trumbull Ladd, of Yale University, to be one of the most remarkable phenomena of the Nineteenth century. It has been peculiar in the way it has announced foundation principles, contrary to the belief held by the world. Let me illustrate: Judge Samuel Chase, a United States Circuit Judge, in passing the death sentence upon one John Fries, convicted for treason, at the beginning of the last century, used this admonition, which fairly expresses the Christian doctrine as Veld at that time, as to repentance after death. Said Judge Chase to the prisoner : 

"I suppose you are a Christian, and as such I address you. Be assured, my guilty and unhappy fellow citizen, that without serious repentance of all your sins, you cannot expect happiness in the world to come; and to your repentance you must add faith and hope in the merits and mediation of Jesus 151 

Christ. These are the only terms on which pardon and forgiveness are promised to those who profess the Christian religion. Let me, therefore, again entreat you to apply every moment you have left in contrition, sorrow and repentance. Your day of life is almost spent and the night of death fast approaches. Look up to the Father of mercies and God of comfort. You have a great and immense work to perform and but little time in which you must finish it. There is no repentance in the grave, for after death comes judgment, and as you die so must you be judged. By repentance and faith you are the object of God's mercy; but, if you will not repent and have faith and dependence upon the merits of the death of Christ, but die a hardened and impenitent sinner, you will be the object of Gods justice and vengeance. If you will sincerely repent and believe God has pronounced his forgiveness, there is no crime too great for his mercy and pardon." 

This expresses the supposed Christian doctrine that "as the tree falls, so must it lie." Judge Chase afterwards became a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Enemies sought his downfall, and he was impeached and tried before the United States Senate. At least two counts in the indictment against him grew out of the trial of the Fries case; but there was not one word of criticism as to this sectarian doctrine just quoted. I thought last evening, as we listened to the beautiful compilation of our scriptures by Brother Widtsoe and presented in the oratorio, what a striking contrast between the old dogma of no repentance after death and our present conception of the Spirit of Elijah. 

They have sought to explain away so-called "Mormonism" upon various theories. Years ago we had to meet in discussion of the myth of the "Manuscript Found." To-day, we need pay no attention to that. For example, in the late popular history of the United States, issued from Washington, D. C, in eleven volumes by the American Educational League, with Doctors Willey & Rines as the learned editors, no attention is given to this old "Spaulding romance" except to consign it to the rubbish heap. As an illustration of the futility of the efforts of those who fight the Church, it must seem like the irony of fate to such men as Theodore Schrceder — a lawyer of this city of a score of years ago, who spent much time and money in developing the false theory that Sidney Rigdon was the author of the Book of Mormon, — that his writings should be cited as authority for the rejection of the Spaulding myth but his own theory not so much as mentioned by the United States history referred to. 

We heard this afternoon from the article read by President Ivins the statement that the Latter-day Saints place reliance in the Book of Mormon. Well, we have learned that it does throw light upon the Hebrew Scriptures.  For instance, in the Beatitudes : "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." The Book of Mormon version is : "Blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." And again, "Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." The Book of Mormon adds, "with the Holy Ghost." And so we CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  go on with several other examples. During the past month the Literary Digest presented four translations of the Beatitudes in parallel columns. It seemed to me that no additional light or beauty are thrown upon the earlier translations; and yet through the Prophet joseph we have the significant version I have referred to. 

In connection with what President Grant said, in reference to spiritual manifestations at certain European conferences, it is easy for me to understand how that could be. If I may have a moment more, I would like to give a personal testimony of coming into the presence of the late President Joseph F. Smith, on one occasion at a quarterly conference held at Logan. I had just returned from a long itinerary and was as weary as it has ever been my experience to be — both in body and in mind. As a result of the influence of the Holy Spirit which was enjoyed by President Smith and his audience, at the close of that meeting I was as free from all sense of weariness as I had ever been. In a studied effort I could not detect the slightest indication of fatigue either in body or mind. My time is up. May the Lord bless us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

{Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, when I look out upon the faces of this vast congregation, I am deeply impressed with the power and the influence that seems to be felt by all who are present. There must be something peculiar about the Latter-day Saints, for whenever they gather together there is a power and an influence that is felt by all who are present, that is peculiar to us. I have been led to reflect : what is it that is different from the gatherings of those who are not of our faith and the gatherings of a nature other than these religious conferences? And the answer has come to me: It is because the great multitude of people that congregate, that come together upon these occasions are men and women who have faith in God and have repented of sin, who have received a remission of those sins in the waters of baptism and after that they have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. It is then the presence of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God, that animates these general assemblies of the Latter-day Saints and characterizes them as different from all other gatherings of people throughout the entire world; for in no other church are there people who have been thus blessed and favored of the Lord, for they have not received the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Among the different things that were contained in the message of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith on that notable night of September 21, 1823, was the reference to the holy scriptures, wherein it was set forth that the day was nigh at hand when Elijah the Prophet would come and restore the keys of the turning of the 153  of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to their children. When we realize how completely this has been fulfilled, it adds to the numerous testimonies which we have received of this great work of the Lord. Surely the Prophet, at that early period of his life, could not have comprehended to any marked extent, the great work that was involved in those words. Temples have been erected and work has been done in those temples for millions of people. We build these places and we call them holy, erected to the name of the Lord and dedicated unto his service. 

The people who have been blessed by receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost are called Latter-day Saints. What do we mean by Saint? We mean a sanctified being, or a holy being. Faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sin and the reception of the Holy Ghost will make them worthy of the name by which the Lord permits them to be called. Do we have that name because we are sanctified beings? Oh, no; but because we have started out right and are in the process of sanctifying ourselves and preparing ourselves to dwell in the presence of God. A sanctified being, a holy being, is one whose sins have been remitted, one who has been made holy by receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Wherever the Lord plants his feet it becomes a sacred and holy place. What was it that the Lord said to Moses at the time of his appearance in the burning bush: "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." Only those who are holy are permitted to stand upon holy ground. Strangers Who come into our midst wonder why they may not go into the temples that we have erected. They marvel that the doors are closed against them. Many who have been in our temples before their dedication have also wondered why they may not continue to go there. Strangers do not always understand it, but this is the reason : Because they have not been sanctified by having sealed upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost. This permission is given only to those who have received this marvelous gift, and many who have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, unless they have retained the remission of their sins by living right, are not permitted to stand upon that holy ground. Who then shall enter into the temple of the Lord? I find an answer to that question in holy writ, where a question is asked somewhat similar in its nature: 

"Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place ? 

"He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. 

"He shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation." 

Brethren and sisters, it becomes necessary, then, that we not only receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that we retain it by retaining the remission of our sins. Let us then, be prepared and worthy CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  go into these sacred houses, and carry out our part as suggested in the message that was given to us through the Angel Moroni, when the Prophet Elijah should come and enable us to go into these houses and perform the labors, not only for the dead, but also for the living. 

God help us to be worthy, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

( Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have been deeply impressed with the remarks of my brethren during this conference. The impression was made at the beginning of the service in the remarks of President Heber J. Grant, and so on each day, each session has added to my pleasure and happiness in listening to the wonderful testimonies that have been borne. I was reminded this afternoon of the chivalry of the American people, of the American soldiers and the American sailors during the SpanishAmerican war, at the great naval battle in San Diego harbor, at the conquering of the Spanish navy, and the taking of many prisoners. During the very heat of that terrible naval engagement the Spanish ships, many of them, were set on fire and the sailors were seen clinging to the rigging and to the bows and bulwarks of the vessels, and jumping overboard to save them from being burned. The American sailors began to shout for victory, but Admiral Schley issued the command that they should cease shouting, for could they not see their fellow men clinging to burning vessels and going down into the ocean to their death! So the shouting and the hurrahing ceased. After the close of the war, thirteen thousand Spanish prisoners were found in the possession of the American forces-, and by order of that Christian gentleman, President William McKinley, those prisoners were taken to a place of safety and there fed during the winter, kept in good comfortable quarters, and in the following spring, placed in American vessels and conveyed home to their own country to the shores of Spain without cost to themselves or to the country from which they came. That was an ideal of President McKinley. I have always felt to honor him as a true Christian gentleman. He made a journey across the plains and through this western country, and had appointments to speak in different places in the West, Salt Lake among the rest, but while in California, his wife was taken severely ill, and he had to hurry home, and therefore his engagements were canceled. 1 went to Ogden to see him as he passed through that city, and I heard him speak a few words from the rear platform of his car. I was still more impressed with the dignity, with the scholarship and with the tenderness of that great man, the President of the American Republic. 

Now as to the gospel : 

In fulfilment of the prediction of Malachi, as quoted to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the Angel Moroni, Elijah the Prophet appeared to 155 

Joseph Smith in the Kirtland temple, and committed to him the keys of the restoration of the ordinances for the dead. Today we are witnesses that there are six temples now finished and dedicated in which ordinances for the dead are ministered. On the 26th day of July, two days after the pioneers landed in this country, it is said that President Brigham Young, the great pioneer of the west, placed his cane on the position on this block where the temple now stands and said : "On this spot we will build the temple of the Lord," and although he lived to lay the cornerstone and dedicate it at the beginning of the building, he did not live to see its completion, but he led in the dedication of the first temple that was completed in Utah. That was in 1875, if I remember rightly, the temple of St. George was dedicated, and he presided at the dedicatorial services. Then further on came the dedication of the Logan temple, under President Taylor, then the dedication of the Manti temple, under the President of the Twelve, Wilford Woodruff; then came finally the fulfilment of that wonderful vision of President Woodruff's. Lie said in relating it, that some years before the Salt Lake temple was finished, he saw himself seated on the front steps of the temple. President Brigham Young came and said to him : "Brother Woodruff, take the keys and unlock the doors of the temple, and bid the people enter." President Woodruff in relating this at the dedicatorial services of the temple, said he was very much surprised that he should be commissioned to dedicate the Salt Lake temple, while President Taylor was still living; but when the temple was finished, in 1893, President Taylor had passed away to his eternal and great reward, and President Woodruff had been elected and ordained President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, under the inspiration of the Lord Almighty. Then he said he could see why he was commissioned to dedicate that holy house, years before its completion. President Woodruff dedicated two temples, one at Manti and the one in Salt Lake Cily. President Taylor dedicated the Logan temple; and now recently our beloved President Heber J. Grant has led in the building and the finishing and the dedication of two other temples, one on the Hawaiian islands, and one in Canada. I pray with all my heart that he may live to dedicate very many more. When I visit our temple here in Salt Lake, which I take the opportunity of doing occasionally, I rejoice to see the anxiety that seems to possess the people in prosecuting this work for the redemption of their dead kindred. This temple and, I believe, all the other temples are filled to their capacity in this glorious work of redemption for the dead. I am satisfied that this is but another great evidence of the truth of the gospel and of the divine organization of the true Church of Christ under the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith. These great events of building new temples and dedicating them, and the gathering of the people to these sacred buildings to perform their duties and their obligations to the dead, are additional evidences to me of the truth of "Mormonism." 

But beyond and far greater is the knowledge that I possess in my own heart, that the Lord has revealed to me in the inmost recesses CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  my soul, the truth of the everlasting gospel as proclaimed now by the Latter-day Saints. The divine mission of the Savior, the great mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, are facts brought to my mind as vividly and as earnestly and as truly as the thought and the knowledge of my own existence. I know today that God lives, I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world; I know that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired as a prophet of God. May the Lord increase this knowledge for us all, I pray, and make our testimonies bright and real and sure, that we may be encouraged to go on with the great work in which we are engaged, until the redeeming power of the gospel of Jesus Christ shall reach the uttermost parts of the earth, and every one of our Father's children shall have the privilege of receiving these great truths, and thus bring to pass their redemption, I pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret exceedingly to have had to limit the time of any of the brethren in these conferences. I am sure that every speaker, judging by myself, would have been pleased to occupy more time in talking to the Saints. When we stand up to speak and the Lord blesses us with the light and inspiration of his Spirit, it is rather a difficult matter not to want to talk and keep on talking. I confess freely, that it is very seldom when I am addressing the Latter-day Saints, that I do not have very many ideas come into my mind that I would like to express; but 1 feel the necessity of not continuing my remarks, as a rule, longer than 1 have done in the past. I therefore regret that it is not possible to give the brethren the opportunity and the chance to more fully express themselves; but I am sure that many of them who have been limited to ten minutes have done themselves proud, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, in testifying to us during the short time that was allotted them. 

Now to the law and testimony as we believe in it. 

BELIEF OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men, on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw forrn, them their fellowship." 

"We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the rights of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but, we believe that all men arc justified in defending themselves, their friends and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments 157  all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded." 

I spent considerable time while Brother Ivins w'as preaching, looking through a lot of old papers for a few words that I wanted to read to this congregation. It fell to my lot to be honored, by playing a game of golf with the President of the United States. It also fell to my lot, when a very noted attorney, Judge James A. Emery, came here to make a very important speech as an industrial expert, to be invited to play a game of golf with him. And after playing that game of golf, I had the privilege of hearing him deliver his speech at the Country Club. He expressed pleasure in coming back to Ultah and he announced — I do not know that I can give his words — that the people of Utah stood like a great rock in the ocean against the waves of discontent. 

A ROCK OF CERTAINTY. 

I just wish to read one little tribute from his address : 

"In renewing an old acquaintanceship comes a peculiar source of inspiration. I have been impressed with the continuing evidence which the light of Utah has had in the development of the state. Tell me what a man thinks and I will tell you what he does. This community has stood like a rock of certainty and decision in the midst of radicalism and discontent. Utah has stood as one of the cornerstones of reliability in the American political structure." 

That is from one of the great lawyers of the United States. After his speech, 1 had the pleasure of riding to the Country Club in the automobile with him, and afterwards of having a little ride to enjoy some of the scenery. The gentleman owning and driving the automobile, was not a member of our Church, but in complimenting judge Emery upon his magnificent address, he said: "Credit is due to the 'Mormon' people for not defending those things that are contrary to the fundamental laws, and the sustaining of the institutions of our country," or some words to that effect; and the Judge said : "Why, everybody knows that." I might add : except some people here at home. 

We hear a great deal about the wonderful influence of the "Mormon" priesthood and the tyranny of it; and this reminds me of a little incident in my own life. When I was a vice-president of the Chamber of Commerce and a certain gentleman was made the secretary, I suggested that we have that gentleman write a pamphlet upon the resources and attractions of Utah, inviting people to come here and make permanent homes — but of course we do not want anybody to come, so we are told! 

FALSE AND TRUE PROPAGANDA. 

And he wrote that pamphlet, and I suggested that after the cost of setting up the type had been returned and we had had our investment returned, that this man have an increase of salary because of the CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  of the pamphlet. A few months later he thanked me for having made that motion, because he said that he was getting $20 or $25 per month from it and it was adding to his meager salary. I said : "It is contemptible for any man to receive thanks from his fellow-man in a favor that he did not extend. I did not nominate you, and suggest that you write that pamphlet because I wanted to increase your salary, although I did announce that it would increase it. I nominated you to write that pamphlet because I knew you would have to tell the truth in your writing, and that the truth printed in that pamphlet would brand the articles that you had written upon this city years ago as a United States official, as plain, simple lies. That is why I nominated you, sir. Among other things, you said that the "Mormon" Priesthood controlled the people in every city, in every home, and all over this Territory, and that they were getting rich by robbing the people, in the articles you wrote for eastern publication. In this pamphlet you say that in no other state or territory of the United States are such splendid opportunities for settlers to be found as in Utah and that the city, community and territorial taxes are lower than in any other state or territory in the Union. What a pity that these robbers could not be exported to rob other people by reducing their taxes!" About that time he looked as if he would like to hit me instead of thanking me. I decided that I was quick enough to dodge if he should attempt to do so. 

AUTHORITY OF PRIESTHOOD. 

Now, with reference to the authority of the Priesthood of God and how it is to be exercised : The Prophet of the living God was imprisoned in Liberty jail and there was a desire that he should be tried and executed; but all the prison doors in all the world can not prevent the revelations of the mind and the will of God coming to those that are entitled to receive them; and while in Liberty jail the Prophet Joseph Smith received one of the very greatest of all the great revelations from God that are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. I read from Section 121 : 

"How long can rolling waters remain impure ? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from- pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints, 

"Behold, there are many called but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit 159  the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

"Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. 

"We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a 1 ittle authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous diminion. 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen." 

INSPIRED WORDS. 

Now, I want to emphasize the balance of this revelation, given in a jail. With all the power of a State trying to take away the liberty of Joseph Smith, they could not prevent the communication of that prophet with the heavens, and he received the following inspired words that should never be forgotten by any bishop or any president of a stake, or any apostle, or any president of the Church as long as they hold office in this Church: 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, ,and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion," 

MORE PRICELESS THAN WEALTH. 

More priceless than all the wealth of all the world is to have the Holy Ghost as our constant companion. 

"and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and with out compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever." 

We are an ignorant people, are we? Why, Dr. Winship announces that we have the best laws on education of any state in the United States, and yet the majority of the legislature come from the ignorant "Mormons." 

We are a vile people, are we ? Consider this : the governor of Arizona announced that if we had our just dues we would not have been robbed of between twenty-five hundred and three thousand per cent of some of the taxes in Arizona, namely : that we were entitled to twenty-five or thirty inmates in the state penitentiary and only had one. He also announced that we were being robbed because we did not have six or seven, in proportion to our population in the insane asylum. CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

When it comes to divorces — the crying evil of the age — we are not in it at all! 

When it comes to marrying, we can lead them every time. 

When it comes to fulfilling the first great commandment of God : to multiply and replenish the earth — we lead. Utah's best crop, and Canada's and Mexico's best crop, in every true, loyal, faithful Latterday Saint family, is babies. 

Our death-rate is lower. Our birth-rate higher. 

BY THEIR FRUITS. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them," and we are at the defiance of the world in all the vital statistics that go^ to show that we are a Christian people, that we do acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and are living up to his teachings. We are at the defiance of any honest man upon the face of the earth to point out that we do not lead in all those things; and the Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

Speaking of the accomplishments in our Mexican colonies, that great president and warrior who ruled Mexico with an iron hand for so many years — Porfirio Dias, when he visited, just a short time before he was driven from his country, the fair in Chihuahua, when he came to the exhibits of industry and frugality; when he saw the products of our canning factories, our harness factories, the shoe factories; when he saw the exhibits from our academy there — as fine an academy as is in all Utah, barring only Logan, Ogden, Salt Lake, and Provo, our four principal cities — when he saw all the exhibits there, that warrior, whom nobody would expect to shed a tear, when he saw what this "ignorant" people had done in Mexico, wiped his eyes and said: "What could I not do with my beloved Mexico if I had more citizens like these 'Mormons?'" 

In Canada we have made a record second to no people. 

GOOD COLLEGE RECORDS. 

In every college of the United States where our boys have gone, in every university attended by them, they have made a record that is the equal to the best. We expended of the Church funds and the people's funds, last year, a million dollars because we are a lot of ignoramuses and want to keep the people in ignorance. "The Glory of God is intelligence." 

Let me read some more from the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"Whatever principles of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated —  

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 161 

Latter-day Saints realize, know and comprehend that one of the greatest duties devolving upon them is to gain knowledge, and to study and get information out of good books. 

"If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

God lives, Jesus is the Christ, Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God; and this work called "Mormonism" is the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Redeemer, and is the plan of life and salvation; and all the disbelief of the world, all the opposition of all the world cannot stop it, God has established it and it wi.l go on and on until it has Milled its destiny! And may God help you and me and every soul that has a knowledge of the divinity of this work, to live the Gospel, that our acts may preach it, is my prayer and 1 ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The Deseret News has been broadcasting all the remarks made here this morning and this afternoon. 

I desire to express my gratitude and thanks to all the Saints for the very remarkable and splendid order we have had during all our conference meetings. I believe it has been the very best of any conference I have ever attended. 

I am very grateful for the very large attendance. I am thankful for the inspiration of the Lord to all those who have spoken. 

I am grateful indeed that President Penrose, who will soon be 92 years of age, has been able to be with us and lift up his voice in testimony of the divinity of this great work. 

We will now ask you to arise and President Penrose will offer the benediction. 

The choir sang "Inflammatus." solo by Miss Dolores Seal. Benediction was pronounced by President Charles W. Penrose. The conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by Professor B. Cecil Gates. Professor J. J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made in the Tabernacle by Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; and in the Assembly Hall by Frederick E. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. Austin, Elder Mark 22 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities of the Church General 82 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 28 

To Bring to Pass the Redemption of the Lamanit.es, 28 — To Bless, Benefit and Save the People of the World, 30 — God's Voiee Crying Repentance Through the Elements, 31 — Signs of the Second Coming of Christ, 32 — You shall See Wonderful Things Come to Pass in this Generation, 32 1 — This is an Individual Test Time, 32. 

Ballif, Elder Serge F 93 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 78 

Callis, Elder Charles A 80 

Chipman, Elder Stephen L 42 

Clawson, Elder Rudger 85 

True and False Evolution, 85 — One Kind of Animal Never Changes Into Another Kind, 86 — Testifying in Song and Sermon that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God', 86 — Church Going Forward with Increasing Temporal and Spiritual Power, 87 — Test, 87. 

Colton, Elder Don B 62 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Officers of the Church 1, 83 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

President's Visit, 2 — Temple Dedicated, 3 — Spirits Attuned, 4 — Cumorah Conference, 4 — In the Sacred Grove, 5 — Faith Increased, 5 — New inspiration. 6 — The Arizona Temple, 6 — Missionares Safe, 7 — Impressive Slogan, 7 — A Matter of Regret, 8 — Given with Promise, 9 — Favorably Impressed, 9 — Teachings Confirmed, 10 — Benefit of Obedience, 10 — Rejoice in Testimonies, 11 — Loyal  Country, 11. 

Grant, President Heber J 22 

Part of the Hill Cumorah Purchased, 22. Grant, President Heber J 82 

Presented General Authorities of the Church. Grant, President Heber J 84 

Regrets Lack of Time. Grant, President Heber j 85 

Elder Orson F. Whitney's Health. Grant, President Heber J 101 

Elder David O. McKay in Europe. Grant, President Heber J 148 

Further Speakers. 

Grant, President Heber J 156 

Belief of the Latter-day Saints, 156 — A Rock of Certainty, 157 — False and True Propaganda, 157 — Authority of Priesthood 158 — Inspired Words, 1,59— More Priceless Than Wealth, 159— By Their Fruits, 160— Good College Records, 160. 

Grant, President Heber J 161 

Closing Remarks. 

INDEX 163 

Hale, Elder Heber Q 40 

Hart, Elder Charles H 150 

Ivins, President Anthony W 139 

"If This Be the Work of Men," 139— Why the Speaker Thought of This Quotation, 140 — Opposing the Church, 140' — Why make Response? 140 — Doctrines Best Evidence, 141 — Testimony from Book of Mormon, 142 — Another Witness, 142 — This is Christ's Church, 143 — As to Ignorance, 143— As to Patriotism and Devotion, 144 — Not the Works of Ignorance, 145 — Feet Upon Safe Ground, 146 — A Call to Come to Christ. 147. 

Jensen, Elder Nephi 118 

Jenson, Elder Andrew 125 

The Tabernacle, 126 — Temple of Solomon, 126 — Temple of Zerubbabel, 127— Temple of Herod, 127— Nephite Temples, 128— Temples Erected by Latter-day Saints, 128 — Temple Site at Independence, 129 — Kirtland Temple, 129 — Temple Site at Far West, Missouri, 129 — Nauvoo Temple, 129 — St. George Temple, 130 — Logan Temple, 130 — Manti Temple, 130 — Salt Lake City Temple, 131 — Hawaiian Temple, 131 — Alberta Temple, 131 — Arizona Tem, 132. 

Knight, Elder John M Ill 

Larkin, Elder Joseph J 21 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 33 

Moroni's Message, 33 — The Law of Tithing, 33 — The Word of Wisdom and Its Promises, 34 — Enforce the Anti-Cigarette Law, 35 — The Gospel Will Ultimately Conquer the World, 36 — Another Promise of the Lord, 36 — Splendid Leaders in the Church, 36 — 

We Stand for Divine Guidance, 37. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 97 

Nibley, Elder Charles W 58 

Officers and Other Authorities Present 1 

Officers of the Church, General 83 

Parkinson, Elder Samuel W 40 

Penrose, President Charles W 12 

The Spirit and Power of God With the Church, 12 — The Successors to the Prophet Joseph, Men of God, 13 — Pleasure in the Progress of Temple Work, 13 — Our Duty Today, 14 — We Believe in Jesus Christ; This is His Church, 15 — Zion jvill Prosper Regardless of the Efforts of Her Opponent, 15 — We Need not be Concerned, Our Duties Are Plain, 16 — Centennial Celebration of the Visits of Moroni. 16 — Need of Proper Understanding of the Scripture, 17— We Must Preach the Gospel in All the World, 19— The Lord Well Pleased With His People, 19— Testimony, 19. 

Peterson, Elder Carl E 134 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 102 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 106 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 44 

Achievements of Joseph Smith, 44 — A Remarkable Conception of Civil Government, 44 — Influence of the Bible on the Constitution, 45 — I Shall Mention But a Few Items, 46 — How the Principles of This Government Can Endure, 47 — The Principles of This Government a Part of the Gospel, 47. 

Richards, Elder George F 65 

A Phase of the Angel Moroni's Message, 65 — Scripture Bearing On the Subject. 66 — The Interpretation, 66 — Responsibility CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

Upon the Person, the Church and the World, 67 — The Spirit of Elijah, 68 — Importance of Temple Work, 68 — An Opportunity to Work at Home, 69. 

Roberts, Elder B H 88 

Mission Motto, 89 — The Summer's Campaign, 89 — The Conference at Cumorah, 90 — The Messages of the Book of Mormon, 91. 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 20 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 55 

Events of a Hundred Years Ago, 55 — Joseph Smith's Contribution to Spiritual Thought, 55 — Witnesses Testify to Joseph's Wonderful Manifestations, 56 — Ancient Prophecy Fulfilled, 56 — Are We Prepared for New Revelations? 57. 

Smith, Elder George Albert 69 

Gratitude and Thanks Expressed, 69 — This Life is Not the End, 70 — No Doubt as to the Outcome, 71 — Some Choice Blessings that We Enjoy, 71 — Are We Worthy to be Called Saints?, 72 — The Lord of Lords Our Teacher, 73 — Thankful for Noble Men to Represent Us in the Nation, 73 — Let Us Not Change Our Blessings for Foolish Attractions, 74. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 100 

Smith, Elder David A 115 

Smoot, Elder Reed 74 

Appreciation of Conference and the Speakers, 74 — Conditions in the Christian World, 75— A Message for the World, 75— The Probability of Its Truth, 76— A Tribute to Mother, 76— A Young Convert's Telling Testimon3', 77 — Not Ashamed Anywhere of the ResrBted Gospel of Christ, 77 — The Burden of War the Result erf the Burden of Sin, 77 — World Can be Saved Only by a Knowledge of God and the Use of Common Sense, 78. 

Talmage', Elder James E 48 

The Purpose of the Creation of the World, 48 — Close Relationship Between Earth and Man, 49 — Man and Earthly Phenomena, 50 — Disruption Signalized the Savior's Death, 50 — Modern Prophecy on the Subject, 51 — The Recent Calamity in Japan, 51 — Righteous and Culpable Suffer Together, 52 — Nations, as well as Individuals Held to Account, 52 — The Way of Escape, 54 — The Time of Christ's Advent is Near, 54. 

Taylor, Elder Fnftik Y 37 

Taylor, Elder John H 109 

Taylor, Elder George S 132 

Wells, Elder John . . . . > 136 

Wells, Elder Rulon S.. . /. 152 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 23 

Truth Needs No Bolstering, 23 — Truth Always Comes in Light, 24 — The Wonderful Pedagogy of Moroni's Teaching, 25 — The Divine Nature of the Manifestation, 25 — Truth Ever Shapes the Destiny of Humanity, 26 — We Are Made Fearless and Unafraid by Truth, 27. 

Young, Elder Brigham S 122 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 148 

Young, Elder Seymour B 154 



DESERET BOOK 

COMPANY 

(IIIHIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIMIIItllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIII ' 

44 East So. Temple St. j 

We can supply you with 1 

BOOKS 

For all Departments of Sunday School Work. 

Young Men's and Young Ladies' M. I. Associations, including Manuals and the New Reading Course. 

Text Books for the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums' study. 

Church School, Seminary and Religion Class Text Books and Books of Reference. 

Primary Association; Stories to tell Children, Short Stories, Dialogues, Recitations, Speakers and Music Books. 

Books for every day in the year, especially for Summer reading — Immense Lines, new and attractive. 

SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE FREE 

Three Notable Books 

rEC3iiviiiiiitiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiic2iiiiiiiiniis:ai i vsini iiBiEaiiimi i iiiisai iiiiiiiiiiicsiii  i iiiincsi ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY 

BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Of the Council of the Twelve and Church Historian A History of the Church from the birth of the Prophet to the present time, in ONE LARGE VOLUME, of 700 pages, suitably illustrated with portraits of the leaders, early scenes and documents of historical value, and original maps, showing the travels of the Church from, its organization to its establishment in the mountains; also the route of the famous Mormon Battalion to the Pacific Coast. 

It is well printed and handsomely bound, and will be sold at 

the special low price, in cloth $1.75 

Three-Fourths Leather 3.00 

"A Guide to the study of Essentials in Church History" containing lessons for the entire volume and arranged for a two years' course, each 15c, Doz. $1.50. 

SATURDAY NIGHT THOUGHTS 

A Series of Dissertations on Spiritual, Historical and Philosophical Themes BY ORSON F. WHITNEY Of the Council of the Twelve The book ^s designated for use in L. D. S. schools and seminaries, but as the Themes in this work are calculated to stimulate study and deep reflection of Gospel truths, it will be prized by the thoughtful reader everywhere. Handsomely bound in cloth, $1.25. 

Prophecies of Joseph Smith and Their Fulfillment 

BY NEPHI LOWELL MORRIS 

Was Joseph Smith a Prophet? What answers come from the century that has rolled by since he beheld his first vision? Ha^e the Latter-day Saints misplaced faith in him? After the progress of a hundred years, what has Time done with his claims to the title of a Prophet? 

In order to make plain the outcome of Time the author has dug up old and forgotten manuscripts and prints which he lays before his readers, with photographic reproductions of the originals. Price, $1.25. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

444648 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY 

SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOG FREE 







