Overflow
07 10 1923

An overflow meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a.m., Sunday morning, October 7, 1923. 

Elder David A. Smith, of the Presiding Bishopric, presided. 

Music and singing were furnished by the Holliday ward choir, Cottonwood stake, under the direction of Charles R. Pike, with Tracy Y. Cannon, organist. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel." Prayer was offered by Elder Don C. Walker, Rigby, Idaho. The choir sang, "Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell." 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach nnto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God 1 , and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

During this most splendid conference, my brethren and sisters, frequent reference has been made to the fact that we commemorate in this conference the one hundredth anniversary of the coming of that angel to earth with a dispensation of the everlasting gospel to preach unto the children of men everywhere. Truly it is remarkable to review the past one hundred years of achievement by this people, and it is marvelous when we contemplate that from that humble beginning there has grown the mighty Church of. which we now form a part. And truly we cannot contemplate without believing, it seems to me, that this Church is the answer to those prophetic words, when we contemplate that this gospel has been and is being preached in all the world as a witness unto all people everywhere, and the honest in heart from out the nations of the earth are being gathered together in bodies and in organizations, and are being taught more fully in the gospel plan. 

We note, from the scripture that I have read, that this gospel is eternal. It is everlasting; it is unchangeable; it is today what it was yes103 , and will always continue to be the same. There are manv churches uponi the face of the earth; there are many systems that are called the gospel of Jesus Christ, but I should like to analyze this morning, for a few brief moments, this word. I shall refer you to the definition of the gospel as given by Paul in his epistle to the Roman Saints. He says, "For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." So that we see in this gospel as established very distinctly two things : it is eternal, and it is the power of God unto the salvation of all men who will believe it. And the Savior said, "'He that believes on me, the work that I do he will do also." So that true belief implies, not a lip confession, but works that will harmonize our lives with the principles, the ordinances, the teachings of the gospel, and the commandments of our Father in heaven. An article of our faith states, "We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel." 

We have in the world a great many faiths and a great many gospels. But let us apply the test for a moment to them. We find recorded in scripture, words to this effect, that no unclean thing can enter into the kingdom of our Father in heaven. The man who is a thief, who is a liar, who is an adulterer, who is unclean in any sense of the word, cannot enter the kingdom of our Father in heaven. But the gospel is given as a power of salvation from those very things. Now, I ask you to reflect for a moment and answer the question to yourselves : In all the history of the great Catholic church, has it been able to save the world from sin? I do missionary work in a Catholic country, and I recognize the fact, my brethren and sisters, that there are many, many sincere people who live the best they can, considering the light that they have, but I want to tell you that sin exists today perhaps to a greater degree than it has ever existed before in that Catholic country, and the "power of God unto salvation" of the Catholic people is not being manifest through their church nor through the gospel that they preach. 

Now, I ask you, my brethren and sisters, in the three or four hundred years' existence of the Protestant churches in the world, have the Protestant gospel been able to rid the world of sin? It seems to me, as we read in the current press that we are constrained to believe that perhaps as much today as in any age of the world's history, there is crime, there is vice, and there is disloyalty among the children of men, people professing to have the gospel of Jesus Christ. 1 ask you. if it is what Paul says the gospel is, why then is it not operative in the lives of these people ? Can they, consistent with the scripture teaching, be saved in our Father's kingdom before some power is applied in their lives to cleanse them from sin and save them from it? Why, no. In the Book of Revelation, the Apostle John says, ''Come out of her [speaking of Babylon], my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not her plagues." CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

Has the gospel, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and as restored by the angel that flew through the midst of heaven one hundred years ago been a power unto salvation, unto the children of our Father in heaven who have received it? You know yourselves that it has been; in some instances, of course, more and in some instances less. But because it has not operated in the full cleansing from sin of all those who have received it, judge not that the whole system is wrong, for those who have obeyed it have been able to overcome the tendencies in their nature that were contrary to the precepts of our Father in heaven; they have been able to harmonize their lives to his will. 

Attention has been called during this conference to the Word of Wisdom. Our beloved President calls that document a letter sent from our Father in heaven to his children here for their guidance. Now. those who have lived it have found even a temporal salvation. They have found their bodies made healthier, stronger; their resistance greater, their minds keener; and their intellects brighter; and they have wisdom, yea even hidden treasures of wisdom, and the hand of the destroyer has passed those people by as it has not passed any other people on the face of the earth; for statistics prove the wonderful fact that the death-rate per thousand among the "Mormon" people is lower than perhaps among any other people in all the world. If it can do this, then it is, in its operation in our lives, the very power of God unto salvation. 

On the first Sunday of last month I was in San Antonio, Texas, in a fast meeting, and we had our Saints bear their testimonies upon that day, as they do at home, testifying of the goodness of our heavenly Father to them; and one little woman, in fear and trembling, stood up in the back of the hall. She had only been a member of the Church for five months, but she testified that she knew the gospel to be true, and she gave as one of her reasons the following; "From my infancy, in the home of my parents, I was given coffee to drink. I grew up with the idea that I could not live without it. When I became a wife, in my home, we continued to use it. But for the last five or six years I have been practically a nervous wreck. I did not know what was the matter with me. All I wanted was my coffee. I did not care for food. I was becoming so weakened that it looked as if I would have to take to my bed. And the elders of the Church of jesus Christ came to me with the message of the gospel, and among other things they taught me the Word of Wisdom, and the Lord has said that coffee, among other things, is not good for man." She testified that she could not sleep, she could not rest, she was nervous and near to break down, but when she received the waters of baptism, she discarded along with her other bad habits, the habit of coffee drinking. And she says, "Here I stand, a witness before God today, that 1 have been benefited; my health has returned to me; my appetite has returned; my ability to rest and sleep has returned." 

Can we say. then, that the gospel, as we have received it, is not the power of God unto salvation? It is even in that sense in the life of 105  little woman? And so it will be in every other instance wherein we apply it. 

All the ills of this world can be corrected by living the principles of this restored gospel. There need be no more war, there need be no more bloodshed, there need be no more strife, there need be no more dishonesty between and among the children of men, if men will only live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. No man needs to knock at the door of heaven with his garments soiled with the sins of the world and of the generations in which he lives, if he will apply the blessed principles of repentance, if he will receive repentantly and in faith the ordinance of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; for although his sins may be as scarlet, in the blessed blood of our Redeemer, through compliance with these ordinances, he will be washed white as snow, and he shall enter, a new-born creature, into the kingdom of God, even as a little child, even in the similitude of that comparison made by the Redeemer himself, when his disciples asked, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" and he called a little child and placed him in their midst, and said, "Whosoever therefore, shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven." 

Now, brethren and sisters, I know that the gospel is true. I know, and bear you my witness here today, that verily the angel did fly and he did come and he did converse with the boy prophet Joseph Smith, and he did deliver in due time into his hands the records that were for the first time shown him a hundred years ago, and the boy, through the inspiration and revelations direct from our Father in heaven, translated that most wonderful book, the Book of Mormon. It contains a history of the fulness of the everlasting gospel. It is being preached in all the world, and it will continue to be preached until every creature shall have heard the warning message. 

It is being preached, my brethren and sisters, with a double purpose, first to save those who will accept, who will believe and who will obey the sacred teaching of the gospel; and second, it is being preached as a witness against those who will not do so. I tell our missionaries, in the mission when they are discouraged sometimes with the fact that more are not receiving the gospel, that if they are conscientiously and humbly and earnestly declaring their message in the world, they are ridding themselves of all responsibility. The responsibility of carrying this message, of a truth, rests upon the membership of this Church, but when we carry it forth, as I have said, and declare it to the people, then we roll the responsibility from off our shoulders onto the shoulders of the people of the world and they are left without an excuse. 

We have not done it all, by any means, owing to the magnitude of the work in the missionary field. We at home, I sometimes think, little realize it. I wonder, sometimes, if we at home are inculcating into our family spirit the missionary spirit of this Church. W T e cannot, my brethren and sisters, side-step the issue, it is before us. The signs of the time point to the fact that the end is near. One of the brethren CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  yesterday, "how hear we are not willing' even to recognize." And still I recall that this gospel, this everlasting gospel, this gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, must yet be preached even more extensively than it ever has been preached; for the Savior said that as the culminating incident that should precede his second coming, "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." Until we have done our full duty that responsibility weighs heavily upon us. 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord to attend this Church. I further testify that not only do I know, my brethren and sisters, that the man chosen of God to initiate this great movement in the world was a prophet of God, but likewise that each of his successors, even to the man who stands in our midst today, Heber J. Grant, is a prophet of God. He speaks with divine appointment and by divine power, and it is for us to listen to the word of the Lord as it comes through him. We should cast out from us evil, and just so far as the gospel has not been able to perfect us, it illustrates the fact that it is not applied in our lives to the full extent that it might be applied. If I drink liquor, if I smoke tobacco, if I lie, if I gamble, if I steal, it is not an evidence that the gospel is not true; it is merely an evidence that I might have all the wires and globes, but the current of light is not turned on in my life. The Holy Ghost, that was given me as a spiritual birth in the kingdom of God, is not permitted to operate, because I choose to love darkness rather than light. 

So let us clean up our own houses. Let us take the word of the Lord that came to us in the opening" address of this conference, and as parents live and breathe in our family circle such a spirit that we can correct the evil tendencies of the age in our own children. I am a parent, and 1 realize what that means. No one knows better than I. perhaps, what a great responsibility it is to keep boys and girls going just right. My boys and girls have to live out in the world; they are not surrounded with all the environments here, and if it were not for a home influence, they would be just like the world, I am sure: so we have to strive to keep that alive. 

I do not wish to occupy more of your time. May the Lord bless you and help us to live more in harmony with his teachings, and to clean up our own homes and our own lives, that we may live so that the gospel of Jesus Christ can be in our lives in very deed the power of God unto salvation, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY 

(President of the Canadian Mission.) 

My dear brethren and sisterss If there ever was a time when I stood in the presence of a congregation of people and needed the 107 

Spirit of God, it is the present time. I appreciate fully the great responsibility that rests upon an elder who is called upon to occupy a place of this kind in delivering the message of life and .salvation to the children of men, therefore I do humbly pray with all the power that I have that I shall be directed in my remarks this morning by the Spirit and influence of our Father in heaven. 

If there is any one thing that has impressed itself upon me more than another during the sessions of this conference, it is the positiveness with which the message has been delivered to the Saints residing in the stakes of Zion, and I am convinced, as I have listened to these messages of truth, that God has never permitted anything to come into the world pertaining to life and salvation but what that message has carried with it a positiveness that has not been misunderstood. And I have wondered, as I have listened to these inspired discourses, as they have come from the lips of the Prophet and the apostles of the Lord, how it is possible for us to doubt the divinity of this great and mighty work as it has been established in this dispensation of the fulness of times. 

I have wondered if there could have been any other way of presenting and introducing the gospel of Jesus Chrict, other than the way in which it was introduced into the world. God has a message to deliver. Who but he could have delivered that message with more positive understanding? When I reflect upon that vision that came to Joseph Smith the Prophet, I realize and appreciate its power and importance. I must come to the conclusion that God has estabestablished his work here upon the earth, because of ttie fact that it was so important that he came and introduced his Son Jesus Christ, who is the author of our salvation, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and commanded him to listen to the Redeemer of the world. This, to my mind, is the greatest event in the history of the human race and bears witness of the fact that whenever God has a message to deliver to the children of men pertaining to their eternal salvation he speaks to them in no uncertain terms and impresses upon their souls the necessity of coming in contact with the divine, in order that they may become qualified to assume the great responsibilities that are resting upon them from time to time. Subsequently, when it became necessary to fulfil the prophecy that we have heard read to us this morning, that same positiveness, that same assurance accompanied the message that was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as was delivered to him when God, in his majesty and glory, together with his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him. 

I would like to read again a passage because of the strength and the power that it conveys. It refers to a time when God's judgments were to be poured out upon the inhabitants of the earth as a witness that he had spoken through the instrumentality of his holy angels, and subsequently through his Prophet Joseph Smith here upon the earth: 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Now, in connection with the delivery of this message, I want to call attention to one or two important things; first of all, this message of the gospel should come in the day of God's judgment, and it should come in a time when we were to call upon him and worship him who made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of waters. And this is a day of God's judgments. So important and so mighty was this gospel message that was committed to this angel that it was necessary for him to come not only once in that night when he delivered himself with the power and glory of God, hut it was necessary for him to repeat that message — not just once or twice or thrice, with the identical words, accompanied with the power of the Priesthood that he held, but it became necessary upon the following day for him to appear with the same glory and majesty and power, so that there would be no mistake made in the delivering of that gospel message. 

And these are things, my brethren and sisters, that make this work stand out as the great gospel plan of God, as he has revealed it to the children of men through his divine and inspired prophet in this day and time. And I want to say to you that as we carry this message to the hearts of the children of men, we are convinced as we give our testimony that God speaks, and speaks with that power that causes strength to be added to the testimonies that we have in the mission field, and we are able, through this divine power of God to develop that love within our souls for the hearts and the souls of the children of men, so that they may understand and appreciate what God has said in this day and time. It is a mighty message, a message, my brethren and sisters, that our sons and our daughters are carrying with them in humility; and understanding the pow r er there is in humility, they pray as they never prayed in, all their lives before, so that they can come in direct contact with that union that connects them with God the eternal Father. 

I bear my testimony that I know, as I know that I live, that God speaks to his prophets here upon the earth, because I am a living witness in seeing the fulfilment of prophecy in the convincing of the, honest in heart of the divinity of this great work, I have heard them testify that they have been lit up to that extent that they have had the courage of their convictions to come and apply for baptism and testify of God's great and mighty power. I know that he lives, and I know that this is his Church. I am a living manifestation of his power. I have been raised, as it were, from the dead, to life eternal, and I bear witness of God's power as it has been made manifest through his holy priesthood. 109 

God grant that we will appreciate, as the days come and go, the power there is in this Church, the divine instruments that we have in proclaiming and living this great religion that has come to "-us. O, may we be humble and prayerful and bring into our very souls a love for one another and appreciate the injunction that Christ himself gave when he made that declaration in answer to the question, Which of all the commandments is the greatest? "Love the Lord thy God with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind," and then, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." 

God grant that we will take advantage of this privilege granted unto us of cultivating that divine love, that there will be strength added to the testimonies that we already have, that we may have the courage of our convictions and convey this truth in power and in strength, to the convincing of the thousands who are ready to understand it and accept it. God bless these remarks to our good and us to the service of God is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A tenor solo was sung by Elder John Bowers, entitled, "Hosanna." 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

(President of the Northern States Mission.) 

I Avill read a few of the words of Moroni to the people : 

"Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts." 

It seems to me that this verse is a preparation to the people who may read this holy book, that they shall have in their hearts a desire to know the truth, and to have brought to their remembrance the fact that God has been good to his children upon the earth; and that, irrespective of the many things that they have done which have been evil in his sight, God has been willing to forgive them, make himself manifest to them, and bear record of the truthfulness of his word. W hen we realize how good God has been to us, then desire and hope come into our hearts, and make us humble before God, and we rather feel that God will also be merciful unto us, his children, and bring testimony into our hearts. I dare say that whoever reads this holy book, and reads this first verse, will have a desire that God shall be merciful to him, as he has been merciful unto his people before: 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." 

What we can know and find out for oursleves is the truthfulness CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  God's word to us as found in the Holy Scriptures and in the Book of Mormon. If we shall have real intent in our hearts to know, then God. will manifest the truth of these things by the power of the Holy Ghost. Some, even among our own people, will think from reading these words that they can commence at the beginning of the Book of Mormon and read it through and a divine testimony will come of the truthfulness of the book. We are forgetting that we must have a desire in our hearts to know and have real intent and sincerity back of us; and then shall the testimony of God the eternal Father come to us as to the truthfulness of this holy book. 

God always has left testimony and has borne the same to all of his people that they may know of the truthfulness of his work. It is the testimony given to us through the power of the Holy Spirit of God that makes! us know of its truthfulness. I am not leaving out the fact that we must study, that we shall seek God, that God is intelligence; I am not forgetting all of these things, but by the power and the gift of the Holy Ghost comes testimony in our hearts. 

God, speaking unto his people at the baptism of the Savior, bore record to the people and to the world, "This is my beloved Son." When he appeared to the Nephites, God bore testimony again, "This is my beloved Son." In this day, unto Joseph Smith, God again bore testimony, "This is my Son." And who can read in the Book of Mormon or the Doctrine and Covenants, or the Bible, the simple testimony of God, "This is my beloved Son," and with a prayer in his heart, without feeling that God is speaking to us, and that we know for a surety that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Son? 

You remember when the sons of Helaman went out to war for their liberty against their own people that they said in speaking to the people, "We do not doubt our mothers knew it." The testimony of God had been given to the two thousand by the testimony of their mothers at home. It was that simple, beautiful statement, that came from the lips of the mother that made the boys seek after God the eternal Father, and they did not doubt, because, by the power of the Holy Ghost came testimony into their hearts. 

As a boy, I used to go to fast meeting and wonder why father and mother would insist that I go to a meeting of that kind, where men and women were standing up one after another and saying, "I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God." How well they knew that, as I sat Sunday after Sunday in the meeting hearing what to me are now beautiful testimonies, that testimony was coming into my heart and helping me to understand that God indeed does live and that Jesus Christ is his Son. 

You mothers and fathers, bear testimony in our fast meetings, and our other meetings, as to the truthfulness of God's work, that the people may hear your testimony, but I sometimes wonder how often we take our boys and our girls on one side, or how often we gather 

ELDER JOHN II, TAYLOR 111 

them before the family fire, and when all is peaceful and quiet, bear testimony as fathers and mothers to the girl and the boy and let them know from our lips that God lives and that he has spoken again in these latter clays. That testimony shall stay with the boys and with the girls and go with them into many lands and fields, and some day, because of the simple testimony from the father and the mother, that boy and that girl shall bear testimony unto the world of the truthfulness of God's gospel, because you made it possible and softened their hearts that they wanted to know 1 for themselves as to the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am grateful for this gospel. I am glad that it is a gospel where you have to fight your own fight; for, not forgetting the beloved mercies of God the eternal Father and his Son — not forgetting all of these wonderful things — after all, it is an individual fight with the help of God to win your life through and make it worth while. Jesus Christ presented his plan, and the son of the morning presented his plan. We accepted the plan of Christ, and now Satan, it seems to me, would lull us into the sleep of forgetfulness that we havd accepted the plan of Jesus Christ, which meant free agency, and brought us to the fighting ranks, into the front of the line; and he sought to substitute his plan which lost out once, and must ever lose because it is not a just plan. If we win out, it is through the mercies of God and the lives that we live. I would rather lose the fight and pay the penalty, and belong to the Church of Jesus Christ, than to belong to something that would make me feel that I could disobey the laws of God and still so back into the presence of my Maker. 

May God bless us and help us. May the sweet testimony of his Spirit come into our hearts and into the hearts of our boys and girls, that this Church may continue to grow and increase in spiritual power and, because of the lives of the people and the testimonies that God has given to us, stand out as a living testimony to the world that this indeed is the Church of Jesus Christ, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

My soul has been stirred, as never before, during the sessions of this conference. 

I desire that I may have the same sweet spirit that has influenced the remarks of my brethren. I would like to emphasize one thought that has impressed me. 

Frequent reference has been made to the holy scriptures, the Bible, the ISook of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price as the inspired word of God. As I listened to the opening address of PresiCONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  Grant, and others of the brethren who have spoken, 1 have felt in my heart their testimony and words of instruction, were just as binding upoq the Latter-day Saints as any part of the written word. 

"Holy men of old wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

Prophets of God live today, and when moved upon by that same power, their message is of equal force upon the world and particularly the Latter-day Saints as the word of God spoken or written centuries ago. 

All who listened to the testimony and instructions of President Grant must have felt, in, their souls, that he spoke as one having authority, commissioned of God to declare his message to the Saints of latter days. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believes, and obeys its teachings. A testimony of its truth is not reserved for the presiding brethren of the Church. It is within the power of every baptized believer to have assurance and testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and thac Joseph Smith not only was, but is a prophet of the living God, also that those who are at the head of the Church today have the same authority and power possessed by Joseph Smith. We will reserve that witness of the Spirit in direct proportion to our obedience to' law. If we are implicit and absolute in our obedience to the commandments of God we shall know the truth. Jesus said to the Jews who believed in him, 

"If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." 

I read from the Doctrine and Covenants, section one : 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance;" "Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven;" 

"And he that repents not. from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for any spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

"And again verily I say unto you, - O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh," 

"For 1 am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily Cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion." 

We must keep ourselves clean and unspotted from the sins of the world. 

! have here, a clipping that was forcibly brought to my mind this morning. Reference was made by one of the speakers to the fact that a minister of one of the great Protestant churches in a convention recently held, declared that the churches had no message for the world. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has a message for the world, which is definite and positive. That message was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early part of the 113  century, by messengers sent from the presence of God. It is the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness and power. The clipping 1 have is from a Minneapolis paper and reports the Rev. C. E. Ames of the Congregational church as saying: 

"In a spiritual sense there is a crying need today for pioneers to lead us into new lands away from the worship of idols. We need not so much scribes and priests as we need prophets. Prophets are spiritual pioneers, pilgrims, pathfinders. The spiritual pathfinder needs faith to venture, courage to endure, a vision of freedom to strive for. He cannot be satisfied with the life about him. He loses smug content in a desire for better things. Inspired by the living Christ, the prophet for our day must lead by voice and life. He cannot permit the message God has given him to be throttled by any force economic, social or military. He may not be praised; far more probable his lot will be persecution, but he will lead the world to new lands of spiritual growth and happiness." 

Truly the world is in need of prophets, spiritual pathfinders. We have them! Joseph Smith was the pioneer in the dispensation in which we live. He directed the attention of the world away from the worship of idols, taught the personality of God and of his son Jesus Christ and revolutionized the popular idea of an incomprehensible Deity. He taught men the fundamental doctrine of salvation. Faith in God, faith in the atoning sacrifice of Jesus of Nazareth, the necessity of personal purity, and repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost and every other principle and doctrine taught by Christ and his apostles. 

It has not been necessary to call a convention of the elders of the Church to consider fundamentals in order to enrich the articles of our faith. They will be the same in all dispensations of time; and will lead the people of the world to spiritual growth and happiness. Joseph Smith did not permit the message God had given him to be throttled by any power, social, economic, or military; though his lot was persecution, hounded, driven and plundered by his enemies, he bore solemn testimony until death that he had seen the Father and the Son in glorious vision, that holy men as ministering angels had visited him and conferred the authority of the holy Priesthood upon him with all the keys and powers of former gospel dispensations, and that under their direction the Church of Christ had been established never more to be thrown down. We Latter-day Saints are his witnesses that these things are true. 

In the days when Christ was upon the earth he called the attention of the Scribes and Pharisees to the fact that many of them said in their hearts, had we lived in the days of the prophets, we would have done differently than our fathers. But he said unto them : 

"Woe unto you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the tombs of the Prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous, and say, if we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers CONFERENCE PRO CEEDINGS  them in the blood of the prophets. Wherefore, ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets. Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can you escape the damnation of hell?" 

Joseph Smith undaunted and unafraid went to a martyr's doom in 1844. Future generations, no doubt, will adore the name of the prophet of this dispensation whom their sires put to death. 

Missionaries of the Church are calling the attention of the world to these great truths and warning them of the judgments that are about to come upon the earth. This year is the centennial anniversary of the visit of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith, preparatory to the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon. In our mission, the Western states, we have stressed the coming forth of this volume of scripture, this new witness for God, and kept it prominently before the people. Some of our friends have been wrought up in their souls and have endeavored to stay our progress. One such was kind enough to distribute a little pamphlet through the eastern part of South Dakota. I desire to read a portion of what appeared in the article. It was unsigned : 

"In spite of their awful doctrines, they get followers. There are multitudes of poor, deluded folk that want something different. They are easy prey to the schemes of men and devils. The 'Mormons' are skilled deceivers. They use the Bible to teach repentance, faith and baptism, but hold back their awful doctrines. They teach that God once was as we are now. and that we may become what God is now. They teach that we have a heavenly Father and a heavenly Mother." 

That is an awful doctrine isn't il ? 1 have not time to read all of this pamphlet. I call your attention to the closing paragraph. 

"They say that Joseph Smith can make scripture as good as the Bible, that God has many revelations, as the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and other publications of their Church. Records are kept of thousands of living persons wdio are baptized in their temples for the redemption of the dead. Their writings can be produced to show that they teach these things. The above is enough to condemn the whole system; for they set up their writings equal to the Bible and leave place for added revelation. Gods word is a finished revelation, and woe to him that adds to or takes away!" 

My time has expired. It is not necessary to make any comment in the presence of a congregation of Latter-day Saints. It shows; however, the attitude of the world towards a prophet of God. The crying need of the hour is for inspired men. We have them in the Church of Jesus Christ, and they are leading Israel by the power of God. May the Lord add his blessings, that we may appreciate to the full our responsibilities. Let us turn our faces towards the rising sun, set our hearts like flint against the evils of the world, and endeavor to reduce to practice in our lives the counsels and instructions that have been given and. will yet be given at the sessions of this conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 115 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

( Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

I rejoice, this morning, that I find my soul in harmony with the remarks of this conference. I thank God for this, and pray that while I shall stand before you, he will assist me in the remarks I may make. Enough has been said already during this conference to assure us our salvation, if we believe and put into practice the good advice and admonition. 

In looking over the congregation today, judging from the expressions on your faces, I am satisfied that those who have attended feel that they can go to their homes fully determined to carry out the instructions received. It will not be long before many of us are again plunged into the affairs of business and some will perhaps forget this wholesome, elevating influence. 

It was my good fortune to accompany President Grant and others to Canada for the purpose of attending the dedicatory services at the temple, and for four days most of the General Authorities were in meetings almost continuously for from twelve to fifteen hours each day. Every moment of the time was a joy to me, and I thought while there, how easy it would be to keep the commandments of God, if I could constantly be surrounded with such an influence. This cannot be, it seems, for we must labor to provide food and comforts for ourselves and families, and our labors take us into channels where that spirit is not always 1 present. Some of us, I am afraid, feel it is sufficient to keep the commandments of God as they pertain to our spiritual welfare. We attend sacrament meetings, our priesthood meetings and other meetings that are held for our benefit and edification. Our lives are clean in thought and action, yet many times we overlook the fact that it is also necessary that we so live that our every action may be influenced by the Spirit of God. In the world today, it seems, people think mainly of their selfish interests, hoping constantly to get about them those things which will bring luxury and comfort, and in their anxiety to gather about them luxuries, they forget God and the teachings of the Lord and Savior, and sometimes those who are active in their Church work give way to selfishness and greed, when it comes to business activities. 

On our way home from Canada, President Grant received a telegram from the Commercial Club, at Great Falls, asking that while there, President Grant and party be guests of the Chamber of Commerce. President Grant answered he had had a hard week and would prefer to spend the evening quietly. But another telegram came, requesting that President Grant and party be guests of the Chamber of Commerce at Great Falls. Upon arriving we were met at the train by a committee who took the party by automobile to tRe Rainbow hotel, where arrangements had been made to hold a reception. Remarks were made by leading citizens. In their statements of welcome they exCONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  a desire to be friendly with the members of the Church, and encouraged them lo come to that country to settle. They stated, not those words, but in thought, that they were not concerned with the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but were very much interested with the effect of those teachings upon the members of the Church who had gone there to settle. A leading banker made this statement: ''We have discovered that where we have *Mormon' families in our community, they are a hard-working" class of people; they farm intelligently, and confer with one another as to the best method of farming and if need be, they co-operate with one another to get the best results in their farming. Only a few days ago my attention was called to a condition where one of them had been taken sick. His crops were ready to be harvested; he did not have the means to harvest them himself. His associates, seeing his condition, fixed a time, went in a body and harvested the crops and saved them for him. This is the class of people we want to come amongst us. If we have more of them we will have fewer I. W. W's. and Bolshevists.'' I do not know whether this man made the statement purely through selfishness or not but 1 do know he had discovered in those few farmers who had gone there a condition that should always be manifested in the actions of those who believe in the teachings of Jesus Christ. 

While this condition is seen by those who hope to make capital out of it, many of us who should see it and feel the importance of cultivating this spirit of fellowship, have very little time to do so. It is through our thoughts and actions that we succeed. If our thoughts are unclean, our actions will become unclean. If our thoughts are selfish, then we will become selfish. We may attend our meetings, pay our tithes and offerings, but at the same time hold ourselves aloof from the Saints, and thus fail to partake of the spirit of fellowship and personal contact, which is so helpful and comes only through mingling with each other in the spirit of friendship as taught by the gospel of Jesus Christ. W hether we are engaged in operating a store, laboring in a professional capacity, or in any other of the activities of life, we should not permit the spirit of selfishness to enter into our hearts. We should look upon our brother in need as one to whom we should stretch a helping hand. 

The other day, I heard a man from Los Angeles make the statement : "We must look to Utah for subsistence. Our farming ground is being rapidly built up. Utah must supply our meat, our poultry, our eggs, our butter and our cheese." Many times, when farseeing men in the stakes of Zion have made an attempt to have the people in their district see the importance of co-operation and recognize that they may be more helpful to one another in producing" to the best advantage and for the purpose of putting" their produce upon the market to the best advantage, there have been some who. in each case, in the spirit of rebellion, refused to lend aid to this movement, 117  that the leaders had a selfish motive in advising the people in this manner. There are a few in our midst who have this spirit and they mistrust every man who tries to do good, and, perhaps, because of that mistrust, on the part of a few, the large majority, rather than force their ideas upon others, sit back content with looking after their own affairs, and because of this we fail to accomplish all that we might accomplish. 

I want to say to you, my brehtren especially, that it is just as important for us at times to discuss in our priesthood meetings our local affairs as they pertain to our business, the crops we should raise and the best method of producing or marketing, as it is that we discuss things which pertain alone to our spiritual, welfare. In all, we should be guided through prayer, faith and works, remembering the commandments of the Lord to Nephi, as found in III Nephi 18:15-25 : 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him. 

"And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my name/ Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you. 

"And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said unto them : 

"Behold, verily, verily, I say unto "you, ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. 

"Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; 

"And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you. 

"Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed. 

"And behold, ye shall meet together oft; and ye shall not forbid any man from coming unto you when ye shall meet together, but suffer them that they may come unto you and forbid them not; 

"But ye shall pray for them, and shall not cast them out; and if it so be that they come unto you oft ye shall pray for them unto the Father, in my name. 

"Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up — that which ye have seen me do. Behold ye see that I have prayed unto the Father, and ye all have witnessed. 

"And ye see that I have commanded that none of you should go away, but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me, that ye might feel and see; even so shall ye do unto the world; and whosoever breaketh this commandment suffereth himself to be led 1 into temptation." * * * 

The Lord in his wisdom has given us a commandment which is a guide: (III Nephi 18:28-30.) 

"And now behold, this is the commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall minister it; 

"For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye shall forbid 1 him. 

"Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out from among you, but ye shall minister unto him and shall pray for him unto the Father, in my name; and if it so be that he repenteth and is baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall minister unto him of my flesh and blood." CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

Yesterday, in this building, one of our bishops told us what was being accomplished in his ward by way of leaching the young men, holding the Lesser Priesthood, how to become active in Church work. Young men holding the Lesser Priesthood are generally of an age when they learn mainly through observation. Think of the effect upon these young men just beginning their ministry in the Church, knowing that men should not partake of the Sacrament unless they are clean in their lives and in their actions, when we disobey this instruction : let Vis partake of the Sacrament often and witness anew that we are willing to take upon us the name of the Lord and keep his commandments. 

I see that my time is up. I pray that when we go to our homes we will not feel that it is sufficient for us to labor in a spiritual capacity alone, but that it is also necessary to keep with us such spiritual guidance in our every-day walks of life, and apply to all we undertake to do, the Golden Rule. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we are one big family, and to receive the blessings promised should keep in mind that fact, remembering the words of the Savior: "Pray always, lest ye be led into temptations," for no man can pray as God would have him pray, with a spirit of envy, malice or selfishness in his soul. 

God grant that through our efforts to serve him we will prove our worthiness to receive his blessings, which I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Let the mountain shout for joy." The closing prayer was offered by Elder William L. Rich, of the. Bear Lake .stake of Zion. 


