10
Morning
07 10 1905
Elder Geo. Albert Smith. 

Why the Saints are regarded as a peculiar people.— The duty of forgiving one another.— Performance of duty increases faith.— We should not limit ourselves In good works.— The joy of eternal association with loved ones. 

My brethren and sisters, I am grateful to my Heavenly Father this morn, ing for the privilege of meeting with you in this house of worship. While I occupy this position I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be inspired by the Holy Spirit to say such things as He would have me say unto you. I have rejoiced with you in the remarks that have been made by our brethren in this conference, and it has been joy to me to see the multitude of Latter-day Saints present upon this occasion. The hymn that has just been sung is an inspiration to us who live  these mountain vales. I believe the fervor with which it was sung is an evidence of the appreciation of the Latter-day Saints for the blessings of our Father upon them. We are called a peculiar people because, perchance, we thoroughly believe and obey the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Our peculiarity lies very largely in the fact that we believe the Old and New Testaments actually contain the word of the Lord, as far as they have been translated correctly. We also firmly believe the Book of Mormon, which the world knows comparitively little of; and add to' that unwavering belief in the Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price. We regard the teachings contained therein as revelations of our Father in heaven to His children who dwell upon this earth. It is not! alone because we have faith in the books referred to that we are considered a peculiar people, but also because we confidently believe that our Father in Heaven has spoken in this day and age. In fact, we know that thore is communication with the heavens. Our brethren and sisters of the world, generally, do not acknowledge that. We believe that Jehovah has the same feeling towards us, the same influence over us, that He had for and over His children who lived in this world in times that are past. If our peculiarity went to the extent that we lived by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of our Heavenly Father, then we would indeed be a blessed people. We do, to' a large degree, live by the testimony that has been given to us by our Redeemer, and thus far we are a blessed people, the acknowledged children of the Lord. There is one thing I find that we have  yet learned completely, and it comes to my mind this morning, that is, the disposition to forgive one another our trespasses. The Lord has given us grea<i information, has revealed His mind and will unto us, has taught us things that the world know not of, and, in accordance with the information we have received, He holds us responsible and expects us to live a higher life, a more ideal life than those who do not as fully comprehend the Gospel as we do. The spirit of forgiveness is something that the Latter-day Saints might with profit exhibit more fully among themselves. Sometimes a brother in authority has offended, in some way, one of the members of the Church, probably unknown to himself, and that child of our Father's silenly continues to feel hurt, instead of doing as the Lord has commanded, going to the offending man and stating to him, in kindness, the feelings of his heart, and giving that brother an opportunity to say to him, "I am sorry I have offended you, and I desire that you shall forgive me." The result is that, in some instances, we And a resentful feeling existing that has been instigated by Satan. Now, we must get into a condition where we can forgive our brethren. In connection with this matter, I will read a few verses from the eighteenth chapter of St. Matthew, beginning with the twenty-first verse. It seems that the Apostles were with the Master upon this occasion, and Peter came to Him and said: 

"Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times? 

Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times but, Until seventy times seven." 

Then the Savior gave a parable, which I will not take time to read, but it was a parable of two men. One of the men owed his lord a large amount of money, and he come to him and told him he could not pay what he owed, and asked that he might be forgiven the debt. The lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and forgave the debt. Straightway this man who had been forgiven went out and found a fellow who owed hinj a small amount, and he demanded his pay. The poor man was unable to meet the obligation, and he in turn a=ked that he might be forgiven the debt. But he was not forgiven; on the contrary he was taken and cast into prison by the, one who had already been forgiven by his lord. When the other fellow-servants saw what had been done they went to the lord of this man and told him. and he Avas wroth and delivered the one whom he had forgiven unto torment, until he should pay all that was due. His soul was not bis: enough to appreciate the mercy shown him, and because of that lack of charitv he lost all. At times we find little difficulties arising among us, and we forget the patience our Father in Heaven exercises towards us, and we magnify in our hearts some trivial thing that our brother or sister may have done or said concerning us. We do not always live that law which the Lord desires us to observe in regard to these matters. We forget the commandment He gave to the Apostles in the words of the prayer, wherein they were told to pray that they might be forgiven their debts even as they forgive their debtors. I feel that we have to learn a great deal in this regard. We have not complied as completely as we should with the requirements of our Heavenly Father. In the Book of Doctrine and Covenants we find a reference made to this matter of forgiveness, wherein the Lord gives a commandment; it is contained in the sixty-fourth section, and refers to us in this day. It reads as follows: 

"Nevertheless he has sinned, but verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death. 

"My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another, and forgave not one another in their hearts, and for this evil they were afflicted, and sorely chastened: 

"Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin." (The verse last read is the one 1 would emphasize.) 

"I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men; 

"And ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds." 

If our lives were such that, when wo differ with our neighbor, if, instead of setting ourselves up as judges one against another, we could honestly and conscientiously appeal to our Father in Heaven and say, "Lord, judge between me and my brother; thou knowcst my heart; Thou knowest I have no feeling of anger against him; help us to see alike, and give us wisdom that we may deal righteously with each other," how few differences there would be, and what joy and blessings would come to us! But, little difficulties arise from time to time which disturb the equilibrium of our daily lives, and we continue to be unhappy because we cherish an improper influence, and have not charity. 

We find another reference to this matter, that has a bearing also upon another condition, in that sometimes we feel uneasy and worried when we fail to do what our Father desires of us. A man who is living in accordance with the Gospel of Jesus Christ is never in doubt about its success; but the man who neglects his duty, who fails to keep his covenants, loses the Spirit of the Lord, and he then begins to wonder what will become of Zion. Whenever you, my fellow laborers, feel there is something wrong with the Church, go into your secret places and kneel down before the Lord, examine your heart, and you will find every time that there is something in your own life that occasions doubt; the tempter is working on your mind, causing you to feel that perhaps Zion will not be victorious. Whenever you are doing your full duty, you will know, as you know that you live, that it is our Father's work, and that He will brinjj it off triumphant. We find in the ninetyeighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the following reference: 

"And again I say unto you, if ye observe to do whatsoever I command you, I, the Lord, will turn away all wrath and indignation from you, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against you." 

This is the word of our Father in Heaven to us. 

And again with reference to patience under persecution: 

'Now I speak unto you concerning your families; if men will smite you, or your families, once, and ye bear it patiently and revile not against them, neither seek revenge, ye shall be rewarded; 

"But if ye bear it not patiently, It shall be accounted unto you as being meted out a just measure unto you." 

This also is the word of the Master unto us. If we live according to this law, wo will grow in grace and strength day by day, and in favor with our Heavenly Father. Faith will increase in the hearts of our children. They will love us for the uprightness and integrity of our lives, and they will rejoice that they have been born of such parents. I say to you that this commandment is not given in an idle way; for the Lord has declared that He does not give any law indifferently, but every law is given that it may be kept and lived up to by us. We will be m this world only a short time. The youneest and strongest of us are simply preparing for the other life, and be>fore we get into the glory of our Father and enjoy the blesings that we hope to receive through faithfulness, we will have to live the laws of oatience, and exercise forgiveness toward those who trespass against us, and remove from our hearts all feelings of hatred toward them. 

"And again, if your enemy shall smite you the second time, and you revile not against your enemy, and bear it patiently, your reward shall be an hundred fold. 

"And again, if he shall smite you the third time, and ye bear it patiently, your reward shall be doubled unto you four fold; 

"And these three testimonies shall stand against your enemy if he repent not, and shall not be blotted out." 

There is a disposition on the part of 

ELDER GEORGE 

some returned Elders, and other men who hold the Priesthood, and women, who hold positions in the Church, to neglect Sacrament meetings and other important duties, and to confine their labors to some soecial calling. They may be officers and teachers in the Sunday school, and when they perform their Sabbath school labor, consider that sufficient; or, they may be Mutual Improvement workers, and if they discharge their obligations in that regard they consider their whole duty done. But, this is an erroneous idea. "We are required to live by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of our Father in Heaven. We are expected to so conduct ourselves day by day that, if we see distress or want, or need of advice and counsel on any occasion, we should forthwith act as servants ot the Lord in very deed. We find in the fifty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants a reference to this matter: I desire to read it to you, because it is the word of the Lord with reference to our opportunities: 

"For behold/ it is not meet that 1 should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. . ' 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?" 

I feel that we are representatives of a great people. We have met together from all the stakes and branches of the Church. We have come to be fed by the Spirit of our Master. When we go back to our homes, if there are those among us who are indifferent and careless, it is our duty to call their attention to the Scriptures and to bring them face to face with the comALBERT SMITH. 29 

mandments of our heavenly Father. There are many young men who are indifferent and careless, but who possess some ability, and as the Lord has said in this revelation, they should not wait to be commanded, but volunteer to go forth and, in the authority of the Holy Priesthood, labor for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. 

Grateful should we be, that in the fastnesses of these grand mountains, our feet have been planted; and that the Messiah has imparted to us a knowledge that the Gospel is true. Grateful should we be for a knowledge of the eternity of the marriage covenant. If in this life only had we hope, we would indeed be of all men most miserable. The assurfance that our relationship here as parents and children, as husbands and wives will continue in heaven, and that this is but the beginning of a great and glorious kingdom that our Father has destined we shall inherit on the other side, fills us with hope and joy. One of the greatest evidences to me of the divinity of this work is that it teaches there is eternal life on the other side, and that there will be a reunion there of the loved ones who have known each other here. Consequently, as parents, we may well be patient and loving toward our children, for they will eternally abide with us on the other side, if we and they are faithful. The few years that we live here may be regarded as a time in which we become acquainted, but, when we mingle in the other life, we will know each other better than we have here. Grateful am I that this testimony has been given me, and for the knowledge that the Savior was indeed the Redeemer of the world. Thankful am I for the testimony that Joseph Smith was indeed a Prophet of the Lord, and that every one of those who have succeeded him. in the exalted calling of president of this Church, have been inspired by the same spirit that characterized Joseph Smith's life. I am glad to add my testimony to the integrity of Joseph F. Smith. No matter what the world may think of him, no matter what unkind things they have said of him, I testify to you that he is, indeed, a servant of the Lord, that he stands at the head of this work, by Divine appointment, and that there is no power, either in earth or in hell, that can destroy the influence our Father has given to him. He is surrounded by men who are faithful and true, men who love the Saints better than their very lives, men who devote the energies and cowers that God has given unto them to your blessing. They leave their homes and the comforts thereof, and labor constantly, not that they may be glorified, but that you and your families and all mankind may be saved and exalted. Honor and love these men, sustain them with your faith and prayers, and as you uphold them in the positions to w r hich they have been called, so will our Father in Heaven sustain and bless and magnify you in the eyes of your families and those with whom you associate. May the peace of heaven be with us. May the ensuing meetings be a joy and blessing to every one of us, as were those of yesterday. May we have the Spirit of the Master dwelling within us, that we may forgive all men as He 1 nas commanded, forgive, not only with our lips, but in the very depths of our hearts, every trespass that may have been committed against us. If we do this through life, the blessings of the Lord will abide in our hearts and our homes, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
