11
Morning
07 10 1905
Patriarch John Smith. 

Testimony concerning the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith.— Necessity for following the promptings of the Holy Spirit. 

My brethren and sisters, it is with a ' feeling of pleasure, also of regret, that I stand before you on this occasion. It is a pleasure to me to be in the line of my duty. It is a pleasure to me to look at the faces of the people who are present, and to see so many gathered here to listen to the words of the Lord through His servants. It is with regret that I realize I am not what is termed a public speaker. It is seldom that my voice is heard in public, and unless you give me your faith and prayers to bring something to my mind, it will be a hard matter for me to say anything profitable to you on this occasion. I have a testimony to bear that this is the work of God, that we are His people, that Joseph was a prophet of the Lord, and that he gave unto us, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the principles of life and salvation, which are now taught to the people. On many occasions I know that the Lord has been with me, and has inspired my sayings. I can bear testimony also that it is through the faith and prayers of the Saints I am here now. On two different occasions I have been physically broken down by overwork, but the faith and prayers of the Saints have prevailed, and I am here today, and, the Lord being my helper, I shall stay with you sometime yet. I bear testimony that that which we have listened to thus far through the conference is just and true. It has been spoken by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,  if we, as a people, will follow theinstructions we have received it will be well with us. In my travels among the people of late I have noticed that they are, as a rule, striving to live their religion and do their duty. They are striving to live before our Heavenly Father in that way and manner that His blessings will attend them. As Latter-day Saints we have many duties to perform, and if we are diligent, and learn to listen to the whispering of the Good Spirit, we will not often err in judgment. All persons have a good monitor with them, and If they will live in a proper manner that monitor will direct them in the right path, and they will make no mistakes, but if they are careless and indifferent, trusting entirely to their own judgment, then they are liable to err. Speaking of the principle of forgiveness, we find that it is not so much among us as it ought to be. We should strive to live according to the old adage, "Do unto others as you would they should do unto you." If we will be guided by the True Spirit, and follow its promptings, it will be better for us. That the blessings of the Father may rest upon Israel and guide us in the true path, that when our time comes to go hence His blessings shall be with us and we shall be prepared to receive all that He has promised the -faithful, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
