13
Morning
07 10 1905
Elder Christian D. Fjeldsted. 

I do not know if I shall be able to speak loud enough to be heard by this vast congregation, but I esteem it a great privilege to attend this conference, a privilege I have not had for several years. I can truly say I am enjoying the Spirit there is in this conference. The doctrines we have listened to have come from God, and the singing has been quite inspiring. Thanks be to God, we are living in a time when we have inspired men to lead us. I have been in Scandinavia for several years, and I bring kind regards and thanks from the Saints of those countries, for the liberal feelings man both by the trustee-in-trust and by the people here generally, through whose donations we have been greatly assisted, and we now have some very good meetinghouses in those countries. The gosDel is spreading, and is being preached with power. I can say, in behalf of the Elders who have been sent from home, that they are doing a good work. They are fine men. You parents whose sons are out in the field can rejoice, because they are good boys, they are doing a good work, and they are living their religion. It is a hard matter to learn a language, but even in that the Lord is blessing them wonderfully. They meet, of course, with a good deal of opposition, and finding fault with the principles of the gospel by our friends outside of the church. I have told them we have not originated this gospel, neither has Joseph Smith nor the other leaders of the church; it originated with the Lord, the Creator of the world, and if you have any complaint to make against the principles of the gospel, He is the individual for you to complain against, not Joseph Smith, nor the Latter-day Saints. The Lord has revealed this grand and glorious gospel. He appeared to Joseph Smith and introduced His Son, even the Savior of the world, who spoke to Joseph Smith concerning the gospel; and that is where the complaint should be laid if there is any. We say that the principles of the gospel are true, and are calculated to exalt mankind, to bless the people, and to bring salvation to the human family, if they will obey it. My brothers and sisters, it is for us, as Latter-day Saints, to live our religion, because this is the work of God. His servants who stand at the head of His church are leading Israel in the way of salvation. May the Lord help us that we may do our duty, live our religion, honor our Father in heaven, and keep the covenants we have entered into, is my prayer, for Christ's sake. Amen.
