18
Overflow
08 10 1905
Elder Benjamin F. Goddard. 

My brethren and sisters, I esteem it a privilege to meet with you in general conference and participate in the spirit that prevails amongst us. It is indeed gratifying to thus meet together, that we may renew our acquaintance with friends residing in different parts of our state and the surrounding states, and that we may also, listen to the instructions given unto us by our beloved leaders, and indicate unto them in general conference that we sustain them with our faith and prayers, with uplifted hands before God. I realize that our brethren, who are with us today, need the support and strength that can be given unto them by the united faith and prayers and manifestations of good-will from the Saints assembled in general conference. I rejoice in thus meeting together, but presume probably, that it may be more interesting ,to refer particularly to the work that I am most closely associated with, upon the Temple block. We instituted, in 1902, the Bureau of Information. As probablyvery few of the Saints realize the method of our work, or what is being accomplished in this part of the Lord's vineyard, I will say that during the past year we have entertained upon the Temple block the strangers that have come from various parts of the world, numbering over 175,000; and we have had ample opportunities of distributing to them our literature, explaining our work, the organization of the Church and the labors we are performing for the salvation of the children of men. Probably in no part of the world have we an opportunity of portraying so forcibly some of these principles as we have here upon this block, for, as we pass round with our stranger friends, and visit these buildings, and explain to them some of the distinctive features thereof, there is scarcely one moment without an opportunity of introducingsomething pertaining to our history or the principles of the Gospel. If we come into the Assembly Hall and explain to them why this building was erected, and its seating capacity, many of them at once observe a difference between our seating arrangement and that which is usually found in modern churches. "And, why is this?" Of course, the explanation is promptly given, that our seats are all alike for rich and poor, for strangers as well as our own members, that seats are free, that there are no collections made, no donations received. And what does it lead to, think you? "Why, the question at once being asked, "How, then do you support your Church?" Immediately we have an opportunity to explain the tithing system of the Church, which contrasts so favorably with the financial systems that prevail generally in the world. Astonishment is often expressed, and portrayed upon the countenances of our visitors, when they learn how freely and cheerfully our brethren and sisters pay their tithing, in order that we may not only erect places of worship, and Temples for the salvation of the dead, but that we may be able to sustain the poor and help our brethren in times of distress. As we continue our conversation, sometimes that painting over the organ here attracts their attention, and they wonder if it is not some mysterious symbol associated with those rites that they have heard so much of in connection with th& "Mormon" Church. And what does it lead to? The fact that when our pioneer fathers came here they gave to this region, that was then a desert, the name of Deseret. "Ah! what means it?" Not desert, as they sometimes imagine, but that it is a Book of Mormon term, meaning the honey-bee; and hence we attract attention to the industrious features of the "Mormon" people, and how they have been asked to emulate the bee, the bee-hive being adopted as our territorial, and since, as our state, emblem. By their industry they have de the resources of this state; and by so doing have made Utah admired far and wide because of the industrious character of its people. "Ah! but there is something else there," they say; "what means that all-seeing eye?" And then comes the explanation that when we were driven out of the East, to the abode of the Indian, to this desert region, that we recognized that God's eye had been upon us and that Ho had preserved and favored our fathers and mothers, that His watchful care had been over them, and that He had blessed and guided them; that President Young, inspired of Him, had been able to lead the people into the land that God had chosen for their dwelling place in these mountain valleys. And thus, as yau will observe, while we pass through the block we have ample opportunities for introducing not only points connected with the character of the people, but some of the principles of the Gospel and the history of the Church. If we pass into the Tabernacle, again our visitors are astonished at the demonstrations that are made there. When our dear friend, brother Thomas comes up and drops the pin on the stand rail, that they may hear it at the extreme end of the gallery, they are astonished at the marvelous acoustic properties of the building. This leads to a statement of the fact that the Tabernacle was designed and erected under the direction of President Brigham Young, whom we recognize as a Prophet of God. As we view also the arrangement of our stands, the question often is asked, "What means these three pulpits? Why not have one pulpit, as we have in our churches?" This leads to an explanation of the organization of the Church, the Melchisedek Priesthood and the Aaronic Priesthood, how they operate, why they are thus given unto us, and the special workings of the various officers of the Melchisedek Priesthood, the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, and the officers of the Aaronic Priesthood, the work that each has to perform in connection with the Saints of God, thus giving ample opportunity for explaining  various callings of the Priesthood and showing- how perfect the organization of the church of God is, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. And then, as we come beneath the shadow of our beautiful Temple, and we are asked the meaning of that figure upon the center tower at the east end of the Temple, cannot my brethren and sisters comprehend how glad we are to explain to our visiting frinds that Moroni has come to the earth, bringing the everlasting Gospel, revealing unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the hiding place of the records from which we have received the Book of Mormon. How by the information contained in that record, we are able to teach the fulness of the Gospel; and how the Lord has revealed Himself in our day, the Father and the Son having appeared unto the Prophet. The Angel Moroni also having appeared unto the Prophet, the prophecy of John the Revelator has thus been verified, that "I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth," and so on; this prophecy having been literally fulfilled in our day. 

I do not know how closely my brethren and sisters, who come from a distance, examine that beautiful structure. As I gaze upon it day after day and month after month I learn new lessons. I am grateful unto God for the revelations of His will given unto the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

Scarcely a month passes without some new thought developing in connection therewith. The three east towers representing the Melchisedek Prisethood, or the presiding officers thereof, the three west towers representing the Aaronic Priesthood. And there are other symbols. There is scarcely a day passes but we come to the west end of the Temple and many of our friends, perceiving there those seven stars, the Dipper, as they call it, Ursa Major, ask "What meaneth it? Why do you have them upon that tower facing westward?" We simply explain to them, as that constellation in the heavens is always pointing unto the north star, so  Temple points unto God, and indicates to the Saints that therein they may learn more perfectly how to walk in the way of the Lord, and how to gain an exaltation in His presence. And then, "why do you have so many stars over the windows? Why a star over every window? Why that symbol of the sun over the upper stories? Why those symbols of the moon, a halfmoon, a full moon, a quarter moon?" And what does it lead to, think you? To a description of the Temple more fully. Those are signs indicating our abode .here and how we have come to fill our probation upon this earth and perfect ourselves that we may regain an exaltation in the presence of our God, "And how?" by obeying the laws that God has revealed. And then comes the thought that in the great future we are aspiring unto glories that God has prepared for the faithful. And we thus teach, that, as "there is a glory of the sun, a glory of the moon, a glory of the stars, and as one star differeth from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead." And thus we go on, and we have ample opportunity of showing how God has revealed His mind and will, until we lead up to that grandest of all themes, the salvation of the dead; the redemption of those who have passed away, and how, in that great Temple, as well as in others, we are able to officiate for our ancestry by being baptized for them, believing that in the spirit world the Gospel also is preached unto them that are dead that they might be judged according to men in the flesh. As we have our experiences increased, day by day, we are able to lift up our hearts to God in thankfulness that He has given unto us.through the Prophet Joseph Smith, these heavenly principles; and we are prouder than ever of the Church to which we belong, and of the brethren who are called to lead and guide us as a people. 

I thank God that He has given unto me a testimony of this work, that I verily know that God has restored the Gospel to the earth; that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired of Him and that through him we have not only received the Church itself with all its gifts powers and blessings and revelations for the guidance thereof, but we have received living testimonies in our hearts, and we know that all the gifts, powers and blessings pertaining to the Gospel of Christ are with us today, for the power of God is made manifest in our families. Our children are growing up to realize that God is with us as a people, that He sanctifies the ministrations of the Elders and that the power of God is amongst this people. 

I pray that God will bless us, that He will enable us to withstand the weaknesses of the flesh, the temptations that assail us, that we may prove valiant for the truth; and that we may assist to the utmost of our ability in building up the Church of God and sustain by our faith and prayers, by our lives, by our words, by our works, those who are called to lead and guide us in this age; and may God bless us continually. Unto this end I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
