23
Afternoon
08 10 1905
Patriarch S. W. Richards. 

My brethren, sisters and friends, quite unexpected to me prior to coming into this meeting, I have been requested to say a few words to you on some matters touching my history and experience with the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am thankful that I can say E was quite intimate with him while he was living upon the earth. There is a, little experience I had with him that perhaps no other person living today could relate. In the winter of 1843-4, about six months prior to the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, a messenger was sent to me from Nauvoo to ask me if I would be one of a company of pioneers to explore the Rocky Mountains and to find a place for the Church to g» to. That request came from the Prophet Joseph Smith. At the time I thought it a little strange that I should be called upon for a mission of this kind, as I was but a young- man, in my teens; but my acquaintance up to that time with the Prophet Joseph was such that I could not say no. I replied, Yes; I will do anything that the Prophet Joseph wants me to do, that is in my power to do. Consequently I gave my name In to be one of a company of twentyfour young men. who were selected to travel and explore the Rocky Mountains and find a place for the Church to go to, because the persecution was getting so strong then in Nauvoo that the Prophet Joseph foresaw that the Church would have to leave, retire from the civilized world, and go into the mountains. This was then a wild country. 

I am reminded that when I was in Europe, in the early fifties, it was reported to the British government that I was emigrating many people from Great Britain into a wild country, where they were liable to perish, and it was thought that this emigration ought to be stopped. Because of this I was ordered to appear in London and give an account of what I was doing. I was then presiding over the British mission, and emigrated many people to this country. I responded to this call, and spent about five hours before a committee of 16 members of Parliament, telling them what I was doing. I had been to this valley myself and knew what it was. I told them that I was sending people to a country where they could own a farm and be as independent in their living as the lords and peers were there. I satisfied them, and they all shook hands with me at the end of our interview and wished me well, and I was invited by a number of them to come again to London and spend some time with them. I speak of this to show that the feeling of the people at that time was that this was a wild country, and we were coming here to perish. 

It was the purpose of the Prophet Joseph to come here and locate with his people. He organized this company and held weekly meetings with them for several weeks in Nauvoo, and when he had them sufficiently instructed, as  thought, to properly understand what was to be the character of their mission and fit-out, he went across the river and made a start to go toward the mountains. It was his intention to go to the mountains with us, as a company of pioneers. But he was followed by those that did not like the idea of his leaving, and while they were pleading with, him to return, he told them, "If I go back, I go as a lamb to the slaughter." Nevertheless, they determined he should return, and he went back to Nauvoo. From there He went tc Carthage, and we all know the history of what followed. , 

Suffice it to say, I attended four meetings of this company, and at one of them, which was in charge of Hyrum Smith, and three or four of the Twelve were also present, it was said that Joseph the Prophet had remarked that he wanted young men for that mission who could go upon the mountains and talk with God face to face, as Moses did upon Mount Sinai. When I heard that statement. I felt in my soul that I was not the one to go; and just before the meeting closed I got up out of my seat for the purpose of going to Brother Hyrum Smith and telling him I was not the one to go. for I did not feel that I could meet the conditions, but as I got up there was a voice came to me, and I heard it distinctly as from one standing by my side, saying, "Stop; rest awhile." I took my seat again, and instead of telling the Prophet Hyrum that I did not feel I could go, I went home, and before retiring I knelt by my bedside and prayed to my heavenly Father. If I ever prayed in earnest, it was then, that I might know before morning whether I was a suitable one to go on that expedition, under the terms specified. The idea of going into the mountains and talking with God face to face, as Moses did upon Mount Sinai, was more than I, as a boy, could think of encountering. 

No one perhaps need wonder that I should shrink from such a consideration. I retired to my bed and remained there about four hours, and during that four hours I got the answer to my pray, and when I awoke I was prepared to go upon that journey and do just as the Prophet wanted me to do. During that four hours I saw all that I expect to see if I should live a thousand years. Someone came to me and told me where to go, and I performed that journey that night while I lay upon my bed. I came to this valley first. I don't know how I got here, but I went down through these valleys and into Southern California. It had been stated that possibly we might have to go that far. When I came here 1 had to pass four sentinels, and in passing them I gave a countersign, which I got direct Irom heaven at the time it was needed. I passed them all, and went on down into Southern California. Then I was prompted to go farther, and I went into the northern part of Mexico. I returned from there to Jackson County, Missouri, and there I stayed and helped build the temple. I saw that temple thoroughly completed; in fact, I labored upon it until it was completed. When this was done, the vision continued, and I went and laid down my body in the ground, and my spirit left this tabernacle. Then I traversed this continent from end to -end. I saw the Garden of Eden as it was in the beginning and as it will be restored again. It was a land filled with verdure and vegetation, and with all manner of fruits, on which man was living. I saw it filled with cities, towns and villages, and people happy, living under the administration of divine providence. It was a Garden of Eden in very deed. 

Now, all this I saw while I was sleeping, and it was so impressed upon me that it can never be forgotten. I saw that this was the result of the Latterday Saints coming to these valleys of the mountains and following the direction that the Prophet Joseph indicated. I could tell a long story about this matter if I had the time to do it, but it is not best that I should. I wish, however, to make the statement distainctly, that this coming to the mounains of the Saints of God and establishing themselves here was under the special direction of the Prophet Joseph 

Smith. Although there are those who say to the contrary, this is my testimony. The Prophet Joseph Smith had all this planned, and if he had been allowed to have had his way, I believe he might have been with us even today. 'He would certainly have gone with that company to these mountains and have located the people. I was one of that company, and I think I have the names of the rest. However, the conditions became so severe at Nauvoo that the people had to pick up and leave in a body, before there was time for this company to make the proposed exploration. .The Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were martyred in Carthage, and the mob would not let the people remain in Nauvoo. 

These are the facts in regard to this matter, and I am proud and thankful that I know of these things, and am glad that the Saints are building up these valleys of the mountains as I saw them built up in vision. If the people of God will only go on and keep His commandments, the time will >come when this whole land will be filled with towns, cities and villages, and the earth will bring forth all that is necessary for the support and sustenance of the people thereof. Amen.
