5
Afternoon
06 10 1905
Elder John Henry Smith. 

The work of God cannot be overthrown.— Unselfish devotion of the ministers of the Gospel. — The rights of all niank'nd guarded by the Church. — Heroic character of the Church leaders. 

I am pleased »with the privilege of being with you in the commencement of this conference. At the April conference I had been absent in Mexico and did not reach here until the last session. One year ago I was considerably "under the weather" and did not have part with you in the conference at that time. It has been a pleasure to me this morning to hear the songs of Zion, and listen to the voices of our brethren in instructions, reporting the conditions attendant upon the labors of the elders of the church, and in the testimonies that have been borne concerning your fidelity and faith in the work that our Father has established in the w r orld, with the promise that it should never ba thrown down nor given to another people. That promise has found lodgment, I believe, in your hearts and has remained with you in the midst of many trying experiences, and will in the futue remain, imparting hope and strength which shall cause you to possess the fortitude and faith necessary to fulfill the missions whereunto you have been called by the Almighty. To me, it is ever a joy to remember those memorable words, and wherever I have found myself, w r hether at home or abroad, whether in your companionship, under the sound of your voices, or in the association and companion of men of the world, the same joy and satisfaction has welled up in my soul as the remembrance of these words has come up in my mind. The Latterday Saints have no cause for concern so far as the work itself is concerned. It is a heritage of the Lord. It has been sent into the world to fulfill a great purpose, and they to whom the message of glad tidings has come are under the obligation to fulfill their part to the best of their ability, based upon the requirement that he who is warned shall warn his neighbor. In this connection we remember that there are few men in this congregation but what have performed this sacred duty with fidelity and faith. Consigning their families to the mercies of the Lord, they have entered the field, in almost every land and clime, and have sought to free themselves from that responsibility which attaches to the acceptance of the Gospel, in heralding the same among their fellow creatures, that wdien they stand at the bar of the Great Judge and the books are opened, and they are judged out of the books from the things written therein, it will be found that in fulfillment of the sacred obligation and the discharge of this requirement, their names are registered there, and that fidelity and faith, the love of our Father and of His children, characterized their lives. To this end, the gray-haired ones who sit under the sound of my voice upon this occasion have ministered with that determination, that patriotism, and that love that only a love of the Supreme Being and an absolute belief in the sacred mission entrusted to their care could cause them to exhibit. When I look upon the faces of these mothers and these wives who are congregated here today, I remember too, that they have been in no degree less heroic, or less lacking in that abiding faith, and that undying determination in connection 'with the work to which they have been called along with their husbands, fathers or brothers. They also have regarded it as among the sacred heritages of the human race, and it has been their determination that while husband or father was in the field car the glad tidings of great joy to the children of men, their homes and their firesides should be guarded from the attacks of the enemy, and their children should be nurtured in the faith which is dear to themselves. And while, perchance, in some instances", these children may not have been as fully equipped in the faith as they should be, as has been intimated in the remarks of presiding brethren this morning, the responses that have been made by the younger members of the church bear witness to the heroism of their mothers, the faith of their fathers, and the honesty and Integrity possessed by themselves. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice to be numbered with a people such as you are. I rejoice to recognize the fact that you have come from many lands and dimes, and that you abandoned those lands for the sake of the truth. I have pleasure in the fact that it has been my privilege, in connection with my brethren, to meet you in those lands, to bear witness of the restoration of the gospel in its fullness and purity, to declared that the Prophet of this latterday dispensation did gaze upon the face of the Father and the Son; and we bear that witness in harmony with the declaration that went forth in a former day that an angel of the Lord should fly through the midst of heaven having the Everlasting Gospel to preach ta them.' that dwell upon the earth, to every nal ion, to every kindred, to every tongue, and to every people. I have rejoiced in the faithfulness you have displayed in the fulfillment of your sacred duty in the receipt of that warning, in the carrying of these glad tidings, and in meeting the obligation in the manly and womanly way in which it has been done by the heroes and heroines who have builded these western commonwealths and have confronted the trials and tribulations incident to the establishment of homes and the upbuilding of many sections of our land. As I look upon the faces of men who are sitting before me, I see those who have sacrificed every interest in the world for the cause which to their  was most dear, and I recognize that in their doing this, it was not to please President Young, it was not to please President John Taylor, it was not to please President Wilford Woodruff, it was not to please President Lorenzo Enow, it was not to please President Joseph F. Smith and his associaties. but it was to satisfy their own consciences and to serve that Being who called them by the voice of His Spirit to an understanding of the truth, and had written it in their souls that the most sacred duty which mortal could discharge was to live and minister for the reclamation of the human race, to establish in them faith and an understanding of the gospel, and to minister in the temporal concerns of this life, that' their fellows might possess the blessings and comforts of the present and have joy and satisfaction therein. 

The gospel we 'have embraced is the truth. It came from the Master. It has been sent to renovate the world, to re-establish among mankind the living faith which had so largely departed from the breasts of the human family, and to bring them to a comprenension of the responsibilities they owe to the Divine Master. Nothing can stay its progress. You and I may fall by the wayside; we may lack the fortitude and faith to endure and fulfill our part; but the work itself has gone on from the day the announcement was made of the administration of heavenly beings, and it will continue in its onward march until every nation, kindred, tongue, and people throughout the universe shall hear the glad tidings of great joy and have the privilege of accepting or rejecting the same in the exercise of the agency our Father has given to them. I trust, that in the fulfillment of our duties, in the discharge of the great obligations that are ours, our hearts and minds "will never waver. It can never be anticipated that this work shall be made popular with the human family at large. It can not be expected that its mission will be accomplished without opposition. It must meet adverse elements, it must overcome obstacles. it must secure the ground step by step, without fear and without favor, honoring- our heavenly Father, and maintaining the dignity of that Priesthood God has given to us — the grandest heritage that was ever given to the children of men in any day and age of the world. 

I pray that the blessings of the Gospel may abound with you in the future as in the past; that, true to the obligations that are yours, in every place and in every station, among all men, no matter who or where they may be, you may know where you stand, and, knowing where you stand, you may have the faith and the fortitude to express your views and your sentiments. It has been my experience thus far in life that there is nothing in connection with this work for which any man in the world need blush. There has been no revelation given to the Prophet for which we should have the least feeling of regret or concern. There is nothing within these statute books given by our heavenly Father for which I, as one of His sons, need blush. On the contrary, I honor Him for giving the same, and purpose in the fulfillment of life's mission, if He will give me faith and fortitude so to do, to raise my voice in their defense, and to stand for the advancement and spreading of this work, as I know it came from Him. The same is true not only in regard to our membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but it is true in regard to our citizenship in the republic of the United States. No man of standing in this Church has ever in my presence given utterance to a word that would cause me, in any sense of the word, to be ashamed of my citizenship in this glorious land; on the contrary, the sentiment and fejeling that has ever come from the lips of the men with whom it has been my privilege to mingle has been to preserve our constitutional liberties, and accord the same rights to every other man, whether he be Jew, Pagan, Christian, Mohammedan, or infidel. So long as he interferes not with the rights and liberties of other men, his liberties should  guarded, his rights should be preserved, and he should be honored irt the exercise thereof, and his rights maintained justly and properly. Standing before you with these sentiments in my heart, I trust that we will continue to maintain the highest citizenship it is possible for mortals to do; and that we shall stand for our own liberties, that we shall maintain them to the best of our ability, be subservient to every principle that is right, and concede nothing that is wrong, but stand by the truth, honoring the Lord, fulfilling our obligations, preaching the principles of righteousness to the children of men, and pointing the way of life to every man in whose company it may be our privilege to come. 

I bear you my testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and the mission of Joseph Smith; to the mission of his associates that stood around him and were true to him; to the mission of Brigham Young, who was faithful, earnest, devoted and of a heroic mold, and who, had he not been of such type, would have failed in the great mission that was given to him; honoring and esteeming in his life's ministry that heroic man whose blood mingled with the prophet in Cathage jail, John Taylor; true to that humble and earnest advocate of the principles of the gospel, one of the most successful that ever preached it in the world, Wilford Woodruff; and to that upright man of the Lord, Lorenzo Snow, who presided in righteousness over this people. And I will not in any degree slacken in my allegiance and respect for the man who stands at our head today. No truer man ever breathed the breath of life. No man has ever been more willing to stand up for the principles of justice and mercy. No man has been more ioyal in preaching the principles of his faith. No man is more ready today to discharge that high responsibility and fulfill every obligation- Sitting by his side are those who, commencing in their boyhood, have ministered in the interests of this work, and who have never faltered nor turned their back upon the truth in any place or station. 

Such has been the character of the heroic men who laid the foundations of these commonwealths. Such 'is the character of the men who stand at the head of these Stakes and Wards, and of the Seventies and Elders who have carried this gospel to the nations, and also of the mothers who have guarded their hearthstones and taught their children in the principles of eternal life. I bear my witness to this work. I know that it is from the Lord, that it has come to stay, that it will continue to spread and increase in the world, and that it will become the joy of the whole earth. May God bless you with faith and fill you with understanding; may we be loyal to ourselves and to our heavenly Father, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
