Overflow
08 10 1905



ELDER BENJAMIN F. GODDARD. 

My brethren and sisters, I esteem it a privilege to meet with you in general conference and participate in the spirit that prevails amongst us. It is indeed gratifying to thus meet together, that we may renew our acquaintance with friends residing in different parts of our state and the surrounding states, and that we may also, listen to the instructions given unto us by our beloved leaders, and indicate unto them in general conference that we sustain them with our faith and prayers, with uplifted hands before God. I realize that our brethren, who are with us today, need the support and strength that can be given unto them by the united faith and prayers and manifestations of good-will from the Saints assembled in general conference. I rejoice in thus meeting together, but presume probably, that it may be more interesting ,to refer particularly to the work that I am most closely associated with, upon the Temple block. We instituted, in 1902, the Bureau of Information. As probablyvery few of the Saints realize the method of our work, or what is being accomplished in this part of the Lord's vineyard, I will say that during the past year we have entertained upon the Temple block the strangers that have come from various parts of the world, numbering over 175,000; and we have had ample opportunities of distributing to them our literature, explaining our work, the organization of the Church and the labors we are performing for the salvation of the children of men. Probably in no part of the world have we an opportunity of portraying so forcibly some of these principles as we have here upon this block, for, as we pass round with our stranger friends, and visit these buildings, and explain to them some of the distinctive features thereof, there is scarcely one moment without an opportunity of introducingsomething pertaining to our history or the principles of the Gospel. If we come into the Assembly Hall and explain to them why this building was erected, and its seating capacity, many of them at once observe a difference between our seating arrangement and that which is usually found in modern churches. "And, why is this?" Of course, the explanation is promptly given, that our seats are all alike for rich and poor, for strangers as well as our own members, that seats are free, that there are no collections made, no donations received. And what does it lead to, think you? "Why, the question at once being asked, "How, then do you support your Church?" Immediately we have an opportunity to explain the tithing system of the Church, which contrasts so favorably with the financial systems that prevail generally in the world. Astonishment is often expressed, and portrayed upon the countenances of our visitors, when they learn how freely and cheerfully our brethren and sisters pay their tithing, in order that we may not only erect places of worship, and Temples for the salvation of the dead, but that we may be able to sustain the poor and help our brethren in times of distress. As we continue our conversation, sometimes that painting over the organ here attracts their attention, and they wonder if it is not some mysterious symbol associated with those rites that they have heard so much of in connection with th& "Mormon" Church. And what does it lead to? The fact that when our pioneer fathers came here they gave to this region, that was then a desert, the name of Deseret. "Ah! what means it?" Not desert, as they sometimes imagine, but that it is a Book of Mormon term, meaning the honey-bee; and hence we attract attention to the industrious features of the "Mormon" people, and how they have been asked to emulate the bee, the bee-hive being adopted as our territorial, and since, as our state, emblem. By their industry they have de the resources of this state; and by so doing have made Utah admired far and wide because of the industrious character of its people. "Ah! but there is something else there," they say; "what means that all-seeing eye?" And then comes the explanation that when we were driven out of the East, to the abode of the Indian, to this desert region, that we recognized that God's eye had been upon us and that Ho had preserved and favored our fathers and mothers, that His watchful care had been over them, and that He had blessed and guided them; that President Young, inspired of Him, had been able to lead the people into the land that God had chosen for their dwelling place in these mountain valleys. And thus, as yau will observe, while we pass through the block we have ample opportunities for introducing not only points connected with the character of the people, but some of the principles of the Gospel and the history of the Church. If we pass into the Tabernacle, again our visitors are astonished at the demonstrations that are made there. When our dear friend, brother Thomas comes up and drops the pin on the stand rail, that they may hear it at the extreme end of the gallery, they are astonished at the marvelous acoustic properties of the building. This leads to a statement of the fact that the Tabernacle was designed and erected under the direction of President Brigham Young, whom we recognize as a Prophet of God. As we view also the arrangement of our stands, the question often is asked, "What means these three pulpits? Why not have one pulpit, as we have in our churches?" This leads to an explanation of the organization of the Church, the Melchisedek Priesthood and the Aaronic Priesthood, how they operate, why they are thus given unto us, and the special workings of the various officers of the Melchisedek Priesthood, the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, and the officers of the Aaronic Priesthood, the work that each has to perform in connection with the Saints of God, thus giving ample opportunity for explaining  various callings of the Priesthood and showing- how perfect the organization of the church of God is, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. And then, as we come beneath the shadow of our beautiful Temple, and we are asked the meaning of that figure upon the center tower at the east end of the Temple, cannot my brethren and sisters comprehend how glad we are to explain to our visiting frinds that Moroni has come to the earth, bringing the everlasting Gospel, revealing unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the hiding place of the records from which we have received the Book of Mormon. How by the information contained in that record, we are able to teach the fulness of the Gospel; and how the Lord has revealed Himself in our day, the Father and the Son having appeared unto the Prophet. The Angel Moroni also having appeared unto the Prophet, the prophecy of John the Revelator has thus been verified, that "I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth," and so on; this prophecy having been literally fulfilled in our day. 

I do not know how closely my brethren and sisters, who come from a distance, examine that beautiful structure. As I gaze upon it day after day and month after month I learn new lessons. I am grateful unto God for the revelations of His will given unto the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

Scarcely a month passes without some new thought developing in connection therewith. The three east towers representing the Melchisedek Prisethood, or the presiding officers thereof, the three west towers representing the Aaronic Priesthood. And there are other symbols. There is scarcely a day passes but we come to the west end of the Temple and many of our friends, perceiving there those seven stars, the Dipper, as they call it, Ursa Major, ask "What meaneth it? Why do you have them upon that tower facing westward?" We simply explain to them, as that constellation in the heavens is always pointing unto the north star, so  Temple points unto God, and indicates to the Saints that therein they may learn more perfectly how to walk in the way of the Lord, and how to gain an exaltation in His presence. And then, "why do you have so many stars over the windows? Why a star over every window? Why that symbol of the sun over the upper stories? Why those symbols of the moon, a halfmoon, a full moon, a quarter moon?" And what does it lead to, think you? To a description of the Temple more fully. Those are signs indicating our abode .here and how we have come to fill our probation upon this earth and perfect ourselves that we may regain an exaltation in the presence of our God, "And how?" by obeying the laws that God has revealed. And then comes the thought that in the great future we are aspiring unto glories that God has prepared for the faithful. And we thus teach, that, as "there is a glory of the sun, a glory of the moon, a glory of the stars, and as one star differeth from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead." And thus we go on, and we have ample opportunity of showing how God has revealed His mind and will, until we lead up to that grandest of all themes, the salvation of the dead; the redemption of those who have passed away, and how, in that great Temple, as well as in others, we are able to officiate for our ancestry by being baptized for them, believing that in the spirit world the Gospel also is preached unto them that are dead that they might be judged according to men in the flesh. As we have our experiences increased, day by day, we are able to lift up our hearts to God in thankfulness that He has given unto us.through the Prophet Joseph Smith, these heavenly principles; and we are prouder than ever of the Church to which we belong, and of the brethren who are called to lead and guide us as a people. 

I thank God that He has given unto me a testimony of this work, that I verily know that God has restored the Gospel to the earth; that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired of Him and that through him we have not only received the Church itself with all its gifts powers and blessings and revelations for the guidance thereof, but we have received living testimonies in our hearts, and we know that all the gifts, powers and blessings pertaining to the Gospel of Christ are with us today, for the power of God is made manifest in our families. Our children are growing up to realize that God is with us as a people, that He sanctifies the ministrations of the Elders and that the power of God is amongst this people. 

I pray that God will bless us, that He will enable us to withstand the weaknesses of the flesh, the temptations that assail us, that we may prove valiant for the truth; and that we may assist to the utmost of our ability in building up the Church of God and sustain by our faith and prayers, by our lives, by our words, by our works, those who are called to lead and guide us in this age; and may God bless us continually. Unto this end I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH A. M'RAE, (President of Colorado Mission.) I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, with you this morning in the opportunity we have of meeting together under such favorable circumstances. I recall a conversation I had in the Bureau of Information, some few months ago, with a gentleman who claimed that this Church was on the decline, that it was not growing. I thought of this man as I came into this building, after having left the Tabernacle yonder and seen the thousnds of people who are gathered there to hear the voices of the servants of the Lord, and I thought if that man could have been there, and then come over to this building, and then could have realized that this is only a small representation of our great Church, probably he would change his mind. I know that the Church is growing; that it is increasing, and spreading abroad, and it is having influence among the peoples of the world. My missionary work has called me in a little different line from that of the.  speaker. Brother Goddard has been telling us of the work that is being accomplished among strangers visiting the Temple block, while the work which I have to perform is in the mission field abroad, in the states lying adjacent to this state. The demands for more Elders cannot be supplied. We need many more men in the mission field, energetic men, efficient men. men of experience. I feel that those who have been on missions before should prepare themselves for other missions in the near future, for there is a great work to be accomplished before the end comes. It seems to me, when 1 view the signs of the times and read the reports in the newspapers, that the time is near at hand when mission work must be hastened, because the time for the Gospel to be preached unto all people is drawing near to a close; therefore the number of workers must l;e greatly increased. I have been almost on the point of writing to the Presidency to ascertain how long we are going to continue work in the Colorado mission, for the Elders are returning home, and new ones are not being sent to fill vacancies in the mission field. I remember a remark made in a little editorial article in one of the magazines Brother Rich publishes in the south, and I thought it was very appropriate. He said in that: "We had three Elders come this month," and then followed by quoting: "Only three grains of corn, mother, only three grains of corn, to keep the little life I have till the coming of the morn." I thought this truly appropriate to the present condition of mission work. There are requests being sent to us from various parts of the mission today, solicating us to send Elders to the people who make these requests to explain to them the Gqspel, and we cannot comply; we simply do not have them to send. 

I have been greatly pleased by the work that has been accomplished by cur young ladies sent into the mission field. They have been able to enter the homes of people that the Elders could not gain access to. They have  able to accomplish much in explaining' the Gospel unto the people, and in teaching the women and children, where the Elders could not get a hearing. Therefore I feel that they have done a great and good work, and the end is not yet; in fact it has only begun. They go into, the world and teach the people the religion of the Saints, from the womens' standpoint; and they tell the people of the world "how the women of Utah live, and how they feel, and the people seem to appreciate it better because women teach it to them. We have heard it stated, "we like to hear what the women have to say about the 'Mormon' question." Our sisters have manifested that they can go into the world and preach the Gospel, and show that the women here are not bound and down-trodden, as the world think and represent them to be. 

This work is growing and increasing. It seems that my mind is centered upon that fact, for it is being made evident more and more in the field and at home. Again I say, we need more men of experience to proclaim the Gospel of peace unto the people. I often think that I would like to take a trip through various parts of Zion, and select a few men and induce the Presidency of the Church to call them into the field. At present I am in the office myself, doing the necessary bookkeeping work of the office, for the reason that we can not spare an efficient man to perform that labor, as all are needed in the mission field. So, we are handicapped in performing the duties devolving upon us in the missionary field. Brother Goddard has been telling us of the oportunjties and enjoyment they have in the performance of their duties on the Temple block. A few months ago I spent a few hours in the building over there, the Bureau of Information, and I don't think that I ever spent a few hours more profitably than I did on that occasion, explaining the Gospel to the people; I did not act as a guide but entertained the people who came in there until the guides who could take them out arrived. I enjoyed the ex very much. I believe Brother Goddard would be thankful if he could have a few more who are able and competent to entertain the people come and labor in explaining the Gospel to those who visit them and wish to have "Mormonism" explained. They come here sometimes for the purpose of finding fault, and scoffing at the Latterday Saints, and these guides explain the Gospel unto them, and many go away pleased and benefitted. We have been performing a somewhat similar labor in Manitou, Colorado. There we have met thousands of people in the summer resorts, and we have done the best we could to enlighten them in regard to our principles. During the past summer we have distributed twenty to twentyfive thousand pamphlets that teach the articles of our faith, explain the organzation of the Church, and give some idea of what we are doing. Although it has proved to be a financial burden, yet I think it has been a success in presenting the Gospel to many people. I believe that many who have heard the Elders there during the last year will ask for more information. The pamphets and books that have gone out from Manitou this year will increase interest, and people will come to learn further of us concerning our doctrines. 

A gentleman came into my house last Thursday; we have been acquainted with him a long time. He has opposed us, but he has done it in a gentle manner, and from a Bible standpoint. He is a Bible student, and I have thought he has been a minister, he is so well cersed in the Scripture. He has recently been reading the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and he said to me. "I never thought that your people were so ill-treated as they have been. I did not think we lived in a nation that would treat anybody as your people have been treated. Why, to read of the way they have been driven, mobbed and persecuted, makes my blood boil to think of it; I am ashamed of that part of the history of this nation, and of such doings as those; my heart bleeds for what your people have suffered." When he was speaking to me, the tears ran down his cheeks. I took him into our little chapel, and showed him there the stand where we have two American flags draped, and in the center of those two flags the picture of George Washington, and I showed him that we reverence our flag. He turned to me and said, "I think you reverence this flag too much," I said, "It was not the flag that persecuted this people; it was not the Constitution that oppressed us, but it was the men who stood at the head of the mobs, and they are the men whom God will hold responsible in the life to come. They will have to account for the things that they have done in the flesh. We respect that flag, and we will do our utmost to maintain the freedom that has been guaranteed unto us and all other people under that flag." 

This Gospel, my brethren and sisters, is true. It is the power of God unto salvation unto all who believe and obey it. It is making inroads among the thinking classes of all nations, and they are beginning to take notice of us. I heard one of the Apostles prophecy that all nations would yet come to us to learn various arts and sciences of peace, and the science of civil government. They would come to us to learn how to govern the nations. The things that Brother Goddard has been telling us this morning have brought these thoughts to my mind vividly. The organization of the people, the organization of the Church, has been established by divine wisdom. It is complete in every detail: and. as we heard yesterday, if three men are taken away twelve men immeditely take their place, and it is an impossibility to destroy this great work. It is an impossibility to frustrate the designs of the Almighty. When any man or woman stands in the way, and undertakes to thwart the efforts that are being put forth to proclaim this Gospel unto the people, God will bring their efforts to naught, He will frustrate them. Shame will be brought upon their own heads. 

This is the work of the Lord, and He will prosper it. May God bless nid help  to appreciate it, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

I desire to read a few verses of Scripture, found in First Corinthians, second chapter, commencing at the first verse. It is a saying of Paul to the church in Corinth: 

"And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speecn or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." 

Yesterday afternoon we listened to very interesting discourses from brothers Penrose and Roberts in regard to the great latter-day work; and strong testimonies have been borne throughout the entire conference. The brethren have been led apparently to testify of the goodness of God toward His people, and also of the faithfulness and good character of the men who stand at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Men have endeavored to entice people away from this Church, by saying that the Lord has rejected it, and there are some who have been weak in the faith, and who are weak at the present time, that can perhaps be influenced by these men who rise against those whom the Lord has appointed. But I desire to draw your attention to these words which I have read on this occasion, not that I intend to make it a text, yet I wish to express a thought in connection with them. 

When Christ sent out His Apostles in ancient days. He sent fishermen, not the Rabbis of the Jewish people, but men who were numbered among the rank and file of the Jewish people, fishermen from the sea of Galilee, publipans and sinners. The Lord chose  to be His messengers. In reading the history about these men, how they went forth after Christ had been crucified and had risen from the dead, we stand face to face with that which we find in these words of Paul. These men did not go forth in their own strength, but the power of Goa was with them. In going forth to testify to that which they had seen and heard they were not permitted to do so until they were endowed by the power of God from on high. Do you not remember how they were told to tarry in Jerusalem and not open their mouths in regard to who Jesus of Nazareth was until the Holy Ghost should come upon them, not until then were they permitted to testify of that which they knew. We follow with great interest the labors of these men, and note how strong they were. We find them commencing their labors on the day of Pentecost; these fishermen were able to speak the word of God in power and great demonstration to the multitude assembled upon that occasion. We follow them, I say, and discover that even Paul, who was, as we have learned, an educated man as compared with the others, yet he did not desire to know anything, or did not claim to know anything, except Jesus Christ and him crucified, and so he came not with enticing speech to Corinth, but he came with the power of God. 

I desire to draw your attention to this fact, my brethren and sisters, that that has also been the history of this dispensation in which we are called upon to take part. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was a farmer, unlearned, like the disciples of old, but in the power of God in the strength of his Master, and that was the secret bf his success and the influence he had over his fellow men. We find that after he passed away the Church grew, and another was appointed in his stead as President of this Church. Now come some of our friends from the outside and say, he had fallen away, he was rejected, Brigham Young was not the inspired man that Joseph Smith had been. Let us not enter into a long discus, but let us see what it was that Brigham Young accomplished in the world, as compared with the great work commenced by the Prophet Joseph. Joseph was a mightv man, and was the means of seeding tha Gospel to some sections of the United States, to Canada and also to Great Britain; and in his day, also, the first foreign mission was opened, that is to a people who speak other than the English language. It was left for the days of Brigham Young to demonstrate the great powers of the Church in a missionary way. Very soon after President Brigham Young came to the front, the gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph was not confined to the Anglo-Saxon race of people who speak the English language on both sides of the Atlantic ocean, but was sent over to continental Europe, and there for the first time it was heard among the people dwelling in that land. It is an easy matter for us to understand that to preach the gospel to a foreign nation, or people who speak foreign languages, is not a very easy task. Sometimes we think the mission* aries who are called to the various parts of this country or Great Britain have an easy time as compared with those who go abroad and have to learn new languages. Some of us who have passed through it know what it means to acquire a knowledge of a new language and speak to people in a foreign tongue. In foreign countries they have little knowledge of our country and its institutions, and do not love the flag and the institutions of this country as we do. And when these messengers went from this country and testified of angels having visited the earth, and of God's revealing Himself and sending His Son to teach the children of men, they found that men were inclined to say, "That is American humbug just like the rest we have heard coming from America!" It was no easy task for the first Elders who went to France, who went to Italy, and who went to the Scandinavian countries, to make those people believe that there was anything real in the message they had come across the water to bring to the people. Let me tell you now, if those men had gone forth as ordinary men do, if they had not been backed by the spirit of inspiration, the Spirit of God, they never could have opened the doors in those lands. The people would not have received them, but would have rejected their testimony, because it was so contrary to anything they had been led to expect or believe. But the fact is that these men went abroad with a double power. The facts are that the Lord did not reject His Church, or withdraw His power, but He increased His power. In the days of Brigham Young the Gospel was sent abroad not only to English speaking people, but to people who speak many other different languages, and the blessings of the Gospel followed in those lands, just on the same principle as they followed in Tennessee or in Kentucky or in New York or Boston, or any place where the first Elders of the Church preached the Gospel. And this is a great testimony to us if we reflect upon it. 

Just a word in regard to the opposition. You will remember that when the first Church, the Church established by Christ and His Apostles, that when men went into unbelief and the people ceased to keep the commandments, the Lord withdrew His blessings from that Church, and the first excuse they had to make was something to satisfy the people as to why the gifts and blessings of the Gospel had ceased. There was no such outpouring of the Spirit of God upon men in the second century as in the first. And so they invented this story for the purpose of pacifying the people: These things, the gifts and blessings of the Gospel, have ceased because they are no longer necessary. V,ery much flatter, when such men as John Wesley glanced out upon the past, he said, that is not the reason. There is another reason, it was, he said, because Christians had turned heathen again, that is the true reason why the blessings and gifts of the Gospel ceased among the children of men. Now, my brethren and sisters, if the true church of Christ in this age  been rejected of God, the first thing we would have had to find an excuse for would be why the blessings and gifts of the Gospel had ceased, why there was no demonstration of the power of God as there was in the beginning. The fact that these things have continued in the Church, the fact that they have increased in the Church, the fact that there have been abundant witnesses raised up in this land as well as in every land where the Gospel has been sent, has been and ought to be in and of itself one of the grandest proofs we can have in regard to the divinity of this church and the perpetuity of it. 

I feel to bear my testimony to the inspiration of these men. I know that God is with this people, and that the power of God is with His servants, not only as we see it demonstrated here at this conference, but as we go abroad in the different missions. We have heard from one mission here today, and we may hear from more. We will find that the testimony of the truth has followed, that wherever the Elders go the power of God is with them. They may not be learned men, that is, there are not so many that are learned among our people as among some other people, but the power of God is with them, the demonstration of the Holy Spirit goes with them wherever they go, and paves the way before them, and causes them to have success in regard to making converts. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as it is now existing in the midst of the earth, is directed by the power of God, and that the Lord has not ceased to strive with His people, that the Lord does nof withhold His power or His gifts or His blessings from those who desire to keep His commandments and who walk in the paths of righteousness. So far as our leaders are concerned, I wish we could sustain' President Joseph F. Smith not only as Trustee-in-Trust in a general way, but I wish from the bottom of my heart that we could sustain him also as President of the United Order.  he should direct among this people more of the material things that we need in the world. I think that it is proper and right that we should Jmild up Zion. temporally as well as spiritually. We find sometimes that our missionaries, when they return from abroad and our emigrants when they come to us from foreign lands, cannot find employment when they come to Zion. We feel as if we are not strong enough financially. We are here to build up a sample community, a commonwealth that partakes of a temporal as well as spiritual nature. In these mountains we have been permitted to dwell in peace for a number of years, and it is the only place, up to that time, upon God's footstool where the Latter-day Saints have ever found a resting place. And I will say, if we have confidence in our leaders, if there is an accusation against them as to temporal affairs, I would prefer that our fiancial affairs be directed by them even more than they are at the present time, that we might prosper in temporal as well as in spiritual matters, that Zion may grow and prosper, that we may be a community that will be respected in all parts of the world. May God bless you, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. {President of Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is not intended that this Church shall be merely one of a Gospel of spiritual salvation, but it is intended that it shall be the Gospel of temporal salvation as well. It is the duty of the Melchisedek Priesthood to look after the spiritual affairs of this Church, and it is the duty of the Aaronic Priesthood of this Church to look after the temporal affairs; and I hope the day will never come when this people will object to the Church dealing in temporal affairs. Just the moment that spirit takes possession of you, then you are in a very bad position. Just as soon as an individual finds fault, and begins to fight against the authorities of this Church, then he is on the road to , and he had better turn around and retrace his steps, or that disease will take hold of him, sooner or later. You know sometimes it takes a long while for an individual to apostatize. He travels on that train day and night, sometimes for years, until he finally lands at the station. I heard an individual say in this city that he had been an apostate for 15 years before he knew it. 

The future would look very black to me if I did not have a knowledge that what the world calls "Mormonism" is indeed God's divine truth; that when it was set up upon the earth, it was with a promise from the Almighty that it never more would be thrown down. If you will examine the wording of the Prophet Daniel, you will see it intimated there that the work of the Lord has been upon the earth many times and been thrown down, and the Lord knew that it would be thrown down. But, in interpreting that dream of Nebuchadnezzar's, Daniel said that the little stone that the king saw cut out of the mountain without hands, represented the kingdom that God was going to set up upon the earth in the latter-days, never more to be thrown down or given to another people. Just as he saw that little stone grow and increase in strength and size until it became a great mountain and filled the whole earth, so it was the intention that the kingdom organized by the Great God in the last days would never grow less, but would continue to grow larger until it filled the whole earth with the righteousness of God. 

I know there are individuals who claim that it was thrown down, became disorganized,, and the little stone crumbled, went into decay, for about 16 years. When an individual makes a statement of that kind, he verily says that God Almighty has been defeated by the Devil, that His words were not true, that when it came upon the earth in the last days it would stand forever but that the Almighty has been defeated by the adversary. 

We have a Temple here, and I was thinking, when Brother Goddard was speaking, do we as a people firmly believe in all that that Temple stands for, the work for which it is designed? If I could make my voice reach every wealthy man there is in the Church, I would say to them, do you believe that the work can be done in that house for which it was built, for the dead? Do you believe that on the other side of the veil missionaries are preaching the Gcspel to the spirits in prison, and that a work must be done for them here, that the living must do vicarious wor*K for the dead? You endow colleges, and different institutions, but I would like to see some of the wealthy men of this Church endow that Temple with a por tion of the means God has given to them, that when they stand on the other side of the veil, and enter the missionary fields in the spirit world, they can say they were not stingy with the means the Almighty had given to them, but that a portion of it had been left to furnish food for those who officiate in the Temple, doing work for the dead who are on the other side. I don't know that I have read the will of a single rich man yet who has thought of that, but I believe he has not been in the spirit world 15 minutes before he would see the necessity of it, and he would feel like saying, "O God, let me go back a few hours to earth again, let me go back and tell my brethren of the necessity for leaving some of these means, that food may be provided for those who must labor all one day to do the Temple work for one individual in the spirit world." T believe if a wealthy man went into the spirit world after following this advice, he would meet with hearty handshakes from those in the other world, because he had made it possible that a work might be done in the Temp'e, thjfit the dead might be robed with the powers of the Priesthood on the other side of the veil, and clothed with the authority that has been given and bestowed upon those who received the truth while upon the earth. 

I may be very pronounced in thesj matters, but I know that it is right, there is no question about it. If you  all that you have to the Church, and all that you ever expect to have in this world, and leave it for work for the dead in the Temple, you would still be in debt to the Church, for what the Church has done for you. I feel that I can never pay the debt of gratitude I owe the Church for what it has done for me. 

When I was listening to Brother McRae speaking of the necessity for more workers in the missionary field, I wished that every one of you was called upon a mission. We need you. I want you to listen to a few statistics. A few years ago, in the Southern States, we had 560 missionaries. In the state of Kentucky alone we had 117, now we have only seven pairs of Elders in three conferences of that state today to keep alive the seed that was planted by the 117 Elders. In the great state of Tennessee we have eleven pairs of Elders. In the state of Florida we have eight pairs. In the state of Gorgia we have ten pairs, and in the state of Mississippi we have six pairs. In the state of North Carolina we have eight pairs. Ohio, with six millions of people, has only five pairs of Elders. And that is the way it goes. We could place all the Elders that we have in the Southern States in any one state in that mission. We have got 8,600 Saints in that mission, and on account of not having Elders enough to Visit them when they move, and find their whereabouts, we have lost track of about 1,500 or 2,000 of them. Once in a while letters come from some of them, saying they have not seen an Elder for 15 to 18 months. And now I want to say, God will hold you responsible if you do not magnify the Priesthood, and make yourself an ecclesiastical warrior to go into the world and preach the Gospel of Christ wherever you have an opportunity. 

We have many things to contend with in the missionary field. Our Elders ure met upon the right hand and upon the left by all kinds of arguments. A great deal has been said about those who oppose us in the so-called re-organized church. There are Elders of  church in the world today claiming they are not antagonistic to any denomination in the United States excepting the Utah Mormons. They want to be in harmony with the rest of the world. They follow in the footsteps of our Elders, and, when they cease speaking, these representatives of the apostate organization will stand up and say to the people, "These men are Brighamites; no doubt they all have got more wives than one; they are representatives of the organization that was responsible for the Mountain Meadow Massacre, and they believe in bloodatonement." That is the kind of doctrines they lay before the people of the world, following our missionaries. That is the kind of sentiments that prevail in their breasts. Then they come to one who has just been baptized, and say, "Do you know, brother, do you know, sister, what takes place there in Utah. If any tithing is paid, it goes for the support of these men who are living in abomination, and whisky is carried into their houses by the bucketfull." That is the kind of argument. If any of the Elders of the Reorganized church don't believe this statement, I can back it up with evidence; and if they do not resent it, then they are responsible. 

I know I am looked upon as very radical. In fact, it is said that brother Golden Kimball and myself swear once in a while. I .think that if J esus would come here He would express His opinion of some people in almost similar language to that used sometimes by Brother Golden Kimball. 

Once Israel was united, and then God delivered the law to Moses. But the time came when their Prophets went to sleep, and the people became disunited, Eventually they severed asunder, under the headings of Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes. Then Jesus came with a revelation from God to them, and offered them the Gospel fruit, and prayed that they might be one even as the Father and He were one. After a little while the early Christian band allowed their Prophets to go to sleep, and down in the ages they became severd and eventually were known as 

Methodists, Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Catholics, and the Lord only knows what else. Then, in the nineteenth century, God once more gave light from heaven. Once more the Gospel fruit was offered to mankind. Again it was opposed by the leaders of religious organizations, as it was opposed by the leaders of other religious organizations when Jesus brought it first. 

Now then if you will not consider Jesus too radical and too harsh, I will read to you what He said about this when He was here; then you have got my opinion of just w T hat He would say if He came to the earth again. Here it is in the 23rd chapter of Matthew: 

"Then spake Jesus to the multitude and to His disciples, saying: Thp Scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat; all, therefore, whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do.but do not yet after their works, for they say and do not. For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with one of their nngers. But all their works they do for to be seen of men; they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments, and love the uppermost rooms at feasts arid the chief seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets, and to be called of men. Rabbi, Rabbi. But be ye not called Rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ; and all ye are brethren. . . . But woe unto you, scribes and Pharasees, hypocrites, for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men; for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. Woe unto you. scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer; therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation. Wo unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye compass sea and h n ' t" maKe onp proseiyte, anl when he is made ye make him two-fold more the child of hell than yourselves. Woe unto you, ye blind guides which say, whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing: but whosoever shal swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor Ye fools and blind, for whether is greater, the gold or the temple that sanctifieth the gold? And whosoever shall swear bv thte altar it is nothing but whosoever shall swear by the gift that is upon it he is guilty. Te fools and blind for whether is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifieth the 72 GENERAL 

gift? Whosoever therefore shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it and by all things thereon, and whosoever shaft swear by the temple, sweareth by it ami by him that dwelleth therein. And lie that shall swear by heaven sweareth by |the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocritss, for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and Cumm.m, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy and faith; these ought ye to have done, and not to leave . the other undone. Ye blind guides which strain at a gnat and swallow a camel. Woe unto ye, scribes and Pharlf-hes, hypocrites, 'for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward; but are within full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniouity. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because ye build the tombs of the prophets and garnish the sepulchres of th'S righteous, and say, if we had, been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the 1 blood of the pronhets. Wherefore y> A be witnesses unto yourselves that ye are the children of th^m which kille d the pronhets. Pill ye up then the measure of your fathers. Te serpents, ye gen  eration of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell? Wherefore, behold I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes; and some of them ye shall scourge in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city, that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth from the blood of righteous Abel unto the bloo'l of Z^charias son of "Rar^chias. v-hom vp «*lew between the temple and the altar." 

Now I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that among those who stand at the head of the churches ofi the world there are many good, kind, conscientious gentlemen: but I will say further, that I firmly believe that those who lead the tirade of abuse against this people, and still occupy prominent seats in modern synagogues, are of the same class spoken of by Jesus of Nazareth; and if He were to come back again and speak to a congregation He would deliver the same sermon He delivered when He was here before. 

If you don't know that this work comes from God, ask, and the information will be given you. Ask in faith, and then you will know. I testify, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth, in fulfillment of prophecy, and I testify to it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "How firm a foundation," etc. 

Benediction by Elder William Budge. 


