Afternoon
06 10 1905


ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

The work of God cannot be overthrown.— Unselfish devotion of the ministers of the Gospel. — The rights of all niank'nd guarded by the Church. — Heroic character of the Church leaders. 

I am pleased »with the privilege of being with you in the commencement of this conference. At the April conference I had been absent in Mexico and did not reach here until the last session. One year ago I was considerably "under the weather" and did not have part with you in the conference at that time. It has been a pleasure to me this morning to hear the songs of Zion, and listen to the voices of our brethren in instructions, reporting the conditions attendant upon the labors of the elders of the church, and in the testimonies that have been borne concerning your fidelity and faith in the work that our Father has established in the w r orld, with the promise that it should never ba thrown down nor given to another people. That promise has found lodgment, I believe, in your hearts and has remained with you in the midst of many trying experiences, and will in the futue remain, imparting hope and strength which shall cause you to possess the fortitude and faith necessary to fulfill the missions whereunto you have been called by the Almighty. To me, it is ever a joy to remember those memorable words, and wherever I have found myself, w r hether at home or abroad, whether in your companionship, under the sound of your voices, or in the association and companion of men of the world, the same joy and satisfaction has welled up in my soul as the remembrance of these words has come up in my mind. The Latterday Saints have no cause for concern so far as the work itself is concerned. It is a heritage of the Lord. It has been sent into the world to fulfill a great purpose, and they to whom the message of glad tidings has come are under the obligation to fulfill their part to the best of their ability, based upon the requirement that he who is warned shall warn his neighbor. In this connection we remember that there are few men in this congregation but what have performed this sacred duty with fidelity and faith. Consigning their families to the mercies of the Lord, they have entered the field, in almost every land and clime, and have sought to free themselves from that responsibility which attaches to the acceptance of the Gospel, in heralding the same among their fellow creatures, that wdien they stand at the bar of the Great Judge and the books are opened, and they are judged out of the books from the things written therein, it will be found that in fulfillment of the sacred obligation and the discharge of this requirement, their names are registered there, and that fidelity and faith, the love of our Father and of His children, characterized their lives. To this end, the gray-haired ones who sit under the sound of my voice upon this occasion have ministered with that determination, that patriotism, and that love that only a love of the Supreme Being and an absolute belief in the sacred mission entrusted to their care could cause them to exhibit. When I look upon the faces of these mothers and these wives who are congregated here today, I remember too, that they have been in no degree less heroic, or less lacking in that abiding faith, and that undying determination in connection 'with the work to which they have been called along with their husbands, fathers or brothers. They also have regarded it as among the sacred heritages of the human race, and it has been their determination that while husband or father was in the field car the glad tidings of great joy to the children of men, their homes and their firesides should be guarded from the attacks of the enemy, and their children should be nurtured in the faith which is dear to themselves. And while, perchance, in some instances", these children may not have been as fully equipped in the faith as they should be, as has been intimated in the remarks of presiding brethren this morning, the responses that have been made by the younger members of the church bear witness to the heroism of their mothers, the faith of their fathers, and the honesty and Integrity possessed by themselves. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice to be numbered with a people such as you are. I rejoice to recognize the fact that you have come from many lands and dimes, and that you abandoned those lands for the sake of the truth. I have pleasure in the fact that it has been my privilege, in connection with my brethren, to meet you in those lands, to bear witness of the restoration of the gospel in its fullness and purity, to declared that the Prophet of this latterday dispensation did gaze upon the face of the Father and the Son; and we bear that witness in harmony with the declaration that went forth in a former day that an angel of the Lord should fly through the midst of heaven having the Everlasting Gospel to preach ta them.' that dwell upon the earth, to every nal ion, to every kindred, to every tongue, and to every people. I have rejoiced in the faithfulness you have displayed in the fulfillment of your sacred duty in the receipt of that warning, in the carrying of these glad tidings, and in meeting the obligation in the manly and womanly way in which it has been done by the heroes and heroines who have builded these western commonwealths and have confronted the trials and tribulations incident to the establishment of homes and the upbuilding of many sections of our land. As I look upon the faces of men who are sitting before me, I see those who have sacrificed every interest in the world for the cause which to their  was most dear, and I recognize that in their doing this, it was not to please President Young, it was not to please President John Taylor, it was not to please President Wilford Woodruff, it was not to please President Lorenzo Enow, it was not to please President Joseph F. Smith and his associaties. but it was to satisfy their own consciences and to serve that Being who called them by the voice of His Spirit to an understanding of the truth, and had written it in their souls that the most sacred duty which mortal could discharge was to live and minister for the reclamation of the human race, to establish in them faith and an understanding of the gospel, and to minister in the temporal concerns of this life, that' their fellows might possess the blessings and comforts of the present and have joy and satisfaction therein. 

The gospel we 'have embraced is the truth. It came from the Master. It has been sent to renovate the world, to re-establish among mankind the living faith which had so largely departed from the breasts of the human family, and to bring them to a comprenension of the responsibilities they owe to the Divine Master. Nothing can stay its progress. You and I may fall by the wayside; we may lack the fortitude and faith to endure and fulfill our part; but the work itself has gone on from the day the announcement was made of the administration of heavenly beings, and it will continue in its onward march until every nation, kindred, tongue, and people throughout the universe shall hear the glad tidings of great joy and have the privilege of accepting or rejecting the same in the exercise of the agency our Father has given to them. I trust, that in the fulfillment of our duties, in the discharge of the great obligations that are ours, our hearts and minds "will never waver. It can never be anticipated that this work shall be made popular with the human family at large. It can not be expected that its mission will be accomplished without opposition. It must meet adverse elements, it must overcome obstacles. it must secure the ground step by step, without fear and without favor, honoring- our heavenly Father, and maintaining the dignity of that Priesthood God has given to us — the grandest heritage that was ever given to the children of men in any day and age of the world. 

I pray that the blessings of the Gospel may abound with you in the future as in the past; that, true to the obligations that are yours, in every place and in every station, among all men, no matter who or where they may be, you may know where you stand, and, knowing where you stand, you may have the faith and the fortitude to express your views and your sentiments. It has been my experience thus far in life that there is nothing in connection with this work for which any man in the world need blush. There has been no revelation given to the Prophet for which we should have the least feeling of regret or concern. There is nothing within these statute books given by our heavenly Father for which I, as one of His sons, need blush. On the contrary, I honor Him for giving the same, and purpose in the fulfillment of life's mission, if He will give me faith and fortitude so to do, to raise my voice in their defense, and to stand for the advancement and spreading of this work, as I know it came from Him. The same is true not only in regard to our membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but it is true in regard to our citizenship in the republic of the United States. No man of standing in this Church has ever in my presence given utterance to a word that would cause me, in any sense of the word, to be ashamed of my citizenship in this glorious land; on the contrary, the sentiment and fejeling that has ever come from the lips of the men with whom it has been my privilege to mingle has been to preserve our constitutional liberties, and accord the same rights to every other man, whether he be Jew, Pagan, Christian, Mohammedan, or infidel. So long as he interferes not with the rights and liberties of other men, his liberties should  guarded, his rights should be preserved, and he should be honored irt the exercise thereof, and his rights maintained justly and properly. Standing before you with these sentiments in my heart, I trust that we will continue to maintain the highest citizenship it is possible for mortals to do; and that we shall stand for our own liberties, that we shall maintain them to the best of our ability, be subservient to every principle that is right, and concede nothing that is wrong, but stand by the truth, honoring the Lord, fulfilling our obligations, preaching the principles of righteousness to the children of men, and pointing the way of life to every man in whose company it may be our privilege to come. 

I bear you my testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and the mission of Joseph Smith; to the mission of his associates that stood around him and were true to him; to the mission of Brigham Young, who was faithful, earnest, devoted and of a heroic mold, and who, had he not been of such type, would have failed in the great mission that was given to him; honoring and esteeming in his life's ministry that heroic man whose blood mingled with the prophet in Cathage jail, John Taylor; true to that humble and earnest advocate of the principles of the gospel, one of the most successful that ever preached it in the world, Wilford Woodruff; and to that upright man of the Lord, Lorenzo Snow, who presided in righteousness over this people. And I will not in any degree slacken in my allegiance and respect for the man who stands at our head today. No truer man ever breathed the breath of life. No man has ever been more willing to stand up for the principles of justice and mercy. No man has been more ioyal in preaching the principles of his faith. No man is more ready today to discharge that high responsibility and fulfill every obligation- Sitting by his side are those who, commencing in their boyhood, have ministered in the interests of this work, and who have never faltered nor turned their back upon the truth in any place or station. 

Such has been the character of the heroic men who laid the foundations of these commonwealths. Such 'is the character of the men who stand at the head of these Stakes and Wards, and of the Seventies and Elders who have carried this gospel to the nations, and also of the mothers who have guarded their hearthstones and taught their children in the principles of eternal life. I bear my witness to this work. I know that it is from the Lord, that it has come to stay, that it will continue to spread and increase in the world, and that it will become the joy of the whole earth. May God bless you with faith and fill you with understanding; may we be loyal to ourselves and to our heavenly Father, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A duet, composed by Prof. Evan Stephens, entitled "God Bless and Guard Our Mountain Home," was effectively rendered by George M. Cannon, Jr., and Noall S. Pratt. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Great responsibilities on those who receive God's commandments. — The proclamation of the Gospel. — Building up of Zion. 

Brethren and sisters, I have very much rejoiced in the spirit of the conference. I listened with deep interest to the testimonies of the First Presidency and the President of the Twelve at the meeting this morning. I felt that it was a most auspicious opening of our conference, and the congregation which was assembled will judge as to whether they spoke by the Spirit of God, or by some other spirit. I am sure that their words found a response in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. We not only have with us, brethren and sisters, the living oracles, but we also have the Holy Scriptures, which embody the commandments of God to His people and to the children of men. In every age of the world when the Lord has given a commandment to men, it has always been accompanied by a heavy weight of responsibility. We have examples of this from the beginning. You remember that Moses went by instruction into the mount and communed with  Almighty; he was gone forty days and forty nights. While there he received from the hand of God the Ten Commandments. And with these tables of stone that were intrusted to him came a very great responsibility — a double responsibility, you might say. In the first place Moses was required to deliver these commandments to the children of Israel. Now, if he had taken them to his tent, dug a hole in the earth and hidden them out of sight, he would have stood condemned before the Lord; but we learn that Moses, the law-giver, discharged his duty faithfully and well, for he brought the commandments to the children of Israel. A heavy weight of responsibility rested upon the people with reference to these commandments, as to their attitude and the manner in which they should treat them. If they failed to obey the commandments, they would be answerable to the Lord and would have to give an accounting to Him in the day of judgment. For those commandments were not only binding upon Moses, but they were binding upon the whole people; not. only upon the children of Israel, but upon the entire world. Therefore, it was necessary that they should go to the world. We have another striking example in the day of the Savior when He said to His disciples: "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature." You will observe that no exception was made, but this message was to go to every creature. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." With this commandment from the Messiah to His disciples came a heavy responsibility — a double responsibility. In the first place, they were required not to conceal this message, not to keep it back, not to hold it for themselves and for their immediate family and friends; but the message of the gospel was to go to the entire world, and if they failed to discharge that duty they were under a very serious obligation before the Lord, and they would have to account to Him for it, and perchance the blood of that generation would have been found upon their skirts. But we learn from the Scriptures that they discharged this duty ifaithfully land well, as did Moses before them, for they carried the gospel in all humility and in faith and power to the world. The moment they did this a very great responsibility rested upon the children of men, as to whether they regarded the message as being divine, and whether they would accept it and be governed by the spirit thereof, and avail themselves of the opportunity and the mercy of the Lord, and thus obtain salvation; otherwise they would stand condemned before the Lord. 

So it has been, brethren and sisters, in our day and time. Joseph Smith, the prophet, received revelation, not only by the personal visitation of the Father and the Son, but also in the written word. Furthermore, Joseph Smith received the authority of the apostleship and priesthood under the hands of Peter, James and John, and also under the hands, of John the Baptist, by which the Melchisedek and the Aaronic priesthoods were restored to the earth. With the restoration of this authority there came to Joseph Smith a very heavy responsibility. He could not be justified for a moment in keeping the information from the world. He could not hide it away. He could not call around him his immediate family and friends and indicate to them only what the Lord had done, but he must bear the message to the whole world. Growing out of that responsibility, there has been established in the church a vast system for proselyting, which has continued to this day, running down through >:he years. Elders from this church have been continually sent into the field to preach the Gospel, numbering as high as two thousand at a time. I think that there is now about twelve hundred in the mission field. I leave you, brethren and sisters, to judge whether any degree of responsibility comes with the invitation of the First Presidency of this Church to your sons to go forth and proclaim the gospel message, which came first to Joseph Smith, the prophet. Mark these  that will be found in section 84 of the book of Doctrine & Covenants. Speaking of the early Elders who were sent out to preach the gospel (and you will perceive also that the, language applies to Elders of our day and time) the Lord says: 

Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face: I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

Whoso receiveth you receiveth me, and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in no wise lose his reward; 

And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples. 

He that receiveth you not, go away from him alone by yourselves, and cleanse your feet even with water, pure water, whether in heat or in cold, and bear testimony of it unto your Father which is in heaven, and return not again unto that man. 

And in whatsoever village or city ye enter, do likewise. 

Nevertheless, search diligently and spare not: and wo unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you,' or your words, or your testimony concerning me. 

Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimonies. 

In Section 75 it is said: "And it shall be more tolerable for the heathen in the. day of judgment than for that house. Therefore, gird up your loins and be faithful, and ye shall overcome all things ar.d be lifted up at the last day." 

You will perceive that this invitation which comes to the young men of Israel to go forth and bear this gospel message, carries with it a heavy weight of responsibility, first with the Elders themselves, for if they reject the invitation, if they turn away from . the voice of the priesthood, which is the voice of God. if they refuse to perforrn this obligation, it may be that the blood of this generation will be found upon their skirts. On the other hand, if they discharge this duty faithfully and well, you perceive that there is a heavy  of responsibility resting upon the people of the world who hear this message, though it may come to them in a humble manner, by those who may possibly be unlearned or inexperienced, and who bring it to their doors, from house to house, and, as the revelation says, from city to city. If they reject it, God will hold them to a strict accounting and, as He has said by His own voice, " it will be more tolerable fojj the heathen in the day of judgment than for that house or that city." 

But I remind you, brethren and sis-> ters, that this responsibility of preaching the gospel to the world is not all. It does not fully cover the ground, because there is a responsibility resting upon the Elders of Israel with reference to the building up of Zion; for, as the Lord says, every heart shall be pierced, and every ear shall hear. This message of life and salvation, too, must not only go to the strangers and to people who have never heard ft in the world, but it must also go to the children of Zion, to your children and to my children. They must be taught and warned. You will remember what the Lord said to the prophet Ezekiel along this line: 

Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. 

When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the. wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his Iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy sou!. 

Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block befdre him, he shall die: because thou hast not given him warning, h§ shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

Nevertheless if thou warn the righteous- man, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul. 

That is the attitude, brethren and sisters, which the authorities of this church, the High Priests, Seventies and Eiders, and the authorities of the lesser priesthood, bear toward this people; They are called to be watchmen upon the towers of Zion, and to give notice and warning, to point out the evil before it comes, and to guard the young against danger. What must we think when we learn that there are many who bear the sacred authority of the holy priesthood, who are careless and indifferent, and who fail to magnify this authority and to carry the message to the people? Will not the displeasure of the Lord be upon them? Will not this thing be required at their hands? Will they not have to give a strict account of the priesthood and power which they have received from the heavens? This responsibility has been passed from the shoulders of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and now rests down upon the Elders of Israel who have succeeded him, and who are on the scene of action. The Lord says to His servants: "Behold, how great is your calling; cleanse your hearts and your garments, lest the blood of this generation be required at your hands." I think that passage will be found in section one hundred and twelve. It is the strict injunction of the Lord. 

I rejoice in the gospel, in the authority of the holy priesthood, and in the power that is manifested by this people in carrying out the great purposes of Jehovah. The work will stand, and the will of the Lord be accomplished, as we have heard it from the Presidency of the Church and those who have spoken. I testify to this, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The young people of the Church loyal to it and to the authorities.— Futile efforts of the opponents of God's work.— Arduousi labors of the First Presidency.— Trials necessary.— The Saints will be faithful, and victorious. 

I desire, my brothers and sisters, to express my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have of standing before this immense congregation of Latter-day Saints, and expressing to them, in the few moments I have at my command, some of the thoughts that have passed through my mind during this conference. I am indeed thankful for my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am indeed thankful for the position occupied today in the world's affairs by the Church and by the peo  pie; and "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." I believe with all my soul, and with all the understanding that God has given me. that this is His work, and that it is designed to redeem the earth, to bring light unto its inhabitants, to make people better, and to ma\e this planet a fit place for the second corning of the Lord and Master. 

I have had a great deal of pleasure in visiting the different parts of our state, mingling with the people, seeing the conditions surrounding tuem. and noting their loyalty to the work of God. Brother John Henry Smith, in speaking of the loyalty of the grayhaired men and women before him, touched my heart. I also say that, not only are they loyal to this work, but, if I am any judge, the young people are just as loyal to the authorities and to the institutions of the Church as were our fathers in the past, and as they are today. Our brethren have been testifying to the loyalty which is manifest in our church towards the authorities, and especially towards the presidency. I feel like testifying to you. and to all. that this great work of God is in the hands of honest, upright. God-fearing men. Assaults are made upon us from all sides. Many claim that they are not assailing the "Mormon" people, nor the principles of the Gospel which they believe, but it is the leaders they are condemning mid finding fault with. They are also trying to bring distrust of the authorities into the minds of the Latter-da* Saints. Why are they assailing tne principle of tithing? Why are they trying to make you believe that every cent paid by you, for the forwarding  God's work upon this earth, is being handled by dishonest men and being spent, not for the work Uself, but for the aggrandizement and personal benefit of men? If I had the uower to reach the heart of every honest Latterday Saint, and if I had the confidence of every soul that heart my voice, I would testify to this fact, that, as far as the tithing of the Church is concerned, not one farthing is spent wrongfully, or is diverted from the channel in which it was intended to be used. O, how natural it is for our opponents to try to advance some argument that may bring distrust into the minds of people, and cause apostasy in our midst. They think they have found a condemning argument in the collec$ft>n and use of tithing, and, in calling attention to it, they rely on the appeals they make to the selfishness of the people. But the evil one today plainly sees and knows as well as, or perhaps *better than, we do, that this great work of God is moving on, spreading in foreign lands, and reaching to the farthest ends of the world. It is therefore natural for his emissaries to cry "fraud, fraud." We. are informed that the Church is building meetinghouses and establishing headquarters upon the islands of the sea, and in all the great countries of Europe. Respectable, places of worship, and homes for presidents of missions, are also being established in some of the. principal cities of our great country. The Devi! sees these things going on, and he knows there must be something done to retard the work if possible, and inciting the. cry of "fraud, fraud," is one way he has of attacking it. He thinks by this to bring distrust into the minds of the people; but he will fail in this just as sure as the sun will rise tomorrow morning. I believe that the Latter-day Saints, who have the Spirit of God in them, never had more confidence in a man, or set of men, than they have in the presidency of the Church today. I wish that every one could read the heart and understand the thoughts of the presidency, and all others who are trying, in their humble , to lead and direct the affairs of this people. I feel that if it were possible for you to do so, you would not only love them as you have in the past, but you would have for them still greater love; and the confidence you would have in them would be such that you could pray for them with all your soul, and uphold them, and ask the blessings of God urion them in the important work they are trying to accomplish in this dispensation. 

Some people think, as I have heard it expressed, inspired from the source of all misrepresentation and falsehood, that the. president of the Church does not work, and that he and his counselors do not give the attention they should to the work of the Lord. I wish that these men had more physical strength than they have, for I testify to you that it is strained to the utmost. I go into their office and I see almost an arm full or mail brought in several times a day. 1 find President Winder, eightythree years old, reading aloud almost every letter, and, with the President of the Church, and the other counselor, attending to every little detail that is brought to their notice from all parts of this great Church. While speaking upon this subject, I feel to ask the brethren here, who hold leading positions in the Church, as well as all members in the different stakes of Zion who write letters to the presidency, if it is absolutely necessary for you to write, make the letters as short as you can, but do not write unless it is necessary. I would advise the people to first go to their Bishop, and, if possible, get from him the advice and counsel they need; if unable to get it from him, then apply to the presidency of the stake, and, if it becomes absolutely necessary to appeal to the First Presidency.make the communication just as short as possible, for those brethren are worked almost to death. I feel like asking the good people of the Church to bear this in mind when they are tempted to write long letters to the Presidency. I have absolute confidence in the ma of the young people of the Church and in their understanding of the truth of the Gospel. Being born in the Covenant and reared among the Saints, I have absolute confidence that they are net going to be tricked or turned aside by misrepresentations. I feel that, when fthey stop to consider and compare things as they are today with condition? of the past, they will be led to say that, as far as they are concerned, they will be loyal and true to the fathers and mothers who gave them birth. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope you will never be discouraged, and never feel that God is going to abandon this people, for He never will as long as we are prayerful and feel in our souls to do His will, according to the wisdom and light He has given us. I have thought a great deal lately of the history of the Church, and I have wondered sometimes whether our position as a people is any different today than it has been from the beginning of the. Church. As I study the history of the people, I find that it is about the same as it always has been, with but few exceptions. Whenever there is a great advance, and when the evil one sees the Church progressing a little more rapidly than usual, it arouses him to greater action. I read here the word of the Lord to Joseph the Prophet, while he was in Liberty Jail, Clay County, Missouri, March, 1839. At that time prospects looked very black to him. He, the Prophet of God, was being hounded on every hand, and every kind of a charge being made against him. His heart was heavy. He was pondering how it was that these things should come to a man who was trying to serve the good Master, and while in that condition of mind the Lord gave unto him these words: 

"And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." 

I believe with all my heart that our trials are given us for the same purpose. We are to be a tried people. "We are to be thrice tried, as the Saints of old. I believe that all trials are given to us for experience, just as the Lord permitted them to be given to Joseph in the early days of the church. At this same time the Lord said to him, "Thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." I say to you, President Joseph F. Smith, that the Saints in this vast congregation (and they are but representative of the communities in which they live) will never turn against thee by the testimony of traitors. 

My brethren and sisters, all I care for is that we may live as God wants us to live, observing all the requirements made of us, and performing the duty that is incumbent upon us, then all will be well, as sure as He has spoken from the heavens. As I travel among the people and see the feeling of loyalty and truth existing, I feel in my soul to say, God bless the Latter-day Saints in all their interests, in their basket and in their store. God bless them with strong testimony, that they may know the voice of the true shepherd. I feel in my soul that they will know it. No matter what transpires, or who may come in our midst thinking there will be a falling away from the Church, and that they may succeed in gathering in the lost ones. I say there never was a time when the people testified with more fervency, and with a deeper feeling of love for our heavenly Father and His work, than they do at the present moment. I bear my testimony to you that this work is the work of God, and He will make it triumphant in the end; we will love it, and be loyal to it, and its inferests; and we will be loyal to every institution upon the earth that has for its object the advancement of mankind. We will continue to be good citizens of  nation; we will uphold and pray for it. We will be true men and tru<* women to our Church, to our country, and to our God. May God bless you, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HTRUM M. SMITH. 

Magnitude of the work of God.— Abundant opportunities to acquire knowledge.— Reasons for diligence and faithfulness.— Respect for local authorities. 

My brothers and sisters, I greatly desire that you shall accord me the same attention you have extended to my brethren who have spoken already, and that you will assist me by your prayers, that in bearing testimony to the truth of the everlasting Gospel I may do so under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. The Latter-day Saints certainly have wonderfully good times when they gather in their general conferences. They never fail to come together in the spirit of prayer and with a great desire in their hearts that the Lord will have something to say to them through His servants who shall speak; and when they come together in this spirit they never fail to receive the word of the Lord, that word which fills their souls with joy and thanksgiving, and which allays any doubt that may have found lodgment in their minds. They never fail to be built up and strengthened, and they go home after the conference is over, feeling that the Lord is with His people. 

Now, the thing that is on my mind this afternoon is the greatness of the work which has been introduced into the world in this day and age through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We meet together here in vast numbers, and yet though all the Latter-day Saints were met together they would only be a hand-full compared to the multitudes of people that dwell in the earth. We have been highly favored of the Lord, in that He has sent His servants untous with the word of truth and of revelation, and He has put it into our  to receive that word and to obtain a testimony of the truth of the revelation which He has given to the world. We younger ones, the young men and the young women of Israel, who have been so highly favored as to be born in the Church, having the testimony of the truth born in us and having the seed of truth grow and develop within us, most assuredly ought to feel thankfulness to our Father in heaven for it. The whole world still lieth in darkness. "This Gospel of the Kingdom must be preached in all the world as a witness before the end shall come." The angel who introduced this Gospel came with it that it might be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. And while we are doing a great deal towards the carrying of the message unto the nations of the earth, still the progress we are making, when we consider the vast amount of work that must be done, is only small, and we have only advanced a little way. 

I believe all that has been said ot the Latter-day Saints by our brethren who have spoken. I believe they are the children of God, and that they have the testimony of the truth burning within their souls. I believe they love the truth and desire to keep the commandments of the Lord. Yet I am constrained to believe they still need more labor among them every day than ought to be necessary. I believe that they should be firmly founded in the knowledge of the truth, by reason of the great blessings the Lord has bestowed upon them, and the great means He has placed in their way whereby they may learn of Him. They have the Holy Scriptures, the Bible, which contains the word of God; the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price; they have the Journal of Discourses; also periodicals, books and papers which are published from time to time containing the discourses and inspired words of the servants of the Lord. All these they have, and all they need do, if they have the desire, is to open the books and there read the word of the Lord. In addition to this it seems essential that  Twelve and the Seven Presidents of the Seventies shall visit the various Stakes of Zion and spend all their time, month after month, year after year, exhorting the Saints to faithfulness.reproving them at times for wickedness and folly, laboring to keep them, as it were, to the line and from departing by degrees from their full duty. Now this is what I think ought not to be. I think that the Saints ought to know the truth as well as the servants of the Lord. They ought to be' as firmly grounded in the faith. It ought to be jast as impossible to move them from the truth as it is to move the men who stand at the head of the Church; and the time of the Twelve, and that of the Seventies (who labor among thf. members holding the Priesthood of Seventy) might be given to these hundreds of millions of people who still dwell in the world without a knowledge of the truth. I am constrained to believe that if the same amount of inspired preaching of the word of the Lord that is done among the Saints were done in the world, thousands and tens of thousands of honest souls who are now in the world might be brought to the knowledge of the true Gospel, and they might gather with the Saints and enjoy the blessings of the house of the Lord, and there labor for their own salvation and for the redemption of their dead. We ought to rely a little more than we do upon the Lord and upon the intelligence He has given us to develop the light within us, to become better informed, to be more faithful than w& are, notwithstanding good testimony of our faithfulness may be borne now. My brethren and sisters, there is no reason in the world why the Saints should not keep the commandments of the Lord, there is no reason why they need fail to do their duty towards the Lord and towards their fellow men. Surely, the Lord has held out the hand of fellowship to us. Truly, He has not withheld when we have asked Him. He has fulfilled on our heads the promise that if we will ask of Him He will give freely unto us, whether it be wisdom, or the necessaries of lifei, or intelligence, or knowledge, no matter what it be, if it is for our good and for the good of the children of men. He> has not withheld it from us. All things, it would seem, that the Latterday Saints could possibly desire, the Lord has given freely. We ought to be His people. We ought to hang on firmly and steadfastly to the truth. Great will be the condemnation of the Saints if they fail to remain faithful after all that the Lord has done for them. A season has just passed that has been wonderfully prosperous and bounteous to the Saints; prosperity abounds on every hand temporally, and the Spirit of the Lord is being poured out in great abundance. Prophecy, revelation and the gifts of the Holy Ghost are also enjoyed by them. All these things the Lord has done for us. Ought we not then to be* true and faithful in keeping His commandments? We ought not to complain if our stake conferences come and go and we do not have in our midst one of the' brethren known as the authorities of the Church. Why, my brethren and sisters, all men who hold the holy Priesthood are authorities in the Church, and through the Deacon the Lord may speak unto the people, and give His word of praise or reproof, or bestow upon them His blessing. The Priest and the Teacher likewise. The Bishop, the High Priest, the Seventy, the President of a Stake — all of these, servants of the Lord are authorities of the Church, and when you have them in your midst you may hear the word of the Lord preached, you may hear and see* and feel the inspiration of the Lord. Therefore you should be content. You should not feel to complain, even though one of the Twelve,or the First Council of Seventy, or even the First Presidency, find it impossible to be with you. You should read the word of the Lord from the books, and kneeling down around the family altar, you should commune with the Lord and ask Him for wisdom, judfiment and enlightenment. You should depend more upon Him and less than some of us do upon  who constitute the authorities of the church. Then turn your hearts, my brethren and sisters, to the nations of the earth, to the kindreds, and tongues, and peoples, all of whom are the Lord's children, who are scattered throughout the length and breadth of the whole world in untold numbers, many of whom are only waiting for an opportunity to hear the word of the Good Shepherd. Pray not only for yourselves, but for them also. Pray that the door of the Gospel may be opened to them, that the servants of the Lord may be sent unto them, and that those who have this work upon their shoulders of carrying the Gospel unto all nations may be at liberty to go. Say that they may go with your blessing, and that you will endeavor to more greatly appreciate the local authorities of the church, some of whom sit round your own tables and hearthstones, and are your sons, husbands and fathers who hold the holy priesthood. 

I was going to read from the Scripture, but I have almost let it go by: 

Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. 

Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man, seeking goodly pearls: 

Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it. (Matthew 18: 44-46.) 

Do we appreciate the kingdom of God in this way? Do we value it above all else? Is it more dear to us than the fruit of the field, than the treasures of the mine, than the wealth that can be gathered from all of the avocations and occupations of life? Do we value thi % kingdom of God even as a goodly pearl, which is beyond price? I believe we do. All else is as nothing when compared to it, and we would gladly, if need be, sell all we had to possess it and make it our own, or at least to become a member in the kingdom. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, cleave unto the truth. Lay hold upon th<» 

"iron rod," and never, release that hold. Go forward steadily with your eyes set upon the tree of life until you are partakers of its fruit, which is the word of the Lord, and which above all else is most joyous to the soul of the righteous man. Be faithful all your days. Prepare yourselves to help in the work of the redemption of the human race; and do not be content to say, "In my heart is a knowledge of the truth, I know the gospel is true, and I rejoice in it," and then stop. Do not stop there. Say that and still more: "O Lord, make me an instrument in Thy hands. Make all Thy servants who have been called of Thee wonderful and powerful instruments in Thy hands, that this same gospel which lighteth my soul, and which filleth me with gladness, may be sent unto all the world, that my neighbor, my brother, Thy children, may rejoice in Thee, even with me, by being brought into Thy kingdom." May the testimony of the truth ever be with you, my brothers and sisters. May the powers of evil never be permitted to tempt you from your duty or from the path of right. The Lord will be with you, and build you up, and make you a power in the world for good; and through us, yes through us, even as through Father Abraham, because of our faithfulness in keeping the commandments of the Lord, shall the whole world be blest and be led to glorify God. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I will now present to the conference the general authorities of the Church, and also the authorities of the auxiliary organizations, with such other officers as may properly be brought before this assembly, for your vote. It is expected that every Latter-day Saint in good standing will exercise his or her prerogative to vote for or against the names that may be presented. Of course, we do not expect any who are not members of the Church in good standing to take any part in this. GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and 

Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. "Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as president of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Quorum of Twelve Apostles — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber, J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner "W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Rudger Clawson,Reed Smoot.Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith and Charles W. Penrose. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of SeventiesSeymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

"William B. Preston as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller, as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian, and general Church recorder. Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the general Church board of education, Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, John R. Winder and Charles W. Penrose. 

Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer to the general Church board of education. 

John Nicholson as clerk of the conference. 

Evan Stephens as director of the Tabernacle choir; J. J. McClellan, organist; Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Wm. "W. Riter, Charles W. Nibley and August W. Carlson, auditing committee. 

RELIEF SOCIETY. 

Bathsheba W. B. Smith, president. Annie T. Hyde, first counselor. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, second counselor. 

Emmeline B. "Wells, secretary. 

Clarissa S. Williams, treasurer. 

Aids — Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jane Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L Smith, Emily S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipp, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Pbebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrill Home, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Margaret A. Caine, Rebecca E. Little. 

Missionaries — Harriet Ann Badger, Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary A. C. Lambert, Mary T. Smith, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Hattie B. Harker, Priscilla Smith, 

Emma A. Empey, superintendent of Relief Society nurses. 

Margaret C. Roberts, Romania B. Penrose and Ellis R. Shipp, instructors of Relief Society nurses. 

Phebe Y. Beatie. secretary and treasurer of Relief Society nurses. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent. 

George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent. 

Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary. 

George Reynolds, treasurer. 

Members of the Board— Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John 

R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign. 

William A. Morton, business manager. 

Joseph F. Smith, editor Juvenile Instructor. 

George Reynolds and J. M. Tanner, assistant editors. 

George D. Pyper, business manager. Juvenile Instructor. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent. 

Heber J. Grant, and B. H. Roberts, assistants. 

Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer.Evan Stephens, music director. Horace S. Ensign, assistant music director. 

Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant. Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, William B. Dougall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Philip S. Maycock, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Louis A. Kelsch.Lyman R. Martineau. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IM. 

PROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Martha H. Tingey, president. Ruth M. Fox, first counselor. 

Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor. 

Ann M. Cannon, secretary. Agnes Campbell, assistant secretary. Alice K. Smith, treasurer. Maria Y. Dougall, honorary member. Alice Calder Tuddenham, music director. Mattie Read, organist. 

Elizabeth Thomas, assistant organist. 

Aids— Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Edding-ton, Agnes Campbell, Susa T. Gates, Minnie J. Snow, May B. Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Elizabeth C. McCune, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle Neff Caldwell, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS. 

Louie B. Felt, president. Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor. Josephine R. West, second counselor. May Anderson, secretary and treasurer. 

Olive D. Christensen, assistant secretary. 

Vera I. Felt, recording secretary. 

Margaret Hull, chorister. 

Norma Fenton, Organist. 

Aids— Aurelia S. Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards. Isabella S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Euphemia I. Burnham, Eliza S. Bennion, Edna L. Smith, Josephine G. 

Smith, Ida B. Smith, Clara W. Beebe, Edna Harker, Lilian L. Maeser, Grace Folland, Allfe Howarth, Annie Wallace. 

RELIGION CLASSES. 

Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent. 

Rudger Clawson, first assistant. 

J. M. Tanner, second assistant. 

Joseph J. Cannon, secretary. 

Members of the General Board — Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, Henry Peterson, Horace Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Matthias F. Cowley, Hyrum M. Smith, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John H. Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon. 

President Smith announced that the congregation had voted unanimously in favor of all the names submitted. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn beginning, 

"Our God we raise to thee, Thanks for Thy blessings free." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. Saturday, October 7, 10 a. m. 


