Morning
07 10 1905


ELDER GEO. ALBERT SMITH. 

Why the Saints are regarded as a peculiar people.— The duty of forgiving one another.— Performance of duty increases faith.— We should not limit ourselves In good works.— The joy of eternal association with loved ones. 

My brethren and sisters, I am grateful to my Heavenly Father this morn, ing for the privilege of meeting with you in this house of worship. While I occupy this position I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be inspired by the Holy Spirit to say such things as He would have me say unto you. I have rejoiced with you in the remarks that have been made by our brethren in this conference, and it has been joy to me to see the multitude of Latter-day Saints present upon this occasion. The hymn that has just been sung is an inspiration to us who live  these mountain vales. I believe the fervor with which it was sung is an evidence of the appreciation of the Latter-day Saints for the blessings of our Father upon them. We are called a peculiar people because, perchance, we thoroughly believe and obey the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Our peculiarity lies very largely in the fact that we believe the Old and New Testaments actually contain the word of the Lord, as far as they have been translated correctly. We also firmly believe the Book of Mormon, which the world knows comparitively little of; and add to' that unwavering belief in the Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price. We regard the teachings contained therein as revelations of our Father in heaven to His children who dwell upon this earth. It is not! alone because we have faith in the books referred to that we are considered a peculiar people, but also because we confidently believe that our Father in Heaven has spoken in this day and age. In fact, we know that thore is communication with the heavens. Our brethren and sisters of the world, generally, do not acknowledge that. We believe that Jehovah has the same feeling towards us, the same influence over us, that He had for and over His children who lived in this world in times that are past. If our peculiarity went to the extent that we lived by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of our Heavenly Father, then we would indeed be a blessed people. We do, to' a large degree, live by the testimony that has been given to us by our Redeemer, and thus far we are a blessed people, the acknowledged children of the Lord. There is one thing I find that we have  yet learned completely, and it comes to my mind this morning, that is, the disposition to forgive one another our trespasses. The Lord has given us grea<i information, has revealed His mind and will unto us, has taught us things that the world know not of, and, in accordance with the information we have received, He holds us responsible and expects us to live a higher life, a more ideal life than those who do not as fully comprehend the Gospel as we do. The spirit of forgiveness is something that the Latter-day Saints might with profit exhibit more fully among themselves. Sometimes a brother in authority has offended, in some way, one of the members of the Church, probably unknown to himself, and that child of our Father's silenly continues to feel hurt, instead of doing as the Lord has commanded, going to the offending man and stating to him, in kindness, the feelings of his heart, and giving that brother an opportunity to say to him, "I am sorry I have offended you, and I desire that you shall forgive me." The result is that, in some instances, we And a resentful feeling existing that has been instigated by Satan. Now, we must get into a condition where we can forgive our brethren. In connection with this matter, I will read a few verses from the eighteenth chapter of St. Matthew, beginning with the twenty-first verse. It seems that the Apostles were with the Master upon this occasion, and Peter came to Him and said: 

"Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times? 

Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times but, Until seventy times seven." 

Then the Savior gave a parable, which I will not take time to read, but it was a parable of two men. One of the men owed his lord a large amount of money, and he come to him and told him he could not pay what he owed, and asked that he might be forgiven the debt. The lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and forgave the debt. Straightway this man who had been forgiven went out and found a fellow who owed hinj a small amount, and he demanded his pay. The poor man was unable to meet the obligation, and he in turn a=ked that he might be forgiven the debt. But he was not forgiven; on the contrary he was taken and cast into prison by the, one who had already been forgiven by his lord. When the other fellow-servants saw what had been done they went to the lord of this man and told him. and he Avas wroth and delivered the one whom he had forgiven unto torment, until he should pay all that was due. His soul was not bis: enough to appreciate the mercy shown him, and because of that lack of charitv he lost all. At times we find little difficulties arising among us, and we forget the patience our Father in Heaven exercises towards us, and we magnify in our hearts some trivial thing that our brother or sister may have done or said concerning us. We do not always live that law which the Lord desires us to observe in regard to these matters. We forget the commandment He gave to the Apostles in the words of the prayer, wherein they were told to pray that they might be forgiven their debts even as they forgive their debtors. I feel that we have to learn a great deal in this regard. We have not complied as completely as we should with the requirements of our Heavenly Father. In the Book of Doctrine and Covenants we find a reference made to this matter of forgiveness, wherein the Lord gives a commandment; it is contained in the sixty-fourth section, and refers to us in this day. It reads as follows: 

"Nevertheless he has sinned, but verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death. 

"My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another, and forgave not one another in their hearts, and for this evil they were afflicted, and sorely chastened: 

"Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin." (The verse last read is the one 1 would emphasize.) 

"I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men; 

"And ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds." 

If our lives were such that, when wo differ with our neighbor, if, instead of setting ourselves up as judges one against another, we could honestly and conscientiously appeal to our Father in Heaven and say, "Lord, judge between me and my brother; thou knowcst my heart; Thou knowest I have no feeling of anger against him; help us to see alike, and give us wisdom that we may deal righteously with each other," how few differences there would be, and what joy and blessings would come to us! But, little difficulties arise from time to time which disturb the equilibrium of our daily lives, and we continue to be unhappy because we cherish an improper influence, and have not charity. 

We find another reference to this matter, that has a bearing also upon another condition, in that sometimes we feel uneasy and worried when we fail to do what our Father desires of us. A man who is living in accordance with the Gospel of Jesus Christ is never in doubt about its success; but the man who neglects his duty, who fails to keep his covenants, loses the Spirit of the Lord, and he then begins to wonder what will become of Zion. Whenever you, my fellow laborers, feel there is something wrong with the Church, go into your secret places and kneel down before the Lord, examine your heart, and you will find every time that there is something in your own life that occasions doubt; the tempter is working on your mind, causing you to feel that perhaps Zion will not be victorious. Whenever you are doing your full duty, you will know, as you know that you live, that it is our Father's work, and that He will brinjj it off triumphant. We find in the ninetyeighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the following reference: 

"And again I say unto you, if ye observe to do whatsoever I command you, I, the Lord, will turn away all wrath and indignation from you, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against you." 

This is the word of our Father in Heaven to us. 

And again with reference to patience under persecution: 

'Now I speak unto you concerning your families; if men will smite you, or your families, once, and ye bear it patiently and revile not against them, neither seek revenge, ye shall be rewarded; 

"But if ye bear it not patiently, It shall be accounted unto you as being meted out a just measure unto you." 

This also is the word of the Master unto us. If we live according to this law, wo will grow in grace and strength day by day, and in favor with our Heavenly Father. Faith will increase in the hearts of our children. They will love us for the uprightness and integrity of our lives, and they will rejoice that they have been born of such parents. I say to you that this commandment is not given in an idle way; for the Lord has declared that He does not give any law indifferently, but every law is given that it may be kept and lived up to by us. We will be m this world only a short time. The youneest and strongest of us are simply preparing for the other life, and be>fore we get into the glory of our Father and enjoy the blesings that we hope to receive through faithfulness, we will have to live the laws of oatience, and exercise forgiveness toward those who trespass against us, and remove from our hearts all feelings of hatred toward them. 

"And again, if your enemy shall smite you the second time, and you revile not against your enemy, and bear it patiently, your reward shall be an hundred fold. 

"And again, if he shall smite you the third time, and ye bear it patiently, your reward shall be doubled unto you four fold; 

"And these three testimonies shall stand against your enemy if he repent not, and shall not be blotted out." 

There is a disposition on the part of 

ELDER GEORGE 

some returned Elders, and other men who hold the Priesthood, and women, who hold positions in the Church, to neglect Sacrament meetings and other important duties, and to confine their labors to some soecial calling. They may be officers and teachers in the Sunday school, and when they perform their Sabbath school labor, consider that sufficient; or, they may be Mutual Improvement workers, and if they discharge their obligations in that regard they consider their whole duty done. But, this is an erroneous idea. "We are required to live by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of our Father in Heaven. We are expected to so conduct ourselves day by day that, if we see distress or want, or need of advice and counsel on any occasion, we should forthwith act as servants ot the Lord in very deed. We find in the fifty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants a reference to this matter: I desire to read it to you, because it is the word of the Lord with reference to our opportunities: 

"For behold/ it is not meet that 1 should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. . ' 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?" 

I feel that we are representatives of a great people. We have met together from all the stakes and branches of the Church. We have come to be fed by the Spirit of our Master. When we go back to our homes, if there are those among us who are indifferent and careless, it is our duty to call their attention to the Scriptures and to bring them face to face with the comALBERT SMITH. 29 

mandments of our heavenly Father. There are many young men who are indifferent and careless, but who possess some ability, and as the Lord has said in this revelation, they should not wait to be commanded, but volunteer to go forth and, in the authority of the Holy Priesthood, labor for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. 

Grateful should we be, that in the fastnesses of these grand mountains, our feet have been planted; and that the Messiah has imparted to us a knowledge that the Gospel is true. Grateful should we be for a knowledge of the eternity of the marriage covenant. If in this life only had we hope, we would indeed be of all men most miserable. The assurfance that our relationship here as parents and children, as husbands and wives will continue in heaven, and that this is but the beginning of a great and glorious kingdom that our Father has destined we shall inherit on the other side, fills us with hope and joy. One of the greatest evidences to me of the divinity of this work is that it teaches there is eternal life on the other side, and that there will be a reunion there of the loved ones who have known each other here. Consequently, as parents, we may well be patient and loving toward our children, for they will eternally abide with us on the other side, if we and they are faithful. The few years that we live here may be regarded as a time in which we become acquainted, but, when we mingle in the other life, we will know each other better than we have here. Grateful am I that this testimony has been given me, and for the knowledge that the Savior was indeed the Redeemer of the world. Thankful am I for the testimony that Joseph Smith was indeed a Prophet of the Lord, and that every one of those who have succeeded him. in the exalted calling of president of this Church, have been inspired by the same spirit that characterized Joseph Smith's life. I am glad to add my testimony to the integrity of Joseph F. Smith. No matter what the world may think of him, no matter what unkind things they have said of him, I testify to you that he is, indeed, a servant of the Lord, that he stands at the head of this work, by Divine appointment, and that there is no power, either in earth or in hell, that can destroy the influence our Father has given to him. He is surrounded by men who are faithful and true, men who love the Saints better than their very lives, men who devote the energies and cowers that God has given unto them to your blessing. They leave their homes and the comforts thereof, and labor constantly, not that they may be glorified, but that you and your families and all mankind may be saved and exalted. Honor and love these men, sustain them with your faith and prayers, and as you uphold them in the positions to w r hich they have been called, so will our Father in Heaven sustain and bless and magnify you in the eyes of your families and those with whom you associate. May the peace of heaven be with us. May the ensuing meetings be a joy and blessing to every one of us, as were those of yesterday. May we have the Spirit of the Master dwelling within us, that we may forgive all men as He 1 nas commanded, forgive, not only with our lips, but in the very depths of our hearts, every trespass that may have been committed against us. If we do this through life, the blessings of the Lord will abide in our hearts and our homes, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. (President of Granite Stake.) I desire, my brothers and sisters, to enjoy the same good spirit that has actuated the remarks of the brethren who have preceded me. I feel grateful unto my Heavenly Father that I can bear my testimony to the work of the Lord, and that we have servants and prophets of the Lord ministering to us. I have been much impressed with the remarks of Elder George A. Smith this morning on the spirit of forgiveness. I feel how necessary it is that we as Lat-day Saints should have 'this in our souls, not only towards those who a"re of our own faith, but the Savior requires that we have it towards all men. In connection with this,I bear testimony 'that I have been acquainted with the authorities of this Church from President Young until this day, and that I have witnessed this spirit of forgiveness in the hearts of all those prophets and leaders of the Church. They have felt to forgive their fellowmen. I was not, of course, acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith; but my father was intimate with him, and hundreds of times I have listened to him discourse on the merits and graces that characterized the Prophet, and I learned to love him more dearly because of the kindness of his heart and because he loved all persons, little children and all. I remember, a year or two ago, a man bearing his testimony to the kindness of the Prophet Joseph toward little ones, and it struck me as being very similar to the character of our Savior. He referred to an incident when he was a little bare-footed boy. He was traveling in to Far West, and it was inclement weather. He and several other small boys were paddling through the cold water and their feet were chilled. A man came along on horseback and he picked them up, one by one, took a large silk handkerchief out of his pocket and tried to warm their benumbed feet. It is only a little incident, but it shows the kindness of the Prophet's heart toward little ones. I remember my father speaking of the mobbings, trials and privations he endured and I being but a little boy, unable to discriminate always between right and wrong, and not having that feeling of forgiveness which the Gospel of Christ brings to the soul, my face used to blush up and I would become indignant, and felt in my heart that when I became a man I would resent the wrongs that had been perpetrated upon our fathers in establishing this work. My father used to smile at me, and pat me on the back and say, "My boy, that is not the kind of spirit that the Gospel leaves in the  of mankind; as you grow older you must learn that you must forgive." This gospel of ours is designed to save, to build up, to bless and comfort; and it is not right on our part to Tiarm any man. I have been acquainted with these brethren. I have listened to their testimonies, and I know thav I have never yet listened to their voices being raised to harm or injure any man. On the other hand, their counsel and advice has been uplifting, saving, and such as would bless and comfort all who would give heed to it. I know that they have been good, clean men, and I know their advice has been good and would bless me if I would only carry it out. I honor them for this. I know that the example they have set in this community has been good, one that anybody could imitate with profit and blessing. When I think of this, I think how different it is to the spirit that has characterized some of our friends who do not have the same faith that we have. I never knew the authorities of this church to go out into the world condemning mankind, and pulling them down. On the contrary, their counsel and their lives have been examples to live up to, and that would benefit and bless mankind. I have met many people of different denominations in the world, and I have been anxious to learn concerning their faith, to find out what they possessed that might add to my faith and increase my knowledge, but I never had one of them manifest a spirit to bless me. I have had them by the score point the finger of scorn at me, and I have heard them ridicule the best men of our community, men I love with my whole heart. I have had men tell me that my father, who I knew was clean, pure and upright, was not a fit man to associate with. Figuratively, I never had one of them hand me a loaf, when I asked for it they have given me a stone. On the other hand, whenever I have gone to the authorities of this church they have given me comfort, and peace. The spirit that seeks to pull down, to destroy, and to harm mankind, is not the Spirit of the Lord 

Jesus Christ. The genius of this gospel is to build up, not to destroy; it is to unite, not to dismember; it is to bring peace and good will, not to bring sorrow and distress. I testify that when I have lived this religion, and done my duty, the Spirit has brought unto me peace, comfort and blessing. As I have grown older I have learned, as my father testified to me when I was a boy, that when people live this religion and keep the commandments of the Lord they seek to build up, to bless, and to comfort mankind. "When I was young it used to be quite a testimony to me, and it is today, that the religion of the world cannot be true because the followers seek to destroy the character of clean, good men, and to pull down this work of our Heavenly Father. I know that the Spirit of the Lord does not actuate men to injure or to destroy, or to pull down any people, whether in this church or any other church. The Spirit of the Lord does not actuate people to do harm, or to do ill of any kind. I take delight, brothers and sisters., in sustaining the authorities of this church, because I know they are men of God, actuated by the Spirit to bless and comfort us if we will only follow their teachings. God forbid that I should forsake them, or that my hand should be raised against them, or that I should indirectly or directly be a party to any attempt to nullify their good works and bring to naught that which they desire for the blessing and comfort of the Latter-day Saints. If we will heed their counsels we will be happy indeed, and we will be blessed and sustained by our Heavenly Father. I have no fear of the Latter-day Saints in the least about this matter, because I know those whom I come in contact with, that are living their religion, manifest unity of faith, and do sustain those who preside over them. I know that the people in the stake over which I preside sustain the authorities of "this church with their whole hearts, and propose to continue to sustain them. 

I do not feel that it would be wise for me to continue my remarks. I love this work, I love the authorities who preside over us. I have a testimony of the truth of this work. As I live nearer to my heavenly Father I enjoy more of the Spirit of the Lord, I have more happiness and peace in my heart, and I feel kindly towards all mankind. May the blessing's of the Lord attend you ever, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Annie Shields sang beautifully a solo entitled, "With Verdure Clad." 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

Testimony concerning the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith.— Necessity for following the promptings of the Holy Spirit. 

My brethren and sisters, it is with a ' feeling of pleasure, also of regret, that I stand before you on this occasion. It is a pleasure to me to be in the line of my duty. It is a pleasure to me to look at the faces of the people who are present, and to see so many gathered here to listen to the words of the Lord through His servants. It is with regret that I realize I am not what is termed a public speaker. It is seldom that my voice is heard in public, and unless you give me your faith and prayers to bring something to my mind, it will be a hard matter for me to say anything profitable to you on this occasion. I have a testimony to bear that this is the work of God, that we are His people, that Joseph was a prophet of the Lord, and that he gave unto us, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the principles of life and salvation, which are now taught to the people. On many occasions I know that the Lord has been with me, and has inspired my sayings. I can bear testimony also that it is through the faith and prayers of the Saints I am here now. On two different occasions I have been physically broken down by overwork, but the faith and prayers of the Saints have prevailed, and I am here today, and, the Lord being my helper, I shall stay with you sometime yet. I bear testimony that that which we have listened to thus far through the conference is just and true. It has been spoken by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,  if we, as a people, will follow theinstructions we have received it will be well with us. In my travels among the people of late I have noticed that they are, as a rule, striving to live their religion and do their duty. They are striving to live before our Heavenly Father in that way and manner that His blessings will attend them. As Latter-day Saints we have many duties to perform, and if we are diligent, and learn to listen to the whispering of the Good Spirit, we will not often err in judgment. All persons have a good monitor with them, and If they will live in a proper manner that monitor will direct them in the right path, and they will make no mistakes, but if they are careless and indifferent, trusting entirely to their own judgment, then they are liable to err. Speaking of the principle of forgiveness, we find that it is not so much among us as it ought to be. We should strive to live according to the old adage, "Do unto others as you would they should do unto you." If we will be guided by the True Spirit, and follow its promptings, it will be better for us. That the blessings of the Father may rest upon Israel and guide us in the true path, that when our time comes to go hence His blessings shall be with us and we shall be prepared to receive all that He has promised the -faithful, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK. 

(President of Cassia Stake.) My brethren and sisters, I feel very thankful this morning for the opportunity I have, in connection with you, in attending this general conference, of the church. I have rejoiced very much in the testimonies of those who have spoken in this meeting, and in the previous sessions of this conference, I have a testimony that our brethren, who have addressed us have spoken the truth, because they are actuated by the spirit of truth. They are men of God, engaged in the work of salvation, and I know that their words are words of eternal life. It is an exceeding great pleasure to us, living as we  in one *of the remotei stakes of Zion, to have the privilege of coming to conference to hear the words of inspiration that fall from the lips of the servants of the Lord, and listen to the sweet singing that we hear. These things cause my heart to rejoice, and I feel continually to praise the Lord and acknowledge His goodness. I desire with all my heart to be ah;e to serve Him, to keep His commandments and to be instrumental in His hands in seeking to bring to pass righteousness among the children of men. 

The Cassia stake over which I have the honor to preside, is one of the small stakes of the church, our population numbering only 3,231 souls. Of this number, we have nine hundred and forty-four children under eight years of age. I felt very pleased yesterday, while President Smith was speaking of the limited number of missionaries now abroad carrying glad tidings of salvation, that it is our good fortune to have about forty brethren from Cassia stake in the mission field, who have gone willingly, yea, gladly, in order that they may assist in accomplishing this part of the work of the Church. The Stake in which I reside is one of the new settlements of the Church. We have within our borders one of the great government projects for bringing water upon the arid lands, and through the efficiency of the servants of the government in this work much is being accomplished. Many thousands of acres of land will be brought under cultivation, and homes can be made by thousands of people. We have, at the present time, coming into that part of the State of Idaho people from nearly all parts of the United States, and I am very pleased to note that they are men and women of good principles, as a rule. They are honest, industrious, and friendly toward their neighbors. They have not come with the predjudices and animosities that our missionaries often find in the east. We are glad to extend the hand of friendship to all such people. The time will come when that part of the state will become important. We hope as citizens of that state  assist by our efforts in helping to bring to pass this change. 

Our people are an exceedingly good class. I do not believe it would be possible to go into any of the Stakes of Zion and find Latter-day Saints who are more sincerely endeavoring to live their religion than the people of the Cassia stake. As a rule they are living in peace, and I believe they possess the spirit of forgiveness. They are endeavoring through faith and prayer to continue in possession of the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, which leads and guides into all truth. In consequence of the newness of our country we are just beginning the erection of commodious meetinghouses in our wards. Wherever we see these houses, we look upon them with the thought that a part of the means used for this purpose has come to us from the Trustee-in-Trust. and when we read the newspaper agitation which is going on over the disposition of the tithes, Ave look at our ward meetinghouses, our Stake meetinghouse, our beautiful Academy, realizing they are monuments to the credit of the tithe payers, and to the beneficence of the authorities of this Church. I want to say. my brethren and sisters, in behalf of the saints of the Cassia stake of Zion, I believe there is not one among them who is paying tithing that is questioning as to the disposition of that fund. We know full well the men into whose hands it comes, and we know that it is handled as carefully and judiciously as any money in this world can be handled. We have implicit faith and confidence in President Joseph F. Smith, and his counselors, the Twelve Apostles, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, and in all the general authorities of this Church, because we know that they are men of God. We are endeavoring to the best of our ability to uphold their hands. It is our practice to go before the Lord and, in the earnestness of our souls, ask him to bless and preserve and magnify these brethren. I realize, as you do, that the Lord has blest them, that He has sustained them, and that He is assisting them in the very important duties they have to perform. 

"We are endeavoring to assist in the building up of the Gem State. We see in our state immense possibilities. "We are sustaining the officers of the. government of our state. "We look upon them as being exceptionally good men. We are honoring the laws of the land in which we live, both local and general. This, I may say, is a characteristic of Latter-day Saints. They have been taught from childhood to honor the flag of our country, to" obey the laws o£ the land. This is being done, notwithstanding what may be said to the contrary by the enemies of this work. We love our country. We honor that great and good man, President Roosevelt, who stands at its head. We look upon him as a man of destiny, a man of exceptional power and ability, a man whom we believe God has raised up; and his influence is being felt in the west, in the reclamation of thousands of acres of arid lands that have been bleached in the sunshine of heaven. I say, God bless our country, its laws and its institutions, its officers and its people. I believe that the gospel has inspired within my heart greater love for this country, greater veneration for its laws", than I could possibly have felt had it not been for the influence of the gospel. I believe that the same feeling prevails, as a rule, among the Latter-day Saints. I know that our authorities are patriotic, loyal men. If there is one individual in this church that I have admired more than any other, it is President Joseph F. Smith, because I have lookei upon him as a model among men. I have watched his purity of life, I have observed his nobility of character, I have noted his sacrifices'in his labor for the benefit of mankind. I know there is a man standing at the head of this church at the present time whose superior cannot be found in this wide world. That is my testimony and my feelings regarding President Joseph F. Smith. These men who stand at the head of this church are men whose lives are exemplary. They are men who  and have been willing to sacrifice for this work and for the salvation of the souls of mankind. It cannot be said of these brethren that they say to the rank and file of the church, go hither and thither into the missionary field, and they themselves remain at home; but as you know, my brethren and sisters, all of these general authorities are practical missionaries. They have been out into the world. They have marked the path and led the way. They have brought home sheaves for their hire. They have in all these respects, and in all other respects, set before the membership of this church an example they expect us to follow, and I hope we will not be unmindful Df their counsels. I thought while President Smith was addressing us yesterday, how few of us have attempted in the last three years to extricate ourselves from the bonds of indebtedness: some have been inclined to go further into debt, and have reached out upon the right hand and upon the left, and today it is a question as to whether or not the Latter-day Saints are in any better condition financially than they were when this note was first sounded by the prophet of the Lord. So far as I am concerned as an individual (I do not say it boastingly), I have tried to follow the example of these brethren. I have taken their counsel in relation to debt, and I stand today an example of the benefits of following the counsel of those who are in authority over us. The Lord will bless us if we will do this, we will get out of debt and surround ourselves with the necessaries and comforts of life. I suggest to the Latter-day Saints that one of the best ways to get out of debt, and to keep tout, is to pay as we go. If we have not money to pay for anything, let us Bo without it until we get the money. We have demonstrated that in our stake in the last sixteen months. In one concern where there was a debt of some ?23,000 hanging over the institution; today it is practically out of debt, by reason of the fact that the directors adopted the system of requiring the people to pay cash for what they got. It  enabled that institution to get out of trouble, and has lifted it up so that today it is independent. I recommend this to the Latter-day Saints, and suggest that we adopt a cash policy, and pay as we go. While doing this, let us endeavor to live our religion, attend to our prayers, do our duty, attend our meetings, and seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. I testify to you, as a servant of God, that all other things will be added unto us. This gospel is true*, there is no doubt about that, and it will save us if we will live according to its precepts. 

May the peace and blessings of th j Almighty rest upon us. May the inspiration of His Holy Spirit enlighten our minds, quicken our understandings, enable us to comprehend the truth when we hear it, and cause us to be united in all the affairs of life; that we may be forgiving in our lives, and, as we read from the revelation, seek to forgive all men, not only those who are members of the church, but forgive all men, no matter 'who they may be. If we will do this, the Lord will in the end forgive us, and will lift us up to Asalvaition. Peace b,e unto you, my brethren and sisters. May the blessings of the Almighty rest upon you, and His prosperity attend you in your homes. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder John Robinson rendered a sacred solo entitled "Grant Us Thy Peace." 

ELDER CHRISTIAN D. FJELDSTED. 

I do not know if I shall be able to speak loud enough to be heard by this vast congregation, but I esteem it a great privilege to attend this conference, a privilege I have not had for several years. I can truly say I am enjoying the Spirit there is in this conference. The doctrines we have listened to have come from God, and the singing has been quite inspiring. Thanks be to God, we are living in a time when we have inspired men to lead us. I have been in Scandinavia for several years, and I bring kind regards and thanks from the Saints of those countries, for the liberal feelings man both by the trustee-in-trust and by the people here generally, through whose donations we have been greatly assisted, and we now have some very good meetinghouses in those countries. The gosDel is spreading, and is being preached with power. I can say, in behalf of the Elders who have been sent from home, that they are doing a good work. They are fine men. You parents whose sons are out in the field can rejoice, because they are good boys, they are doing a good work, and they are living their religion. It is a hard matter to learn a language, but even in that the Lord is blessing them wonderfully. They meet, of course, with a good deal of opposition, and finding fault with the principles of the gospel by our friends outside of the church. I have told them we have not originated this gospel, neither has Joseph Smith nor the other leaders of the church; it originated with the Lord, the Creator of the world, and if you have any complaint to make against the principles of the gospel, He is the individual for you to complain against, not Joseph Smith, nor the Latter-day Saints. The Lord has revealed this grand and glorious gospel. He appeared to Joseph Smith and introduced His Son, even the Savior of the world, who spoke to Joseph Smith concerning the gospel; and that is where the complaint should be laid if there is any. We say that the principles of the gospel are true, and are calculated to exalt mankind, to bless the people, and to bring salvation to the human family, if they will obey it. My brothers and sisters, it is for us, as Latter-day Saints, to live our religion, because this is the work of God. His servants who stand at the head of His church are leading Israel in the way of salvation. May the Lord help us that we may do our duty, live our religion, honor our Father in heaven, and keep the covenants we have entered into, is my prayer, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer, 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction by Bishop William B. Preston. 


