Afternoon
05 10 1929

ELDER STEPHEN L.RICHARDS 

I feel very humble and very weak in approaching this duty, not because I have not thought and studied and prepared for it. I presume that we are all apprehensive on occasions such as this, lest we might not profitably occupy the time of the saints and speak those things which are in consonance with the wisdom of our brethren and the Spirit of God. I can think of no other reasons which give rise to the fears and the trepidation which hold one as he stands in this great presence. I have prayed that my words and my thoughts might be in harmony and ring true with the great messages which have been delivered during this conference. 

IN THE LANGUAGE OF YOUTH 

I have been hoping that the Church may interpret the gospel in the language of youth. I am certain that if boys and girls can understand its glorious message they will respond. Religion has always seemed more or less formidable to youth. I think that is in part because its inhibitions and its "don'ts" have been emphasized rather than its persuasions and its happiness. The representative of religion has usually been characterized as a somber joy-killing person without much of human understanding and human sympathy. I would, if I could, change this erroneous conception, indulged by youth, and substitute the glorious conceptions of abundant life and living given to us by the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Youth should understand that the spirit is the life of man, and the body is its tabernacle; that the tabernacle cannot be polluted or defiled without injuring the spirit, and that the spirit will grow and develop only as the house in which it dwells provides an atmosphere of purity and beauty. Youth admires strength and power. They must learn that the real strength is the strength of being clean. 

LIBERTY AND SAFETY THROUGH OBEDIENCE 

Youth should know that obedience is not bondage, but liberty — liberty under law; that the only real freedom is the freedom from our weaknesses : from the vices, the remorse of conscience, and the infraction of law. When youth understands that the bending of the will in obedience tends to liberty and joy, then lawlessness, disrespect and irrever will wane. I wish that youth could realize that the only death to be feared is the death that is the wages of sin, and that the gospel program of living is insurance against that dreadful calamity; that the commandments of God, both the "shalts" and the "shalt nots," and the warnings, reproofs and admonitions of God's servants, are all kindly calculated to hedge round the precious age of youth with safe-guards which shall protect its course until the age of wisdom and judgment shall be reached. 

I know that it is difficult, but I wish that everyone who reproves youth could "show forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom he hath reproved, lest he esteem him to be his enemy." I know of nothing in scripture that evinces a nicer understanding of human nature than does this splendid admonition given of God, so delicately put. 

MANIFESTATIONS OF GOD's TRUTH 

While I recognize the necessity of the prohibitions and injunctions of the gospel, all to be interpreted for the blessing of man, it seems to me that I would lay my major stress for youth on the positive, constructive, inviting concepts of truth which enlarge the vision and hold forth those exalted hopes, stations and glory which attract the soul of man as the marvelous magnet of the sun attracts the planets of the universe.; i  

Youth should understand that all the beauties of nature, the majestic mountains, the hills and vales, the streams crystal clear, the changing seasons, the gorgeous garb of earth, the peace of the summer night, the thunderous awful beauty of the storm, are all but manifestations of God; that the unfoldment of science is but a revelation of fragments of God's truth, and that the searcher for facts, when he discovers truth, however startling it may seem to the human mind, will never find anything, if it is real truth, which is not compatible with the revelations of God as they have been made known and will be made known to his prophets. 

TEACHERS OF UNDERSTANDING AND SYMPATHY 

I am sorry that youth seems to be so much disturbed in this respect. I am sure it is attributable to inadequate instruction in the fields of both science and religion. Youth sorely needs today teachers of great, understanding and sympathy, who can reconcile apparent conflicts and enable youth to hold fast to God's word and time-tested principles, while science, through experimentation and research, unfolds and develops the secrets and the processes of nature. I have long been persuaded that no teacher will ever be able to perform this high service for youth unless he be at once a man of God and a real scientist, a man who understands and believes the revelations and who fully appreciates the possibilities and the limitations of scientific method. It may seem boastful to say it, but I believe that such teachers are more apt to be found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than in any other place in all this wide world. A PROPER UNDERSTANDING OF RELIGIOUS PRINCIPLES 

May youth recognize that all true morality is founded on religious principles; principles that have been tried and not found wanting; that old things are not to be despised merely because they are old, and that the Ten Commandments are still the basis of Christian virtue. I want them to know that the scriptures are the word of God and that they will discover within them the deepest and truest philosophy, the most interesting history, the most vital principles to human life and welfare and the finest literature that the world has ever known. They should understand that pure recreation is not sinful and not inhibited by the Lord; that play is necessary as work is necessary; that both play and work are to be enjoyed; that service is the pursuit of most lasting satisfaction; that worship is the recreation of the soul. COMPANIONSHIPS THROUGH GOSPEL ASSOCIATION 

Would that youth could appreciate in full measure the companionships of gospel association. Would that they could realize that there is no such life-mating as that under the influence of the Holy Spirit and the power of the priesthood; that the quorums are fraternities where men clasp hands in bonds that are stronger than the bonds of death; that the organizations and service in the Church bring friendships dearer and more lasting than even life itself; "that God is a Father; that man is a brother; that life is a mission and not a career." 

THE ATTITUDE OF THE CHURCH LEADERS TOWARD YOUTH 

I have earnestly desired that youth might more fully understand the leaders of the Church and their attitude toward them, because I think they feel that we are exacting, that we do not understand and are therefore not sympathetic with their environment and their thinking. Perhaps we do not fully understand them. I want them to know, however, that it is not because we do not love them and desire their welfare. I would like to assure every young man and every young woman in the Church of God that they have no warmer and truer friend than President Heber J. Grant. I know that never a day passes that he and his associates in the leadership of the Church do not pray for. the youth of Zion, and that there are no lengths to which they would not go to bless them. I entreat the youth to give to their leaders and their parents their confidence and their trust. These are their best friends. 

THE SIGNIFICANCE AND BLESSING OF TEMPLES 

I wish that youth could grasp more clearly the vital significance and transcendent blessings of our temples. I am fearful that by many the temples are regarded as institutions of rather formidable mystery. I wish they could come to know that these sacred establishments of the Church are places of education and incomparable blessing, where the real meaning of life is made clear and glorious. 

After all, to understand the gospel is to love it. I am so enamoured  its glorious conceptions that I feel sure that if we can win the affection of youth for its joyous principles, their salvation will be assured. 

THE GLORIOUS AGE OF YOUTH 

What a glorious age of promise youth is, when life is in the bud and early blossom, when each experience is fresh with curiosity and adventure. I think that if we may envy anything it is the life and vitality of youth. I would not rob it of its joy and its sparkle. I would only add to its richness by securing its enjoyment through the passing years. I know that a real appreciation of the gospel will do that. Gospel truth will always quicken the impulses of the spirit, and the spirit is the life of man. It unfolds new visions as knowledge increases, and these new visions keep life ever new; so, in the gospel life, there is youth even in old age. 

God bless youth that they may understand truth and us, and God bless us that we may understand youth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the Canadian Mission 

We have been fed and refreshed, my brethren and sisters, by the teachings and by the spirit of this conference. I am very anxious, during the few minutes I stand before you, that this feast may be continued, and I am sure that it will only be by the blessings of the Lord that this shall be so. 

I felt quite at home at the first session of this conference. I was reminded of our Canadian Mission when the opening prayer was given by a former missionary of that mission, Elder Thomas W. Richards, and when Elder David O. McKay spoke, who recently toured the Canadian Mission. I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that he gave the same sort of powerful sermons all through our mission, as the one that he delivered here yesterday forenoon. From Portland, Maine, to Windsor, Ontario, in that tour of two thousand five hundred miles that we made in about fifteen days, holding thirty-one meetings, we had the same kind of spiritual feast as we received yesterday from him and also from others of the brethren. 

Our tour took us through Maine, to the ancient city of St. Johr, New Brunswick; from thence, across the Bay of Fundy, through the land of Evangeline, made famous by Longfellow, to the historic city of Halifax, Nova Scotia; from thence to Amherst, Nova Scotia, Montreal, Quebec; to Burlington, Vermont; to Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilton, Brantford, London, Windsor and Chatham. At the last named city we had the opportunity of giving our service over the radio, and one of the striking features of that service was the invitation to Brother McKay to give the benediction. Rather short notice was given, but we had the unusual joy of just such a prayer as we hear from the priesthood here at home, given over the radio in that land. We received very good reactions from that meeting. We have heard a number of favorable comments from those who were "listening in." 

Since that time we have again toured the mission, giving an interpretation of the gospel as expressed through the auxiliaries, through the great Relief Society organization, the great Sunday School organization, the great M. I. A., and last, but not least, the great Primary Association. The Primary Association is capable of doing real missionary work, as it reaches the parents through the children. 

On this last tour, in passing through the state capitol of Vermont, we were handed a pamphlet with a picture of a stone erected in memory of Brigham Young, at Whitingham, Vermont, the birthplace of Brigham Young. The legend on the stone is : "Brigham Young born on this spot 1801. A man of much courage and superb equipment." A little later we passed through Concord, the capital of New Hampshire and saw the statue to Daniel Webster. These two great men were born in close proximity of time and of territory, and we had the opportunity that evening of making some contrasts between them, particularly in reference to the inspiration to the Prophet Brigham Young, pertaining to the redemption and settlement of this western country, and the purported attitude of the great American orator upon that same subject; and that exposition was favorably received by the audience of people from New Hampshire, who think very highly of the great Daniel Webster who is voted, at least by Harvard, as being entitled to the seventh place in the galaxy of the great orators of the world. 

We had some unusual experiences along the line, one of which was the holding of our religious services immediately following awedding ceremony and feast. It was a little difficult, for the moment, to make the contact and transform the marriage feast into a service of the Lord, but with our "wedded companionship without end," known to us but not known to the priest who performed the ceremony that night, nor to many of the people who listened to the services, we were able to secure a hearing. While they were cool to start with, they soon warmed up to the exposition of the gospel as interpreted by these auxiliary organizations. 

We have recently had the privilege of being refreshed anew by the inspiration which comes from a visit to Cumorah and the Sacred Grove, and to the Joseph Smith Memorial in the State of Vermont. There is a spirit about those places as there is about the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I was reminded of the lines describing Joseph at the age of the restitution, given by Bishop Whitney in that great epic of his, known as "Elias, An Epic of the Ages," and which I am persuaded is read too little by the Latter-day Saints. He describes Joseph at that time as : 

"Standing but fourteen steps upon life's stair, An unlearned boy, thinker of thoughts profound, 

Boy and yet man, dreamer of lofty dreams. 

Not solemn, save betimes, when hovered near 

Some winged inspiration from far worlds, 

Some great idea's all-subduing spell — 

His heart grew humbler then, his look more grave; 

Not melancholy — mirthful, loving life, 

And brimming o'er with health and wholesome glee. 

A stalwart spirit in a sturdy frame, 

Maturing unto future mightiness." 

After making some reference in the poem to the sort of deity which Joseph Smith worshiped, the attributes of deity, the poem continues, in reference to Joseph : 

"And pondering the apostolic line, 

'Let any lacking wisdom ask, 

And God will freely give, upbraiding none,' 

He puts the promise to the utter test." 

Then the poet adds : 

"What pen can paint the marvel that befell? What tongue the wondrous miracle portray?" 

When those "two heavenly personages, whose beauty and glory defy all description," stood before Joseph in the air, and one of them, addressing the boy, pointing to the other said, "This is My beloved Son, hear him." It is a noteworthy fact that as the years go by the significance of the information that was received by Joseph at that time from the Son, the Lord and Savior of the world, is being more confirmed year by year. An examination of the magazine literature of the world, in the last few years, pointing out the limitations upon Protestant denominations and in fact all religious sects, will indicate the truth of what Bishop Whitney told us yesterday in reference to a fragmentary portion of the gospel, only, residing in these denominattions, these cults and these isms. 

I have been very much impressed with the direct testimony in support of the restoration of this gospel, but I have been more impressed with the circumstantial evidence which supports the restoration and the coming forth of the gospel, the re-statement of the gospel and the restoration of the holy priesthood. 

The first section of the Doctrine and Covenants was referred to here yesterday — a perfect piece of literature as a preface to that book. There is harmony in all that 'came through Joseph. Our Judge Rolapp, a few years ago, in his "Gospel Quotations," made a compilation of scriptures, brought together the scriptures given to Joseph, coming from different ages, different languages; and lo arid behold, when they are brought together they dovetail and are in perfect harmony, a beautiful exposition of the gospel as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in these great truths which have come to us, the spirit of these great revelations, the spirit of the Book of Mormon. I have been melted many times, and thrilled, in reading some of those simple chapters of the Book of Mormon. I was pleased to hear Brother Pratt speak of his experiences in recently reading anew many times the Book of Mormon. 

It is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I am grateful for the knowledge I have that God lives; that he answers prayers; that the gospel, by his power, has been restored, and likewise the priesthood; and that we are enjoying that priesthood, in the leadership that we have in the Church at this time, as we also enjoyed it in former administrations of the Church, since its restoration through the Prophet Joseph Smith. May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate and realize all the blessings which have come unto us, is 'my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL MARTIN 

Former President of the South African Mission 

I trust that I may be sustained this afternoon in this ordeal, for I assure you that it is an ordeal to realize that there are ten thousand eyes gazing at me and perhaps double that number who are listening to my utterances; but I have enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord so often in the mission field under trying conditions that I feel confident I shall enjoy his Spirit while I endeavor to speak to you this afternoon. 

One of the last requests made of me, as I was leaving Cape-Town and the South African Mission as a whole, was that I would bring the love of the people of South Africa to you who live in Zion. There are many still living who remember the elders who first went to that land to preach the gospel of the restoration in 1853. And again, there are many, among whom I had the privilege of laboring, who feel to extend to you their love and gratitude for the elders who returned again in 1903, after forty years absence, to bring the gospel to that far-off land. In 1853 the South African Mission was limited — the elders bore their testimony to those only who lived in the British possessions. Cape Colony and Natal. When they returned in 1903, the mission had increased more than double. Instead of including only about three or four hundred thousand square miles of territory, it had been increased to over a million square miles, owing to the fact that in 1890 Great Britain decided to take over that large native territory known today as Southern and Northern Rhodesia, which embraces over four hundred thousand square miles, all native territory, and then since the war that of German Southwest Africa. This added territory has made it imperative that the elders who go to that far-off land be sent out two by two to only the large cities within the union. 

The great cry of South Africa today is : "Send us missionaries." Since Southern and Northern Rhodesia have been under the control of the British government, thousands of white settlers are going to that country and are establishing beautiful cities, very much after the plan of the cities we have in the west. They need at this time the missionary , that as the population increases the gospel knowledge might grow with them; therefore, the cry in South Africa is from the people themselves: "Send us missionaries.". 

You may perhaps know that the missionaries do not go to the colored or native races. The native races have besought the elders that they would go and teach them the gospel and that they would allow them to translate our tracts into the native language. They have offered to have congregations amounting to the thousands if the elders would only go and speak to them, but that time has not yet arrived. The number of missionaries that the General Authorities have been able to send has precluded us from sending the missionaries even into many of the cities where the white people dwell. There are towns of ten, fifteen and twenty thousand people who have had no elders stationed with them. 

It was very pleasing to me, when I returned to South Africa after nearly eleven years, to find people who were pleased to see me again. Nearly twenty-five years ago I had the privilege of hearing the gospel message for the first time in that land, and I believe was the first convert to the Church through the efforts of the elders who came out in 1903. Some of those who knew me in business, political, and social life, asked the question: "Has Martin gone mad? Is he attending to his business? How and why on earth could he allow himself to be overcome by those Mormon elders?" But when I returned this time and I met some of the same people who are holding high government positions, men of social position, and of the press. They said: "Have yon really come back to South Africa? Surely you will never leave us again?" And the press requested me to write and tell them of my experiences here among this wonderful people. They gave me freedom to write all that I desired, and from that time on I can assure you with truthfulness I never again saw in the press during my presidency of the South African Mission an article in adverse criticism of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Prejudice is breaking down. The people as a whole are ready and willing to listen. The elders who come out are men of splendid character as a whole, many of them earnest in their endeavor to preach the gospel. They are able to take rebuke and slander without retaliation. The only difficulty we have found does not exist with the common people generally but with those who are supposed to be teachers of truth and light. It often seemed very strange to me that men who professed to be teachers of the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ were not able to discern the difference between his teachings and their treatment to the elders; the love, tolerance, patience, and gentleness which he taught, compared with that which they were pleased to give in exchange for his teachings to the elders of this Church. It seemed to me that the pastors were unable to discern the difference between a lamb and a wolf, for charity is often absolutely lacking. Therefore, my brethren and sisters, I come to you with an appeal — Do not withhold your sons if you can possibly arrange for them to fill missions. The Lord will open the way. He will bless those who go into the mission field. 

Let me tell you the experience I had prior to gathering to Zion many years ago. There was a young elder who came out from Idaho, I believe it was Paris or Bloomington. He landed in South Africa in a state of collapse through typhoid fever. He was taken to the hospital, and when he became convalescent the government was about to send him back, owing to the fact that he had only two pounds ten shillings ($12.50) with which to sustain himself in the South African Mission. I had the privilege, as a business man at that time, to go before the government and stand security, giving a guarantee that he should never be a charge to the country; and the Lord blessed me and gave me confidence in his work, and with the kind cooperation of my little wife, from the day he came out of the hospital until the day he left South Africa, we fed him. I don't say that to receive your praise, but I do say this that I am only a humble man and if God would induce me to sustain a humble elder who came into the world to preach the gospel, he will do it for your son if occasion requires it. 

I want to make one other expression before I sit down. I want to appeal to you parents to stress particularly the importance of your sons and daughters reading, studying and marking the wondrous blessings which are given to them by the servants of the Lord, particularly their patriarchal blessings. I can say to you with great humbleness and sincerity that many times when I have seen things requiring great care and good judgment in the mission field, I have gone alone and read over the blessing given to me by our beloved presdent, Anthony W. Ivins, and at times I saw the wondrous guidance of the Spirit of the Lord in harmony with the blessings he pronounced upon my head, as a humble servant of the Lord called to preside over a branch of His kingdom. I often felt very weak, but at times I could feel the presence and hear the very voice of the Lord directing me. And frequently, after I had given instructions to the elders, when the mail reached me from headquarters the very instruction which they were advising me to give had already been given, showing that the Spirit of the Lord permeates his servants and guides and directs them in all their undertakings. 

 I pray humbly that the Lord will help us to appreciate and value the words which his servants pronounce upon our heads, for I can assure you from very strong testimony that I have felt their power, their influence, and their guidance, in my life. I pray that God will bless you and open your hearts and guide you that you may not think too much of wealth for self, but of the thousands who are out in the word not enjoying what you have today — a knowledge of the glorious truths of the restoration of the gospel, for which I am grateful. I am humbly grateful that I with four others of my family should be counted worthy to go out into the world to preach this wonderful message. I pray that the Lord will bless us each to feel dissatisfied until we all have done our duty in that respect. 

May God bless you, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

America's chief need — religion 

Is this nation, though it is the strongest, richest country in the world, headed for destruction? It is, say good authorities, unless the growing disrespect for law is stopped. 

"Growing disrespect for law," says James W. Good, Secretary of War for the United States, "unless it is stopped, will end in our destruction." 

WHAT IS WRONG WITH AMERICA? 

A volume that was on the reading course of the M. I. A. last year bears the title, "What Ails Our Youth?" In the light of what the Secretary of W!ar has said, it may be appropriate to ask also, "What ails our country?" 

"Train up a child in the way he should go, and, when he is old he will not depart from it." So says Solomon in Proverbs 22 :6. It may be that the citizens of the United States were not, in the days of their youth, trained up in the way they should go; or that the young folks in our country today are not being well trained; for it is a leading educator, George A. Coe, a professor at Columbia University, who has written a book with the title, "What Ails Our Youth ?" 

The Washington Post of March 9 devotes a whole page in large type to the following: 

"TO THE YOUTH OF WASHINGTON" 

"Where will you be five years from now? 

"What will be your mental outlook on life at that time? What your associates? What will be your physical and financial status? What your religious and mental standards? 

"It is sure that what you are doing now will point almost exactly to the answer of these questions. 

"Few men or women are able to make sweeping revisions in their modes of living overnight. 

"Most changes come in a gradual way. What man can stop a hundred bad habits in one day and begin a hundred good ones the next? 

"It isn't done that way. Life is a constant change, with everything being done by easy stages. The paths you are treading today will become broader and easier to follow, no matter in which direction they are leading. 

WHERE WILL YOU BE? 

"Where you will be five years from today depends upon whether you are a little better or a little worse tomorrow or a month from today. 

"Try to elevate yourself a little each day. Save a little money each week, deposit it carefully or invest it wisely, and you will be surprised at the growth in five years. 

"Spend your money and time foolishly, associate with wrong companions, and in five years you probably will be a liability to your community and a disgrace to your family. 

"Apply this test to the things you want to do — 'If I continue this indefinitely, where shall I be in five years ?' " This stirring appeal to the youth of the capital of the nation is signed by one hundred and ninety-two business men of that city. It thus appears that these business men also are asking : "What Ails Our Youth?" And may I ask: "What Ails Our Country?" Growing disrespect for law, our Secretary of War has said, is leading us to destruction. 

PRISON RECORDS OF CRIME 

The records of a reformatory at Pendleton, Indiana, may throw light on what ails our young people. During twenty years they havereceived in that institution 20,000 young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. This means an average of 1,000 a year. Of these 20,000 young men in that reformatory only four per cent claimed membership in any church. These statistics may be the answer to the questions, What ails our youth? and What ails our country? 

May not conditions today be similar to those prevailing on the 30th day of April, 1863? Then Abraham Lincoln, as President of the United States, issued a proclamation setting apart that day as a day of fasting and prayer. 

THE WISDOM OF LINCOLN 

These were his words: 

"We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of Heaven; we have been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity; we have grown in numbers, wealth, and power as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. 

"We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us, and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our own hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us. 

OUR GREATEST NEED 

"It behooves us, then, to humble ourselves before the offended power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness." 

What is it that the youth of our country needs, that the people of our nation must have, if our land is to be preserved from destruction ? It is religion. The people of the nation must follow more closely the teachings and the example of him who came to bring "Peace on earth, good will to men." 

Let us look to the words of the Master himself for an answer. 

MEN MUST HAVE THE NEW BIRTH 

"There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews : "The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know 

that thou art a teacher come from God : for no man can do these miracles 

that thou doest, except God be with him. 

"Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except 

a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

"Nicodemus saith unto him, how can a man be born when he is old? * * * "Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. * * * "Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again." (John 3:1-7). 

THE POWER OF PRAYER 

So I say, this is the advice, this the counsel, this the instruction, and these are the commands for the citizens of our country. We "must be born again" — born "of the water and of the spirit." The one thing needful is religion. 

Our country is filled with men who are rich, with men who, as one well-known author, Roger W. Babson, says, ridicule religion; but he holds that these men are indebted for all the riches they possess to the family prayers once held daily in the homes of their fathers. 

This is a religious country. The citizens of this land ought to be devout. Our forefathers came to this continent primarily in order to secure religious liberty. The motto of our nation is: "In God We Trust." 

Is there any one that dares to point with ridicule at Washington upon his knees at Valley Forge? Who is there, enjoying the liberties of this free country, that dares to ridicule Benjamin Franklin? He said: "I have lived, sir, a long time; and the longer I live, the more convicing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men?" Who dares point with ridicule at these men, the idols of this land of liberty ? 

THE EXAMPLE OF OUR LEADERS 

Washington, Franklin, Lincoln, Joseph Smith — each of these, in times of dire need and real distress, went upon his knees and made appeal to Divine Providence. It was Franklin who said : "In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible to danger, we had daily prayer — for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard; and they were graciously answered." 

It is religion, it is the guidance which comes from divine providence, that is most needed. Our Lord and Savior said to his nearest friends, "Why sleep ye? Rise and pray lest ye enter into temptation" (Luke 22:46). 

"Pray without ceasing," the Bible tells us (Thes. 5:17). "Watch and Pray," the Master said again, "that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing but the flesh is weak" (Matt. 26:41). 

"SEEK YE THE LORD" 

To pray without ceasing is the practice needed by the youth of this country; for they are, in these days, surrounded on every hand with pitfalls and unusual temptations. The words of the Master ought to be kept ringing in their ears : "Why sleep ye ? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation." 

"Seek ye the Lord," is another admonition that applies also to the people of these days. Those whose lives are well-nigh completed, those who have had long years of experience and know with certainty what is worth while — these are the ones who ought to call out to the youth of today, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found." Today is the accepted time; tomorrow may be too late. O youth of our country, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near" (Isa. 55:6). This is the doctrine and the practice that the people of our country are most in need of at this very hour. 

NOT FAITH ALONE, BUT WORKS 

I hope I shall not give anyone the impression that we favor bringing up a generation of young people who rely on faith only. We like to emphasize the words of the Master: "Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 7:21). That we believe in doing as well as in saying, in works as well as in faith, is proved even by the chapels we have built in the Church. Most of the chapels have recreation halls connected with them. 

As real Americans, the training we aim to give our young people is accurately described by the following words of Theodore Roosevelt : "Of course what we have a right to expect from the American boy is that he shall turn out to be a good American man. Now, the chances are strong that he won't be much of a man unless he is a good deal of a boy. He must not be a coward or a weakling, a bully or a prig. He must work hard and play hard. He must be clean-minded and cleanlived, able to hold his own under all circumstances and against all comers. It is only on these conditions that he will grow into the kind of man of whom America can really be proud. In life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is: 'Hit the line: don't foul; don't shirk. Hit the line and hit it hard.' " 

CHIEF AIM OF REAL RELIGION 

While praising and commending this strenuous and vigorous life, we impress upon our young folks ever to bear in mind these words of the Master: "Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again." What does this mean ? That we must be touched with religion; that we must have in our hearts and souls the satisfying conviction that comes as a testimony from a life of righteous living. 

Our chief aim in religion is to bring up a generation of young people who have character and honor. Before our young people we are constantly holding up the words and character of such men as King Albert of Belgium, whose deeds have made him immortal. His reply to the repeated German appeals for permission to march the German army through his country was: "I cannot do so in honor." Standing to their guns, he and his people maintained their honor "intact and immortal." 

WE SEEK TO UNDERSTAND YOUTH 

It is works like these, not faith alone, which we are struggling to make a vital part in the lives of our people. To them we often repeat : "Take ye heed, watch and pray" (Matt. 13:33). Ye must be born again of the spirit. To him who relies upon daily prayer, "Every day is a fresh beginning, every day is the world made new" (Susan Coolidge). 

Believing purity to be better than repentance, we teach our children to pray, to place their trust in divine providence. We do our utmost to keep them from sowing wild oats. We are struggling to understand youth, we are hoping to make youth understand us. The stirring appeal of Stephen L. Richards this morning for a better understanding of youth indicates how earnestly we are struggling to understand the young folks and to keep them in the ways of truth. 

THE WELL-BALANCED LIFE 

We believe in the well-rounded out, the well-balanced education, of both mind and heart. During the past year the President of the Church and his associates appropriated nearly one million and a half dollars for educational purposes. If you knew how generously money has been expended to train our youth, to teach them to "pray without ceasing;" if you knew that the Church is pressed today for funds because of the great expenditures made for the religious training of your sons and daughters; that the President and his associates, in order to give our young folks the religious training which the nation and the youth of our country so much need, have established eighty-two seminaries and maintained many church schools — then, I feel sure, you faithful members would come forward more liberally with your tithing. There is no price in time, in effort, or in money that you cannot afford to pay, if by so doing you can have your young folks so taught and trained that they will bring to you and to your family honor and not dishonor, credit and not discredit. 

AIMS OF PRESIDENT GRANT 

As to the President of the Church, his heart is noble, generous. He not only prays daily for the youth of the Church, but he has made appropriations for their welfare more liberally than is justified by the amount of tithing that you faithful Church members have paid. May we take to heart the words spoken by him at the opening session of Conference, when he said : "Pay your tithes." 

I have every faith in him. He is the inspired servant of the Most High. I believe in the promise he made: "Pay your tithes, pay your offerings, and you will be richly blessed." 

By so doing, we make it possible to place our religious training, our seminary instruction, within the reach of students in the public schools. Only thus shall we be able to bring up a generation of people the like of whom the world has not known. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

W'e have listened to a great many testimonies from our brethren during this conference. 

We shall now call on some of our sisters to address us briefly. 

SISTER LOUISE Y. ROBISON 

President of the Relief Society 

My brethren and sisters, I am sure you will know that I need your faith and prayers, but I do love to bear my testimony. I know that our Heavenly Father has been good to me, and to all women, especially since this glorious gospel has been restored. It seems to me that the women of this Church cannot fail to show our Heavenly Father their gratitude by upholding the standards of the Church and by obeying entirely, as far as it is humanly possible, the instructions of our leaders. I am happy to say that the Latter-day Saint women are loyal, and do pray earnestly for our Authorities. The Relief Society women are striving to give to the Church boys and girls who are clean and who will be capable of carrying on the Lord's work. When I hear the mission presidents' reports, my heart is just thrilled to think of the work that the missionaries have done; that they have carried the gospel to foreign countries. My parents were partakers of it, and I can only pray that I shall live and that I shall encourage other mothers of Zion to so live, that we may give to the world men and women who are clean and pure and capable of carrying this inspiring message to our brethren and sisters abroad. 

I thank President Grant for this privilege, and I pray that we shall ever be true to the leaders of this Church, and then I am sure we shall be safe. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

SISTER RUTH MAY FOX 

President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association 

My brethren and sisters, this is surely a surprise to me, and I stand before you entirely dependent upon the Spirit of our Heavenly Father as to what I shall say. I may say, however, that I am very, very proud of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-daySaints. Since I am asked to bear my testimony, you will not consider it egotistical if I say that from my childhood, I have looked upon the presiding brethren — the President of this Church, and those associated with him — as the very servants of God. I was taught in my early years that President Brigham Young was the mouthpiece of God to all mankind, and that thought has never wavered in my heart concerning him and also the succeeding presidents up to this time. I want to say here before the fathers and the mothers, teach your children reverence for the Authorities of the Church. Teach them that they are men of 

God. Teach them to obey their counsels. I was trained to believe that in obeying counsel there is safety. I realize that nowadays many of us are not so particular about this matter as our people used to be. 

Naturally, as you know, I am interested in the youth. I have been interested in my own children, and as I look back through a long life and take note of what I have gained, I find it is my children that mean the most to me. My children are my jewels; they are my heritage, and I thank the Lord that they are fairly good. None of us can throw stones, you know. We all live in glass houses. But I do thank the Lord that I have been able to rear my children in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I do pray that he will give me influence with the daughters of Zion, especially; that because I have lived they may have more faith in God and in their fathers and mothers and in the Authorities of the Church. I ask this blessing in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

SISTER MAY ANDERSON 

President of the Primary Association 

I am happy today to be able to bear my testimony. I was not born in the Church. My parents were converted many years ago. When I was a young girl a prediction was made on my head and blessings were given to me. When the statement was made in this conference that it is a good thing to have and read your patriarchal blessings, I could say, Amen to that, because blessings which have been pronounced upon my head have been literally fulfilled. The prediction given in my youth said I should come to be known in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and that my name would be respected. I realize that if my name is respected I must live in such a way as to earn that respect. I have tried to do my duty as it has been presented to me by the General Authorities of the Church and by my knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It is a very great responsibility, in my estimation, to raise your voice and give service in behalf of little children. Had I known, in the early days of my life what would be the greatest pleasure to me I could not have chosen a vocation more suited to the happiness and contentment of my life than the privilege of trying to help boys and girls to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that God loves us and that he is willing to bless us. I know this in and of myself, and I ascribe my greatest happiness to my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

That we may all enjoy this supreme blessing, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation then arose and sang the first two verses of the hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

Frankly, I am a bit frightened. I might have used another word but I think that will express my feelings. I do not believe that anyone can face a presence such as this and not feel a little abnormal. One other thing troubles me, and that is I do not know just what I ought to say. I have but one idea in mind with which to begin. After that we will have to take our chances. 

I recall that in our State Constitutional Convention, when the committee on personal rights made its report to that body (I think it was my friend, Franklin S. Richards who read the report) there was a clause in it which at the time did not strike me very favorably; and I remember I called up some question in regard to it. I had not previous to that time given it due consideration. It was this : "A frequent recurrence to fundamental principles is essential to the maintenance of liberty and the rights of the people." I thought such a clause unnecessary, and made some objection, as I say; but after consideration I concluded that I was mistaken, and that the paragraph announced a very profound principle, and a very necessary thing. I have thought much of it through the years since then, and am persuaded that it is a profitable thing, from time to time, to go to the consideration of fundamental principles. In the case of civil government, of course, reference to the consideration of fundamentals is needful to preserve liberties of the people. So, also, in Church affairs, in religion, I have discovered that when things get a bit confused, and in your feeling and thought you are about at the zero point, a good way to work out of the confusion is to consider first principles, fundamental things. 

Now this morning the thought occurred to me that it might be well for me, on this occasion, to consider what to me personally are the fundamental things. Then if in an incidental way, the audience can get benefit from this consideration, there will be that much of gain. 

Very well, then, let me say first of all: I believe in God; and in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the very Son of God; and the Holy Ghost, as that Spirit of intelligence that imparts the knowledge of the truth, and is the witness of the Father and Son unto the world. I believe that. I believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ as the means that divine wisdom has devised for the salvation of the world. I believe in all the ordinances of that gospel as the means through which the grace of God is imparted to the human soul, and salvation results through faith in and obedience to that gospel. 

I believe in the Church of God, with God's holy priesthood as the inside framework of it; that gives it form and stability and power and authority. 

I believe that there have been many dispensations of the gospel given to men. The dispensation between Adam and Noah, counted as the patriarchal dispensation; and the gospel, or part of it, not wholly,  rather imperfectly expressed through the law that was given unto Israel in symbols, and signs of things yet to come and not the very things themselves, but stood as representatives of those things — the "school master" to bring men to Christ. 

I believe in the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ — and in his atonement that he offered for the salvation of men; and I believe that atonement is essential to the salvation of men. I believe it was God's means of expressing his love for the world, for as God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, to become the Savior of the world, so the Lord Jesus Christ himself so loved his brethren that he was willing to make the sacrifice for their salvation, and thus gave evidence to men indeed of the love of God. 

I was speaking a moment since of the successive dispensations. I believe that the great dispensation, introduced by the ministry of John the Baptist, and followed by the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, is the dispensation of the meridian of times, for the development of those great things concerning the salvation of men and the expression of the love of God. I also believe that, in fulfillment of the inspired words of the servants of God in those days, men subsequently transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, broke that glorious covenant, and left the world again in darkness. True, throughout that period from the Christ to our day, there were left fragments of the splendid truths and sublime teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, that have become the common heritage of the world. But the formal authority of the Church and the ordinances of salvation — these were departed from, and a period of dark apostasy hung over the world until, in the providences of God, the time came for the introduction of what is known to us as the dispensation of the fulness of times. God raised up a prophet in these latter days to introduce that bringing together of all the dispensations that have ever been, and welding them into one great final triumphant dispensation. That restoration was brought to pass through the work that God introduced by the Prophet Joseph Smith; by revealing himself and his Son Jesus Christ to this witness, who was to be God's witness in the world in these last days, the witness par excellence; and hence the vision given to him was clearer and fuller than had ever been given in the world before. I believe that with all my soul. 

In the course of time this new witness sealed his testimony with his blood. I doubt not but what the wisdom of heaven concluded it was essential, because where a testament is, as Paul argues, there must needs be the death of the testator, in order that the final evidence that man can put upon his life and his work might be given to his fellowmen. He gives his life in attestation of it. Hence the broad seal of Joseph Smith's martyrdom is affixed to the Book of Mormon and to the volume of revelations that he gave to the world. 

Necessarily there had to be successors to him. There have been six : Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, and our present President, Heber J. Grant. There must be, after the introduction of this dispensation, no recession from the position that had been taken by the introduction of this work. Hence, believing in God's holy priesthood, I must needs believe in the perpetuation of that priesthood in its fullness; in its glory, in its power, and in the success of it. The first prophet must arrange for a perpetuity of that which had been given to him. I believe that he did. 

It would not matter to me if all the forms and ceremonies might not have been followed. Substance is more than shadow; and I believe that Brigham Young inherited, by the fact of his succession to Joseph Smith, all that Joseph Smith had received from God through the ministration of holy angels with their several keys of authority and power. And that, succeeding Brigham Young, the next man in position came to the same heritage, power and authority. The one following him in like manner received the same heritage of power and authority; and so all down the line until the present time. I now proclaim my faith absolutely that Heber J. Grant possesses all that these other men possessed; that he is God's servant; that he is the mouthpiece of God to this people and likewise to this generation of men so long as he shall live. I believe that, and that there has been no diminution of authority and power between him and his predecessors. I may say in the way of my testimony concerning him, that I have known him for a good many years. We have had some experiences together, not always, I was going to say, of a pleasant kind, but I think I ought not to say that, for when the outcome of things has been reached the fulfillment has been good, but the way has not always been smooth. 

There is no man that I know of anywhere who by the texture of his nature and character, who by the purity and the uprightness of his life, can be more loved of God than President Heber J. Grant. I have absolute faith in his honesty, and if God has a word to impart to the Church or to the world, I could not select in my mind, or from my experience among my friends fix upon a man whom I would believe could hold the confidence and favor of God more than he. So that not only by the ordinations that he has received, and calls to authority and place, I believe absolutely in his fitness for his position. And when God has a word to give His Church or to the world, this man, as long as he lives, will be the man through whom it will come. That is my faith in regard to Heber J. Grant. 

I have been fortunate enough to know all the Presidents of the Church since the Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course I only knew Brigham Young as a boy may know a great man from a distance. But I sat under the sound of his voice, and heard his teaching, felt the influence of his spirit, and noted the evidence of inspiration in his face when he taught the people, and in his bearing as he stood before them — he was God's mouthpiece unto the people. John Taylor I knew more intimately. When I went on my first mission there was no mission organized in that particular state where I was laboring. I was the  elder in it, and my reports were made directly to President John Taylor, and my instructions were received directly from his office. Later, when presiding in the Southern States Mission, I found it necessary to submit problems and questions to him directly, and to sit with him in council in relation to the affairs of that mission. Later, of course, as some of you know, I became his biographer; so that all his letters in existence, personal and official — his official communications, his journals, and everything that had been written to or by him, passed through my hands; and I wrote the story of his life. That made me intimately acquainted with him. 

With Wilford Woodruff I had the good fortune to have most personal and confidential relations, and to me, of the dearest kind. I may say the same thing, though not to the same extent, with reference to Lorenzo Snow. Joseph F. Smith I knew more intimately. I came in contact with his mind, and sometimes it was flash against flash. But I must say for Joseph F. Smith that I saw him on numerous occasions respond to the spirit of inspiration from God, and rise above himself and give decisions and draw conclusions; though some times contrary to his natural inclinations, yet he followed the light as God gave him to see it — I am sure of that. 

I have already said concerning Heber J. Grant that I have known him a long time. He has been my friend on various occasions. I appreciate those manifestations of his good will for me. 

I believe then that this line of six succeeding presidents of the Church have been men inspired of God; that God has been with them; and as I stated recently from this stand, the occasions of observing inspiration in these men have been too positive and frequent for me to doubt for a moment that the Church of the Latter-day Saints has been organized on God's plan; that he has ordained that there is but one man at a time on earth who receives revelations for the whole Church, and that man is of his appointing, approval and upholding. 

That, as to my faith, is what I call fundamental principles. What I have said marks off my faith in this present dispensation of the gospel; and if there has been any wavering anywhere or at any time from this conviction that I now express, I have not been conscious of it. Such my faith — briefly expressed — in fundamental principles that I hold in connection with you, I presume, in relation to this great latter-day work. And my faith is that it is going on to its triumph. I know not through what trying circumstances as a Church we shall pass in the second century of existence, even as we have had to pass through experiences in this first century now drawing to a close. I know not that; but I have supreme confidence that the second century as well as the first century will close gloriously, and that the purposes of God will be achieved even as his wisdom shall unfold them. 

I happened to be reminded today that next April it will be fifty years since I commenced my public ministry in the Church. Fifty years since I was called in a conference of the Church such as this to become a traveling elder; and between then and now what wonderful experiences are stretched out! Will you pardon me just a moment if I refer to some of these things ? During that time my labors have been almost incessant in the interest of this work, in preaching from the pulpit, in lecturing from platforms, in writing books — expository books, defensive books, historical books — until I think I may say, without disparagement of others, at least the volume of my work in this kind — in the contributions I have made to the Church — is not exceeded by any other man in that fifty years. I mean as to the volume of the contribution. As to the value of that contribution of course others may have written more valuable books. I will not go into that. I want to bear testimony to you that I have at least been busy in the period mentioned. I have preached the gospel in many lands; not in as many as some, but I have traveled almost as much as any man within the last fifty years — not perhaps to such great distances as others, but within the English-speaking races I have covered as much territory. 

I am mentioning some of these things in order that my profession of faith that I have made here today may be supported by the evidence of steady, persistent effort on my part to develop and to advocate and to establish this great work of God. I have preached under many circumstances; within prison walls where I myself was a prisoner for the sake of this work; and in the halls of congress too, where if I did not fill the term of my office I had the opportunity at least of bearing witness to the truth of this work. I saw the wrath of a nation rise to break upon my head; and when I took my station in the hall of Representatives before the speaker's desk, to take the oath of office, I was confronted by a petition signed by seven millions of people, rolled in upon trucks before the speaker's desk, to protest against my instalment into office. And I was thrust away from the first rung of the ladder that I had dreamed and hoped might lead to a career of usefulness in behalf of my people. This, too, for obedience to the doctrine of the New Dispensation. I was crushed and mangled in the lone fight; for it was a lone fight, so far as human aid is concerned, with the exception of a few dear hands that were thrust out to render a little assistance in a material way, all of which I returned for the most part. But the helpers were very few. 

I still held on in spite of these things. I have faced both in the old world and the new, the violence of mobs. I have known men to be practically shot from my side, martyrs to the cause of God; and I did not desert them. I took my risk with them to render them service, dead though they were. I do not know how I shall ever obtain your pardon for such references as these to personal services in this, God's work. But this is my object, and my object alone; that after bearing testimony to the fundamental things of this work, and my confidence in it, I hope that if anywhere along the line I have caused any of you to doubt my faith in this work, then let this testimony and my indicated life's work be a correction of it. I make reference to these personal things in fifty years of service so that you may know that my testimony  some sanctions for it in the life of service I have given to the cause. And if to your minds, I say again, there does not occur remembrance of this service, then let the shame of it be mine. It would not be good taste for me to make further allusion to such things. 


