Morning
06 10 1929

On Sunday morning, October 6th, the auditorium and galleries of the large Tabernacle were crowded to capacity, every seat being taken and every available space in the aisles and doorways being occupied. 

The Assembly Hall directly south of the Tabernacle was crowded with people who listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. Thousands of others who were unable to get inside of either of these buildings, assembled upon the Tabernacle grounds and listened to the services by means of loud speakers that had been installed. 

The fifth session of the Conference began promptly at ten o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The Tabernacle Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

Elder Joseph T. Finlinson, President of the Deseret Stake, offered the invocation. 

Sister Mamie Stark, assisted by the choir, sang the hymn, "O Mv Father." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

When Jesus came into the coasts of Csesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying: 

'"Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

"And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

"He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

"And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God." 

If the Lord will give me help, my brethren and sisters, I desire to make this scripture which I have read the basis of the brief remarks that I am to make this morning. Never before have I more profoundly felt my own weakness and utter dependence upon the Lord. Facing this great congregation of Latter-day Saints, which appears to me possibly the greatest ever assembled in the history of the Church, I am overcome with emotion, which leaves me in a very dependent frame of mind. 

I have prepared and must necessarily refer briefly to notes which I have, because I desire in a few minutes to take you over a long trail, a winding trail, which will lead us back a hundred years. 

FUNDAMENTAL DOCTRINES 

The scripture which I have read, uttered by the Redeemer of the world, so often quoted and expounded before congregations of Christian , contains fundamental doctrines with which the members of the Church should be thoroughly familiar. The question propounded was a very simple one : "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am ?" The answer is equally simple, where definite information or knowledge is lacking : "Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Jeremias or Elias, or one of the prophets." But Peter made a definite and direct answer : "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Then said the Redeemer to him: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. * * * Thou art Peter, and upon this rock (the rock of revelation) I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." And continuing, he said to Peter : "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

UPON THE PRINCIPLE OF REVELATION 

A thoughtful study of these words reveals these great truths : First, that it is possible that knowledge not previously possessed may come from God our Father to his children who are here upon earth. It is probably true that Peter himself did not understand the direct source from which the impulse that prompted his answer had come, but this scripture makes it plain that it came from God our Father, who spoke to him through the influence, or whisperings, of the Holy Ghost. 

Another important truth which this scripture reveals is that the means of communication between our Father who is in heaven and his children who are here upon earth, is the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, communicated to us through the precious gift of revelation. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to be built upon this principle of revelation. 

Another very important thing which is definitely implied by these words spoken by the Redeemer of the world is that the keys which were bestowed upon Peter, when in the possession of any other man, as they were in the possession of Peter, confer upon him the authority to bind upon earth and it shall be bound in heaven; to loose upon earth and it shall be loosed in heaven. 

Questions which are of vital importance, and in which this principle or doctrine of revelation is directly involved, have come to the Church from the time of its organization until the present. They are constantly being introduced and discussed, many of which, unless properly understood and defined, lead to confusion and misunderstanding. 

A TEMPLE BUILDING CHURCH 

It is to one of these questions that I desire to confine my remarks this morning. I refer to the propaganda which is being so industriously circulated among members of the Church, in favor of the immediate construction of a temple at Independence, in Jackson county, Missouri. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a temple-building church. Among the very first commandments that were given to the Church was the word of the Lord in regard to the building of temples; and we are told in the revelation that its members are always expected to do this in order that the house of the Lord may be erected, and a place properly prepared where the ordinances of his house may be administered in the manner in which he designs that they should be. 

In the early history of the Church, a temple was erected at Kirtland, Ohio, the first to be dedicated to the Lord in this dispensation. Prior to that time, however, the Lord had revealed to the Church that the center stake of Zion was to be established in Jackson county, Missouri. I desire to read the revelation which refers to this, and which is contained in the eighty-fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"A revelation of Jesus Christ unto his servant, Joseph Smith, Jr., and six elders, as they united their hearts and lifted their voices on high. 

"Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his Church, established in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he has spoken by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem. 

"Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western boundaries of the state of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jun., and others with whom the Lord was well pleased. 

"Verily, this is the word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the Saints, beginning at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation. 

"For verily this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house." 

PERIOD OF PERSECUTION 

All of you, my brethren and sisters, who are familiar with the history of the Church know that after the gathering of numbers of its members to the state of Missouri, persecution developed which became so intense and unbearable that they were not permitted to remain there. During the period of these persecutions excavations were made at Far West in Missouri, and the corner stone laid there, with the intention of erecting a temple at that place, but because of persecution the work proceeded no farther. 

The people were finally driven from the state. Many were put to death. Many were imprisoned, and property of inestimable value was confiscated. 

Driven from Missouri, members of the Church migrated to the state of Illinois, where they found temporary asylum and peace. It was nine years after the revelation from which I have just read was given that the Lord commanded the Church to proceed immediately to erect a temple at Nauvoo, Illinois. Before this building was entirely completed, opposition to the Church again developed. Persecution became more intense, perhaps, than ever before. Men  placed under arrest, charged w.ith sedition, murder, and other kindred offenses — not one of which was ever proved to be true — with the result, as you all know, that the members of the Church were again driven from their homes, and under the leadership of Brigham Young, turned their faces westward, in the hope that they might find peace and the opportunity to worship the Lord as their consciences dictated, here in the valleys of these mountains. Brigham Young, having become the leader of the Church, it was under his presidency that the migration across the plains was successfully carried out. 

Just as definitely as the Church was commanded to make Jackson county, Missouri, the gathering place of the Saints, and to erect a temple there in this generation, upon which a cloud should rest by day, so does he, in this scripture which I have read, release them from that responsibility. And he says further : 

"This I make an example unto you, for your consolation concerning all those who have been commanded to do a work and have been hindered by the hands of their enemies, and by oppression, saith the Lord your God." 

After the arrival of the pioneers in this valley one of the first important acts of the President was to designate a spot for the erection of a temple, upon the block where we are now assembled, work upon which was immediately commenced and prosecuted until the structure was finished and dedicated, and has for many years been in operation. 

VARIOUS FACTIONS 

At the time of the exodus of the Church from Nauvoo, Illinois, many of its members remained behind, among them the family, of the Prophet. Sidney Rigdon, the man who had dedicated the spot in Missouri where the city of Zion and temple were to be reared, a close friend of Joseph Smith, and at one time his counselor in the Presidency, retired to Pittsburgh, where he gathered around him a small congregation, and organized a church after the pattern of the Church at Nauvoo. The movement, however, was an entire failure, and it was but a short time until his congregation left him and scattered. 

James J. Strang, another man of great influence and power in the Church, claiming that Joseph Smith had designated him to be his successor in the Presidency, led away a considerable number of people to Beaver Island, in Lake Michigan, where he organized a church and sent his missionaries to Great Britain and other parts of the world. He was finally anointed king, by his congregation, and reigned as a king until finally his administration became unbearable, and he was (killed by one of the members of his own congregation. 

Lyman Wight, a man of influence in the Church, gathered together a small body of these people who remained behind, and established himself in Texas, where for a time he held a small congregation together. But like all the others, it was only a short time until there was dissolution and he was left alone. It was from the members of these different congregations, brought together under the leadership of Joseph Smith, the son of the prophet, that the church known as the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was formed. This denomination is still in existence. 

HEDRICKITES OR CHURCH OF CHRIST 

The matter to which I desire to call particular attention relates to the small congregation of people known as Hedrickites. In 1851 Granville Hedrick and Daniel Judy, both of whom had been regularly ordained elders in the Church, began to preach the gospel as they understood it. They gathered around them a number of converts. They rejected the doctrine of plural marriage, the doctrine of baptism for the dead, and practically all of the revelations given to the Church through Joseph Smith after 1834, declaring that from that time forward he had been a fallen prophet. These people, in 1864, removed to Jackson county, Missouri, and soon after, by purchase, acquired a small portion of the tract of land which was originally known as the temple block. The tract of land purchased by Edward Partridge, and which was designated as the temple block, consisted of some 63 acres. This had been subdivided and sold, so that the Hedrickites acquired only about three acres of the original tract, which they now hold. 

By the addition of numbers of people who have dissented from the Reorganized Church and others, the numbers of the Hedrickites have recently been considerably increased. They have now organized themselves into a church which they call the Church of Christ. 

SOLICITING AID 

It is a well known fact to many of you that these people have sent out their agents, who have recently visited many of the wards of the Church in the stakes of Zion that are in Utah, Arizona, California, Idaho and in other places. The message which they bring to us is this : that the Lord has revealed to them that the time has come when the temple is to be erected upon the temple lot at Jackson county, that this scripture which I have read, from section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants, may be fulfilled, because they call attention to the fact that the generation which lived at the time that the revelation was given has about passed away. They have been to us. They have come to our office soliciting aid. They would like us to assist them in building a temple. In other words, they would like us to become a part of their organization, not to direct it, not to control it, but to act in harmony with it. 

A HOUSE BUT NOT A TEMPLE 

My brethren and sisters, with all good feeling toward these people, which we have always had, and always manifested, you will readily understand the impossibility of such a coalition. It is true that a house may be erected upon that tract of ground in this generation, but  will not be a temple erected to the name of the Lord and accepted by him, until the time comes when he shall speak through the proper channel, and the work be accomplished by his recognized church. 

THE PURPOSE OF A TEMPLE 

I asked these people what they would do with the temple if they had one. What would a temple be to people who do not believe in baptism for the dead? The first great purpose, when the Lord commanded the building of the temple at Nauvoo, was that a proper place might be provided for the administration of the ordinances of the house of the Lord in behalf of our dead; and the Lord told us plainly that except we went to and completed that work, that the keys of authority for the administration of these ordinances might be conferred, he would no longer accept the administration of the ordinance of baptism for the dead as we had been administering it. 

Now, in connection with this I desire to call your attention to something which has direct application to it. 

THEIR OFFERINGS ACCEPTED 

At the time that the revelation was given commanding the construction of the Nauvoo temple, which was about ten years after the one from which I have read, the Lord makes this plain and definite statement : 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, that when I give a commandment to any of the sons of men to do a work unto my name, and those sons of men go with all their might and with all they have to perform that work, and cease not their diligence, and their enemies come upon them and hinder them from performing that work, behold, it behooveth me to require that work no more at the hands of those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings. 

"Therefore, for this cause have I accepted the offerings of those whom I commanded to build up a city and a house unto my name, in Jackson County, Missouri, and were hindered by their enemies, saith the Lord, your God." 

It reveals to us this great truth, that God does not require at the hands of men the accomplishment of that which is impossible — not impossible to him, but impossible to them. Whether it applies to this particular subject which I am treating, whether it applies to any other law that has been given of the Lord, and which the Church has conscientiously endeavored to carry out and been prevented from doing so by the enactment of civil law which would bring us into direct conflict with the government under which we live, — the Lord holds that in abeyance. 

IN THE TOPS OF THE MOUNTAINS 

Now, do not understand me to say, my brethren and sisters, or to infer that Jackson county, Missouri, will not eventually be the gathering place of the saints, that it will not be the place for the erection of the city which shall be known as the New Jerusalem; but it is very definitely certain that it was not the will of the Lord that it should be made the first great gathering place of the members of his Church in this dispensation. Otherwise he would not have brought the people to these valleys of the mountains; otherwise the words of the prophets of old would not have been fulfilled. Isaiah, long ago, before the birth of the Redeemer of the world, declared, looking into the future, that it should come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house should be established, — not upon the plains of Missouri, nor the rolling hills of Illinois, — but it should be established in the top of the mountains, and should be exalted above the hills, and all nations should flow unto it. Many people should go and say : Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. For what purpose? That we may there be taught his ways and learn to walk in his paths. 

FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD 

If that scripture to which I refer has not been fulfilled by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, during the past hundred years, it has not been fulfilled anywhere. Father Jacob, when he laid his hands upon Joseph, his younger son, declared that his heritage had prevailed beyond that of his progenitors. They were given Palestine, but his heritage extended to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills; to a land shadowed with wings; to a land rich in gold and silver and the precious things of the earth; to a land where the gathering of a people would occur, who would make the desert to blossom as the rose; a land in which cities would be built in what had before been desolate places; a land in which the voices of children and music would be heard, where before there had been silence and desolation. 

As I look at this congregation of Latter-day Saints today I see in it the fulfillment of these words of the prophet. There are gathered here people from all parts of the world. They have come to Zion. The}- are the sons of Joseph, the heritage to whose race and people was conferred upon his younger son, Ephraim. Oh, it is a wonderful thing, my brethren and sisters, if we could only understand it. The redemption of Zion is yet to come. 

THE UNITED ORDER 

I found on my desk yesterday a printed communication from a man, undoubtedly a good man, undoubtedly earnest in what he says, in which he declares himself to be a forerunner of the establishment of the United Order, the law of consecration which was given to the Church. He is a seventy in the Church and in good standing. He makes himself the self-appointed guardian of the Church, a watchman upon the towers of Zion. 

The Lord gave us the law of consecration and the United Order, which is the order that God's people must sooner or later obey — I bear testimony to that; I have tried it; I know its benefits. It was  a failure on the part of the Church where I resided, but we were evidently not prepared for it. But the Lord told us, as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, that this law should be held in abeyance until the time of the redemption of Zion. 

THE NEW JERUSALEM 

I would like to read if you will excuse me for possibly overrunning the time a little — from the Book of Mormon, something that has a direct bearing upon this subject. These are the words of the Redeemer himself who came and ministered to the Nephite people upon this continent. Speaking of that which was yet far future he says: 

"It shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel. 

"And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I have made with your father Jacob. 

"This people" — he was speaking directly to the Nephite people. 

"And it shall be a New Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you." 

Again, in the following chapter, speaking of the people that should inhabit this land, calling them to repentance, he says : 

"If they will repent and hearken unto my words, and harden not their hearts, I will establish my church among them," — which he has done. 

"And they shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have given this land for their inheritance. 

"And they shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem. 

"And then shall they assist my people that they may be gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in unto the New Jerusalem. 

"And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and I also will be in the midst." 

THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF GOD'S PURPOSES 

What a wonderful conception of the purposes of the Almighty we have, when we come to consider not only the accomplishments of the past century, but that which is still before the Church. The opening of the greatest gospel dispensation in the history of the world, for it means the consummation of God's work. It means the redemption of his covenant people, the bringing of them together, and their restoration to the promised lands of their fathers. It means that Judah shall return to Palestine, which they are doing. The World War brought about wonderful changes, all looking to the fulfillment of these words of the prophets. It brought Palestine under the protectorate of Great Britain, the heritage of their own people, for Great Britain, the Anglo-Saxon people of the world today, are largely made up of the remnants of the ten tribes of Israel who were carried away captive by Shalmanezer. 

Thus the Lord moves in a mysterious way to accomplish his purposes. We do not always understand them. We do not always GENERAL CONFERENCE  the end in the beginning, but as we see the gradual development of the Lord's work we come to understand it. 

I suppose few people see, in the coming to the United States of Ramsay Macdonald, the prime minister of Great Britain, anything that has particular relationship to the word of God, but I see in it possibilities of wonderful accomplishment. He comes from this British nation, this nation of Christian people, this nation among which Christianity was established while Rome was still a heathen nation, this people who were the first to erect a Christian church, as far as we are aware; where from that time to the present the people — speaking of the people at large — have retained their faith in Christ, and according to the light that they have had, have served him. The Lord will use them as his instruments in the bringing about of these mighty purposes, one of the greatest of which is the gathering of these dispersed tribes. 

There are a hundred and thirty millions of people in Russia. Who are they? What is their ancestry? Prof. Chwolson of the National Museum at St. Petersburg, has traced more than seven hundred tombs of people that had been buried along the route traveled by the Ten Tribes from the time they left Assyria until they found their way into southern Russia, into the Balkan states, into the British Isles and northern Europe. They are the people from whom the harvest of the Church is being gathered today. 

A SIGNIFICANT THING 

An interesting thing that I noted here, to which I wish to call your attention, is that the Book of Mormon tells us that the Jews shall begin to believe, before the coming of Christ. At a meeting recently held at Hamburg, in Germany, attended by four hundred missionary Jews, it was announced that in Russia alone, during the past seven years since the World War — the World War gave liberty to the Russian people, the most down-trodden, priest-ridden people in the world who profess to be civilized — eight hundred thousand Jews have accepted belief in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of Israel. Rather a significant thing, is it not, my brethren and sisters, if it is true ? 

THE MOUNTAIN OF THE LORD'S HOUSE 

I must not continue my remarks. I thought of this hymn which we sang yesterday: 

"High on the mountain top, A banner is unfurled; Ye nations now look up; 

It waves to all the world. * * * 

"For God remembers still His promise made of old" He hasn't forgotten it. "That he on Zion's hill Truth's standard would unfold! 101 

"His house shall there be reared, 

His glory to display; 

And people shall be heard 

In distant lands to say: 

We'll now go up and serve the Lord, 

Obey His truth, and learn His word." 

I knew the good man who wrote these verses, inspired by the spirit of prophecy; for he declared just what we are realizing today, not only in behalf of the members of the Church, but thousands of people, who are coming here every year to this Bureau of Information, where they are asking for information regarding the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and they are receiving it, information properly given. Its influence is felt in all parts of the world. Away down in Czecho-Slovakia, where President Widtsoe has recently opened a new mission, the influence of this Bureau of Information lias made our elders welcome by the government of that country. 

So the words of Isaiah are being fulfilled; the mountain of the Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains. That is what we are particularly interested in. It has been exalted above the hills, and many people have come here for the purpose of learning the way of the Lord, that they may learn to walk in his paths. 

NOT TEMPLES OF THE LORD 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Do not allow this question of the building of the temple in Jackson county to worry you. A house may be built by these people to whom I have referred, but it will not be a temple recognized by the living God. One of the first things the Nephite people did, after they landed here, was to erect a temple, and they built it after the pattern of the temple of Solomon. They forgot the Lord. They denied him, and became idolaters, even to the offering of human sacrifice. And yet when Hernan Cortes landed in Mexico he found the most magnificent temples there, dedicated to the worship of the Devil, and they acknowledged that they worshipped the Devil, not because they loved him, but because they feared him. They said that he appeared to them in bodily form and instructed them regarding their duties; and I believe there was something in it, myself. They were temples, but they were not temples that were accepted by the Lord. There was one small building at Tezcoco, on the shores of the lake, just out from the City of Mexico, in which there was no idol, in which no human sacrifice was offered, which was adorned "with flowers; and when asked to whom the house was erected, the natives said it was to their Fair God who had visited them and gone away, but had promised that he would return, and they were waiting for him; that he was a man who taught them peace and love, to abstain from war, to love peace, and help one another. Just a remaining vestige of the gospel of Christ which was left among that people, and they are looking for the return of Quetzalcoatl. 

I pray the blessing of the Lord upon you, through Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

A duet entitled "An Angel From on High" was sung by Cyril Martin and Ida Hepworth. 

ELDER J. HOWARD JENKINS 

Former President of the New Zealand Mission 

Responsibility always makes us apprehensive, so this morning I feel entirely dependent upon the Spirit of the Lord for those things that I shall say. 

This is a time of refreshing. We have all come to conference this morning to be refreshed and to return home strengthened in our purpose in life, to carry on the ideals of this splendid Church. 

I feel like a watchman from the outposts of New Zealand this morning, when I say to you that the gospel is being preached in that land, and the inhabitants of that great domain of the British Empire are being given the opportunity of learning of the truths of the gospel. The elders are faithful and true, and I have been impressed with the splendid manhood of this Church. 

As I said in the beginning, responsibility makes us apprehensive. As fathers and as leaders of the Church I know that we are apprehensive, but I see no cause. The young men of this Church are building splendid roads. They are building finer meetinghouses than we have ever enjoyed. They are building splendidly today, and I am satisfied that they are not going to neglect the important phase of our purpose in coming to the earth. I believe that there is a finer manhood in this Church today than has ever been before in the young manhood of this Church. I am grateful for the associations I have had with them. I have seen their splendid achievements. I have listened to their faith and their confidence in the gospel. I realize, too, that they are living the gospel each day. I am impressed with their cleanliness, their virtue, and their desires to magnify their priesthood in this great work. 

I believe today that greater opportunity awaits the young men in this Church than has ever been given to them before from the fact that the world is today looking for men who can carry responsibility in the true sense that the priesthood of this Church teaches us. I am mindful of the fact that our young men are being taught, those who attend priesthood meetings, and I feel inspired to say that no greater plan has ever been given to us as a priesthood than the movement that was inaugurated some time ago, whereby greater development can come because of greater opportunity of serving the Lord by magnifying our callings. 

I am impressed with a story of a young man who, when he stood in the pulpit explaining the principle of repentance, said this : 

"If I steal an article, God requires that I sincerely repent, that I restore that which I have stolen. If I have spoken an untruth, God requires that I repent in sincerity and restore the evil that I have spoken. The same if I lose my virtue, God requires a sincere repentance and a restoration," 103 

So we come to the great responsibility resting upon us as a Church in these days, not only to make restitution for that which we do wrong, but to sincerely repent; and if perchance we take those things that we are unable to restore, then a sincere repentance is impossible. And so we realize, on the verge of manhood, these great responsibilities when we are initiated into this priesthood. 

There was a time in my life when I doubted certain principles of the gospel, but through faith I can say to you today that I believe the gospel to be true, every principle of it. I believe in the divine leadership of the men who stand at the head of this Church, and I believe that God will so direct its affairs that it will fulfil its purposes, and that his purposes, in the end, will be fulfilled and sustained throughout the earth. 

I pray God to bless us in this great responsibility, that the young manhood of this Church will keep themselves sweet and clean, that the faith of their fathers may come unto them, and that the responsibilities of this great work shall be borne on their shoulders when the opportunity comes to serve, as it will. To this end I pray God's blessings upon this Church and this people, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LORENZO W. ANDERSON 

Former President of the Norwegian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I have never realized such a sight before, and I did not think that the Lord would ever give me the privilege of standing here in this tabernacle. I therefore ask him that he will bless me with his Holy Spirit, that the few words I may speak may be under its direction. 

I have certainly appreciated this morning's conference. The remarks made by Brother Ivins were remarks that I have desired to hear, and if Latter-day Saints are faithful they need have no fear about the future. 

God gave me a testimony of the divinity of President Grant's mission. I know beyond all shadow of a doubt that he is inspired of God. And as far as the prophets who have lived in the past are concerned, they were prophets unto their time; but I need the direction and the counsel of a living prophet, just as much as they did in times that are past. Therefore my desire is that I may heed the instructions and counsels which the present prophet gives, for I feel that they are the ones that are most essential to me. 

I enjoyed my work in the land of Norway, and while it seems as though the government authorities are not as favorable towards us as they should be, I feel that this has been a source of blessing to us, for we were unable to reach the leading men of the nation before. The elders must register when they leave and must register when they enter a place, and through this means we are enabled to present unto the officers of that country a knowledge of the gospel. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Two missionaries were sent into a different branch to begin labor there. The police would not permit them to remain. We took the matter up with the American minister, and through his efforts we had a visit from a representative of the State Department. This representative called at the office and made all kinds of inquiries as to the morality and the standing of the young men who had been appointed to labor there. He was very favorably impressed, and we had the privilege of giving him a copy of the Book of Mormon — something that I do not see how we could have gotten to the State Department had not a representative of that department called upon us. 

We desired while there to have Boy Scout work, M Men work and Bee Hive work. Another elder and I called upon the secretary of the Norwegian Scout Association, and asked for the privilege of becoming members of that organization. He frankly told us that Mormons, Buddhists, Mohammedans and Communists could not become members of the Scout organization of Norway. They would, as a last resort, permit Catholics, but we were not permitted to become members. Later on we sent a written application, and a flat denial came back, which would not permit us to become members of that organization. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that the time is near when many of the leading people in the land of Norway will accept the gospel. I have never been treated with greater respect, with greater courtesy, in my life, than I was by those people. They asked me many questions relative to the faith of our people, and I believe a good impression was made upon them; but we lack missionaries in that field. 

I had the joy of being up among the Laplanders, and the minister who had charge of a colony of them asked me not to do any work among them. He said that the Laplanders were so simple-minded they would believe almost anything that was told them. But we had the privilege of leaving with them a Book of Mormon and a lot of our literature, and I believe the time will come that many of these blue-eyed, fair-haired people will seek after the gospel. 

Brethren and sisters, let us not do anything that will bring unto us sorrow, or bring unto us regret. Let us keep our covenants sacred. Let us uphold and sustain those of our brethren who are called to preside over us. God bless them; God bless you, that we may all be true and faithful, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Standing before thft great congregation of people in this great tabernacle, and standing before a greater congregation, perhaps, the people that may be listening in over the radio, I feel the responsibility of my position. The thought that was in my mind, and the prayer that was in my heart when I was called by President Grant to appear before you, was this: O Lord, help me to glorify thy name, through faith, in my utterances this morning. 

DEPENDENCE UPON SPIRIT OF GOD 

As I was coming into the tabernacle yesterday forenoon a brother said to me: "President Clawson, will you be a speaker this morning?" I said to him: "My dear brother, the Council of the Twelve and other authorities of the Church have no notice whatever, at these general conferences, as to whether they will be called upon to speak or not; and furthermore in speaking, they are not told just what to say. They are expected, of course, to depend upon the Spirit of the Lord to inspire them." Now, if I shall speak to you this morning by the Spirit of the Lord, you will be edified, but if I shall speak to you by some other spirit there will be no instruction. So I invoke His Spirit, and pray that it may be upon me and upon this congregation. 

THE GOD WE WORSHIP 

We are here as a worshiping assembly. The God that we worship, my brethren and sisters and friends, is a God of love, a God of mercy, and a God of power. The God that we worship is the God of the Bible, as set forth in King James' translation; he is the God of Adam and Eve, who were in the Garden of Eden; the God of the three great patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; the God of Moses; the God of Elijah and of Isaiah, Ezekiel and Jeremiah; the God of Jesus Christ who came in the meridian of time; and the God of his apostles. Furthermore, the God that we worship is the God of Joseph Smith, the modern prophet. 

This Holy Being that I speak of is a God of body, parts and passions, as clearly and definitely described in holy writ, because we are told that man is in the image and likeness of God, hence God is in the image and likeness of man. Joseph Smith so declared him to be, for he saw him in a great vision. This God is comprehensible. He falls under the senses. There is something substantial about him, something that you can easily realize; but a God without body, parts and passions, I take it, cannot be comprehended. 

A GOD OF LOVE 

God is a God of love. Listen to these words by St. John: 

"Beloved, let us love one another : for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. 

"He that loveth not, knoweth not God; for God is love." 

Now, isn't that a wonderful statement, that we cannot even know God without exercising this tremendous principle of love? He is love, and if we shall come to understand him and comprehend him, it must be in part through this glorious attribute. 

Jesus said to his disciples : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Love one another, and if you love me ye will keep my commandments. If you love not one another you are not my disciples." 

So that love exercised a mighty influence in the life and work ol the Savior and in that of his disciples. , 

The greatest manifestation of the love of God, I take it, relates to the atonement, for we are told, in the gospel of St. John : 

"God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

"For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved." 

It seems to me this was a very wonderful expression of God's love for the children of men. 

THE FAMILY OF GOD 

We understand, from the scriptures, that Jesus Christ is our elder brother. If that be the case then we are his younger brothers and younger sisters; we belonged to a great family before we came into the world. It was the family of God, for Jesus said : "When you pray, say our Father which art in heaven. Our Father is there, and we believe that we have a mother there. That thought was beautifully expressed in the hymn that the choir sang this morning. I think you will agree with me that it is a very wonderful thought indeed. At least it is interesting and worthy of profound consideration. 

"I had learned to call thee Father, Through thy spirit from on high, But until the key of knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. 

"In the heavens are parents single? No, the thought makes reason stare. Truth is reason. Truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there." 

To say the least, if we are led to believe that we have a Father in heaven, I think we are justified in believing that we have a Mother there. Who ever heard of a father where there was no mother? 

All this means that in heaven from whence we came we were the children of our Father, his children in spirit. This was prior to the time we came down to the earth and took upon ourselves these mortal bodies. Think of it, my brethren and sisters and friends! 

TREMENDOUS SACRIFICES 

Surely it was a tremendous sacrifice the Lord in heaven made, when he gave his only begotten Son to die for the sins of the world, that you and I might be redeemed, that all the world who would receive the truth might be saved in the presence of God. 

Abraham was called upon to make a similar offering, in a lesser degree, when he was told to offer up his son Isaac as a sacrifice unto 107 

God. It must have been a most terrific ordeal. How could he bear it ? Well, we don't know just how he could bear it, but we know that he did bear it, and we know that he was obedient and answered the commandment and undertook to carry it out because the Lord had .demanded it of him. The evident purpose of it was to test his faith, to try his very soul. 

A GOD OF MERCY 

God is a God of mercy. We are told in the Book of Exodus : 

"And the Lord passed by before Moses, and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodness and truth." 

Then in a psalm: 

"The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy." 

Then again : ' 

"But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children; 

"To such as keep his covenants, and to those who remember his commandments to do them." 

Have you remarked, as I read this scripture, that the principle of mercy that is in God, our Creator, is everlasting in its character? It is a great attribute of his character. It was so before the world was organized and projected into existence. It is a great and glorious virtue in every man and woman who exercises it, and it will ever continue to be so in worlds without end. I repeat God is merciful, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. 

How is it with us, brethren and sisters? Are we merciful? Are we slow to anger, or do we give way sometimes to our feelings, and speak words of bitterness and words of anger, that we repent of later ? 

It seems to me if we are to become like our Heavenly Father — and that is most desirable — then we must exercise these glorious virtues, — the power of love, the power of mercy. 

A GOD OF POWER 

Now remember also that the God we worship is a God of power. There are many examples of this. We have seen it in our own lives. We have become cognizant of it in our own experiences. There are many examples in holy writ. Let me give you one briefly. 

The Holy Bible tells us that upon one occasion in ancient times Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, came up against Hezekiah, the king of Judah. He came up with his captains and a great army. His purpose was to take possession of the fenced cities of Judah, and to war against the children of Israel. Now, mark you, the difference between this heathen king and Hezekiah, the king of Judah, a servant of the Lord. 

Sennacherib came in the pride of his heart and in an arrogant GENERAL CONFERENCE  manner. He notified Hezekiah that he was coming, and warned him to be ready to surrender. 

KING HEZEKIAH'S FAITH 

What was the attitude of Hezekiah, a man of God, a man of faith?. Did he sit down and cross his hands and wait for the Lord- to come and deliver him and his people? No, he didn't. He believed the Lord could do it. He believed the Lord would do it, but he at once instituted proceedings of defense. He gathered his people together. The record says he strengthened himself. He built up all the walls that were broken down and raised them up to the towers, and repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance; and he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them together to him in the street of the gate of the city, and spoke comfortably to them, saying: 

"Be strong and courageous. Be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him : for* there be more with us than with him: 

"With him is an arm of flesh; but with us is the Lord our God to help us, and to fight our battles." 

And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah. Mark it. The people were composed, and their feelings were calmed and they rested upon the words of Hezekiah, after preparing for defense. Hezekiah realized that faith without works is dead, being alone. 

Sennacherib's boastfulness 

Soon after came the great heathen king. He made light of the God of Hezekiah, held him up to ridicule, reviled him, and said, in substance, to Hezekiah: 

"Thinkest thou that thy God will deliver thee from my power? Why, all the gods of the heathens in the land with whom I have warred have submitted to my rule and to my authority, and think not that the God of Israel, or your God, will deliver you." 

And his servants spake yet more against the Lord God, and against his servant Hezekiah. He also wrote' letters to rail on the Lord God of Israel and to speak against him, saying: 

"As the gods of the nations of other lands have not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the god of Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand." 

Then they cried with a loud voice to the people of Jerusalem that were on the walls, to affright them and to trouble them, that they might take the city. 

judah's deliverance Now, brethren and sisters, under those distressing circumstances what did Hezekiah do ? After he had prepared to defend his country and his liberty he prayed to the Lord, and "for this cause Hezekiah, the king, and the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amos, prayed and cried to heaven." Don't you think, after he had taken every means to defend himself and his people, that that was the proper time and a good time to cry unto the Lord, and to cry unto him in faith? What was the answer ? Well, this is what it was : 

"Thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria. He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it. 

"By the way that he came, by the same shall he return^ and shall not come into this city, saith the Lord. 

"For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake. 

"And it came to pass that night, that the angel of the Lord went out, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore and five thousand." 

Think of it — one hundred and eighty-five thousand — slain by the Angel of God in one night. 

"So Sennacherib, king of Assyria, departed, and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh." 

OUR PROTECTION 

Now, brethren and sisters, in conclusion let me say to you, with this wonderful example before us, and other things that we are familiar with, if we will keep the commandments of God and serve him, as Hezekiah served him, he will reach forth his powerful arm and lift us up and strengthen us and deliver us from our enemies, just as he has done up to this very moment. Never, in all the history of this people, covering a hundred years, were the Latter-day Saints more powerful, more influential and more numerous than they are today. I say to you great is their faith, and there is power in faith. 

God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALMA G. BURTON 

Former President of the Tahitian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I assure you that I feel weak in occupying this position; and I, like the others who have gone before me, ask that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers while I stand here. 

While sitting in my seat, and looking into the faces of these men who are on the stand, looking over this vast audience of saints, listening to the very remarkable, inspiring, and interesting testimonies that have been borne, I experienced a most peculiar feeling of comparison, a feeling that was mingled with sympathy and with thanksgiving. 

My thoughts went back to the last annual conference of the Tahitian Mission, at which I presided. The saints were there gathered from many islands of the sea, some of them coming hundreds of miles, GENERAL CONFERENCE  some even a thousand miles to attend that conference. They were there for the same purpose that we are assembled here today, to receive instruction, admonition and inspiration in their work in the gospel. They do not have the opportunity of listening first-handed to our beloved President of today, and to the presiding authorities, but they are trying in their humble way to fulfil their duties, to magnify their callings and their priesthood. As I sat here with joy in my heart for the many good things that have been told to us, my sympathy went out to those people, to that portion of the house of Israel who are not so fortunate as we who can assemble in this great building and listen to the words of God. 

I bring to you today, my brethren and sisters, greetings from the people of the Tahitian Mission. I trust there is in your hearts a prayer for their success as well as the success of the saints who are scattered throughout the different missions of the world. It is with pleasure that I report to you that with the very humble and faithful efforts of our elders, we are making good headway in that mission. During the past three years we have had an increase in baptisms of over a hundred per cent each year. Our tithes have shown a great increase. We have also had an increase in attendance at sacrament meetings and in faithfulness to other duties throughout the Church. 

Our principal efforts, however, have been with the young people. We have been successful in organizing Improvement Associations in many of the different branches of the Tahitian Mission. We have realized the importance of giving to these young people a knowledge of the gospel, that they, in turn, may fill the positions occupied once by their fathers and the older saints who have passed on before them. 

The condition of the people in general is good. We find that they are striving to pay an honest tithing. They are striving to live the gospel. They are striving to keep the commandments of God and to live the Word of Wisdom, that they may grow nearer and nearer to God. We have not had the privilege of preaching the gospel by radio, but we do have a publication of large circulation, and through that means have been able to reach many persons and homes we could not otherwise have reached. 

The most effective method of preaching the gospel throughout the islands is by personal contact. Perhaps many of you do not know that the Tahitian Mission includes the entire group of the Society Islands — a great number of islands scattered over a vast expanse of water, — and as our elders travel to and fro to the different branches they live with the native people, they come in personal contact with them, and they teach them how to live family life, hbw to pray, how to live near to God, how to magnify their offices and callings in the Church. 

My brethren and sisters, I have found in my experience that one of the most encouraging and inspiring things for an elder is to have a letter from home that encourages him in performing his duty, in living nearer to God. 

In the remarks in our priesthood meeting last evening the fathers 111  asked to be more chummy with their sons. I want to take this opportunity 'to ask the fathers and mothers not to fail to put in their letters to the boys encouragement to live near to God, and to fulfil faithfully their duties. It will go a long ways in helping the boys in our mission, and I think it will in all the missions of the world. 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, that I have had the opportunity of going into the world to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am thankful for the opportunity I have had of serving with your sons and your daughters who are in the Tahitian Mission. I love them. I honor them for the courage and faithfulness they have shown in carrying the gospel message, the message of salvation, to that people. I have traveled with the boys on the sea. We have been in storms. We have been in hard circumstances, and I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that I am not a doubter regarding the youth of Zion. I think that the boys of today have just as much courage as those of other days have had. I have seen the boys when they had to meet situations, when it took men of courage to meet those situations, and our boys in the islands of the sea, and no doubt throughout all the other missions of the world, are successfully handling those situations every day. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I am thankful that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth in the latter days. I know that the power of the priesthood has again been given to us, and is operative on the earth in this last dispensation; and I know that the same power of the priesthood is operative out in the mission field as is operative here in Zion. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that President Grant is a prophet of God, called to preside over the Church in this particular time. I am thankful for the association I have had with the President and with the presiding authorities, while laboring in the mission field, which has been mostly through letters. I have received some very fine encouragement, and I have learned to love them and honor them as men who are called of God. I trust that I may live true to the covenants which I have made in this great Church. 

In closing I wish to call attention to remarks that Paul, the great apostle of old, who knew Jesus Christ, made. He said : 

"Woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel." 

Do we realize the importance of the message which is left for us to carry throughout the world in this dispensation? Paul realized it in his time, and he said : 

"I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law; 

"To them that are without law, as without law, * * * that I might gain them that are without law." 

That is the thing that we are trying to do in the mission field. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

We are trying to win the people over, to give to them the message that the gospel has for them. The Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches us to love the Lord with all our heart, and our neighbor as ourselves. How can we love our neighbors as ourselves, except to give unto them the happiness and the joy which comes to us through the gospel of Jesus Christ, which has been given to us in these latter days? I trust that the Lord will bless us all to that end, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir rendered the anthem "Inflammatus," solo part by Sister Laurinda P. Brewerton. 

Elder Ralph B. Keeler, President of the Juarez Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


