Afternoon
06 10 1929

The closing session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The hymn, "Praise to the Man who Communed with Jehovah" was sung by the choir and congregation. 

Elder James L. Nielsen, President of the Moroni Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A sextette, assisted by the choir, rendered the anthem, "The Heavens are Telling." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have a telegram from Brother James L. Dunford, announcing that he and others are enjoying the conference proceedings as they are received by radio at Paris, Idaho. 

I have a telegram from the Idaho Falls stake presidency announcing the death of Patriarch Robert L. Bybee, who passed away yesterday at the age of ninety-one years. He was one of the early oioneers. The funeral will be held Monday. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block 

Mission. 

I have enjoyed this conference. It has given us the spirit of the Psalmist when he exclaimed: "Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul." 

Reference has been made to the work of the missionaries on this block. This is an important mission, and the twenty brethren and 113 , who come to help us meet the strangers within our gates, are doing a fine work — a work that is noble and true. They meet all people with a Christian-like attitude of mind. They love people, and that is why the tourists see that our message is one of love. If we can always keep here the spirit of Jesus Christ our Lord as expressed by the beloved John: "God so loved us, we ought also to love one another," then people will partake of the spirit of truth. 

We receive many letters expressive of the gatitude of the strangers who come to visit us. A famous Japanese educator recently spoke of our hospitality, and among the things he said was that on these grounds he felt the spirit of Christ. I am very thankful for this; and very grateful that we have brethren and sisters working here who know the true service of the Master. 

We may surely say that it is to a large extent through such men and women that the Spirit of God kindles the fire of divine love and the longing for divine knowledge in the hearts of others. 

Mormonism recognizes that in this great age of new thought and progress, the power of the Divine is in the living present. The religion of Jesus Christ our Lord gives us power to distinguish between the true and the false; the eternal and the temporal; spiritual substance and human opinion. Our great mission is to advocate an understanding between religion and the civilization of to-day; and we must never fear to advocate the four great fundamentals of religion that we solemnly believe to be true. These are as follows : 

First, "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him." We are gods in embyro. The human mind is infinite in its power to progress. In one of the finest passages of our great world-poet Shakespeare, he gives us his conception of the grandeur of the human mind when he writes : 

"What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension how like a god I" 

The second point that is fundamental to Mormonism is that Jesus Christ died for you and me. He atoned for the sins of the world and gave us eternal life. In the Book of Mormon we have these words of the prophet Helaman: 

"Therefore, my sons, I would that ye should do that which is good, that it may be said of you, and also written, even as it has been said and written of them. 

"And now my sons, behold I have somewhat more to desire of you, which desire is. that ye may not do these things that ye may boast, but that ye may do these things to lay up for yourselves a treasure in heaven, yea, which is eternal, and which fadeth not away; yea, that ye may have that precious gift of eternal life, which we have reason to suppose hath been given to our fathers. 

"O remember, remember, my sons, the words which king Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, who shall come; yea, remember that he cometh to redeem the world. 

"And remember also the words which Amulek spake unto Zeezrom, in the city of Ammonihah; for he eaid unto him that the Lord surely should come to GENERAL CONFERENCE  his people, but that he should not come to redeem them in their sins, but to redeem them from their sins. 

"And he hath power given unto him from the Father to redeem them from their sins because of repentance; therefore he hath sent his angels to declare the tidings of the conditions of repentance, which bringeth unto the power of the Redeemer, unto the salvation of their souls. 

"And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation." 

Through Joseph Smith, the priesthood has been restored in this day for man's salvation. This gives the Christian religion a new life force, and it becomes a demonstration in this modern day of divine life. It calls forth new activities in man, and is in keeping with the general development of humanity. We are expressing a divine — a very divine and vital truth — when we sav that the priesthood of God was restored in this age by John the Baptist and Peter, James and John. Therefore our task is a great one, for mankind must come to think of religion otherwise than they think of it today. We may feel then with the great writer Fichte : 'We should rejoice at the sight of that vast field which we are called to cultivate, and rejoice that we feel strength within us, and that our task is endless." 

Then there is the fourth great point of the Christian religion that "The Lord God hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all." We are working for the establishment of God's kingdom upon the earth. No nobler purpose could be in the hearts of men; no greater motive could ever move them. With these principles, we shall be able to work out the highest principles of morality, for faith in God and his work is the true basis of morality. 

I think we are held responsible for a rich creative work. One may call the principles I have cited old or new as one will. The question is whether they are true or not. I think that such ideas and ideals have always been common to man and have been expressed in different ways. There are today far more forces working — consciously and unconsciously— towards the goal of the Kingdom than we realize. These principles are not gained from books nor from experience, but from our contact with the Spirit of God which Jesus taught us could be done. So the simple truth of God's kingdom and man's divinity remain forever and ever. 

In closing, let me read to you the words of Adolf Harnak, one of the world's great scholars: 

"It is religion, the love of God and neighbor which gives life meaning; knowledge cannot do it alone. Pure knowledge is a glorious thing, and woe to the man who holds it light or blunts his sense for it. But to the question, Whence 'whither, and to what purpose? It gives an answer today as little as it did two or three thousand years ago. It does indeed instruct us in facts; it detects inconsistences; it likens phenomena; it corrects the deceptions of sense and idea. But where and how the curve of the world and the curve of our own life begin, and whither this curve leads, knowledge does not tell us. But if with a steady will we affirrri the forces and the standards which on the sum115  of our inner life shine out as our highest good, nay as our real self; if we are earnest and courageous enough to accept them as the great reality and direct our lives by them; and if we then look at the course of mankind's history, follow its upward development, and search in strenuous and patient service, for the communion of minds in it, we shall not faint in weariness and despair, but become certain of God, whom Jesus Christ called the Father and who is also our Father." Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

This has been a most glorious conference. I have been coming to this tabernacle for sixty years. In the year 1869 I sang with a choir from Brigham City, in this tabernacle. Never in all that sixtyyears have I seen such a great multitude of people in this building and outside on this block as there is today. Zion is growing. 

We have every reason to rejoice in the work of the Lord. We have been blessed during this conference with splendid weather. As a matter of fact we have a great deal of good weather at conference time, even if it is the stormy period of the year. But how beautiful this day and the two days preceding it. Could you find anywhere else all the world, my brethren and sisters, such a delightful country to live in, with this rarefied atmosphere — three quarters of a mile above the sea level, and yet breathing salt sea air? No such atmospheric combination exists elsewhere on the known globe, because if you get salt air anywhere else in the world you must go to sea level. So here we have a most marvelous combination which is best for vegetable life, for animal life, and for human life, making it the best country in all the world. That which was a desert and a wilderness eighty-three years ago, behold what the Lord has done! 

this is ZION 

The people have been blessed of the Lord in very deed. This city is a marvel of beauty all through the summer. As I ride around this city, I gaze at it with wonder, with admiration. I have said in my heart a hundred times, where in all the world is there a more beautiful place than this? Beautiful indeed, beautiful for situation, is Zion. This is Zion here in these mountains. Zion in the largest sense is perhaps North and South America. Zion is in Jackson County, as we heard this morning, but here also is the Zion of our God, the mountain of the Lord's house, as President Ivins read from the prophecy of Isaiah, which I will repeat, for it is good to hear : "And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house" — I take that to mean the headquarters, the chief part of it though not all of the Lord's house, for in the Book of Mormon, First Nephi, 14th cnapter, you can read that the saints of God should be scattered upon all the face of the earth; but the biggest end of it, as we may phrase it, the "mountain" of the Lord's house "shall be established in the top GENERAL CONFERENCE  the mountains." And here it is; here we are; and the works that we have produced, I think, are good, they are constructive. What Mormonism has done is a credit. 

This building, built here before there was any railroad within many hundred miles of here, was a marvel at the time, is a marvel now. That temple — is it not splendid? Whether you believe in the doctrines of our faith or not you must admit that as builders, as a constructive people, a people who do things and do them right, we are entitled to some credit. You can see that in a material way our works are good, are they not? No sane man, unless prejudice has blinded him — and then he isn't sane — could say otherwise. The works speak for themselves; and the doctrine of the Church, the faith of the people, has produced this kind of works. Therefore that which produces these good things must, of necessity, - be good itself, for an impure fountain will not send forth pure water. The tree is known by its fruit. Look at this block. Where will you find anything prettier in the world than this Temple block, kept up at the expense of the Church? We don't ask anybody to help us pay the expense. The Church pays it. Your tithes help to pay it, and it is a good work. Hundreds of thousands of people every year come here with a feeling in th%ir hearts, and say, "Won't you please tell us something about your religion?" They come and ask for it. Why, here is the chance for the greatest missionary service in all the world. I don't think we quite appreciate the opportunity that we have here. And the men and women who have served here, and are serving, we owe them our thanks for the good work that they are doing — men like Brother Joseph Peery, who has given so many years of service free — in fact, everything here is free. These organ recitals every day — free. There isn't somebody standing around at every corner with a hat or a tin cup to take your money, or to beg for money. I have traveled over the world. You missionaries, you who are here by the hundreds, you know what you find in the world. It is pay, pay, pay. Well, here it is free, free, free; free organ recitals, free choir. I want to thank Brother Anthony Lund and the choir for their splendid work. They come here Monday afternoons at 4 o'clock, and if you will turn on your radio you will hear this wonderful choir. It is heard all over the United States. We have had letters from Long Island, from New York, from Washington, from all around the surrounding country: "We heard the choir, we heard the organ, and oh, it was so good." That is all free. I want to thank those who employ the members of the choir, the merchants and others, who release them long enough to come here for a half hour on Mondays and sing, and do a good missionary work. It is all free,, and it is different from anything else 5 in the world. I am proud of it. I am proud of what has been accomplished. 

A POOR MAN'S CHURCH 

This Church is just what the Lord intended it to be — a poor man's church. Of course, it is also for the rich, if the rich choose to come; but it has been built up by the poor. That was one of the signs that the Savior gave. When John was in prison and probably quite discouraged, he sent one or two of his disciples to Jesus, asking this question : "Art thou he that was to come, or look we for another ?" And Jesus said to those two : "You go back and tell John the sick are healed, the lame are made to walk, the dead even are raised" — because he had power to raise the dead — and as a further evidence, "the poor have the gospel preached unto them." 

So, in this day, two thousand of our missionaries are out in the world, preaching — to whom? Generally speaking, to the poor, because the rich haven't time to listen to them; they are too busy and secure with their money; and it is too much of a sacrifice yet to be called a "Mormon." It is not so much as it was fifty years ago, not by a long way, but it is still a sacrifice to give up family connections and wealth, to come and throw in their lot with the Latter-day Saints. The rich, as a rule, will not do it; but with the poor, it is different. Who were your fathers and mothers, all of you? Scarcely one that was not of the poor. I say that we get one thousand converts who are poor, where we get one who is rich. However, let us not overlook the fact that they are poor in worldly goods only. They are rich in spirit, rich in faith. They are the Lord's poor, and he loves them. They do not come from the dregs of society, but are of the highest type of manhood and womanhood. 

So the gospel in this day as was the case in the days of the Savior, is preached to the poor. The poor have the gospel preached to them, and it is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The poor, I want to tell you, have built up this Church. The poor are more faithful in devotion to the Church than are the rich, or those who are comparatively rich. That poor widow in your neighborhood, whom you know, probably washing for a living, has a son on a mission, helping to support him. She is the kind, and those like her, who are really sacrificing for this work. How much do you sacrifice? How much real sacrifice do we, who are better off, make for the work? Not so very much, because what we give we don't feel, and the reason that we don't feel it very much is because we don't give very much, in proportion to what we have. But the poor — that poor emigrant girl in your ward, who is there at fast meeting, bearing her testimony, probably in broken English, her tithing is in the hands of the bishop. Let me tell you she is helping to build up the Church, she is sacrificing. I take off my hat to such as those. I bow my head in their presence because they are better than 

FOR BUILDING UP THE KINGDOM 

We heard from the President of the Church that a very considerable part of the work is halted because of the lack of missionaries. With the call for missionaries comes the call for meeting houses. It is different from what it was in the world a while ago. People want to hear about Mormonism now and they want a decent place to come to that they may hear about it. So that takes a great deal of money, 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and we need ten times more for that same work of the Lord; hot for me, not for President Grant, not for the authorities of the Church, but for the building up of the kingdom of God. We need ten times more. And let me say, if you and I and all the rest who are wellto-do — if the entire membership of this Church, paid their tithes honestly, there would never need to be another call on the people for anything in building up the kingdom of God. The law of the Lord has provided all that would be needed. But we don't fully observe the law. We don't contribute the means that we promise, and that we are under obligation to do. Brother McKay, in the first day of conference, called attention to that very point, that you are under covenant, I am under covenant, to keep that commandment. I know some of the brethren will say: "I don't know that I have promised to pay tithing." Oh, yes you have; yes, you have. Every Sunday, if you go to fast meeting or sacrament meeting, you promise it, clearly, definitely, if not gladly. You should do it gladly, for before you eat that morsel of bread symbolizing the body, the death, burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, a prayer is offered, in which you make the pledge, "that we may witness unto Thee, O God the Eternal Father" — that is a pretty solemn pledge, brethren and sisters — "witness unto thee, O God the Eternal Father, that we do remember him, that we are willing to take upon us" — willing, mind you — "willing to take upon us his name," — and what else? "And keep his commandments which he has given us." Isn't that a pledge? Isn't that your promise? Well, we haven't kept it. We don't keep it. And so the Church hasn't means enough to help carry on and build up the work of the Lord. 

Here is what the Lord says about the poor. It is in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section thirty-five: 

"And the poor and the meek shall have the gospel preached unto them, and they shall be looking forth for the time of my coming, for it is nigh at hand." 

Then again, section fifty-six : 

"Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation — The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

"Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of gfeediness, and who will not labor with your own hands! 

"But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. 

"For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, ana he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; 

"And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, for ever and ever." 

IN THIS GOODLY LAND 

Those are the promises made to the poor. We, descendants of the poor, are placed in this wonderful, goodly land, with riches, with abundance; and yet we are so stingy, I was going to say. Our hearts are not what the Lord would like them to be, for the Lord loveth a cheerful giver, not a stingy giver. It will not bring so much blessing if it is given niggardly. 

I recall hearing Brother Golden Kimball tell of his father, who happened to come into possession of a very fine horse, a beautiful horse, and the boys thought they needed it; whereas he, Brother Kimball, thought he had better pay it in on tithing — for we used to pay in kind, in those days, when there wasn't any money in this country; wheat was paid, and butter and eggs, cattle and sheep, and everything that was produced. Well, this was a beautiful horse, and the boys thought they ought to keep him. Finally Brother Kimball had to say: "You take that horse right down to the bishop there' in the tithing office, before my heart puckers up." 

Well, we figure out how little we can pay, ant! our hearts "pucker" up, and we don't keep the covenant, the pledge we make every Sabbath day at the sacrament table. And yet I don't want to scold. Rather I want to bless; it is in my heart to bless, to bless the faithful workers, for after all, are we not the best people in all the world? I don't want to be associated, here or hereafter, with any other kind of people than my own. They are good people. 

SIGNS OF THE TIMES 

I see the signs of the times that have been pointed out to you and those who try to watch for them. Brother Young has mentioned Ramsay MacDonald, Premier of the British empire, coming over here to talk peace, to try to help to bring peace to the world, — blessed peace! Herbert Hoover, the farmer's son, grown up from a poor boy who had to work his way through school, standing at the head of the greatest nation on earth, and Ramsay MacDonald, one of the poor, the poor exalted, meeting there this day in those Virginia hills and talking things that are of most momentous concern to the whole world. I bless the Lord for them. As far as I have authority to bless — and I have, as an elder of the Church — I bless Herbert Hoover in the great effort that he is making now, and I bless Ramsay MacDonald, and ask God to bless them, that they may do that which makes for righteousness. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED 

In the president's office the other day, when Ramsay MacDonald was landing at the pier in New York, we turned on the radio — wonderful radio — and we could hear the whistle of the steamship blow; we could hear the tumult and the shouting and all the rest of it, the bands playing; and after they got up to the city hall we heard Ramsay MacDonald's rich, Scotch voice; he rolled out his r's when he said: "We want to bring peace to the wor-rld," and I enjoyed it. It was music to my soul, and I said in my heart and soul, "God bless you." I say it now before this congregation. By the power and authority of the GENERAL CONFERENCE  priesthood that I hold, I bless the President of the United States and the Premier of Great Britain, that God Almighty may give them success and blessing from the Lord. 

I bless you, my brethren and sisters, by that same power and that same authority, that our hearts may be opened to the work of the Lord, and that we may not fail in keeping the covenants we make. 

I bless my brethren here on this stand. I want to say here that with the General Authorities of the Church I don't believe there ever was a time in the history of this Church when there was more unanimity, more of fellowship, more of real effort, so far as we are able to put effort forth. There may have been greater men; doubtless were; but for real united effort, united strength, and the power of God, never has there been, in the history of this Church, a more United band of brethren than the General Authorities of the Church are this day. I glory in it. * quote with pleasure the prophecy made, I think by Isaiah, when the Lord should bring again Zion, and he is bringing it now. 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together they shall sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

That is the condition today. I bear witness of it. I bless the President of this Church for his integrity, for his humility and meekness and power. I bless his counselors, that they may be helps to him; also the Twelve, and the Patriarch. I bless the Patriarch with all my heart, that he may be healed. I bless the Presidents of Seventies, the Presiding Bishopric, and" all you presidents of stakes, and bishops of wards, and every faithful worker, male and female. I bless you sisters, who so nobly and efficiently direct the splendid labors of your organizations. You are not stingy like your husbands are. I mean it. You are not that kind. You give more freely. God bless you. I bless you all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. — Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. PETERSON 

Former President of the Danish Mission 

This, my brethren and sisters, is the biggest thrill that I have ever experienced. To gaze over this vast audience is an inspiration and an opportunity of a lifetime. 

I bring you the love and greetings of the missionaries and saints in the Danish Mission. This mission is probably one of the smallest in the world, but I can assure you it is a live mission. It is the second oldest mission in Europe; and in this small country of Denmark there have probably been more converts, according to the population, than in any other country in the world. Thousands have embraced the gospel, and there are still thousands that are waiting to accept it. 

I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that the missionaries in that mission are performing an excellent work. They are not idling 121  time away, nor neglectirig their calling. I can assure you that they are enjoying the spirit of their work. Many of these elders have spent as high as two hundred and ninety hours in a single month tracting from door to door — more than ten hours per day. They are all enjoying the best of health. The saints are active. We have auxiliary organizations in practically all the branches of that mission. They are all functioning and doing a splendid work. 

Through the kindness of the First Presidency we have disposed of our old mission property, Korsgade No. 11. This place, which has been owned by the Church for a great many years has outlived its usefulness. Wte have now secured, through the aid of President James E. Talmage, one of the most beautiful sites in the wonderful city of Copenhagen. Strenuous protests were made by the clergy, not only to the Bank of Copenhagen who sold us the property, but also to the city council, to thwart or to hinder the granting of a building permit, but in all cases these protests were turned down. At the time the protest was made to the city council in Copenhagen by the clergy, headed by the Bishop of Seeland, they informed the council that we were not Christians, that we were heathens, and had no right to own property or erect a church in that city. One of the councilmen arose and stated that he thought it would be a splendid idea to have these heathens come within the shadow of their church, so that they could be converted. Our building site is directly in front of one of the large Lutheran churches in that city. 

I would like to make an appeal to you parents of Scandinavian ancestry, to urge your sons to take missions or accept missions to Denmark. I can assure you that they will be kept busy, that they will enjoy their work, that they will get just as much, and possibly more experience than in any of the missions to the south of that country. 

I trust that you parents will also be very considerate as to the sending of money to your boys. Rather send them an extra letter than too much money. The more money you send, the less efficiency will take place. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I am proud of that country, proud of the work that has been performed in that land. I have a testimony of the gospel. I know that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was divinely commissioned to again establish this work upon the earth. I pray that we may all strive to do our duty as members of this Church, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN P. LILLYWHITE 

Former President of Netherlands Mission 

I stand here today in the midst of one of the greatest revelations that God could give of the divinity of Mormonism. As I gaze into the ten thousand or twelve thousand faces of those who are sitting in this GENERAL CONFERENCE  this afternoon, I see the manifestation of God's hand in gathering his people together in these latter days. You men and women have received the gospel of Jesus Christ. Its sweet influence has touched your souls, and has made you happy; it has made you rejoice in the day in which you live; and it is in fulfilment of the words of the Savior to the prophet Joseph Smith in this last dispensation, when he said : 

"Blessed are they * * * who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength." 

Surely this word has been fulfilled in the presence of these everlasting hills. The men and the women gathered out from the various nations of the earth, poor men and poor women, as we have heard today from President Nibley, have been made rich; first, in their souls, by the mellowing, sweetening influences of the gospel of the Son of God; and then, by reason of their faithfulness and the keeping of his commandments, they have been made rich in their store-houses. They have received from the earth in abundance, as the Lord promised to those who would keep his commandments : "And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time — they that arc faithful and diligent before me." 

This promise has also been fulfilled. There is no organization in the world today that has received more revelation, more blessings than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. You are witnesses to the fulfillment of these promises. Glorious is this organization. Every man and woman, every boy and girl, has a place in this wonder ful Church; a place for development, for growth, aye, for the perfecting of their characters, if they will be obedient to God's laws. 

"Wherefore I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind and strength, and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. 

"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal, neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

"Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit." 

This sacrifice is not too great for you nor for me. God does not ask of you that which you cannot give, but it is within the power of every man and woman to offer unto him a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and in return for this sacrifice he promises to reward with blessings and with commandments not a few, and that the earth shall bring forth in its fulness. 

I love the gospel, I love to bear witness to the truth; for God has let me know, through the inspiration of his Spirit, that Mormonism is the gospel of his Son, and will perfect every man and woman who is willing to keep and obey his commandments. 

I am thankful for the privilege I have had of laboring in the 123  field, thankful for the splendid men under whose direction I have labored : President Grant, President Nibley, and President Ivins, of the First Presidency; President George Albert Smith, President Orson F. Whitney, President David O. McKay and President James E. Talmage. I call them presidents because they were so and are so to me. I have enjoyed their acquaintance and the wonderful influence that has come from them into my life. I have been with them, and I have never heard them say one word nor have I seen them perform one act but what was elevating, but what would make me better, and other men better. And I can say the same thing of the other brethren who have been and who are laboring as the General Authorities in this Church. God bless them, and keep them happy in his service. 

I bring you greetings from President and Sister Widtsoe. The)' asked that we convey to the brethren and to the saints their good will and their love. They are wonderful people, and are wielding a tremendous influence throughout the European Mission. They are loved by all the saints and by the missionaries, and they are doing a great deal of good, as these other presidents have done. 

I bring you greetings from the saints and the missionaries in Holland. They are splendid people. There are no better upon the earth, — men and women who are willing to serve God and keep his commandments. The Dutch people are kind to the missionaries. They are kindly disposed towards the gospel. They open their homes and their hearts to its influence. Many of them are accepting the gospel. I congratulate the fathers and mothers who have sons in that mission. They are wonderful young men. We have labored with them. We have lived with them. We love them. Yes, we love them as our own children. Their success is our success; their joys are ours. God bless them for their faithfulness, for they are faithful. There is a wonderful spirit prevailing in the Netherlands Mission, a spirit of brotherly love, of kindness one toward another, of mutual helpfulness and benefit; and the saints are being blessed in all they do, as well as the elders. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful, and keep his commandments. When we partake of the sacrament let our hearts and hands be clean and pure, and let our testimonies and our obedience be as firm and implicit as our declarations; for I hold that a man's testimony of the gospel is no stronger than his obedience unto its principles. 

God bless us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I dislike very much to limit the brethren, but we still have four speakers that we would like to hear from, we have the authorities to present, and I would not object to having two or three minutes left for myself. 

We had three most splendid testimonies from our sisters, all three of whom occupied a total of eight minutes between them. A very fine example. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

Former President of the North Central States Mission 

It is an honor to any man to be called to preside over a mission of the Church. From such a position there comes a joy and happiness that can be received from no other source. About four years ago I was called to preside over the North Central States Mission, as its first president, and I had the joy and happiness of my life in that labor. 

I have been thinking today that if Mormonism is true there must be an abundance of evidence of it; and I would like to give just briefly, if I may, an evidence to me of the divinity of this work. This Church has been organized now nearly a hundred years. During those hundred years we have been sending missionaries to every part of the civilized world, and these missionaries have been largely young men and women who were unsophisticated, untrained, and unlearned, pertaining to the religions of the world. It has been estimated that we have sent into the mission fields between sixty-five and eighty-five thousand men and women during that period of time, and so far as I know, there has never been a single case where a missionary, young or old, has written back or sent word, "I have found something in the world that is better than you sent me out to preach. I am leaving the service of this church and joining another institution." I think there never has been a single case of that kind. If there has been, I have never heard of it. How is it, if Mormonism is not the divine truth, that these young men and women go out and meet the learned preachers of the day, and are not won away from their religion? 

I want to testify today that I come back to Zion with my heart full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father for my standing among this people, for my faith in this great latter-day work, and that I have found nothing in the world that has been any inducement whatsoever to me to leave the faith of my people and identify myself with any other work. 

I want to leave the rest of my time, if there is any, to President Grant. God bless this work, with him at the head, and all who labor with him in this service, that this work may be consummated as God intended it should be, through the faithfulness of this people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

This is a surprise but I suppose it should not be. 

I am happy in the performance of my duties as a missionary. As Brother Allred spoke I could not help but think that I was never busier or more intensively occupied in my life. But the joy that has come to me in that labor of love, is greater than that realized in any other undertaking. 125 

This is a glorious work! It is my privilege to labor with a splendid band of young missionaries, who have been an inspiration to me, especially as I have heard them report their labors in the mission field. I have felt that their experiences are similar to those of the seventies in the days of the Savior. When they returned and reported to him their labors and what they had witnessed, he said : "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." 

These young people are not wise in this world's learning, or experienced; they are youthful, inexperienced, frequently uneducated, and crude, but enjoying an experience and receiving an education superior to that obtained anywhere else. We value the privilege of educating our children in the great universities of the world, preparing them for life's duties; but is it not far more important that they should be prepared both for this life's duties and those of the life to come, the eternities ? 

It is the greatest university training, to be thus divinely inspired, guided and educated. It is more than what people call religious training. There is in it also a most practical training for life's secular duties as well. It develops more than any college work will, initiative, self reliance, leadership, moral character, virtue, love of f ellowmen, and above all the love of God, and a knowledge of him. 

I should be glad indeed to relate some of the really marvelous experiences of these young people. The Savior said, "This is life eternal that they might know thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." That is what these young people are learning and of which they are testifying. Many of them are able to say, with clear consciences and fervor, that they know that God lives, that he is their Father, and that Jesus Christ is their Savior. 

I read the Monday morning New York papers, giving an account of the Sunday discourses of the learned "Divines" of that great city. Rarely does some one of them fail to say something indicating a need of a new or different religion. Some openly advocate, even orthodox preachers, that there must be a broad rational religion in which all can unite. In other words, that the gate should be wide, easy to find, and the way broad and easy to walk in, to eternal life. 

These young people are testifying that there is "One Lord, one faith, one baptism;" that the way to eternal life is not to be so easily found, "because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." 

Not long since that very noted preacher Dr. Emerson Fosdick, of the Park Avenue Baptist Church, one of the most noted New York preachers, said, "Religion in this country, with its conflicting creeds, is a good deal of a mess. That many people are confused over it, looking at it as a kind of jungle without a road through it, everybody knows. And thus to be bewildered about religion is to many a source of mental and spiritual agony. The wish for certainty in religion is one of the most important desires of man. We can stand having all 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

sorts of things shifting on every side of us, but when the solid ground itself shakes it is intolerable. Though we can welcome change in many realms, scientific, cultural and economic, when our basic ideas of what life is all about begin to vacillate, that means spiritual vertigo" — or stomach ache. 

Only a week or two since Dr. Beck, in the Unitarian church, said that "Ghosts of the past are all that keep Christianity together today." 

Fifty years ago or more when I was a boy, and when spiritualism was being introduced, I heard the elders of the Church say that the time would come when all of the great truths of the gospel would in some way be more or less duplicated, as spiritualism was then attempting to duplicate one of the features of the truth revealed in our time. Later came a science of healing by faith and a popular religion, its chief corner stone being healing by faith. 

Not long since, in Washington, a great conclave or general convention of the Protestant-Episcopal church was held, in which there was a somewhat remarkable report made by a very dignified commission which had been appointed by that church six years before to study the merits of faith or spiritual healing. That commission consisted of a number of noted bishops and deputies, among whom were three distinguished physicians, one Charles H. Mayo of Mayo Brothers, than whom there are no more distinguished physicians. This commission, after studying the subject for six years, made report confirming what the Prophet Joseph Smith learned in a day, in which they said that, "Christian healing has passed beyond the stage of experiment and its value cannot be questioned." 

Three conclusions were drawn by the commission, and the report asked the general convention to "thankfully recognize the deepening of the spiritual life of the church which had come through the growing recognition of the healing power of God." 

The conclusions were, "that throughout the world spiritual healing is no longer the hope of a few, but the belief and practice of a large and rapidly increasing number of persons;" that such healing is an experience of mankind that can no longer be questioned; that while faith in any supposed remedy produces some effect, faith in God, as revealed in Christ, is followed by results which are more sure, more lasting and of a more evidently spiritual character. 

What is called spiritual healing is rapidly becoming popular in many of the churches. 

Today, as we are commencing to rely more than formerly upon the power of the physician, should there not be a revival among us of that deep and profound faith which has so notably characterized Latterday Saints, so much in advance of all the churches? 

I am trespassing on the time allotted me. May the Lord help us to enjoy the blessings of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and its work in which we are engaged and which means so much to us, is my desire in the name of Jesus, Amen. 127 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in having the opportunity of reporting very briefly the activities of the East Central States Mission. I was resting quite easily for the reason that the time was passing so rapidly and there are so many to occupy it. 

I am very pleased to state that during the first eight months of this year we have performed two hundred and forty-three baptisms in the new mission. From the first of September until the time that I left, about a week ago, the average would run about seventy for this month. So that you can see that we are active in that mission. 

I have spent considerable time just recently in visiting the near-by settlements or branches, where I could reach them by auto, and in the latter part of the season we will make the longer journeys by rail. I have found, in visiting these branches, where mothers have traveled as far as five miles over the hills, carrying their babes, with two or three children by their side, making the journey with them. One of our beloved sisters, and her sister who was not a member of the Church, made an eighteen mile journey across the hills on horse-back to a station and took a train from there to the place we were holding our meeting. This shows to me that the faith is strong among those people, and they are living the gospel to the best of their ability. 

I am very sorry to say that we have had the misfortune just recently of losing one of our most efficient missionaries, although all of them are very efficient. We haven't one in the mission who is not energetic, early and late, going wherever called to go at any time. The one to whom I have reference is a humble elder from Arizona. He, with his companion, Elder Baird, was asked to visit Edmonton county, in Kentucky. They wanted to visit a certain family belonging to the Church and leave their blessing with them, and in order for them to do so it was necessary that they cross a river. When they reached the water's edge they waited for some time, thinking that someone would come along and bring the little boat, which was on the other side, across to where they were. After waiting for some time, Elder Fenn decided that he would swim the river and get the boat, come back and dress, and then he and his companion could cross to the other side. After preparing to swim across the river he turned to his companion, and said, "God bless you, Elder Baird, in your labors." Then he plunged into the water. He had proceeded a little more than half way across, when, for some cause he turned back, and almost immediately disappeared. The river at that point is three hundred feet in width and from eighteen to twenty-five feet in depth. 

Word was sent to us at headquarters. My secretary and I left m a very few minutes in an automobile, and arrived at the place where the accident occurred, at about 8:30 o'clock at night. We spent the greater part of the night there, and when we discovered that, we were GENERAL CONFERENCE  to recover the body immediately, we retired for the evening, leaving several men there to go on with the work as best they could. When I awoke in the morning there were three things that stood out distinctly in my mind. The first one was, Telephone for the ambulance to come at once; the second was, We will soon recover the body; and the third was, Tell Elder Baird to prepare himself to accompany the body to the home of Elder Fenn in Arizona. I immediately acted upon those impressions. 

We had already arranged for a man and his son to make preparations for dragging the river. In the morning they stretched a line across the river some fifteen feet below where Elder Fenn disappeared, and then started dragging it. I walked along the bank a short distance, and as I gazed out over the water it was made plain to me that Elder Fenn's body lay about twenty feet below the line and about thirty feet nearer the bank than where they were making their attempt to find it. I acted upon that impression. I showed the man who was in charge the place where I knew the body was located, and after three or four casts they recovered it. From then until Elder Fenn's body was returned to his family in Arizona everything moved along satisfactorily. 

My brethren and sisters, there are some things that come into our lives that require our dependence upon the Lord Almighty for guidance and direction. I have found this to be true on several occasions in the mission which I have the honor of laboring in at this time. 

In conclusion I want to say to the friends of Elder James W. Price, that when he met with the accident of which some of you have heard, the doctors said that his usefulness was past. But through the faith of the ninety-seven elders and lady missionaries in that mission, who fasted and prayed for his recovery, and through the administration that he received, he was restored to his health and strength; and he is in his field of labor today, an earnest defender of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I leave with you my testimony that this is the work of God, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters: With all my heart I rejoice in this opportunity of expressing my pride and gratitude for the honor that has come to me of presiding over one of the missions of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, — of announcing myself in full accord with all of the instructions and with the testimonies that have been borne from this stand during this conference, — and of pledging to you, my brethren and sisters, and to the presiding brethren under whom we serve, that I will do my best not to be a disappointment to you, or to them, or to our Heavenly Father whom we serve. 129 

Will you please think of the North Central States Mission as a great block U, with one corner resting on the Yellowstone Park, where Montana and Wyoming meet; and the other on the Iowa line at the Mississippi, below St. Paul and Minneapolis; and extending north from these beginnings indefinitely; including Montana east of Great Falls, North and South Dakota, and Minnesota in the United States; and Manitoba, Saskatchewan and parts of Alberta and Ontario in Canada. 

I do not know how many million people we have to work with. We have about seventy elders and lady missionaries. Since it has been said (in 'the Priesthood meeting Saturday evening) that we need not ask for more missionaries, except to Scandinavian countries, it may be remarked, in passing, that we are very strongly Scandinavian, President Grant. In the city of Minneapolis, our headquarters, we have a population equal to that of the state of Utah, mostly Scandinavian. 

I have been all through the mission twice, since June; once with my predecessor, President John G. Allred, whom you have heard today, and Brother Ballard, of whom and for whom I may say to you, that no man ever received a more favorable introduction to a field of labor than I did to mine; and nobody appreciates that privilege and honor more. I nave been through the mission again since, have met all the elders twice and have twice heard them bear their testimonies, in public and in missionary meetings. I can testify to you that they are a loyal band of workers, and that they 'are performing a service similar to that spoken of by all the other mission presidents. 

The work in which we are engaged is the truth. This is the Church and kingdom of God. The authorities who preside over us I sustain with all my heart; and ask the blessings of our Father in heaven upon them and upon our missionary labors. It is a glorious work. I am grateful for it; and 'leave you my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have a telegram from the bishop of the South Ward at Manti, stating that a great number of people have heard distinctly over the radio every word of the conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorties and Officers of the Church; all of whom were sustained in their positions and callings by the unanimous vote of the large assembly, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. . Grant 

As Trustee-inTrust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young ' Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Peter G. Johnston 

Orval W. Adams 131 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

David A. Smith, President George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor Julia F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Isabelle S. Ross, First Counselor Edna Harker Thomas, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Notwithstanding the time has expired I am going to trespass a little. 

GRATITUDE FOR SUCCESS OF CONFERENCE 

I rejoice in the very splendid conference that we have had. I GENERAL CONFERENCE  and endorse the words of blessing for the President of the United States, for Ramsay Macdonald, for our good sisters, and for the people generally, as uttered, I believe, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, by my counselor, Brother Nibley. 

I thank each and all who have taken part in this conference. It is an astonishing fact that there have been forty-three speeches made here during the conference, including the one that I am now making. 

I can truthfully say that I rejoice beyond all the ability with which God has endowed me to express my thoughts, and my heart is full of gratitude for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord and his blessings that have attended us during this conference. Ever since I was a boy I have heard the statement made at the close of each conference that it was one of the very best we had ever had. To me this is one of the great testimonies of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. We hear, year after year — I have heard from childhood unto the present time — the same testimonies, the same words almost, in explaining the gospel and testifying of it, but we never weary if our spirits are only right; and the spirit of this conference has been one of joy and peace and happiness. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED 

I leave my blessing upon you, my brethren and sisters — not only upon all within the sound of my voice in this great 1 auditorium, but upon all those who are listening in. I pray God to bless every soul who is striving to do good upon the earth, every soul who is honest and upright, loyal and true to his God and to his country. May the peace of heaven abide with all the honest the world over; and particularly do I pray for the blessings of the Lord upon the Latter-day Saints. 1 do it all in humility and by the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I know I hold, and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. Amen. 

Solo and chorus, "The Earth is the Lord's," was rendered by Sister Jessie Evans and the choir. 

The Hallelujah Chorus from "The Messiah" was rendered by the choir. 

Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, pronounced the benediction, and the Conference was adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing. Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Tracy Y. Cannon and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

JOSEPH ANDERSON, Clerk of the Conference. Alfred, Elder John G 124 

Anderson, Elder Lorenzo W 103 

Anderson, Sister May  85 

Authorities Present  1 

Authorities, Presentation of .... 129 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 48 

Strength and growth of the Church, 48 — "We believe in being honest," 49 — Mr. Studebaker's tribute, 49 — A rule of conduct, 50 — God's rental, 51 — A higher law, 51 — The law of inheritance, 51 — They who enter the celestial kingdom, 51 — The bankruptcy law, 52— A precious heritage, 52. 

Burton, Elder Alma G  109 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 42 

Sustaining the Authorities, 43 — Chapel building costs, 43 — Increase in tithing, 43 — A full tithing, 44 — Train Young people to become tithepayers, 44 — Divine principles promote development, 44 — Young people the greatest resource, 44 — Factors of civilization, 45 — Physical welfare, 45 — Moral standards, 45 — Education, 45 — Arts and industries, 46 — Unselfishness and fair dealing, 46 — Spiritual growth, 46 — The work is growing, 47. 

Clawson, President Rudger 104 

Dependence upon Spirit of God, 105 — The God we worship, 105 — A God of love, 105 — The family of God, 106 — Tremendous sacrifices, 106 — A God of mercy, 107 — A God of power, 107 — King Hezekiah's faith, 108 — Sennacherib's boastfulness, 108 — Judah's deliverance, 108 —Our protection, 109. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting  26 

Fox, Sister Ruth May 84 

General Authorities Present  1 

General Authorities of the Church 129 

General Officers of the Church 130 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 131 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Presents changes, 2 — Stake president dies, 3 — Appropriations increase, 3 — New hotel erected, 3 — Blessings through payment of tithes, 4 — Appeals for honesty, 4 — Ward and stake buildings dedicated, 5 — Visits Winters grave, 5 — New stake building, 5 — Colorado River Bridge, 6 — Visits wards and missions, 6 — Coast members increase, 6 — Quotes from revelations, 7 — "Keep commandments," 7— Spirit will GENERAL CONFERENCE , 8 — Patience and study necessary, 8 — A marvelous work and a wonder, 9— Thankful for testimony, 9. 

Grant, President Heber J 26 

Amplifying sets for the deaf, 26. 

Grant, President Heber J 47 

Radio reception at American Fork, 47. 

Grant, President Heber J 63 

Mission presidents to speak, 63. 

Grant, President Heber J 69 

Authorities who are absent, 69. 

Grant, President Heber J 84 

Sisters to address the conference, 84. 

Grant, President Heber J 112 

Radio reception at Paris, Idaho, 112 — Death of Patriarch Robert L. Bybee, 112. 

Grant, President Heber J 123 

Speakers limited, 123. 

Grant, President Heber J '. 129 

Radio reception at Manti, Utah, 129. 

Grant, President Heber J 129 

Presentation of General Authorities, 129 — Presentation of General Officers, 130 — Presentation of General Auxiliary Officers, 131. 

Grant, President Heber J 131 

Gratitude for success of conference, 131 — Blessings invoked, 132. 

% Hart, Elder Charles H 73 

* Hyde, Elder Charles H 64 

Ivins, President Anthony W 92 

Fundamental doctrines, 92 — Upon the principle of revelation, 93 — A temple building church, 93 — Period of persecution, 94 — Various Factions, 95 — Hedrickites or Church of Christ, 96 — Soliciting aid, 96 — A house but not a temple, 96 — The purpose of a temple, 97 — Their offerings accepted, 97 — In the tops of the mountains, 97 — From all parts of the world, 98— The United Order, 98— The New Jerusalem, 

99 — The accomplishment of God's purposes, 99— A significant thing, 

100 — The mountain of the Lord's house, 100 — Not temples of the 

Lord, 101. 

Jenkins, Elder J. Howard 102 

Jones, Elder Miles- L 127 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 57 

Lillywhite, Elder John P 121 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 79 

America's chief need — religion, 79 — What is wrong with America? 79— Where' will you be? 79— Prison records of crime, 80— The wisdom of Lincoln, 80 — Our greatest need, 80 — Men must have the new birth, 80 — The power of prayer, 81 — The example of our leaders, 81 —"Seek ye the Lord," 81 — Not faith alone, but works, 82 — Chief 

INDEX 135 

aim of real religion, 82 — We seek to understand youth, 83 — The 

well-balanced life, 83 — Aims of President Grant, 83. 

Martin, Elder Samuel 76 

McKay, Elder David 10 

The joy of friendship, 10 — Meeting God, 10 — In the brotherhood of Christ, 10 — Sacrament meetings, 11 — The Lord's supper, 11- — The significance of the sacrament, 11 — The bond of brotherhood, 12 — Communion with Christ, 13 — Divine guidance, 13 — The sacrament prayer, 13 — A gentleman's word of honor, 13 — Our obligation, 14 — 

Adding sin to sin, 14 — The blessing, IS— Summing up, 15 — Gratitude for membership in the Church, IS. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 16 

Moyle, Elder James H 124 

Nibley, President Charles W 115 

This is Zion, 1 IS — A poor man's church, 116 — For building up the kingdom, 117 — In this goodly land, 118 — Signs of the times, 119 — Blessings invoked, 119. 

Peterson, Elder Joseph L 120 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 18 

Richards, Elder George F 38 

The works of God, 38 — Tempted of satan, 39— Man to have free agency, 39 — Satan's designs and purposes, 40 — A warning to the Latter-day Saints, 41 — A sure and safe lead, 41 — Triumph of God's work assured, 42. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 70 

In the language of youth, 70 — Liberty and safety through obedience, 70 — Manifestations of God's truth, 71 — Teachers of understanding and sympathy, 71 — A proper understanding of religious principles, 72 — Companionships through gospel association, 72 — The attitude of the Church leaders toward youth, 72 — The significance and blessing of temples, 72— The glorious age of youth, 73. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 86 

Robison, Sister Louise Y 84 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 48 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 70 

Smith, Elder David A 34 

Smith, Elder George Albert 22 

Gratitude for blessings of the gospel, 22 — A pure atmosphere, 23 — Our lives enriched by service, 23 — Each should do his part, 24 — Thankful for love of associates and friends, 24 — The Lord's work, 25. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 60 

Duties of watchmen on the towers, 60 — The introduction of the sacrament, 60 — The purpose of sacrament meetings, 61 — Appropriate services, 61 — Solemn assemblies, 62 — Covenants and obligations, 62, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Talmage, Elder James E 65 

Agency and commandments, 66 — Revelation on fundamentals, 66— Obedience a form of energy, 67 — A masterly generalization, 67 — Man's nature to obey, 68 — Law of the tithe — an illustration, 68 — Reward and punishment — natural effects, 69. 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 92 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 112 

Welling, Elder Arthur 128 

Wells, Elder John 53 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 30 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 26 

Land of beauty, 26 — In the Northern States, 26 — Addressing the Rotarians, 27 — Brisbane's admission, 27 — Man's pre-existence and eternal destiny, 28 — The "Mormon" attitude, 29— Regarding inducements, 29 — God's greatest gift, 30. Young, Elder Levi Edgar 112 

Can you answer all of the questions that are put to you about the Church? 

The Official 

History of the Church 

Will answer many of these questions for you. 

IN SIX LARGE VOLUMES 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church. Completing the First Period. 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library  have a set. 

Cloth— Embossed, per vol $2.50 Postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 3.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per vol 6.00 

The above work is suggested as reference in connection with the study of Church History in all of the activities of the Church. 

t^x^v^v^x^x^x^x^* 

For the reader who does not want this exhaustive history, we recommend the one volume book entitled 

Essentials in Church History 

BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"As the title of the book implies, the vital and essential points of history and doctrine have been selected, and as far as possible arranged in chronological order." 

PRICE, CLOTH BINDING— $1.75 LEATHER $5.00 

Dcseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 

The Romance of an Old Playhouse 

BY GEORGE D. PYPER 

A story and history of the Old Salt Lake Theater as recorded by one who knew it the best. It is indeed a privilege to be able to own such a wonderful book and cherish the fond memories of such a man as Geo. D. Pyper. 

BUY A COPY NOW BEFORE THE PRICE ADVANCES. NOW $5.00 NET 

A Book You Have Been Waiting For An India Paper Edition of 

JESUS THE CHRIST 

THAT EXCELLENT TREATISE BY ELDER JAMES E TALMAGE 

Just Fits The Pocket An Excellent Present For The Missionary Friend 

PRICE $5.00 POSTPAID 

Dictionary oi the Book ot Mormon 

BY ELDER GEO. REYNOLDS 

An indispensable reference book for all Book of Mormon students. Comprising its Biographical, Geographical and other proper names. 

EVERY HOME LIBRARY SHOULD HAVE A COPY OF THIS HELPFUL BOOK. 

PRICE $1.50 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 

