Morning
05 10 1929

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, we were all cheered yesterday morning as we listened to the report of our President concerning the growth of the Church. I was particularly impressed with it because it stands out in such contrast to the reports that are coming from government statistics with reference to other churches in this country. Judging from the records of twenty-three churches and their status between the years 1916 and 1926, six of these twenty-three leading denominations in the United States suffered an actual loss in membership; and while the balance showed an increase, there is none of them whose percentage of increase its greater than that of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

STRENGTH AND GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

The record shows that so far as our Church is concerned the amount expended for meeting houses during the past nine months exceeds that for any similar period. This stands in contrast to the record of churches in the United States. On good authority we are informed there are twenty-five thousand vacant churches in the United States without a pastor or a congregation; while here there is growth such as the Church has never had before, with increase and prosperity attending the membership of the Church. 

It is delightful to know that in an age when churches are being, tested and tried and shaken, and doubt and uncertainty are developing, here there is strength, here there is power, here there is solidity; and in the most enlightened age that the world has ever known for this Church to be making its most rapid progress, surely is hopeful. 

But I am not so much concerned with the material growth of the Church or its increase in membership as I am with its growth in good works, in righteousness. I am sure if the Latter-day Saints can be induced to live up to that high standard which God has established for us,  need not worry about the Church's growth in membership nor its material srtength. 

"we believe in being honest" 

I want to read the thirteenth Article of Faith, because there is in it something I would like to speak about, as I feel that the attention of the Latter-day Saints needs to be called to it because of conditions that obtain in the world that will naturally affect us. 

"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul — We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

It is that first declaration of the Prophet in announcing items in the faith of the Latter-day Saints that I wish to speak of : "We believe in being honest." 

Why I speak of this is because we are in an age of self-indulgence so far as the world is concerned, and men are endeavoring to accomplish their ends not always with honest methods. Short cuts are being taken to secure those desirable ends. The records of the United States for the last year show, for instance, that there was stolen from the citizens of this country by hold-ups, at the point of a gun, two billion six hundred and fifty millions of dollars, all of course unlawfully taken. No spirit of honesty here. In stock swindling sales, wherein dishonesty is practiced, and sometimes within the law, there was taken from the people of the United States over six billions of dollars last year. There was lost through trusted employees committing forgeries and thefts one hundred million dollars. The total of these three items for one year is something like nine billions of dollars. How long could this order of things continue to increase as it has been doing until this would no longer be a land of safety and security, but of unsafety and insecurity? If the spirit of dishonesty is in the world naturally we will be influenced by its effects, because we live in a very small world today. What affects any portion of this country or the world, naturally affects us. Recently surety companies guaranteeing the honesty and integrity of men in positions of trust have doubled their rates because of the increasing number who are untrue to their trust. 

It all impresses me, my brethren and sisters, with the need of our harking back to that high standard of old rugged honesty established by the men who laid the foundations of this work. It is here yet, yes; but if we preserve it we must be vigilant, or we shall succumb to the influences that are in the world to corrupt men. 

MR. STUDEBAKER'S TRIBUTE. 

I remember being impressed years ago with the standard of Mormon honesty and integrity, when at the close of a street meeting in the city of South Bend, Indiana, an elderly gentleman wearing a high silk hat, who had driven up in a carriage, asked permission to speak. He was given the privilege and said to the people of that city: "I want you to be kind to these Mormon elders. Their people are my friends. I have known them for many years. They have a motto that appeals to me, and I have discovered that they are living up to their motto, which is that "a Mormon's word is as good as his bond." He remarked that he had sold President Young his first cutter and carriage after arriving in the valley, and that he had sold millions of dollars worth of vehicles to the Mormon people. He declared that he had not lost a single dollar on a Mormon. He further remarked, "I cannot say that of any other community where my company is doing business." 

The old gentleman was Mr. Studebaker, the founder of Studebaker Brothers. I was thrilled to hear his testimony after years of association with our people, that he had discovered that their word was as good as their bond. I believe it will be a word in good season to ask the membership of the Church to preserve sacredly this high standard. I believe that the great majority of the Latter-day Saints are doing so. 

A RULE OF CONDUCT 

I have been thinking about what in this connection I might give as a rule of conduct to follow to preserve this spirit of honesty; and the thing that has impressed me is that God, in the establishment of the law of tithing, of which President Grant spoke yesterday morning, was laying down a course for the Latter-day Saints to foliow that would lead them to be honest with Him first. And I believe that it is essential that we shall be honest with God in order to be fully honest with our fellow men. I believe that the man who understands the law of> tithing and accepts it as the word of the Lord and is not true to it will find it easy not only to rob the Lord but to be untrue to his fellow men. I believe that the first step that men take toward disregarding the laws of man is to disregard the laws of God. 

When France sought to maintain her government, her civilization, by appealing to the rule of Reason, and God was out of the question, she soon came to difficulty. No nation can fully preserve its institutions and wholly disregard God. This government, mighty as it is, and greater as it may become, shall still have to observe and to honor the laws of God, the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ, according to the Book of Mormon prophets, or it cannot stand. So I believe that one of the finest practices to inculcate into the very hearts of men true, genuine honesty is to teach them to be honest before God. "Will a man rob God" ? He asked of the children of Israel of old, and yet He charged them with having robbed Him in tithes and in offerings. 

Here is a chance for men to develop honesty without fear of oppression, without fear of being sued; for the Lord will not sue a man. He gives him the privilege of practicing the principle of honesty out of the high motives of his own heart, impelled towards justice to God, with only the highest principles moving him, and without fear of the collector. I believe therefore that the Latter-day Saints will do  to consider this law as the foundation upon which genuine honesty may be built, not only between God and man, but between man and his fellow man. 

god's rental 

Surely this is a righteous law. It is merely God's rental. A man who gives you right to possess property and the privilege of receiving returns from that property, naturally expects a rental for the use of the land. But what does he guarantee? That the sun will shine; that the moisture will come; that the frost will be stayed; that the soil will germinate? No, he guarantees none of these things , — only right and title to the land. And still we expect to pay rental for that right and title. Who supplies these more essential things — the moisture, the fertility of the soil, the sunshine, the harvest? God Almighty, who provided the earth itself, the proprietor. He wants men to recognize that He is the proprietor, through observing the law of tithing. Any man who fails to pay his just tribute to the provider of these more important and essential things for the sustenance of life, is robbing the Lord and is not just in his dealings. 

A HIGHER LAW 

When the Lord gave this Church the correct principles that shall ultimately be established, known as the Order of Enoch, or the United Order, it was a high ideal for them to aim towards, something to work for, but they lacked preparation for it. When he introduced the law of tithing, he called it a schoolmaster bring us to that higher law. Men and women who can live up to th; s law of tithing will be better prepared for that day to come, for come it will, when there will be some prepared and ready to maintain that higher law which shall be established in the just economy of God, when Christ reigns with men upon earth. 

THE LAW OF INHERITANCE 

And further than that, do we not hope and expect to have an inheritance in the celestial kingdom, even upon this earth in its redeemed and sanctified state? What are the terms under which we may obtain that inheritance? The law of tithing is the law of inheritance. It leads to it. No man may hope or expect to have an inheritance on this celestial globe who has failed to pay his tithing. By the payment of his honest tithing he is establishing a right and a title to this inheritance, and he cannot secure it upon any other terms bat by complying with this and other just requirements; and this is one of the very essential things. 

THEY WHO ENTER THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM. 

I was asked by one of my brethren recently, as he closed the vaults of one of the great banks, to lock up the treasures, whether I thought the day would ever come when treasures could be and would be preserved without fear of being stolen and it would not be necessary to lock them up. I remarked that surely that day will come, for all those who will enter into the celestial kingdom will be so honest that they could live and walk within hand's reach of that which is not theirs with nothing to prevent them from possessing it, following that high standard established in the gospel of Christ, and the rectitude of their own intentions being worked out in actual living. For they who enter that state will be so honest that God can pave the streets with gold and set the walls with jasper and diamonds, without any fear of their being stolen. Yes, there will come such a day. Now, however, we are being proven to see whether we are worthy to enter into these high and holy privileges. 

When Pope said that "an honest man is the noblest work of God," he uttered a truth. I care not how many privileges and blessings, come to men, what their ordinations and baptisms may have been, there is no possibility of their entering into the presence of God by dishonest means. 

Peter said unto the baptized saints in his day, that unto their baptism, they must add faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness. What is godliness ? It is honesty, integrity, purity and virtue. These qualities must be added if men shall seek to gain admittance into that high presence. We cannot for a moment consent to the conceptions of many in the world, that mere ceremonies and ordinances, important as the}' are, are the all-fundamental and important things. They are fundamental, they are important, but the more important thing is the living of the gospel, preparing to enter into that presence by receiving the training necessary and essential; and one of those essential things is to develop within us the spirit of honesty, so that we will be honest with God and honest with our fellow men. 

THE BANKRUPTCY LAW 

There is a law called into existence for the relief of men who are oppressed because of their creditors, and through taking bankruptcy men may be released from their obligations. I have many times been asked the question, who is justified in taking bankruptcy to avoid an obligation ? My answer has been — and I would like to make it here, and if I am wrong I stand to be corrected — that no Latter-day Saint, so long as his creditors give him the chance, the faintest chance, to work out and meet his obligations, ought to resort to accepting the law of bankruptcy. It is only for those who are oppressed, those who have no chance, no hope, and nothing but oppression following them. They may be justified, but surely no one who can possibly work out his problems with his creditors, ought to resort to this means of relieving himself of his obligations. 

A PRECIOUS HERITAGE 

When my father died he was a poor man with a large family, but he left us a credit that I have counted as worth more than millions. I never knew him to do a dishonest thing in all his life, nor would I be  for the whole world to see his acts revealed. I confess to you that has been a greater joy and strength to me than money would have been. I plead with you to leave that kind of an inheritance to your sons and your daughters, that they may be stimulated and inspired by your honesty, by your integrity, by your dependability, to be honest with God and with their fellow men; that that heritage may be left! with them that may inspire them to go on and perpetuate these high standards in preparation for the more glorious things that are to come to those who can maintain such high ideals. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints that we may not forget, in this season of harvesting our bountiful crops, to settle with the Lord and to settle honestly and justly and fully;' that we may see growing in ourselves that spirit of honesty that shall support and sustain us during these perilous times that are upon us and that shall come. I pray for it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

of the Presiding Bishopric 

I desire to express appreciation for my membership in this Church and how thankful I am that the gospel found me in my youth; how glad I am to be in the service of the Lord, and my desire is to be loyal to my brethren. 

The Lord has blessed me with a testimony of the truth. I am so thankful that I am not tossed about with every wind of doctrine that blows. I firmly believe in my God, the Father; and in my Redeemer, Jesus Christ; and in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I want to call attention to an incident in the life of our Master. This was the last day of his public ministry. He was in Jerusalem on that fateful Tuesday before his crucifixion. There, near the Temple treasury, he was questioned by Pharisees, Sadducees and scribes. First, the Pharisees asked him this question: "Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar?" Then a group of Sadducees questioned him concerning a woman who had seven husbands and whose wife 'would shall be in the resurrection ? Then there came to him out of the crowd a lawyer or scribe who propounded a very important question. May I quote from the 12th chapter of the gospel of St Mark: 

"And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? 

"And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is : one Lord: 

"And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength : this is the first commandment. 

"And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. "And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth : for there is one God; and there is none other but he; 

"And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 

"And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God." 

If our deep sense of responsibility to our God and 'to our fellowmen were understood as our Master intended it to be, there would be few other laws needed. There would be no occasion for the states of the Union to enact thirteen thousand laws a year if we were living the two great laws given by Jesus. 

To love one's neighbor is to be a brother to him in the largest, deepest and most serious sense of the term. Neighborliness is helpfulness, sympathy, kindliness and good will, without any expectation of reward. To expect a reward would defeat the very ideals of neighborliness. 

Men and women throughout the United States and in this great Latter-day Saint Church of ours are trying to apply this law. Rich men are disposing of their wealth so that it will be helpful to their neighbors. There are some wonderful examples in this country, of the distribution of great wealth to help those less fortunate. 

Among the Latter-day Saints the principle of neighborliness has prevailed. Years ago I listened to a discourse by President Anthon H. Lund. He emphasized the fact that all mankind are our neighbors, but particularly those of the household of faith. 

Every person should be given an opportunity to live a normal life, and bishops are anxious that the members of their respective wards should have this opportunity. Organizations and societies, particularly the great Relief Society, are always helping men and women to live a normal life. To live such a life it is necessary that the individual have health, an occupation, recreation, an education, and a love of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The man without employment is not living a normal life. Every man should be earning a livelihood for the maintenance of his family. If he does not do this, then someone else must do it, and this frequently leads to the loss of self-respect and pauperism. 

The early pioneers came here almost destitute, but with courage and determination they wrung from the soil the necessities for their sustenance. They took the wool from the sheep; hides were tanned into leather; cotton was cultivated; and clothing was made, mostly at home. Later factories developed. These were small community industries, but they answered the purpose and provided clothing and other necessities for the people. Later came an effort to establish the United Order, but the Latter-day Saints were not prepared for this system of living. Then that great statesman and prophet, Brigham Young, established in many of the communities of the Latter-day 

Saints a cooperative system of buying and selling. Some of these stores are still doing business. Now we are in a competitive era or epoch where great aggregations of capital controlling highly specialized industries, practically dominate the avenues of production. This has compelled men and women to sell their handicraft and ability — what we call labor — for wages upon which they live. Now we have the chain system of buying and selling. What the future holds for the working man is difficult to foresee. 

One of the greatest problems, however, is that of employment, especially for our brethren and sisters who have passed middle age. The other day I read of one great establishment employing fifty thousand men and women. The average age of these employees is thirty-two years. Today is the young man's day. Our older brethren are having quite a struggle. Some of them have reared families, sent boys and girls into the mission field, and haven't been able to accumulate means to sustain themselves in their old age. Tragedy comes into the lives of these men when notice is given them that their services are no longer needed. 

There are quite a number of our people who have failed in their little communities. They become despondent, and, seeing rosy advertisements in the newspapers, think that if they could only get to Salt Lake City they could obtain employment. Many of them suffer disappointment. 

Then there is the problem of the young missionary, nearly a thousand of whom return from the missions each year and find it very hard to establish themselves in the communities where they formerly lived. There is also the problem of the widow left with a family to rear, whose only possession may be a little home and lot. She feels that if she could get to Salt Lake she would be able to do housework, cleaning, etc. Most of this class are disappointed. There are many other angles to this situation which time will not permit me to mention. 

Winter is coming and many who are now employed will soon be discharged. They will come to the bishops and others for help. As much as possible is, being done by the employment department of the Presiding Bishop's Office and by the General Board of Relief Society, but this is largely local. It furnishes help to those only who live within a small radius. There are thousands of others who need assistance. In order to reduce this unemployment, may I make a few suggestions. First, that the presidents of the stakes and high councils, in their monthly meetings, discuss the local situation and try to furnish employment for people who are out of work in their own stakes. Second, the bishoprics of wards at their monthly meetings with the ward teachers should inquire of those in need of employment in ' the various districts. Then every member of that ward should try to furnish it. Third, at the regular bishopric meeting, which should be held every week, the bishopric of the ward should discuss and if possible provide ways and means of helping those who are seeking employment. Fourth, the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood should also help. Their meetings should be something more than calling rolls and discussing doctrine, important as such work may be. If the one hundred and three quorums of high priests, the one hundred quorums of seventy, and nearly five hundred quorums of elders, would make it their business to look after the temporal welfare of their members, marvelous things could be done. There are approximately two thousand classes of high priests, seventies and elders in the various wards, some of these units being quite small, others large, and if they made it a part of their business to find out who is seeking employment, no doubt many could be found employment. All it needs is a little more sympathy, a little more kindness, a little more helpfulness, so that we may show our Master that we are trying to love our neighbor. 

There is another story of the Master on that fateful Tuesday that I desire to mention. After he had left the temple he went with his disciples upon the Mount of Olives and made this statement concerning the future: 

"When the Son of man shall come in his glory and all the holy angels with him, then shall' he sit upon the throne of his glory: 

"And before him shall be gathered all nations : and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats : 

"And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 

"Then shall the King say unto them on his right 'hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world : 

"For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat : I was thirsty and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: 

"Naked, and ye clothed me : I was sick, and ye visited me : I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 

"Then shall the righteous answer him saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee ? or thirsty, and gave thee drink ? 

"When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in ? or naked and clothed 'thee ? 

"Of when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came Unto thee ? 

"And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

The Lord has not blessed all with the same power and ability to acquire wealth. Let us have sympathy for our unfortunate brethren. The unemployment problem would not be a serious one if the members of this great Church of ours would all lend a helping hand and make every effort to retain in the wards not only elderly persons and widows, but the young men and women who frequently leave the community to seek employment and who are so badly needed in the communities where they were reared. 

May the Lord add his blessings to these thoughts. May we think seriously of the suggestions I have made, and may the power and strength of this great congregation be applied as the Master desires — in service to our fellowmen. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am very glad and happy that we as A people have passed safely over another six months period. 

I desire to say to you that my life is being crystallized into a very few things that are important to me. The great hope that I have is to be saved in the kingdom of God. I have a great desire to be true and faithful and devoted in my work; to be honest, frank and straightforward with the people. I know of no other way. I can see no other outlook, and I have no other desire than to sustain the priesthood of God, to uphold those whom we sustain as prophets, seers and revelators in the Church of Christ. If there is not safety in this there is no safety for the Latter-day Saint people. 

I have never in all my travelings and teachings among the people been told what to say. I realize the importance of this occasion. I understand what time means. At the conference six months ago I was fortunate in being called upon, and I occupied three minutes. To my surprise I was complimented everywhere I went. People say it was the best sermon I ever preached. Of course, did I believe what they said to me I would close now; but I have what I think is a message, at least I desire to call your attention to a certain matter that transpired with me this year. 

About the fourteenth or fifteenth of August Dr. George W. Middleton, together with Elder Levi Edgar Young and the doctor's son, (I was an invited guest), went by auto to Casper, Wyoming, 515 miles distant from Salt Lake City. The purpose of the meeting which we there attended, was to honor the pioneers. It was held under the auspices of the Oregon Trail Memorial Association. The officers of this Memorial Association are as follows : President, Howard R. Driggs; Vice-President, David G. Wylie; Secretary, Ellen Eaton; Treasurer, Guthrie Y. Barber. There are also fifteen directors. Dr. Middleton is appointed to look after the markers in Utah. 

I now read the parting words of Mr. Meeker: 

" 'I am not quite ready to go; my work is unfinished,' were at once a benediction and a request to the Memorial Association. They reflect the inner spirit of the foundation of the Oregon Trail Memorial Association. At the same time they lay sacredly upon us the great cause for which he gave his last full measure of devotion." 

It is not my purpose to enlarge upon this Oregon Trail subject. Never before, strange to say, (and I was born soon after the people arrived in this valley) did I get the spirit of what it all meant. I have never understood, I have never comprehended, what it all meant to our fathers and mothers, the pioneers. But I confess to you that I have had that feeling burning within my bosom, that desire, to do honor to those great men and great women who made it possible in this day for us to enjoy all the comforts of life. I quote from Professor Driggs: 

"We are brought a little closer to the tragic cause of it all when we realize that fully twenty thousand lost their lives in an effort to reach the Golden West They had no means of marking the graves of the dead in those prairie stretches. Only one grave out of all of the twenty thousand, so far as we know, is surely marked. I refer here to the grave of the pioneer mother near Scott's Bluff, Nebraska. When Rebecca Winters passed away one of the company had the forethought to pick up an old wagon tire that lay along the trail. Bending it into an oval he set the tire within the grave. On the top of the tire was chiseled the mother's name and age. A party of surveyors laying out the railroad along the North Platte happened by mere chance to run their line right over the mother's grave. Then the surveyors, with a touch sympathy that is beautiful to think of, went back for twenty miles and changed the line of survey, that it might miss the mother's grave." 

That is the purpose of this organization, and they contemplate in the year 1930 a great gathering at Independence Rock. They desire to make that a national marker in the United States. It is a great barren rock. I have read of it many times but never saw it before. These markers will call the attention of the people to what has been accomplished by these pioneers, a thing that many people know very little about. I desire to be one among the number to honor such men and women. 

At Casper we held a meeting Friday evening. I think there were something like two hundred people assembled, who were among the best and choicest of the people of that community. Professor Driggs, Elder Levi Edgar Young and Dr. Middleton talked. The people were friendly, they were courteous, they were in sympathy with the Mormon pioneer people as well as the Memorial Association of the Oregon trail. 

There is a story — it is beautiful — I love to make an effort to tell it. The history of the West sounds like tales of the Arabian Nights; but as far as I know only parts of it have ever been told. 

Dr. Driggs asks: "Will the warp hold? It will hold providing we can keep alive the sacred stories of the pioneer builders of this nation in the hearts of American boys and girls." 

Coincident with the Mormon Pioneer movement their prophet prophesied they would go to the Rocky Mountains, and, in a way, they were forced to go west. They started out not for conquest, not intent upon spoil, but to worship God, build up cities, do mighty deeds and to build for greater happiness. 

Had it not been for great spiritual leaders this barren wilderness could never have been peopled in so short a time, and it would not have gained much momentum had it not been for immigration. It would appear that this people threw themselves almost blindly into what would seem to the natural man, impossible, but under the leadership of inspired men they accomplished the unbelievable. 

We must not forget to remind the next generations of the glorious strength of faith, hope, courage and the love of God they possessed. 

Try to remember that the pioneer, no matter of what race, is fast disappearing. Often he is a tragic figure. History is leaving him . Few of us are so gifted as to be able to attract and to converse intelligently with our own children. A parent must be a genius to tell of the days of their strength, the days of their suffering, sorrows and defeats, and yet make clear how they won glorious victories. 

The next generation cannot feel, neither can they understand, sense or appreciate what it all means, surrounded as they are with ease, comforts and luxuries. They are unmindful, and it should be burned into their souls and memories, to respect the doting pioneer, tottering with old age, to remember their minds are stored with the richest experience and historic lore. 

We have no way of testing and proving the next generation, through trials, sacrifices and suffering; neither can we force these historical truths upon them, and to reason would seem fruitless. It is said: "People shape their lives largely the way we are today living." 

I have thought a great deal about our fathers and mothers and their great object, and I have wondered what it was that the Latter-day Saint people had — the desire, the ambition, the faith and the hope — that enabled them to sacrifice, suffer and die for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am made to understand what their great objective was. Something new had transpired. God the Father and Jesus Christ the Son had appeared to that young man Joseph; and also the everlasting gospel, a knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus Christ and the power of God unto salvation, had been revealed. The restoration of the gospel, the restoring of the priesthood with all its keys and its powers and authorities were conferred upon these men; also the eternity of the marriage covenant, including a plurality of wives. 

The bringing forth of the Book of Mormon, the redemption of Zion, and the building up the City of Jerusalem, and the gathering of the Ten Tribes — these were the great objectives that were placed before our fathers and mothers. 

I often think of mother, and while she was a very practical woman, a woman who lived by faith, a woman who had suffered and sacrificed, a woman who had left her whole race of people and was the only one we know of who has ever been converted from her immediate family, yet mother had that great vision of the celestial glory, of becoming a queen. And surely she is a queen, because when I visited her people I brought to her over one hundred names of her ancestors, and we went into the temple at Logan and did the work for that good mother of ours. 

That was the dream, that was the great vision, that they had of the future; and that was why they were sustained in their suffering and in their sacrifices and in their troubles and in their tragedies. 

My dear brethren and sisters, what is your objective? That question has been put to me more than once. Our objective is to carry out the will of God and through the direction of his servants the prophets to fulfil every prophecy and every revelation that we find written in the Doctrine and Covenants; for surely God will not forsake his people if they will repent of their sins. It is needless for me to say more. 

For the past week or so I have read the Book of Mormon through, and I was surprised how deeply interested I became in the people who inhabited this continent. I discovered that whenever they served God and kept his commandments they prospered in the land; and whenever they failed (and I hope we will never fail) then came their destruction, until that people became extinct. 

I pray God to bless you. I pray God to be with each and all of us, for I do not believe that a man can remain faithful in this Church and devoted and true to his covenants, who fails to keep the commandments and who has not a testimony that Jesus is the Christ. To this end I pray that the blessings of the Lord may rest upon us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I realize that I am standing in the presence of the strength of Israel; in the presence of men who have been tried and proved; who have been called to responsible positions in the Church, in stakes, in wards, and in missions. These calls have come because of integrity and obedience to the principles of the gospel and the kingdom of God. 

DUTIES OF WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS 

I desire to address myself more particularly to you, my brethren. We are watchmen on the towers of Zion. The Lord has placed in our hands great and wonderful responsibilities. No men anywhere in all the earth, no matter what their calling, hold responsibility equal to that which we have received, for we have had conferred upon us the priesthood of God. We are possessed of divine authority and have been set apart as his servants and watchmen upon the towers of Zion. Our duty is to teach, to guide and direct the members of the Church in the path of righteousness. Our duty is to set examples before the world, that they, seeing our good works, may glorify our Father in heaven, and have faith and confidence in us. It is our duty to warn all men and endeavor to teach them the truth, so that those who will not hearken may be left without excuse. 

I endorse all that has been said at this conference and I hope that the things we have been taught will find place in our hearts and that they may never be removed. Something has been said, very timely, very necessarily, in regard to the sacrament, in regard to the Word of Wisdom, the payment of tithing and offerings, in regard to fasting and other principles of the gospel. There are one or two thoughts that I desire to present in relation to the question of the sacrament, more particularly in regard to the meetings that have been set apart in the Church by revelation, by commandment of the Lord, for the partaking of these emblems representing the body and the blood of Jesus Christ. 

THE INTRODUCTION OF THE SACRAMENT 

In my judgment the sacrament meeting is the most sacred, the most holy, of all the meetings of the Church. When I reflect upon  gathering of the Savior and his apostles on that memorable night when he introduced the sacrament; when I think of that solemn occasion my heart is filled with wonderment and my feelings are touched. I consider that gathering one of the most solemn and wonderful since the beginning of time. There the Savior taught them of his coming sacrifice, which in their bewilderment they could not understand. He plainly told them of his death and that his blood should be shed, and this was said in the very hour of his agony for the sins of the world. It was a very solemn occasion; there the sacrament was instituted, and the disciples were commanded to meet together often and commemorate the death and sufferings of Jesus Christ, for his sacrifice was for the redemption of the world. He was about to take upon him the responsibility of paying the debt brought upon the world through the fall, that men might be redeemed from death and from hell. He had taught the people that he was to be lifted up that he might draw all men unto him, and that all who would repent and believe in him, keeping his commandments, should not suffer for he would take upon himself their sins. 

THE PURPOSE OF SACRAMENT MEETINGS 

We have been called upon to commemorate this great event and to keep it in mind constantly. For this purpose we are called together once each week to partake of these emblems, witnessing that we do remember our Lord, that we are willing to take upon us his name and that we will keep his commandments. This covenant we are called upon to renew each week and we cannot retain the Spirit of the Lord if we do not consistently comply with this commandment. If we love the Lord we will be present at these meetings in the spirit of worship and prayer, remembering the Lord and the covenant we are to renew each week through this sacrament as he has required it of us. 

APPROPRIATE SERVICES 

I do not believe that the Lord is pleased with us when we turn this sacred meeting into a concert. I do not believe that he is pleased with us if we assemble in this meeting in a spirit of levity and not solemnity. I am sure he is not pleased when men are called to speak in these services whose hearts are not touched by the principles of the gospel, and when they have no faith in the mission of Jesus Christ, and when they cast doubts upon the efficacy of his atonement and the sacrifice he made for the sins of the world. I am sure he is not pleased when we meet on such occasions to be amused, to be entertained, rather than to be instructed and to obtain spiritual education and thought and reflection. 

I do not believe it is necessary, very frequently at least, for presiding officers to go outside of their wards and stakes to find speakers; not that this is something they should never do, but I think we many times ignore worthy men living in our wards who are filled with the spirit of the gospel. I know it is not pleasing to me when I attend a service and someone is called upon to speak who stands before the people and presents, though it be in a pleasing way, some platitudes, some philosophy of men, — the ideas of those who today mould the thought of the world, but who in their own hearts have no faith in or love for Jesus Christ — or who discuss questions at variance with the fundamental principles of the gospel. I think this is an occasion when the gospel should be presented, when we should be called upon to exercise faith and to reflect on the mission of our Redeemer and to spend time in thei consideration of the saving principles of the gospel, and not for other purposes. Amusement, laughter, lightmindedness, are all out of place in the sacrament meetings of the Latterday Saints. We should assemble in the spirit of prayer, of meekness, with devotion in our hearts. I know of no other place where we can gather where we should be more reflective and solemn and where more of the spirit of worship should be maintained. 

SOLEMN ASSEMBLIES 

The Lord called upon the people in an early day of the Church to meet in solemn assembly, and speaking of these assemblies, he said : 

"Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing, and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God; 

"That your incomings may be in the name of' the Lord, that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord, that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High." 

"Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings." 

We should not get the idea from this scripture that the Lord is displeased with us when we laugh, when we have merriment, if it is on the right occasions. He has said, however, that in our solemn assemblies such things as light-mindedness, laughter and merriment are out of order. We should cease from all light speeches, laughter and wrongful thoughts and desires, from all things which will detract from the teachings and the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. 

I felt that I would like to say this much after listening to the excellent remarks on the sacrament and the purpose for which it was instituted. 

COVENANTS AND OBLIGATIONS 

In conclusion I want to ask you a few questions, and I speak, of course, to all the members of the Church. Do you think a man who comes into the sacrament service in the spirit of prayer, humility, and worship, and who partakes of these emblems representing the body and blood of Jesus Christ, will knowingly break the commandments of the Lord? If a man fully realizes what it means when he partakes of the sacrament, that he covenants to take upon him the name of Jesus Christ and to always remember him and keep his commandments, and this vow is renewed week by week — do you think such a man will fail to pay his tithing? Do you think such a man will break the Sabbath day or disregard the Wjord of -Wisdom? Do you think he will fail to be prayerful, and that he will not attend his quorum duties and other duties in the Church? It seems to me that such a thing as a violation of these sacred principles and duties is impossible when a man knows what it means to make such vows week by week unto the Lord and before the saints. 

If we have the right understanding we will live in full accord with the principles of truth and walk in righteousness before the Lord. How can we receive his Spirit otherwise? I can see the significance in the commandment the Lord has given us to assemble frequently and partake of these emblems in commemoration of his death. It is our duty to assemble and renew our covenants and take upon us fresh obligations to serve the Lord and keep his sayings of which we have heard so much during this conference. How can a man go forth after making such covenants and cheat his neighbor? or rob the Lord? or violate any other commandment and refuse to walk in the light of truth? I am sure if we could picture before us — as I have tried many times to do — the solemn occasion when the Savior met with his apostles; if we could see them there assembled, the Lord in his sadness, sorrowing for the sins of the world, sorrowing for one of his apostles 1 who was to betray him, yet teaching these eleven men who loved him and making covenant with them, I am sure we would feel in our hearts that we would never forsake him. If we could see them there assembled and could realize the weight of the burden which was upon our Lord; and after their supper and the singing of an hymn, their going forth, the Lord to be betrayed, mocked and scorned, the disciples to forsake him in the deepest hour of his trial — if we could understand all this, feebly though it be, and feebly it must be, I am sure, my brethren and sisters, we would forever more want to walk in the light of truth. If we could see the Savior of men suffering in the garden and upon the cross and could fully realize all that it meant to us, we would desire to keep his commandments and we would love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our might, mind and strength, and in the name of Jesus Christ would serve him. 

That we may have the desire to do this I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We would appreciate it if each of the brethren whose names I will read, would leave word at the Bureau of Information, if they are here; because I do not like to call on them if they are not here. 

We have been in the habit of hearing from our United States mission presidents, nearly always at these conferences, but we have neglected Brothers Andrew Johnson, J. A. Cahoon, Samuel Martin, Charles H. Hyde, J. Howard Jenkins, Lorenzo W. Anderson, Joseph L. Peterson, and Alma G. Burton. Some of these brethren have been home nearly a year. 

If Brother Hyde is here now we would like to hear from him. If the other brethren whose names I have mentioned, who have been here for six months or more, will send in their names we would like to hear from some of them — briefly, of course. 

As I said six months agoy I say today: I really feel in my heart that we ought to have at least three days of conference and one meeting in addition. We cannot seem to get through and hear from as many people as we would like to hear from. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HYDE 

Former President of the Australian Mission 

I am delighted to have the opportunity of being able to represent the Australian Mission. I have labored among the people of that islandcontinent for something over seven years in all, having performed two missions among them. 

I was delighted with the remarks of Elder Rey L. Pratt yesterday concerning the Book of Mormon. We have endeavored in Australia to present that book to the people, and I believe that we were highly successful in the effort. A great many books were placed in the homes of the people of that land, especially during 1927. We endeavored to makq it a memorial year. The elders caught the spirit of it and did a splendid work in presenting that book to the people. We gained an additional testimony of the divinity of the book through our efforts. I would like to say, too, that we gained a wonderful physical testimony of the divinity of the Book of Mormon; in journeying from San Francisco to Sydney, Australia, in coming in contact with the people of the Hawaiian islands and the Samoan islands, and learning something of them and their present conditions; and then coming in contact with the more western peoples of the Fiji islands and the Solomon islands, and especially with the aborigines of Australia. Wje realize the marked differences between the Polynesian races and those more western peoples, and we recognize in the Polynesians, Israelites, the children of God. They are responsive to the teachings of the gospel and to all civilizing and educational influences, while those of the more western tribes are not nearly so susceptible and have been long removed from any contact with 'gospel influences. 

Among the people of Australia, those who have settled there in the last one hundred years, we find a splendid type of people, many of them responsive to the teachings of the gospel; and they long to hear the testimonies of the servants of the Lord. However, we are handicapped, as many of the other missions are, through the lack of elders. There are but thirty-two elders now laboring in Australia, endeavoring to reach something over seven millions of people scattered  an area of country nearly as large as the United States. Of course these people are congregated in a great measure in the larger cities of Australia, which makes them to some degree more easily reached. But we find that the people living in the country districts are more susceptible to gospel influences and more ready to listen to the elders, and they are harder to reach because of the long distances the elders have to travel. 

However, there is a growth among that people numerically as well as spiritually. With the new members and the natural growth of the Church we are able to just keep ahead of the number who die and those who drop out of the faith. Our numbers increase a little each year. 

The people there are very faithful in the payment of their tithing. The per capita tithing reaches a very high, figure, and we are glad to see the manifestations of the faith of those who have identified themselves with the work of the Lord. 

It is a very good mission to work in. It has many advantages of an educational nature that our young men would be pleased to enjoy if they really understood the conditions in that land. The people of Australia are an educated people. Many of the children ten or twelve years old among that people read the Book of Mormon in our classes just as readily as do our elders. They have a splendid school system and) all things that tend towards the growth and development of that good people. 

I rejoice in the testimonies that the Lord has blessed me with, for his sustaining power and influence while engaged in that missionary work. I testify that the Lord is with the elders, the power of the priesthood is manifested among them, they enjoy the spirit of their calling in rich measure, and they return home blessed and favored of the Lord because of 'their faithful efforts. 

May the Lord add his blessings to us and to the good people in that far-off land, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! What more can He say than to you He hath said, You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled ?" 

The grand old hymn loses none of its inspiration with time. It is well to consider what the Lord hath said and to act in accordance therewith. The tenor of the instruction thus far given in the present conference has been this: Keep the commandments of the Lord! A grand summation indeed; and if that admonition were followed in spirit and by effort there would be little need, as has been suggested, of dealing with particular and specific commandments. AGENCY AND COMMANDMENTS 

We boast much of our freedom and agency, and I find some who seem to have difficulty in reconciling the thoughts of freedom and individual agency on the one hand with the fact that we are living under commandment on the other hand. 

In the scripture already quoted to you the purpose of placing man upon the earth has been declared : "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them." A plainer or more comprehensive statement than that of the Lord's purpose could scarcely be conceived — to see whether we shall do whatsoever the Lord shall command us — because our agency enables us to do or to refrain from so doing, for the Lord will not compel. 

This life is ofttimes, and very properly, referred to as a probation. "And we will prove them" the Lord says, putting us upon test, to see whether we will exercise our agency in choosing to do whatsoever the Lord our God requires of us. The Lord wants to know about that. Perhaps His foreknowledge shows the result to Him, but it is necessary that we demonstrate it. There is much work ahead of us, and the Lord desires to know whom He can trust with authority and power beyond the grave, so this probationary period has been provided that we may prove and demonstrate beyond all question as to whether we can be trusted, as to whether we shall be entitled to the welcome: Well done; you have been faithful over what may have seemed to be a few things, and perhaps relatively small things, but you have been proved and you have shown that you can be trusted with many and greater things. 

REVELATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 

In the early days of the Church, indeed before the Church was organized as a body corporate among men, the Lord gave revelation after revelation, specific and of profound importance. That revealment was the foundation, and how firm a foundation it is! I should be very much surprised if the Lord were revealing today the same fundamental principles, for they have already been revealed, and under His command they have been recorded; they form the constitution of the Church. Revelation is coming from Him day by day through inspiration to His servants, and we should note the trend of that inspiration and the particular principles that are emphasized from time to time. Are we today hearers of that word alone, or doers of it ? You Bishops of Wards, Presidents of Stakes, members of the Church, will you simply remember that something was said at this conference, or will you go hence to carry into effect in your several fields what has been presented and what shall yet be presented unto you as requiring especial attention? We are not looking for something new in the sense of that that has never before been given to this people, but we are looking to see the way the Spirit is pointing as to those particular duties that are most especially important' to us at this period. OBEDIENCE A FORM OF ENERGY 

There is a profound principle embodied in that admonition to keep the commandments of the Lord. Have you ever thought of the fact that there is a power, an actual force, a definite form of energy, in obedience? That energy is just as real as the force that is giving light to these lamps serving in the hours of darkness to illuminate this great auditorium for us. I think we shall yet come to recognize the force, the power, the energy, that lies in obedience. We have many demonstrations of it. 

I have been impressed with the fact that the scientific spirit, as man calls it, is manifest in the organization of this Church and in its operation. It is only through obedience to what we call the forces of nature, the laws of energy, that we are able to make them serve our purposes. We would have none of these lights unless we obeyed strictly, with full purpose of heart, the laws of electricity. 

Yesterday morning between nine and ten o'clock Mountain Time, we heard in this city the very voice of the Premier of Great Britain who had just landed at the port of New York. How was that miracle made possible ? Through strict obedience to the laws by which the energy was employed and then applied through the radio, and in none other way would the marvel have been wrought. We have to obey the laws of light, the laws of mechanical construction, and the laws of chemistry if we would operate the camera successfully and get good pictures. That time-piece yonder would be worth nothing had not the laws of mechanics been very strictly obeyed in its construction. It is only through obedience to law that we enjoy blessings. 

A MASTERLY GENERALIZATION 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, as is common with the prophets of God, went beyond the inventors and discoverers and gave to us in a generalization — one that challenged the attention of thinkers who paid attention to it — one that embodied the solemn truth that by law irrevocably decreed, not for this earth alone, but before the foundations of the earth, it is ordained that when we obtain any blessing it is by and through obedience to the law upon which that blessing is predicated. Those who considered this said : Well of course; we knew that before, but we had not thought of it. So always with generalizations of great import. All of them are wonderfully simple, but it has been said, and with propriety, that none but a genius or a prophet can safely generalize. 

What of the leper in Syria who through obedience was healed of his leprosy? What of the widow who went to Elisha, that man of God, when she was in great distress, and by compliance with and unquestioning obedience to the commands he gave her, she and her children were provided for? We may live under the blessings associated with law, if we will obey. GENERAL CONFERENCE 's nature to obey 

There appear to be many contradictions in human nature. Have you ever thought of the fact that it is really natural to man not only to obey, but to desire to obey ? Think of the wealth that is being applied to investigation and research in science, and what is the great purpose of it all ? Let us confine ourselves to what we call, artificially, perhaps, physical science. Our great men are at work in laboratories, and we think it nothing now to expend millions upon the equipment and maintenance of such institutions. Summed up, what are they trying to do? To discover new laws. Not to create them; you cannot create laws of nature, but to discover new laws. For what purposes? So that they can put themselves in subjection to those laws, to obey them. What? To be subject to new laws? Yes, because there are blessings predicated upon each of those laws, and men want those blessings. Men of science know very well that blessings cannot be obtained except through obedience to the corresponding laws. And then in strange inconsistency we find some who say that though we have to comply with physical law, natural law as we call it, in order to enjoy the blessings connected therewith, it is not necessary to comply with laws relating to the spiritual activities of man. 

LAW OF THE TITHE — AN ILLUSTRATION 

The law of tithing has been referred to as an illustration. But, brethren, take this to heart : the inspired servants of the Lord tell you at this conference no new principle connected with tithing, but they tell you it is necessary that you give your attention to the living of that law! Take that home with you, put it into effect in your stakes and wards, and let every member of the Church take it home with him and put it into effect. The Lord knows why he has inspired His servants to say that unto you at this time; that it is necessary that this people shall live up to that law. If there were time I would like to consider with you that sublime principle and law. Do you know that the soil can be sanctified by the tithing of its products ? The land can be sanctified. There is a relationship between the elements and forces of nature, and the actions of men. Did not the Lord sanctify the land to Israel of old as long as His covenant people lived up to their covenants ? He warned them of what would come if they forfeited that sanctification. He told them of the destruction that would come upon them, and it came because they chose the evil alternative, in large measure. 

We should be sanctified, our homes should be sanctified, and we can attain that condition in part by living up to that portion of the law, and in its entirety by living up to the law in its fulness. Are you feeding your children tithed food? Are they wearing tithed clothing? We are to be tithed people. That was characteristic of the covenant people of old. It will be so ever. The law of tithing will abide, though it may be superseded by a yet higher law to which we shall learn to subscribe. 

REWARD AND PUNISHMENT — NATURAL EFFECTS 

Again, the Lord has said that according to the laws we obey here shall we receive from Him. We speak of rewards just as we speak of punishments. But rewards and punishments will come through the operation of law. The Lord has spoken illustrating that great truth by reference to what He had already revealed respecting the kingdoms or orders of glory, to this effect — If a man cannot or will not obey celestial laws, that is, live in accordance with the celestial requirements, he must not think that he is discriminated against when he is excluded from the celestial kingdom, because he could not abide it, he could not live there. If a man cannot or will not obey the terrestrial law he cannot rationally hope for a place in the terrestrial kingdom. If he cannot live the yet lower law — the telestial law — he cannot abide the glory of a, telestial kingdom, and he will have to be assigned therefore to a kingdom without glory. I rejoice in the consistency and order of the Lord's plan and in His revelations to us. 

Let us go forth carrying the spirit of this conference into effect, that the word of the Lord may be something more to us than mere sound; and so I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Wfe rejoice in knowing that our patriarch, whose health is such that he cannot be with us, is resting quietly and hearing by means of the radio the proceedings of this conference. It is a source of a great deal of regret to us that he is not with us. 

Brother Smoot, as you all know, is actively engaged in work at Washington, and cannot be with us. He is laboring with all his might and main, and I regret to say that his health is not as vigorous as it has been in the past. The great burdens resting upon him are telling very strongly upon him physically. 

Brother Widtsoe is thoroughly enjoying his labors, and is accomplishing a fine work in Great Britain. 

I have received a very grateful expression of thanks for the amplifying sets that have been arranged to accommodate those who are hard of hearing. They appreciate them very much. 

My attention has been called to the fact that I did not mention Brother John P. Lillywhite as one of the returned mission presidents from whom we have not yet heard. Brother Lillywhite and his good wife 'are here with us. The reason I did not mention him is that we have not yet had time to neglect him, as he has been home but a few days 

The congregation sang "Redeemer of Israel," and the benediction was pronounced by Elder A. Richard Peterson, President of the Emery Stake. 


