Afternoon
09 04 1899



PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Individual responsibility of the Saints— Their aims and hopes— Self-sacrifice a l at-is ol exaltation 

To stand up before this congregation and attempt to speak with the hope of instructing them, requires, it seems to me, some faith. I do not think that any man who understands the responsibilty of a position of this character would attempt to do it, unless he could hope to have the assistance of the Spirit of God. 

The servants of God have spoken with great plainness and a large amount of instruction has been given in this conference, and no doubt all of us feel that it is one of the best conferences we have ever attended. I think we always look upon the present conference as the best conference, and I hope we will be justified in this feeling by the spirit we shall enjoy during the remainder of the time. 

There are so many subjects that are intimately connected with our lives and with the growth and development of the work, that a man cannot be at a loss for something to say, if he has the Spirit of the Lord; in fact, at times the abundance of subjects makes it rather embarrassing, and it requires the dictation of the Holy Ghost to enable us to say those things that are suited to the people and their circumstances. I earnestly desire, in the remarks that I shall make, to be dictated entirely by the Spirit of the Lord. I have looked at this large assembly, and I have thought what a vast variety of thought there must be in the breasts of those present; what hopes, what desires, what fears, what anticipations each one indulges in. Life to the Latter-day Saints possesses a seriousness that I do not think other people feel, because of our knowledge concerning our existence here, why we have come here, and what lies before us. There is an individuality about the members of this Church that I do not think can be found elsewhere. We feel our individual responsibility. We are not taught to rely upon priests, or teachers, or apostles, or prophets; but each one is taught to be responsible himself. In our Church the wife is not taught to feel that she is divested of responsibility, and that it rests solely upon her husband. Sons and daughters, as soon as they are capable of comprehending the truth, are taught their responsibility also. In our Sunday schools, in our associations, and in all the gatherings of our young people, as far as my knowledge extends, this feature is kept constantly in view. Of course, they are taught to look for guidance, but not to rely upon anyone to do that which properly devolves upon them as living souls in the sight of God. They are impressed with their individual responsibility. In this respect I think we are a peculiar people, 'different from every other people upon the face of the earth. This makes us a serious and thoughtful people. "We ponder carefully upon our lives, and we consider well our course of action. And I think this characteristic will grow among us. I hear of little children bearing testimony in the Sunday schools, and doing so by the Spirit of God; and by that they are made to feel their individual responsibility before the Lord. In my opinion, this is a good thing. I believe our future will be greatly enchanced by this kind of training, and we shall have a class of people grow up among us different from all others. It may be gradual — so gradual that we will scarcely notice its growth; but the growth will take place. 

In connection with this, the question arises, "What are the aims and the hopes of the Latter-day Saints? Why is it, it may be asked, that the "Mormon" people are willing to undergo such privations, such persecutions and such banishments as they have endured in the past, and such obloquoy, hatred and animosity as they do at present? It is a serious question for the world to answer, and it possesses some gravity for us as members of the Church of Christ. What are our hopes? If I were to ask this congregation, What has caused you to leave your homes and your friends, notwithtstanding their persuasions or their threats, and cast your lot among a people with such a bad name as the Latter-day Saints have? how different would be the an in some respects, and yet how similar in other respects. The Latterday Saints have been animated by hopes that no other people possess. Allusion was made the other day to the kind of heaven we anticipate. There are no people upon the earth who have such ambitious hopes and aims as the Latter-day Saints have. Some would call them irreverent. But the Lord has made promises to this people, and the Latter-day Saints believe in them. On that account they put their trust in the Lord, and are willing to endure all things for His sake.  I will read a little from one of the revelations of the Lord. Speaking of those who receive the testimony of Jesus, and who overcome by faith the Lord says: 

"They are they which are the Church of the firstborn. 

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things." 

Now, these are not idle words, given merely to round out a sentence; but they are full of meaning. 

"They are they who are Priests and Kings, who have received of His fulness, and of His glory, 

"And are Priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchisedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son; 

"Wherefore, as it is written, they are Gods, even the sons of God. 

"Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs, and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's." —Section 76: pars. 54-59. 

Yesterday Brother Teasdale quoted something from section 84, which I wish to emphasize. These are the words: 

"And also all they who receive this Priesthood, receiveth me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants, receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him." 

Notice the last clause, "All that my Father hath" — not a part, but "all that my Father hath shall be given unto him." That language admits of no mistake. It corresponds with the other language that I have read in your hearing. It also corresponds with what the Lord says in section 93: 

"I give unto you these sayings that ye may understand and know how to worship; and know what you worship; that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of His fulness; 

"For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of His fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace." 

This same revelation goes on to say: 

"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying, He receiveth a fullness of truth, yea, even of all truth, 

"And no man receiveth a fullness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." 

Time will not admit of my reading any more passages, but these are sufficiently plain to reveal to us that which God has in contemplation for His faithful children. The Latter-day Saints are promised, if they are faithful, that they shall receive the fullness, as Jesus received it: and Jesus received it as the Father received it. In the words of Paul, they become heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. There is nothing that the Savior has attained unto that God's faithful children are not promised. They are promised the same blessings, the same power, the same authority, the same gifts, the same graces. I know that we are apt to think that heaven is a sort of spiritual place. It Is spiritual; but God our Eternal Father is a being of power. He controls the earth and the inhabitants thereof; He controls the elements of the earth; and we are promised that we shall be sharers with Him. He will give us an equal interest in all this power and authority. What is more desirable to roan, generally speaking, than to wield power? Mankind aim for it. To what lengths will ambitious men go to wield power, to sit upon thrones and to wield a sceptre of authority! History tells us that men have been willing to wade through seas of blood to gratify this ambition. Now, this ambition can be gratified righteously by keeping the commandments of God; and a righteous man will exercise righteous authority. That is the object God had in view in sending us here. Through faithfully keeping His commandments we may at unto power— not illegitimate power, but lawful power— and wield it for our own exaltation and for the exaltation of other human beings. It is God's design to make us priests and kings; not to have an empty title, not to sit upon thrones without power, but to be actually and really priests and kings. The promise is that all things that He hath shall be given unto us. We will be His heirs; we will be (if I may use the term without irreverence) co-partners with Him in all this power and authority. I do not know whether all the Latter-day Saints grasp this idea. It is important that we should. 

We heard some talk this morning upon the principle of tithing. People wonder how it is that the Latter-day Saints pay their tithing. Some think it must swell the coffers of the Church and fatten the leaders. But they would not wonder if they understood the principle. Brother Brigham Young told us this morning that the law of tithing was an inferior law. It is. The law of consecration is a higher law, and it was revealed to us, but we were not perpared to receive and act upon it. The result is, we are not doing what we ought to in this respect. The Lord requires from us consecration. Why does He ask you and me to consecrate all we have and hold it subject to His will? If He is going to take us into partnership He wants to know in the first place whether we will be willing to 'do as He wants us and to share all that we have with Him. I was pleased with a little incident that occurred in my own family the other day. I gave two of my little children some money, and after a while something arose that caused me to need some money, and their mother said to these children, "Your father needs some money." The children went and got their banks, and said, "Here, father, you can have all I have in this bank." I was greatly delighted with the spirit of the children. I did not say anything, but I thought to myself, "That illustrates the principles that Father in heaven is trying to teach us, His children. He gives us something, and when He asks for anything He wants us to be just as liberal as He has been in giving it." Those who have faith and who rise to the comprehension of the dignity and exaltation that God intends to bestow upon us, will mot hesitate to give everything they have to the Lord, but it requires faith. The Lord might require us to lay down our lives. That would require faith, would it not? Yes. But what is the promise? That we shall have eternal life and be exalted in His presence. Therefore, those who wish to attain to this exaltation must cherish sublimity of feeling, sublimity of selfsacrifice. They must not only be willing to pay their tithing, but be willing to give everything they have got on the earth — wives and children, and everything else. If I cannot give up my wife and all my children, if required, — if I cannot lay down my life, if necessary, God help me! I do not know what I might do, but God help me to do it if the test ever comes. But if I am not willing to do this, I cannot hope to attain to that exaltation and receive that fullness which the Lord has promised unto us, if we are faithful. 

Therefore, shall we hesitate about tithing? Shall we hesitate about anything else, with such objects in view and with such righteous ambition as God has implanted in our hearts? No, we cannot hesitate if we have faith. The world say: "Oh, you are led by priests, who are dominating you and tyrannizing over vou, and using you for their own purposes." But what has God said? what has He promised to us? That is the question for us to ask. We must not look at what the world says; it is what God says that we must act upon. And I say to you this day, in the presence of God and the holy angels and of this assembly, if we expect to attain the fulfillment of the promises God has made to us, we must be selfsacrificing. There is no sacrifice that God can ask of us, or His servants whom He has chosen to lead us, that we should hesitate about making. In one sense of the word, it is no sacrifice. We may call it so, because it comes in contact with our selfishness and our unbelief; but it ought not to come in contact with our faith. The infidel says, 'What a monster God was to ask Abraham to offer up his only son as a sacrifice — to ask him to break a law which He Himself had given to man, wherein He said, Thou shalt not kill." That law was embodied in the ten commandments, but it dated back to the early  of man upon the earth. Human life was sacred; God had made it so. He had made murder the worst crime that could be committed by man against his fellow man. The curse that He pronounced upon Cain is felt by his descendants to this day, so grievious was his sin in the sight of God. But that God who gave this command to His children on earth required His servant Abraham to take his son, go into a high mountain, and there offer him up as a sacrifice. At the same time it was contrary to the law of God to offer human sacrifice. God had prohibited it. It was a grievious sin among the idolatrous nations. Abraham's own kindred indulged in that wicked practice. He tells in his record that virgins were sacrificed on altars in the land of his nativity, and he himself was bound on an altar to be sacrificed, his kindred doubtless submitting to it. but an angel of God delivered him. But here comes the command of God to this man who has been taught so scrupulously about the sinfulness of murder and human sacrifice, to do these very things. Now, why did the Lord ask such things of Abraham? Because, knowing what his future would be and that he would be the father of an innumerable posterity, he was determined to test him. God did not do this for His own sake; for He knew by His foreknowledge what Abraham would do; but the purpose was to impress upon Abraham a lesson, and to enable him to attain unto knowledge that he could not obtain in any other way. That is why God tries all of us. It is mot for His own knowledge; for He knows all things beforehand. He knows all your lives and everything you will do. But He tries us for our own good, that we may know ourselves; for it is most important that a man should know himself. He required Abraham to submit to this trial because He intended to give him glory, exaltation and honor; He intended to make him a king and a priest, to share with Himself the glory, power and dominion which He exercised. And was this trial any more than God Himself had passed through? God the Eternal Father gave His Only Begotten Son to die for us; and He wanted to see whether Abraham was as willing to sacrifice his son of promise as He Himself  to sacrifice His well beloved, His first bom, Jesus Christ. And what of Isaac? Josephus tells us that Isaac was old enough to carry the wood for the sacrifice; and after his father had told him what the Lord wanted, Isaac, in the spirit of submission that such a . son had for such a father, said to him, "If the Lord bad not commanded you to do this, father, I would have been willing to have done whatever you required of me." In this Isaac exhibited a spirit akin to that manifested by the Lord Jesus; and Abraham showed a willingness akin to that exhibited by the Father in offering up His Only Begotten Son for the rest of His brethren and sisters. 

Now, brethren and sisters, do you see why G-od requires these things at our hands? Can you comprehend why we are asked to love our neighbor as we do ourselves? Is there any sacrifice that we should not be willing to make? Think of the unselfishness of our Lord and Savior! He came and died for all of us. He loved His neighbor as He did himself. He loved the offspring of His Father as He did himself. We must be like Him, or we cannot sit down with Him in the kingdom of our Father. We must be willing to make every sacrifice necessary for the work of God. But in the first place we must get faith; for without faith it is impossible to please God and to make these sacrifices. Without faith our courage fails and we are filled with doubt; but with unflinching faith in God and in His willingness and power to save us, we can accomplish all the Lord requires at our hands. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

The aggregate of individual contributions to the Church accomplishes great good— Tithing a test of obedience— The Lord requires the willing mind. 

It is with a feeling of great dependence uopn the Spirit that I arise to speak. I feel extremely grateful for the outpouring of the good Spirit which has accompanied all the speaking that we have had throughout this Conference; and I regret that all the congregation did not hear the most excellent  of President Franklin D. Richards this morning; I remarked to him when he sat down that I thought I never heard him speak better, but I was sure that half the congregation had not heard what he had said. It is a difficult thing to make so vast an assembly hear, and especially is this the case when there is a feeling of uneasiness among the people and more or less moving about. Brother C. J. Thomas can be seen here frequently with a company of people up in the other end of the gallery, and he will rub his coat sleeve and ask them at the other end if they can hear the sound, and they say yes. Then he will take a pin and drop it upon a table, and ask if they can hear that, and they say yes. It is the wonderful acoustic properties of this house that actually makes it so difficult, in one respect, to make the people hear when there are so many together as are here today, because every little sound tends to confuse the voice of the speaker. 

I thank the Lord for the wonderful attendance on the part of the people during this Conference. It shows they are awake, and interested in the cause of Zion. I am sure that all the people who have heard the instructions which have been given must be well pleased and satisfied. 

I do not expect to advance a single thought in relation to the principle of tithing that has not already been covered, but I desire to call your attention to one thing which seems to me to be a prominent feature in tithepaying. It is not so much the means that we give into the storehouse of the Lord; for the Lord has plenty for Himself. The earth is His, and the fulness thereof. But it is a very important thing that we look at the necessities of the poor and consider the duty of carrying on the work of the Lord in all its branches. Every little that we contribute toward this end helps the cause just that little; and so the little that each does is of great importance to the cause of Zion. When all the people do a little, it aggregates a great deal, and there is abundance in the storehouse for the feeding of the poor, and for helping out in the proclamation of the Gospel to the nations of the earth. For many of the Elders who are sent out to preach the Gospel have not means wherewith to provide for their families altogether, and the Church is called upon frequently to assist. Then, the Church is called upon for means to pay for the return fare of almost every missionary from his field of labor. Sometimes an Elder dies abroad, and his remains have to be brought home, the family is not able to do it, so the Church has to bear the expense. When you take into consideration the hundreds of Elders that are out in the missionary field all the timie, and the fact that brethren are going and returning continuously, the expense connected with this matter amounts to a very large sum during the year. So that every little helps. Everyman's mite adds to the good cause. 

But there is a principle connected with tithepaying which, in my judgment, is above and beyond this, and that is the principle of obedience. I believe the Lord designs in this principle to test the obedience of the people. When we come to stand before the bar of God, to be judged out of the things which are written in the books, we may find a difference between those things which are written in the books here and the things which are written in the ' books there. We can see this now. Who knows whether or not I pay my tithing? Do not the books show that I am a tithepayer? Certainly, they do; for all that I pay is credited to me on the tithing books of the Church. I think our system of bookkeeping in relation to the tithes of the people is so perfect that every man Who has ever paid tithing may go to the books and find there his credit. But the books here do not pretend to keep an account of the tithing you owe to God. We do not keep an account of that which you should pay; we simply keep an account of that which you do pay. But there is One above us who knows; and there may be a system of keeping accounts there wherein it will be known just what every man should pay to be honest with himself and the Lord. If that be so, when we come to be judged out of the things which are written in the books, the difference between that which we have paid and that which we should have paid will appear in the , and they will show where we have been deficient in our duty. 

Now, if we are not faithful to this law, what evidence have we that we shall be faithful in other things? The Lord instituted it as a substitute, because of our lack of faith, for the higher law of consecration, in which the Lord requires not only all that we have, but our hearts also; and by this substitute He designs to prove us, to see Whether we will be obedient or not. I perceive in this principle something that is of greater worth to me than all the substance that I put into the storehouse of the Lord as tithing. That may be used wisely or. unwisely, so far as I know. What have I to do with that? It matters not to me what is done with it. It is my duty to obey the law that God has given. This is exemplified in the remarkable instance referred to by President Cannon — that of requiring Abraham to offer his son, Isaac. Did God ask him to do> this because he delighted in wringing the heart of His servant and causing him anguish? Noit at all. The Lord has no delight in that. But He wanted to put His servant to the test, to know whether he was willing to sacrifice himself or not in obedience to the requirement of heaven. That is what God wants in relation to this principle of tithing; He wants to know whether we will do our duty or not, and whether we will be honest or dishonest with Him. Every man is left to be his own judge as to what he calls his tithing, and there is a great variety of opinion as to what a tithing is. A man who works for wages, and devotes his whole time to the service of his employer, and he receives $1,000 or $2,000 a year for his salary, it is an easy matter for him to tell how much he owes for tithing. If I earned $2,000 a year, I should know that my tithing was just one-tenth of that. And I would not take out what it had cost me to feed and clothe myself and to pay all the expenses necessary to the maintenance of my family, before I reckoned with the Lord as to what belonged to Him. Two hundred dollars would be my honest tithing, would it not? That is the way I look at it. Then, if a farmer raises 2,000 bushels of wheat as the result of his year's labor, how many  should he pay for tithing? Well, some people will go straightway to dickering with the Lord. They will say they hired a man so and so, and his wages must be taken out; that they had to pay such and such expenses, and this cost and that cost; and they reckon out all their expenses, and tithe the balance. If a man earns $1,000, and it has cost him $600 to live, he pays tithing on the remaining $400. He considers that his net income, and he reckons with the Lord on that basis. Well, a great many of the Latter-day Saints reckon with God in just that way. 

Now, you are at liberty to do as you please in regard to this matter. You can choose which ever course you wish. But let me say to you that as we measure out so will it be measured back unto us again. When we go to dickering with the Lord, probably He will dicker with us; and if He undertakes to do so, we shall get the worst of it. I think we had better be honest with the Lord, and deal justly and liberally with Him; for. as it is said in the scriptures, the liberal man deviseth liberal things, and by his liberality shall he stand. My experience in my childhood was that when the widow paid one-tenth of every bushel of potatoes, of wheat, of oats.of barley; when she paid the tenth chicken, or egg, the tenth calf, the tenth colt, the tenth pound of beef, or pork— when she did this she was blessed, and I know it. God opened up her way, and multiplied blessings upon her; and though a widow, driven into the wilderness with a large family, and without means to take care of them, she never had to ask for or receive help from the Church to feed and clothe her or her children. The Lord provided for her, because she put her trust in Him and she was obedient to His law. I am a witness to that. And the Lord will provide for other widows in the same way. He will provide for all His people according as they put their trust in Him and are faithful and obedient. "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." It is the heart and the willing mind that the Lord requires of His people, and not so much their substance. He does not need our obedience. But we need to be obedient; for  is through obedience that we will receive the reward. 

So I come to the conclusion that the principal thing about tithe paying is obedience to the law, and that more good will come to us through that obedience than to anybody else. We may be worth our tens of thousands, and pay an honest tithing on our income, making our tithing a large amount; yet the good that will come to ourselves by being obedient to the law of God will be far greater in the end than the good which our substance may do to the poor. He is more blessed who giveth alms than is he who receiveth them. The trouble is, when a man becomes rich he at once begins to feel too poor to be obedient to the laws of God. Riches make men poor when it comes to dealing with the Almighty. The poor man can easily pay his tithing and contribute of his little substance for the benefit of the needy; but if he becomes a millionaire, or anything like it, then his heart begins to narrow up. The result is, he deprives himself of the opportunity of receiving greater manifestations of the kindness and mercy of God unto him, which he could receive through the increased amount of good he could do with his enlarged means. Obedience is what the Almighty requires. It was obedience that He required of Abraham. I am speaking now of obedience to God, and not to man; and I am at the defiance of any man to prove that obedience to God, even in the paying of tithing, is not better than disobedience — better to the man himself, and better to the whole people. If a man is obedient to this law of tithing, he is entitled to the blessing of God himself and, so far as he is concerned, there are means in the storehouse of the Lord for the feeding of the poor, for the sending of the Gospel abroad, for the building of temples, and for the accomplishment of His purposes; but if he is not obedient to this law, then there is nothing there, and he himself is deprived of the blessing that the Lord would otherwise give to him. I do not believe in obeying man, only when my judgment or the inspiration of the Almighty tells me that obedience to that man will be wise 

nnrt eood In other words, I am not a in the promises of the Almighty and believer in blind obedience. I think those who know me can bear record to my testimony that I never yet obeyed any man, nor have I to my knowledge obeyed God, blindly. What I have done I have done with my eyes open. I have done it willingly, because I have believed or have known it to be good. That is why I obey the counsels of the servants of God, and why I obey His law I know it is pleasing in the sight of the Lord for me to do this, and I receive benefit thereby. 

Nowadays, if President Snow or somebody else gives counsel to some of our brethren, if it does not suit them exactly they will begin to whine about it, and shed great crocodile tears, perhaps. I have heard of men shedding tears because they had received counsel from their brethren! And what is more, the men that shed tears and mourn over having received a little counsel, are the kind that do not carry it out; or, if they do, they (tell why they did it— making somebody else responsible for their acts. I say, out upon such obedience as that! I do not believe in that kind at all. 

I know that obedience to the Lord is a good thing. I know this also, that if Jesus Christ, the Son of God, had not been absolutely obedient to the requirements of His Father, He would have ceased to be the Savior of the w~orld, for He could not have accomplished the mission He came to fulfill. 

If Abraham had not been obedient, even 

to the sacrificing of his own son, he 

would not be today the father of the 

faithful, and the promise made to him 

that his seed should have no end would 

havi: been revoked. The same with regard to Job, who was tried to the core. 

It was said, "put forth thy hand now 

and touch all that he hath, and he will 

curse thee to thy face." But the Lord 

knew he would not, and he said to 

Satan, "Behold, he is in thy hand; but 

save his life." Satan laid his hand upon his property, upon his sons and his 

daughters, and upon his own body, 

and Job was brought down into the 

dust because of the afflictions that fell 

upon him; and yet he was true to 

God! It was his love of God, his faith  obedience to his Father that made him the example of the world. His name has come down and will go down to the end of time as an example to mankind of faith in God. When upbraided and told to curse God and die, Job turned and said, "Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord." Joseph the prophet was tried to the core, and he proved true unto death. So with others of his brethren; they were persecuted, they were hounded, they were maligned, and every species of ignominy heaped upon them, and finally they were put to death in cold blood; and yet they were true unto death. That is what God requires at our hands. He said, "I will try you even unto death, to see if you are worthy of the blessings I have in store for you." If you shrink from obedience to God, by which you become heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ — as President Cannon said, "partners with Him in all that He possesses" — how can you expect to obtain eternal life and to become a partner with Him? If we are not true to these things, we are not worthy of them. May God bless us, therefore, and help us to be worthy of all that has been promised unto us through the keys and authority of the holy priesthood, that we may come up in the morning of the resurrection entitled to all the blessings that have been sealed upon us. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir and congregation sang: 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free, We here enjoy; In this far distant land, A true and faithful band Led hither by Thy hand, Would sing for joy. 

Benediction Snow. Conference adjourned for six months. The stenographic work in taking the account of the proceedings was done by Arthur Winter and E. H. Holt. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual General Conference. 

The semi-annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held on Sunday evening-, April 9th, 1899, at 7 o'clock. 

There were present the general superintendency, officers and members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board and aids, a number of Apostles, presidents of Stakes and Bishops, and the Tabernacle was well filled with Sunday school workers. 

General Superintendent George Q. Cannon presided. 

The Tabernacle choir, under direction of Prof, Evan Stephens, sang "Lord Thou wilt hear me when I pray." Prayer was offered by Elder John M. Mills. The choir sang "Come, dearest Lord." 

Secretary George D. Pyper called the roll which was responded to by representatives from twenty-seven Stakes. The secretary also read a portion of the general annual statistical report of the Sunday schools of the Latter-day Saints for 1898 showing: Total number of Sunday schools, 1,019; male officers and teachers, 7,524; female officers and teachers, 5,524; total officers and teachers, 13,048; average attendance of officers and teachers, 8,472; male pupils, 50,862; females, 52,524; total number of pupils, 103,386; Sunday school missionaries not enrolled, 269; total officers, teachers, pupils and missionaries, 116,703; cash on hand and collected during the year, $17,264.33; disbursed, 13,278.12; on hand, $3,986.21. 

The report was approved and filed. 

General Superintendent George Q. Cannon said: 

"I feel very much gratified at this report, as I think you all do. "We have now, as you have heard, 103,000 pupils; this is a very fine showing; gone past  hundred thousand mark, and that has been gained during the last year." 

The secretary then presented the genral Sunday school authorities, who were unanimously sustained as follows: 

General Superintendent Qeorge Q. Cannon: second assistant general superintendent, Karl G. Maeser; general secretary, George D. Pyper; general treasurer, George Reynolds; stenographer, Leo Hunsaker. 

Members of Deseret Sunday School Union Board: George Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, George Reynolds, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Joseph M. Tanner, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, Joseph P. Smith, John W. Taylor. 

Aids to the General Board: L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William B. Dougan, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted. 

General Treasurer George Reynolds reported that he had received from nickel donations for 1898, the sum of $3,111.62, an increase of nearly eight per cent over 1897. 

Elder Reynolds presented the Conference assignments for 1899 as follows: 

Saturday and Sunday, April 29 and 30— Sanpete. 

Saturday and Sunday, May 6th and 7th— St. George. 

Saturday and Sunday, May 13th and 14th — Parowan. 

Saturday and Sunday, May 20th and 21st— Malad. 

Saturday and Sunday, May 27th and 28th— Juab. 

Saturday and Sunday, June 10th and 11th.— Utah. Saturday and Sunday, June 17th and 18th— Wasatch. 

Sunday and Monday, June 18th and 19th— Oneida. 

Saturday and Sunday, June 24th and 25th— Bear Lake and Millai'd. 

Saturday and Sunday, July 1st and 2nd — Wayne. 

Saturday and Sunday, July 8th and 9th — Sevier and Bannock. 

Saturday and Sunday, July 15th and 16th— Morgan and Star Valley. 

Saturday and Sunday, July 22nd and 23rd — Bingham and Boxelder. 

Saturday and Sunday, July 29th and 30th— Fremont. 

Saturday and Sunday, August 5th and 6th — Alberta. 

Saturday and Sunday, August 12th. and 13th — Cassia and Woodruff. 

Saturday and Sunday, August 19th and 20th — Cache and San Juan. 

Saturday and Sunday, August 26th and 27th— Tooele. 

Saturday and Sunday, September 2nd and 3rd — Beaver. 

Saturday and Sunday, September 9th and 10th — Summit and Kanab. 

Saturday and Sunday, September 16th and 17th — Panguitch. 

Saturday and Sunday, September 23rd and 24th— Weber and Pocatello. 

Treasurer Reynolds also announced that the third edition of the small Sunday school hymn book was now ready, making in all 55,000 copies of this work which had been issued from the press. This edition contained a few new hymns and a greatly improved index. Another edition of the Sunday school song book, in two styles of binding, retailed respectively at 40 and 50 cents was also ready. Numerous improvements to make it more uniform with the Hymn book had been introduced in this edition. The proceedings of the late Sunday school convention held in this city were now on sale. Nearly 4,000 had been distributed gratuitously to the schools, and teachers and others desiring additional copies could purchase them at the office of the Union Board at 10 cents per copy. The second edition of the Treatise was also ready for those officers and teachers who did not possess a copy. Price 15 cents. Some few years ago Dr. James E. Talmage delivered a series of lectures in the Assembly Hail in this  before the Theological class of the Church university on the "Articles of Faith." Under the direction of the First Presidency, these lectures had now been published in book form, after having been examined by the Presidency and by a committee appointed by them. This work is recommended to the Sunday schools and other Church organizations as a valuable text book on questions relating to the faith of the Saints. 

The choir sang "Jesus, I my cross have taken." 

GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON 

Spoke feelingly on the death of First Assistant General Superintendent George Goddard, and paid a glowing tribute to the memory of this Sunday school veteran. 

Following are the remarks: I feel constrained to make a few remarks at the opening of our meeting in relation to our late assistant superintendent and warm friend, Elder George Goddard. I know you will all miss him, as we do who were his co-laborers. His voice, his genial presence, his humorous manner of treating all questions, and the interest that he succeeded in throwing into everything connected with the Sunday School work, will be missed in all these meetings. We look around us and ask ourselves: Who can fill his place? He was unique, warm-hearted and thoroughly in earnest in all that he did for the Sunday school cause. It was dearer to him than his own comfort or convenience. He did an amount of travel that I felt was too much for one of his years; but he was untiring in his labors and took delight in them, and he was sustained by the Lord, for the Lord bestowed blessings upon him and made him the means of doing an immense amount of good. It would be difficult to calculate upon the amount of good that our departed friend and brother has performed in this cause. He will be known and remembered by the rising generation to an extent, probably, unequalled by any other man, because his manners were such as endeared him to all children. They felt he was their friend; they ad and revered him, as well as the parents and all those associated with him. I am sure that you will feel with me that we have had what might be termed in one respect an irreparable loss. It is true that it is a saying among us that there is no man living but what can be spared; and the work goes on after his departure — even after the departure of the most prominent of men. But probably Elder Goddard filled a niche in our affections and work — our Sunday school work — that we shall find it very difficult to fill. But the Lord, of course, we know can raise up faithful laborers. Brother Goddard's example in his efforts and untiring zeal, will, I hope, be followed by all interested in this work, and I hope we will try with greater diligence to carry it forward and to do the work that he would do if he were here in our midst. 

I felt to say these few words and I know that in giving expression to these thoughts and feelings, though but feebly, I am also expressing the thoughts and feelings of your hearts. We all mourn his departure. Of course, his departure is for his gain, but it is a serious loss to us. 

I pray God that the spirit that he manifested in this work may rest down upon us all to an increased extent, that through our devotion and zeal we may, in some measure, make up for this loss. I ask this in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

I have been requested to speak upon the late Sunday school convention held last November in the Assembly Hall. 

The convention was held on Monday and Tuesday and there were three sessions each day. It was remarkably well attended, there being but one Stake of Zion that failed to send delegates. I never attended a series of metings in my life where the people seemed to be so interested as in those held during the Sunday school convention. The spirit of the meetings was choice indeed. The people were particularly interested; their faces were lit up with interest, and we had a very enjoyable time, long to be remembered by each and every one present. Broth Reynolds has referred to the fact that the proceedings of the convention have been published in pamphlet form which contains over one hundred pages. The Sunday School Union has the pamphlet for sale, and it can also be found at the Juvenile Instructor office. Of course, you are all well aware of the fact that in reading the proceedings of a convention that you lose much of the inspiration manifested at the meetings; but, at the same time, each and every Sunday school worker and all those interested in the Sunday school work, will be greatly benefited by getting a copy of the proceedings of the convention and perusing it. Very many important items on Sunday school work are contained therein: How to hold Stake conferences, the proper manner of using the Leaflets, discourses on the Word of Wisdom, and many other matters of great interest to all connected with the Sabbath schools. I rejoice that we should have had such a grand and glorious convention with which to crown the public labor of our late Assistant Superintendent Brother George Goddard. He enjoyed those meetings exceedingly. I wish to say in addition to the pleasure we had of listening to the instructions, that the music that was furnished us during those meetings was very pleasing indeed. A half hour was taken up at the commencement of each meeting in singing songs that are rendered in the Sabbath schools throughout the Church. 

I trust that we may again have the privilege of meeting in a convention. I feel, on account of the success of the one we did have, that we may be justified in having another in the course of a year or so, and I am sure that it will be even more successful than the one we had last November. 

I thank God, my Heavenly Father, for the privilege of being associated with , the Sabbath school work, and I am also truly grateful for the increase of over 7,000 pupils since last year's report. It will only be a short time before we will be able to add 10,000 to our Sunday schools every year. Truly Zion is growing. May God bless you and every one laboring for the Sabbath schools, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER THOMAS C. GRIGGS 

This immense audience interested in Sunday school work, and the interesting, statistics that have been presented to us on the growth of this Sundayschool work are largely the result of an event that occurred nearly fifty years ago, viz: The establishment of the first Sunday school in these Rocky Mountains, which event transpired in the Fourteenth ward of this city, on the second Sunday in December, the 9th day of the month, 1849, by Richard Ballantyne. It is proposed by the Deseret Sunday School Union to celebrate that event. So far the proposition is to have a general celebration on Sunday evening the Sth day of October, in this place. We trust that all the veteran Sunday school workers, those that have been connected with the Sunday school for 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45 years, will be present. In addition to this it is proposed that local celebrations be held in each Sunday school on the second Sunday in December, this year, the 10th day of the month. A suggestive program for the celebration will be published hereafter. Besides this is our record work. Blanks have been sent to every Sunday school for a synopsis of their respective histories and the names of those that have presided in the various schools. For this purpose three blanks have been sent to each Sunday school to be filled out; one of these is to be retained by the school, one to be sent to the Stake superintendency and one to be sent to the general secretary, Brother George D. Pyper. Another matter pertaining to this is the appointment of a special committee, by each Stake superintendency, to act in conjunction with the general committee on the Semi-centennial celebration. The name and address of the chairman of this special committee should be sent to the general secretary that communication may be had with him. This labor of preparing these individual histories is one that will require patience and perseverance to accomplish. This work is immediately before us, as superintendents of schools and Stake superintendents. We trust this matter will be given immediate attention, as it is intended that these reports shall be  into one volume. We have now, as our statistics show, over 1,000 Sunday schools. The preparation of this history will afford the basis for the celebration of the centennial anniversary; also for the millennial anniversary, which we expect to see in its time. 

Elder George D. Pyper sang, "Hosanna." 

APOSTLE GEORGE TEASDALE. 

From the Doctrine and Covenants, section 68, page 250, beginning with the 25th verse, we have the following instruction: 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; 

"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized; 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands; 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." 

It is very much to be regretted that children should frequently be in the Sabbath school after they are eight years of age without being baptized. 

Now, children have rights as well as the rest of humanity. The Lord has given instruction unless the parents prepare them for this baptism that the parents will be under condemnation. In Sunday schools where they are very strict they will not allow unbaptized children over eight years old to partake of the Sacrament. It would be in harmony with the commandments of the Lord to have the parents taught this duty towards their children at their firesides by our Teachers — not the teachers of the Sabbath school, but the regular ward Teachers. Every child who desires it has a right to be baptized when eight years of age. It is singular to me that fathers do not take sufficient interest in their children to get permission of the Bishop to have  children baptized on their eighth birthday. Many children have looked forward to this event with a great deal of anxiety, and then when the time came they were pushed aside with the remark, "O, well, there are no baptisms today, and you can be baptized on some other occasion." The Lord says His house is a house of order. So it is perfectly natural and perfectly consistent that the Lord should require at the hands of the parents that the children should be prepared for baptism by the time they are eight years of age. Somebody can always be found who holds the Priesthood of Aaron or of Melchisedek, who will very willingly put himself out a little to baptize the children, that they may have that blessed privilege. I know of an instance where a child was very anxious for baptism, but it was put off and put off and by and by the child died without being baptized. "Well, I argue that these dear children should have this privilege. You know we love your children; you know we devote a great deal of time to them. I would advise you, my fellow laborers in the Sunday school, to make this one of your items and see that your children are baptized when the proper time arrives. As you are their friends and instructors, put yourselves out a little to see that this is done, that those dear children may have the privilege of being baptized; that they may be enabled to give the reasons why they are baptized, and of the conditions of baptism. When teaching a Sabbath school class in Nephi — mine was the primary class — wo used to sing them the song, "Jesus, Mighty King in Zion," and explain it to them as we went along. 

And we explained the different modes of baptism so that they might understand that there are a class of people who baptize by pouring, and another class who baptize by sprinkling; one saying for justification the Lord would pour out an oblation, and the other saying that He would sprinkle many nations. Let us instruct our children, that we may assist the parent in preparing them for this baptism. I consider that this is a part of our duty. Let us respect the children, and let us see that they have their rights. I remember a child of mine whom I  here in the font in Salt Lake City. I had him up on a visit from Nephi. With Elder Charles J. Thomas, who kindly assisted me, I baptized him when he was eight years of age and confirmed him, and then I took him to have his likeness taken, that he might never forget it. That was the interest I took in him. In Mexico, when I baptized a little maid of my own on her eighth birthday, I gave it. out that I would baptize her on that day, and if there were any children who had been neglected we would attend to them at the same time. We baptized her and several others. I have been particular with my children that this should be done on their natal day. I think of times we are very careless in our records; it is occasionally difficult to find out when people have been baptized. If you will baptize a child the day it is eight years of age the date will always be remembered. It seems to me that a father would delight to do this, and keep his own record and act as the patriarch in his own house. All you have to do is to get the consent of your Bishop and have a proper record made of it. 

My beloved fellow laborers. God bless you. Let us always remember that the children have the right to be baptized when eight years of age. I am grateful for having the privilege of being a Sabbath school laborer. I have been so for a number of years, and I delight to be associated with our Sunday school children. I pray God, our eternal Father, that His blessings may rest upon every Sabbath school laborer, that we may be able to set a good example and teach the children to their understanding, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

APOSTLE FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

In answer to the question of Brother Bickley, from Beaver, whether children should be allowed to partake of the Sacrament after they are eight years of age and are not baptized: Of course, the law should be observed, and, in order that this question need not be asked in regard to the children of the Latter-day Saints, we would advise that the Bishops, who h.ave the baptisms under their care, see to it that arrangements are made in every ward that the children may be baptized when they are eight years of age. We have been lenient in this regard— that is, the rule of the Church has been— and the children have been allowed to partake of the Sacrament after they were eight years of age in order that they might not feel injured and their hearts hurt. But, the Bishops should make the arrangements in their respective wards that on any day in the year, cold or warm, the children may be baptized when eight years of age. It is a splendid thing to do; it is a nice arrangement and ought to be observed in all the Church. But until this is done — when children are anxious and want to be baptized and it is not their fault that they have not been — we ought not to be too stringent in refusing the Sacrament to the children of the Latter-day Saints. They would like to be baptized and they ougii^ to be. If they are not baptized at the proper time, the sin be upon the head of the Bishop. 

SECOND ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT KARL G. MAESER. 

The subject given me to speak upon for a few minutes is "Humane Day." It has been customary for the Sunday School Union to have a day set apart during the year on which the Sunday school teacher should pay particular attention to kindness to animals. This day has usually been the last Sunday in February, but the Sunday School Union Board, perhaps, may fix some other day, if so, it will be made public. Kindness to animals has also been enjoined upon us by Holy Writ, for "A righteous man is merciful to his animals." Now, there is too much neglect on this point observable among our people. A letter was received by the Sunday School Union Board, some time ago, from a sister up north, requesting that the brethren take this into consideration and enjoin upon the Sunday school workers the duty of impressing upon the minds of the pupils the necessity of being kind to animals and abstaining from any kind of cruelty. She also alluded to the bad example being set by some in the win of leaving their animals out in the storm, snow and cold, without any covering or without any regard to their suffering. These dumb beasts were neglected during the stormy weather and received bad treatment at the hands of their masters. That brings to my mind an instance of several years ago, when Heber C. Kimball was with us. He was going down State street with some of the brethren and they saw a man abusing a horse most unmercifully. As intelligent and well posted as these brethren were with regard to handling animals, they could not find out what was really wanted of the animal. The man was beating it unmercifully. Brother Kimball turned to these brethren and said, "brethren, that horse will demand justice of that man some time and will get it. He is making himself a debtor to that animal." There is a sound, glorious principle connected with this. Could I as an intelligent being, place myself in such a position that I would become a debtor to an animal, and place myself under such a condition that that animal could claim justice from me on account of ill-treatment? We may have to slay animals for food and other legitimate reasons, when it is absolutely necessary; but when it is done it should be done with as little pain to the animal as possible. Let us be merciful, as the Scriptures say "A righteous man is merciful to animals." This is a principle we should make a point of in all our Sunday schools. We should enjoin it upon the pupils, not simply one single day in the year, which is set apart for this. I would rather see it urged whenever occasion requires, whenever any one in the Sunday school has been cruel to animals in any way. I know it is displeasing in the sight of the Lord. This should be taught to the children in the Sabbath schools, that the children of the Latter-day Saints may be known for their kindness to animals. 

I suppose the Sunday School Union Board will take this matter into consideration some day and make known the day that will be most convenient and proper to be set apart for that purpose. 

TREE PLANTING AND FORESTRY BY ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

"The groves were God's first temples." In one of these tempies Joseph Smith sought the Lord in prayer and received a visit from the Father and the Son, and a high commission from them, which called him to his prophetic ministry— the Prophet, Seer and Re velator of the dispensation of the fulness of times. Shady groves have always been considered as a fit and sacred place of holding communion with the Creator of the universe, as well as for other noble purposes. Instance: The old elm tree that stands in the town of Cambridge today, said to be more than 300 years old. Beneath this tree Washington received the command of the Continental Army, in 1775. The subject of planting trees cannot be too deeply impressed upon our young people, and at the approach of every Arbor Day, all the Sunday school children should be encouraged to assist in planting one or more trees around their homes, in gardens or fields and other proper places designated by their teachers and their parents. Cultivation of forests and of the better class of timber has always been a profitable labor and investment to those who enter upon this branch of farming, with a proper understanding, and with perserverance and industry continued their efforts. Some places in Europe, especially in Germany, the small forests are made to yield a large income, supporting very many families by the yield of wood and lumber and the gums that exude from spruce and balsams. Nut-bearing trees are of much importance to the farmers of this country and could be made a source of great profit to all those who would plant a few of these species of forest trees, among the best and most i . ofitable of which is the black wainut. Large farms can be bordered with these trees, and as they grow for ten or twelve years, the nuts produced by them will aid very materially in paying the expenses of the farm and its cultivation. When they become too large and crowd each other in the rows, good sale can be made of them to cabinet makers and furniture producers. 

Speaking of trees, I am reminded of a very beautiful story: A traveler return to his native home after years of absence, saw a man in the act of cutting down a large oak tree, under whose pleasant shade he had played when a boy. He paid the man quite a sum of money to allow the tree to remain standing, and he wrote the following beautiful lines on the subject: 

"Woodman, spare the tree; 

Cut not one single bough; In youth it sheltered me, 

And I'll protect it now. 'Twas my forefather's hand 

That placed it near his cot, There woodman let it stand; 

Thy ax shall harm it not." 

GEN. SUPT. GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Made the closing address as follows: 

There are only a few minutes left, and I do not wish to occupy but those few minutes. 

There are some questions that have been submitted to us, that is, to the Sunday School Union Board, which it is thought proper to answer. 

One is, Who shall preside in the Sunday school when all the superintendency are absent? 

There should be no question about this: if they are all going to be absent they should arrange for somebody to take charge in their absence, either the teacher who has charge of the Theological class or some other suitable teacher, that the school may not be left without a proper person to take charge. 

As to the appointment of Sunday school missionaries, superintendents and officers, all this should be done by consent of the Bishop or with his approval. The question has been asked: Shall the superintendent appoint such officers or shall the Bishop appoint? There should be no conflict with regard to this. There should be perfect harmony between the president of the Stake and the superintendent of the Sunday schools — the Stake superintendant — and both should work together. Of course, it is understood, however, that a superintendent of a Stake has no right to act without the Bishop. The Bishop presides in his ward; the president of the Stake presides in his Stake, and all officers under either of these organizations are subject to them. Therefore, a superintendent should consult with the Bishop or with the president of the Stake; however, a Bishop or Stake president will not appoint without consulting with the superintendent. He will pay respect to the officer that has charge of the Sunday school and will not act, if he is a prudent, wise Bishop, without consulting with that officer. 

There are other topics to speak upon, but I cannot take time to dwell upon them. There is one subject, I think, however, that should be taught in our Sunday schools more than it is, and that is courtesy. There is a rudeness about our children that ought to be corrected. There is not respect paid by boys to girls, by young men to women, and there is manifest in our streets very frequently a want of respect to the weaker sex and to aged people, upon which, I think, very profitable lessons may be given to our children. Tou will notice it during muddy weather. I have seen it many times — a person driving a team and a lady crossing the street — our streets have been seas of mud at times — he drives along and splashes mud over a lady on the street and then laughs at it, as though he had done something smart. Now you will see much discourtesy and rudeness of this kind. We see it constantly; and yet, the boys and men that are guilty of this are not so inclined naturally, but it is for want of proper training, and they  to be trained. We can train them in the Sunday school. This rudeness will be seen there and at other gatherings. It can be seen at times when children are going out of a car or going out of a door, the strong boys will push forward and crowd the girls and little ones that are weaker than they are, and rush out regardless of the comfort or, indeed, of the safety of the smaller children and girls. 

Brethren and sisters, it is a good place in our Sunday schools to teach lessons of politeness and kindness— to teach our boys to be kind and gentlemanly and to teach our girls to be ladylike. Let us try and raise up a generation of gentlemen and ladies. A man raised as a Latter-day Saint is naturally, if he lives his religion, a gentleman, and the girl or woman raised as a Latter-day Saints is naturally a lady, but they do not know how. sometimes, to behave themselves, and they ought to be taught. This rudeness in crossing the streets and splashing mud, no doubt many of you have noticed. 

I pray God to bless us and to help us to remember the instructions we have received this evening, which I ask in the name of the Lord. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Glory to God in the Highest." 

Adjourned. 

Benediction. 

GEO. D. PTPER. Secretary. ARTICLES new CHURCH WORK, 4g5 pages, by Dr. "lames E. Talmage, written by appointment from the First Presidency. Designed asc) text booK for use in Church Schools, Sunday Schools, improvement Associations^! uor urns, and for individual study. Elegantly bound in all styles. 

PRICES: 

aom $1.00 

Leather '-50 

Learner Gilt 2.00 

Morocco Gilt 2.50 THE OCSERET MEWS. 

Special Terms to Dealers, Rgents, Classes and Quorums. 

"Cbe B00K of mormon/' 

Two Lectures trom the above work, compiled, in pamphlet form by Dr. Talmage for convenience in study. Price 1 cents. 







