Morning
07 04 1899



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

I am very much pleased to meet with the brethren and sisters and our friends "this morning. We have another beautiful day, like yesterday, and I hope  the Latter-day Saints feel happy. We had an excellent meeting yesterday. The spirit of the Lord was with us greatly; the most excellent ideas and suggestions were made to us by the different speakers; the beauties and glories of what the Lord has accom plished already, and those we anticipate and are sure He will accomplish in the future, were clearly portrayed before us. 

If we will be as quiet as we were yesterday and exercise faith we will have just as good a meeting today and the Spirit of the Lord will inspire the speakers. 

We have invited the Salt Lake Temple choir to be with us during tht. remaining part of our conference and it will be called upon occasionally to interest the Latter-day Saints. We think they will be pleased with this opportunity of hearing this choir, which has been employed in the Temple here for about six years. 

Brethren and sisters, God bless you and pour out His spirit upon us this day, that we may greatly rejoice, is m> prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Restoration of the Gospel and the obligation to preach it— Missionary work in Colorado and adjacent districts— Promises of the Lord fulfilled—Signs follow the believer— Beneficial effects of opposition— The Kingdom to cover the earth. 

I am requested to make a few remarks this morning, and I ask an interest in the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints and their friends, that what I may say might be dictated by the Spirit of God, because I feel that where a man speaks under that influence he will always speak right, and when he does not speak under that influence he will always speak wrong. 

You are no doubt aware that 1 have been away from you for a little time in the State of Colorado preaching the Gospel. I do not think I could say anything more appropriate this morning than to dwell a little while upon the missionary labors in that district, as there are many here whose sons are in that land spreading the truth. We all heard the very interesting remarks yesterday of President Cannon regarding the restoration of the Gospel to the children of men, and its effects upon us. Inasmuch as the Gospel has been restored it has become our duty to preach it in all the world, for a witness unto all nations. The words of Jesus Christ are fulfilled, for in His day He said, speaking of the Gospel, "The kingdom of God shall be taken from among you and it shall be given unto a people bringing forth the fruits thereof." After Christ was put to death, Peter, after the Savior had been resurrected, asked Him the question: "Comest thou again to restore the kingdom to Israel?" Jesus had taught them to pray in this wise: "Our Father who art in heaven, Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on  as it is in heaven, etc." And they were praying for the kingdom to come, but when Jesus answered Peter regarding this question, He said: "It is not for you to know the times and the seasons." Now, today all of the sectarian world, are praying for the kingdom of God to come upon the earth. President Cannon announced yesterday that the Gospel of Jesus Christ had been restored in its fulness to the Prophet Joseph Smith; that the day had arrived which had been spoken of by the prophets, and which all the holy prophets since the world began desired to live in, even the time of the restitution of all things. Inasmuch as the Gospel had been restored in these last days, we have also received the same injunction that was received in former days, for Jesus said unto them: "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature." We have received the same commandment in our day. Jesus said: "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." It was only a short time ago that an eminent evangelist announced from this stand that ordinances were unnecessarysuch as baptism, etc., for salvation. But God the Eternal Father has given the same injunction in this our day as He gave in the days of Christ and His Apostles, and when we go forth, we say unto them: "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." These are the words which we speak unto the children of men. Jesus spake further and He said: "In my name they shall speak with new tongues: they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover; if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them, etc." We promise the people these same blessings today. 

There are about thirty of us out in the Colorado mission today. We are at present branching out into New Mexico, the northern part of Arizona, and in Wyoming a little. The Lord has blessed us, and He has prospered our labors. We have an excellent lot of young men out there preaching the Gospel. We preach in the old-fashioned way, without purse or scrip; and they feed us, and they clothe us, and they give us money, and we are blessed ot the Lord. And those Elders whose par can not afford to send them money are the best missionaries we have in the field. It is an injury to keep sending your sons money, because they begin to depend upon the money instead of the Lord. In olden times the Gospel was preached according to this counsel: Jesus says, "He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth Him that sent me, and he that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he that giveth drink, even as much as a cup of cold water to one of these little ones of mine, shall in no wise lose his reward." These were the qualifications of the servants of Goa in the days of Jesus, and today we possess the same qualifications, and we receive the same instructions. Jesus says, "Freely ye have received, freely give," or in other words the Gospel cost you nothing, do not charge other people anything for it. This peculiar means of preaching the Gospel is the test Christ is going to make of the children of men whether they receive the truth or not, for He said— you will find it in the 25th chapter of Matthew— "When I come in all my glory and all my holy angels with me and I sit upon my throne of glory, T will separate the goats from the sheep; I will set the sheep on my right hand and the goats on my left hand; and to the "-oats upon my left hand, I will say: I was sick and in prison and ye visited me not; I was naked and ye clothed me not; T was hungry and ye fed me not. And they will say: when wast thou an hungered and thirsty, or naked, or in prison, and we came not unto ye? I will say inasmuch as ye did it unto even one of these my brethren, ye did it also to me. And to those upon ray right hand I will say, that inasmuch aa ye have ministered unto one of these of my brethren, ye have ministered unto me. Enter thou into the place pre pared for thee before the foundations of the world." I say this is the was Christ is going to judge the world, foi He gave a special commandment that when you should go into a house or a city you should enquire who is worthy to receive you, and if they do so, let your peace rest upon that household and say unto them, "the kingdom of God is nigh unto you; but if they reject you  the dust off your feet as a testimony against them, for it shall be more tolerable in the day of judgment for the city of Sodom or Gomorrha than for that city or household that rejecteth you." 

This is the course we pursue in preaching the everlasting Gospel and the Lord has blessed the labors of the young men and has led them to the honest in heart. Some 260 or 270 have been baptized, and we have organized branches of the Church in Denver, in Colorado Springs, Pueblo, near Durango, and we have members of the Church in Grand Valley, and a numbei of other places. Our brethren are laboring diligently, and they are being received kindly by the people of Colorado. The people there are similar to those here. They have had the courage and fortitude to get out of the crowded cities of the East and come West, and wherever their lot is cast they are tilling *.he soil, raising cattle, horses and sheep, and going down into the bowelo of the earth and mining, and they are a prosperous and big-hearted people. We went there a little less than two and a half years ago, when we were without a friend, and we have been blessed and prospered, and the Lord has verified His promises in our behalf. He says, "I will send mine angels before your face to prepare the way before you, and I will be upon your right hand and upon your* left hand and bear you up." Has this been verified? Yes. He says further, When you lay hands upon the children of men, I will cause that the Holy Ghost shall descend upon them." Has this been verified? It has. And, also, the blessings of the Gospel which is not in the power of man to confer upon the children of men, because every good and perfect gift comes from God. We have enjoyed the gift of tongues; we have enjoyed the gift of prophecy; and we have enjoyed the gift of interpretation of tongues; and we have enjoyed that knowledge promised by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when He says, "He that doeth the will of my Father shall know of the doctrine whether I speak of God or whether I speak of myself." Has God verified this unto the children of men? He has. And there are those under the sound of my voice on whom these young Elders, of whom I have been speaking-, have laid their hands upon, and they received the Holy Ghost, and they could testify that what I say is true. This is the foundation of the kingdom of God— the testimony of Jesus Christ. It is the same today as it was in the days of the ancient Apostles. The Savior thought He would find out whether Peter had a testimony or not, and He said, "Peter, whom do men say that I the Son of Man am?" Peter said, "Some say that thou art Jonas, others Elias, others one of the old prophets raised from the dead." But, said the Savior, "whom sayest thou that I am?" He wanted to know what Peter thought of this. Peter answered, being filled with the Holy Ghost: "Thou art Christ the Son of the living God." And Jesus blessed him, and said, "Flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father who is in heaven, and upon this rock will I build my church (the rock of revelation) and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." Is this correct? It is correct. This is why the persecution of the Latter-day Saints only increases their numbers. 

At present we have a considerable agitation against this people regarding political matters. I have noticed, as president of the Colorado mission, that according to the reports from our Elders our meetings have double the number of .attendants that they had before this agitation, and they sell double the amount of Church literature that they did before. And I wish to tell the Latter-day Saints present that it is not only the converts of this people that are our friends. When we went into Colorado we were entire strangers, but after we began to lift up our voices, we found many friends. Many are friendly that do not care, for special reasons, to have it announced. I have had conferred upon me all manner of favors and courtesies by friends that have been raised up of God; the peo^ pie are friendly to us — those who see what has been done by the people who inhabit these rocky mountains from Mexico to Canada, and who have made a sterile desert to blossom as the rose. Today I could take a buggy in the northern or western part of the State of Colorado and travel from one end to  other and stop every night with a friend of the Latter-day Saints. "While we have probably 260 converts, we have thousands and thousands of friends raised up by the Lord. My testimony to you is that there is not one man out of a hundred, when he hears this Gospel preached in its purity, but what says , in his heart, "that is true," but he has not the moral stamina to embrace it; but he has the courage to provide for our wants, and they do it freely. I rejoice in this labor in connection with my young brethren. I can do but little. One man can do but little in this great world of ours, it is so large. Our labors are confined to a very narrow compass, but nevertheless we can all do something. I can say, in connection with my brethren, that the Lord has blessed us in our labors. I have been blessed and have felt free in my spirit, that is, as free as it is possible for a man to be who is laboring under a burden of debt as I am and away from home principally and with no opportunities to satisfy my creditors. But having been called by the servants of God to go and preach the Gospel, I go forth and do the best I can, knowing that God will overrule all things for my good in so doing. In the various nations of the earth the Lord is blessing the brethren; He is verifying His promises to the children of men. 

I know that this is the work of God; I know that the Lord has again established His work in the day and age in which you and I live, and I know that every man that will humble himself and go. down into the waters of baptism with a desire to serve God and keep His commandments, rorsttklng all his sins, that he will receive the gift of the Holy Ghost when the hands of the servants of God are laid upon him; he will know that God lives and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, as you and I know it, because we have been founded upon the rock of revelation. We have received the spirit which takes of the things of the Father and reveals them unto the children of men, and we have a perfect knowledge that God lives. That is what inspires this people through all the troubles and vicissitudes of life which they have had to endure since the year 1830. That is why we feel that we "are not ashamed  the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation unto all those who believe and obey it, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, "the just shall live by faith." "We live in a day of revelation; we live in a day when no man neea be in the dark; we live in a day when no man, if he be humble and faithful, need say "know ye the Lord, for all shall know Him." All can have a testimony of these things, as God is no respecter of persons. 

I feel to rejoice in the large attendance at this grand conference. I know that our first aim and object should be, the kingdom of God or nothing. I believe it is the desire of this people as a rule, that this kingdom shall roll forth until it shall cover the whole earth. There was a great and mighty prophet that lived in olden times by the name of Daniel, who prophesied that the Lord would set up a kingdom that would never be destroyed or given into the hands of another people. It was like unto a little stone cut out of the mountain without hands, and it would roll forth until it should cover the whole earth. Is this little stone rolling forth? Yes. Will this be its destiny? It will. Will you and I endure with it? That depends upon whether we keep the commandments of God or not, and whether we keep our garments pure and unspotted from the pins of this wicked and adulterous generation in which we live. Malachi says, "Behold the Lord, whom ye seek shall suddenly come to His Temple; but who may abide the day of His coming, and who shall stand when He appeareth? For He is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap?" Who will stand when He appeareth? It will be those who have their lamps filled with oil— the oil of the Holy Ghost. Those who have this Spirit and are walking in the ways of rectitude and are obedient to the commandments of God will be prepared for the coming of Jesus Christ, for He will come to purify the sons of Levi as gold, seven times purified in the fire. Are we prepared for this test? We may be if we will improve a little day by day. I know as far as I am concerned there is great room for improvement, and I  that you can see that there is some room for improvement with you. I know that God loves those that are humble and contrite in their spirit. I know that God loves those who work for the redemption of mankind. I know God loves, and is pleased with, His children whose greatest desire is to build up His kingdom here on the earth — who are energetic, and he blesses them with His Spirit. We hear remarks sometimes by some of our cold-blooded people. They will say, "He is enthusiastic." There never was a man who spoke by the power of the Holy Ghost but what he was enthusiastic. The blacksmith never made a weld until the white sparks began to fly. I know that the children of men never were converted until they saw that the power of God rested with His servants, and the Spirit of God went down into their hearts like fire. John said, "I baptize you with water, but there is one coming after me who will baptize you with fire and with the Holy Ghost." Has that fire been given unto this people? It has. How were your bosoms swelled with joy, when you heard the sound of the everlasting Gospel! It has the same effect wherever the elders of Israel go, because they know they are servants of God. "My sheep hear my voice," but the stranger will not because he does not know His voice. "When a servant of God enters a house and says by the authority of the Priesthood, "peace be unto this house," does peace rest upon it? Yes. I heard a woman testify that Brother Franklin D. Richards entered her house in Illinois and said in a humble, gentle spirit, "peace be unto this house," and the moment he spake those words the spirit of God came upon her and went through her whole system from the crown of her head to the soles of her feet, and such peace and such joy she never had experienced. This is what was spoken of by Christ: "Peace on earth, good will to to man." It was the spirit of God that bore testimony to that woman that Brother Richards was a servant of God. It is the spirit of God that converts the people. There never was a man that converted another man to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is impossible; it is the spirit of God that converts men. Every conversion that has ever been made in the Church of Christ has been made by God, otherwise they will not endure. That which has not been sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise will not be enduring, but will pass away. 

I rejoice in preachng the everlasting Gospel; and I rejoice in being with you here in the land of Zion. I can see that Zion is prospering, and growing, and that the blessings of God are upon her from the north to the south, and from the east to the west; and I hope she shall continue to grow and spread until all shall be accomplished that God desires we shall accomplish; that the blessings of God will rest upon her sons and upon her daughters; that they may build upon that sure foundation of truth, that the towers of Zion may rise and shine until she becomes the glory of the Avhole earth. God is directing this work, and is directing His servants. I know that His servants are inspired by the gifts and powers of God to counsel this people in the ways of truth and righteousness; and He will inspire every man acording to his station and circumstances in life if he will yield obedience to His commandments. 

May God bless you in all of your affairs; may He temper the elements for your good, that Zion may grow and become the pride of the whole earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Nothing can be attempted against the work of God that will not advance it— Futility of seeking to convert apostates— A. prophesy fulfilled— The leaven of the Gospel in the world. 

It is a source of great pleasure to me to meet once more with the Latterday Saints in a general conference of the Church. I have listened with very much interest and pleasure to the remarks that have been made by those who have spoken thus far in our meetings. In standing before you this morning to bear witness of the goodness of the Lord to His people and to me as an individual, I desire most earnestly and humbly that what I may say may be for our mutual benefit; that it may strengthen us in our desires to serve God and keep His commandments. If I know my own heart, I believe it is set upon the advancement of the Church and Kingdom of God. I know  there is nothing on the earth that I rejoice over so much as I do in the fact that I am associated with the servants and handmaidens of God in the Church of Jesus Christ; and I do not believe that there ever is a day that passes over my head that I do not thank God for the restoration again of the plan of life and salvation, and that I have been made a partaker of the same. I supplicate Him earnestly that my mind may never become darkened, that I may never depart from the truth; that I may never forget any of the covenants that I have made, but. as I grow in years and increase in understanding, that I may grow in a testimony of the Gospel and in the desire — not only a desire but in doing it — to labor for the onward advancement of the Kingdom of God on the earth. 

When I look around and see the mistakes that I have made, and those that my brethren make from time to time; when I realize how many of those who have been wonderfully blessed of the Lord have fallen by the wayside, it fills me with humility; it fills me with the spirit of meekness and with an earnest desire that I may ever seek to know the mind and the will of God and to keep His commandments rather than to follow out my own desires. 

In listening to the remarks that have been made here this morning by Brother John W. Taylor with regard to the political agitation that is being stirred up, or at least the agitation that is being stirred up because of the political affairs in Utah, and his testimony that the meetings held by the Elders are doubly as well attended as they were before this agitation; and that they are now selling double the amount of tracts to what they did before this agitation, it furnished one more testimony to :ne of the truth of the sayings of those who have been inspired: "that nothing can be done against the work of God but what shall redound to its advancement." I have recently had the privilege of visiting three of the conferences in the Northern States mission, and we had exactly the same experience as that related by Brother Taylor. Some of the first meetings were very poorly attended, but when it was announced that some remarks  be made at a later meeting by myself upon what is known as the Roberts' case, we had a full house and we had a chance to say a few words with regard to the Roberts' case and a great many words with regard to the restoration of the Gospel and to bear witness that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God. 

Never have I rejoiced more in my life, that my lot has been cast among the Latter-day Saints, that I have been born in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, than I did in mj. recent visit to the East, when I came in contact with members of the Reorganized church. When I visited Kirtland, Ohio, and saw there the temple, and realized the fact that at the time it was erected by the Prophet Joseph and his brother, that it was a mighty work; when I considered the ordinances that aro being performed in our temples here in Utah; when I reflected that we have the Gospel in its fulness; when I thought that they have the temple but know not how to put it to any use; when I realized that they are absolutely devoid of the inspiration of God, I rejoiced that my lot had beeiv cast among the Later-day Saints. 

I have often been surprised that so much of the time of our Elders has been wasted in the world in discussing with members of the Re-organized Church as to which Church was in very deed the Church of Christ. I have been astonished at this for the reason that it seems to me an utter waste of time to undertake to discuss with a man after you have knocked him down as to who holds the ground. We read that in heaven there was a rebellion and that God, our Heavenly Father, cast out one-third of the hosts of heaven with Lucifer at their head. We have no account after they were cast out that God stopped to argue the question with those that had been cast out as to who held the ground. In the Re-organized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, about one-half, if not more, of its members, are those who have been cast out of the real Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They do not begin to have one-tenth the number we have, and why should we waste our time in arguing with them as to who holds the situation, and as to  is the Church of Christ? If the prophecies of Daniel and others that have been referred to here today are true, and we know they are true, then is the mountain of the Lord's house to be established in the tops of the mountains? Here it is, and here it is rolling forth and will fill the whole earth. Can any of these claims be made by this shaddow, so to speak, of a re-organized church? We know that Joseph prophesied that the Latter-day Saints should be driven from city to city; that they should be driven from county to county; and that they should be driven from state to state; and finally, that they should be driven out of the confines of the United States to these Rocky Mountains and become a great, a prosperous, a mighty people. We know that this has been fulfilled to the letter. The Re-organized Church can lay no claims to being persecuted and driven from city to city, from county to county, from state to state, or of being driven to the Rocky Mountains. They have not become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. Not only did Joseph Smith proclaim that the day should come when a city, a county, and a state should be arrayed against this people called Latterday Saints, but he said, "the time shall ome when the whole United States shall be arrayed against the Mormons;" and the day did come. I remember in my childhood days when the army of the United States came against this people. Not a state militia, but the army of the United States of America. I remember very well also that the property of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was confiscated. I remember to have picked up the papers time and time again at the time the confiscation suits were going on in this state, and read in bold headlines, "The United States of America, vs the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and I have laid down the paper and said, "thanks be to God our Heavenly Father, that the United States of America has placed the stamp of divinity upon the utterances of the Prophet Joseph Smith." Every one of these predictions of the Prophet Joseph Smith have utterly failed if there is one claim that amounts to anything in the claims of the Re-organized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, because the United States of America has never lifted its hand nor sent its army against or confiscated the property of the Re-organized Church. Never has one thing been done by the United States of America against that church. 

I rejoice, as I have said, that I have been born among the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in the growth and in the advancement of the work of God here on the earth. In hearing the remarks that have been made in this Conference of the great growth of the people I was reminded of being with President Wilford Woodruff, standing in a wagon, in Idaho, some fifteen years ago next May, and talking to a half a dozen, or a dozen young people that were located there, and I was also very forcibly reminded of the remarks of that Prophet of God made them. I remember that the young people were somewhat discouraged on Sand Creek, as they looked around over land, without a tree, without a shrub except sage brush, without so much as a log cabin. Brother Woodruff said to the young people: "Be not discouraged; be not disheartened, because God's blessing is upon this land. It will only be a little time until there will be prosperous and happy settlements of the Latter-day Saints here. Tou feel that you have gone away from your friends; that you are almost out of the world, but it will be only a short time when you will have a meeting house, and a school house and all of the facilities here that you had at home before you came here. God will bless and multiply the land." What is the result today? On that si ot of ground stands the town of Iona, the headquarters of one of the Stakes of Zion, with about five thousand people instead- of six or seven young people; the words of the Prophet Wilford Woodruff have been fulfilled to the v.;ry letter. 

The Latter-day Saints are indeed, as the Prophet Joseph said they should be, a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains and we are simply in our infancy. We are beginning to grow and to become a mighty people, but we are as nothing to what we will be. There is no question in my mind  what the Lord Is going to multiply the Latter-day Saints and bless them more abundantly in the future than He has ever done in the past, provided of course we are humble and diligent; provided we seek for the advancement of God's kingdom, and not to do our own mind and will. We have the Gospel of Jesus Christ restored to us; we have the plan of life and salvation; we have the ordinances of the Gospel not only for the living but for the dead. We have all that is necessary, not only for our own salvation, but that we may be in very deed "Saviors upon Mount Zion," and enter into the temples of our God and save our ancestors who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel. I was particularly struck yesterday in listening to the remarks of President Cannon. He said, "Where is there a minister today that ha,s the hardihood to stand up and preach that little babes who die are sent to hell because they were not sprinkled?" The Gospel of Jesus Christ, the leaven of the Gospel, is going through the whole lump. The whole world has partaken to a greater or less extent of the principles of the Gospel; and men dare not stand up today and advocate this doctrine of devils, so to speak, because it is a damnable doctrine to teach tnit little innocent babes shall be sent to hell. When we contemplate the Gospel as it is and as it has been revealed, as recorded in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, our hearts swell with joy and thanksgiving: 

"And this is the Gospel, the glad tidings of which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us. 

"That He came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through Him all might be saved whom the Father had put into His power and made by Him. 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of His hands, except those sons of perdition, who deny the Son after the Father has revealed Him; 

"Wherefore, he saves all except them." 

Certainly this is glad tidings of great joy, that every human being except those that have a knowledge of Jesus 

Christ and who sin against that knowledge, shall be saved; and in this revelation the wonderful testimony has been borne to us by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon: 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the only begotten of the Father — 

"That by him and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

I bear witness to you, although I have not seen the Savior sitting upon the right hand of God, I know that He lives; that I know that Jesus is the Christ; that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; I know that the signs follow the believer; I know that hands are laid upon the sick and that the sick do recover; I know that we have the gift of tongues among the Latter-day Saints; I know that we have visions, dreams, and revelations; I know that Lorenzo Snow is a true prophet of God. I bear this witness to you and to all the world, and I pray God that as we grow in years that we may grow in the knowledge of the Gospel, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Temple choir sang the hymn commencing, 

Zion stands with hills surrounded, Zion kept by powers divine. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

Value of a well spent life — The Saints patriotic lovers of liberty. 

In the hymn just sung a very sweet text is given unto me: "God is with thee." I think it has been demonstrated at this Conference, in the testimonies that have been given concerning us and concerning the establishment of the Church of Christ upon the earth in these latter days — that God is with us, and that the prophecies are being fulfilled establishing the truth of the utterances of the prophets that have lived upon the earth in the days that are gone; and that the glorious principles of the everlasting Gospel are being preached by us in all the world for a witness; to the accomplishment of His own glorious pur-poses, as has * been demonstrated in the discourses  have been given during this Conference concerning the work of God in the earth, and its wonderful progress. 

I was very much impressed a few days ago when 1 had the honor of an invitation to the Temple by the Temple workers, who, loving their president, had invited him to come and spend an hour or two with them upon the anniversary of his birthday— I was very much impressed with the value of a well-spent life. What a credit it is to a man and how God is glorified in having such sons as our president here in this lower world, surrounded by all its allurements and temptations, who of their own free will and agency take up the cross of Christ, obey His unpopular doctrine; and are willing to be looked upon as the offscouring of all flesh, because they love God, acknowledge the atonement of His son and desire to love Him and keep His commandments rather than anything else, no matter what the consequences may be! I can understand how God is glorified because it is by the grace of God that we are sustained. We could not do without it, and it is another evidence that God is with us. 

1 remember coming out of the world, and I remember accepting this unpopular doctrine; I remember the contumely and scorn and contempt that I had to pass through; and I have advocated this despised doctrine and have been sustained by the grace of God, and I know that He has been with me; and in all my tribulations, afflictions, in my bereavements and heartaches, I can bear testimony that God has been with me. I know that God lives. I have learned that in my experience; He has been my counselor and my guide; He has been my director. I have sought the counsels of His will and have endeavored in my poor way to carry them out, and I can bear this testimony that God has been with me. He has sustained me in all the vicissitudes of life: and in the fulfilment of all my duties; and I also know that He is with this people; and that which we are most condemned for — our belief in plural marriage — is, to my mind, another evidence that we are the Israel of God. Pagan Rome prohibited plural marriage, and this action has been generally accepted and sustained by the so-called Christian nations, of the earth. Now, we are told not to love the world nor the things of the world. If we love the world the love of God is not with us; but there are many other evidences that this people are the people of God, and that God has sustained them, and that He is with them. The Latter-day Saints are devoted to tneir country; they are devoted to the Constitution; they look upon it as a sacred record, given by inspiration; and they revere the men who were made instruments in the hands of Almighty God in framing that wonderful document; and they are true and faithful to vt; and they have manifested this faithfulness on all occasions. Whenever their country required their assistance, they have been ready to lay down their lives in defense of it and in defense of the flag, and in defense of the constitution. We are a liberty loving people, and we respect the government, and we manifest this in the course that we are taking today. We can afford to labor and wait, because we know that inteligence must rule. Mob violence and mob rule is distressing, but the rule and government of intelligence is what we all desire, for when the righteous rule the people rejoice, and when the wicked rule the people mourn. We are in favor of good government; we are in favor of intelligence. We give our children the best education that we can. Our academies and our seminaries of learning show this. The first house for public purposes that is built in any of our settlements is, as a rule, the school house. We have always demonstrated that we were in favor of education. We want doctrines, but we want likewise good education. We don't want to be taught false theories and false doctrines, but we want the truth as it is in Christ Jesus, because to know God and Jesus Christ whom He hath sent is eternal .life; and we want this eternal life. That is one reason why we assemble in conference — to learn of the ways of the Lord, that we may walk in His paths. We want to understand th? conditions of salvation. 

I have a profound affection for the Apostle John. He says, in the first chapter of his first epistle: 

"That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life; 

"(For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father, and was manifest unto us;) 

"That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us; and truly our followship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. 

"And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full." — (I John i, 1-4.) 

He thus wrote unto the saints, those who had obeyed the principles of the Gospel — the doctrine of Christ. They believed and worshipped the living and true God in the name of Jesus Christ, accepting the atonement; they had repented of their sins and of their false doctrines and theories; they had been baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins; they had received the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ which follows the water and they had received the gift of the Holy Ghost. He further says: 

"This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all." 

That is what we believe. 

"If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth." 

Now mark you, 

"But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin." (I John i, 5-7.) 

These are the conditions: "If we walk in the light as he is in the light we have fellowship one with another and the blood of His Son Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin." We believe that. We believe that it is necessary for us to walk in the light; we believe that it is necessary for us to keep the commandments of Almighty God; and we nave seen that God is with those that love Him and keep His commandments. 

The life of our beloved President, 

Lorenzo Snow, was reviewed on the occasion I referred to; it was a grand record. Then I thought of President Wilford Woodruff; of President John Taylor; of President Brigham Young; of President Joseph Smith, these servants of God who have stood the brunt and burden of the day, being right in the front of the battle; and also I thought of their counselors: Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, Willard Richards, Jedediah M. Grant, George A. Smith and others who have passed away — m en who have made the record of a well-spent life; who have done the will of God and kept His commandments. I thought what a glorious record this was. What have they demonstrated? They have demonstrated that they loved righteousness rather than the things of the world. Here is what the beloved disciple says on this matter: 

"Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world the love of the Father is not in him. 

"For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. 

"And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever." (I John ii, 1517.) 

I say God is with us, because we do His will. If we do not the will of God, we have no promise, for the Lord has said: "When you do as I say, I am bound to fulfill, but when you do not, you have no promise." (Doctrine and Covenants). John further says: 

"Little children, it is the last time, and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last time. 

"They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us they would no doubt have continued with us; but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. 

"But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. 

"I have not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth." (I John ii, 18-21.) 

Why do we pay our tithes and offerings? To be obedient and do the will of God. That was a grand sermon that used to be preached by Bishop Kdward Hunter: "Pay your tithes and offerings and be blessed." He that has lived that principle can bear testimony to the truth of what was referred to by Brother John W. Taylor: "Whoso will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine." Well, how do we know? Because we have the living witness. We learned in our obedience that baptism by immersion for the remision of sins is necessary. God never established anything that was non-essential. Jesus Christ told Nicodemus that unless he was born again he could not see the kingdom of God, and that unless he was born of the water and of the Spirit he could in no wise enter into the kingdom of God; and when He, Jesus went unto John to be baptized of him, and John forbade him, He said, "Suffer it to be so now for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness." There are two principles, Christ' and anti-Christ. Anti-Christ is opposed to the doctrine of Christ. Anti-Christ says the ordinances are non-essential; Christ says these ordinances are essential. He also says "not those that say Lord, Lord shall inherit the kingdom, but he that doeth the will of My Father which is in heaven." Again — "He that heareth these sayings cf mine and doeth them, I will liken to a man that built his house tipon a rock, and the winds blew and the rains descended and beat upon that house, but it stood, because it was built upon a rock," "but he that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, is like the man that built his house upon the sand, etc." The difference between the obedient and disobedient." 

My beloved brethren and sisters, T bear testimony that God is with us; that we are the Church of Christ, representing the Church of the Lamb upon the earth; and we believe these everlasting principles; we appreciate them; and by reference to the Scriptures we can show that it is no new doctrine; that as it was in the beginning, is now and ever will be. These doctrines and principles of everlasting life are eternal. Another impression that was made upon my mind when thinking of- the glory of a well- spent life: I thought that these brethren, these representative men, were kind to themselves; I thought they had chosen the better part; they had taken up the cross of Christ; and they had advocated the principles of Almighty God and His righteousness down to the very last, enjoining upon, their children, and upon their children's children to be true and faithful to the everlasting principles of the Gospel, that they may inherit that rest that was promised unto those that would love God and keep His commandments. What is meant by that rest? It means a fulness of everything; to enjoy a fulness of love, a fulness of light, a fulness of intelligence, a fulness of power; to sit down with Christ upon His throne, as He has overcome and sits upon the throne of the Father — the promise that was given unto the Israel of God — the promise that was given to the sons of the Most High. Do we understand these principles? Do we understand the value of a well-spent life? Do we understand the glory of loving God and keeping His commandments, and of keeping ourselves clean and unspotted from the world? This is what we want to understand. We want to magnify the Priesthood God has given us and the Lord has told us concerning the magnifying of the Priesthood, that we can rightly have some idea as to what we can attain to, because the Lord has been very kind unto us in giving unto us the principles of the everlasting Gospel, and has taught us the value of the Priesthood. He requires an intelligent obedience. 

Let me refer you to the Doctrine and Covenants, page 290: 

"And this greater Priesthood (the Melchisedek) administereth the Gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God; 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest; 

"And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest to man in the flesh; 

"For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live. 

"Now this Moses plainly taught to the  of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people that they might behold the face ot God. 

"But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence, therefore, the Lord in his wrath (for his anger was kindled against them) swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory." (Sec. 86, v. 19-24.) 

Again, "For whoso is faithful to the obtaining of these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, (the Aaronic and Melchisedec) and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron, and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God; 

"And also they who receive this priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall ba given unto him; 

"And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

"Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he can not break, neither can it be moved; 

"But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 86, v. 33-41.) 

I want to bear my testimony that this Priesthood of the Son of God has been restored to the earth; and that the Church of Christ is organized upon the earth, and has never required any re-organization — that is simply nonsense. It has always been intact.. God has been with us from the beginning; from the day when He took the boy Joseph Smith up to the present time, and it is by the grace of God that we are sustained. It is by the grace of God that we grow and increase as we are growing and increasing, be God has determined to establish His righteousness upon the earth and He will do it. He is educating- us. 

Now let me exhort you my beloved brethren and sisters to serve God and keep His commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. We can not make any excuse for rejecting the ordinances of the house of God, and we can not make any excuse for rejecting the love of God. We represent Christ by accepting His doctrine. When we are in favor of the doctrine of Christ we manifest our faith by our works, and consequently are saved by grace and are justified by faith, because we manifest our faith by our works. There is the key. It is all nonsense that ordinances are non-essential. They are essential and have to be administered by the proper authority in order that we may obtain redemption from death and from hell and from the grave, and in order that we may not die in our sins, for if we do reject the ordinances of the house of God we will die in our sins. If we want to be redeemed, we have to accept and obey the message of Almighty God. We have done so, and it has brought us out of the darkness which covers the earth. The Gospel message is extending upon our right hand and upon our left, and God is gathering His people, His Israel, as He predicted He would do. 

I pray God our eternal Father that we may have grace to overcome temptation, obey His commandments and in the end be saved in His kingdom through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform. 

Benediction by Elder B. H. Roberts. 


