Afternoon
06 04 1899



ANTHON H. LUND. 

Giving employment to the poor— Home manufactures. 

I hope while I shall speak to you, my brethren and sisters, that I shall be under the influence of the same spirit as guided our beloved brethren who spoke this forenoon. It is pleasant to have the privilege of meeting with the Saints in general Conference. We feel that there is a great deal of the spirit of God present and we delight to hear our leaders speak unto us. 

At this Conference we are favored by having the First Presidency, the Apostles, and the Presidents of Seventies with us. I do not remember that this has been the case for many years. I believe that during this Conference the Lord will bless us and give us a rich outpouring of His Holy Spirit. 

One of the brethren this forenoon alluded to the many hundreds of Elders we have in the field working for the spread of the truth. We have glorious reports from the different missions; our brethren are doing well and laboring to gather sheep into the fold of Christ; and the Lord is blessing their endeavors. Now, while the great majority of us are not called upon to go* out into the active missionary field, there is still a great mission which all of us can perform. The Latter-day Saints at home have a great deal to do. Our brethren gather Israel from the different nations of the earth. Most of the Saints when they come have exhausted their means in bringing them to Zion; they come to a strange land; the customs are different, and they have not many acquaintances, though  have many friends. We should look after these, that they be not discouraged. They may not be able to find the kind of work they have been used to do, and we may not be able to provide that for them, but we should try to give them an opportunity to earn their livelihood. We do not want to make paupers of them. We want to study ways and devise means whereby they can earn their living in our midst. Our missionaries who return should continue to take the same lively interest in the Saints after they gather as they did when they were laboring in their midst in the different fields abroad. Sometimes they feel hurt w T hen they come here and no notice is taken of them. The missionaries who are acquainted with them should take some interest in them and try to do something for them. A great many are doing this, and I am always pleased when I hear the missionaries make inquiries about acquaintances, to know if they arrived; and to see interest taken in them; but I have seen other cases where our emigrants have felt as if they were not looked after, and if under such circumstances, when they feel a little slighted, they should come in contact with those who are disaffected it may make them so, and cause some of them to return to the places where they formerly lived; and such have at times done a great deal of harm to the cause. We can fulfill part of a mission in looking after the Saints when they have gathered; we should see to it that employment is provided for them. In early years those who embraced the Gospel were mostly from the rural districts — farmers. When they came here they did not want to stay In the city; they wanted to go out where they could get land and the same kind of employment they had been used to, and they soon established themselves and prospered. Of late years our missionaries in Europe have not been able to do much among the rural population, but have done more in the cities, and more of those who live in large cities have joined the Church than of those outside the cities, and when these come here they seek the more populous centers as they are not accustomed to farming. Such should be looked after and encouraged to go out into the settlements. Our settlements here are not like the rural districts in Europe. Nearly all of our settlements have the advantages of cities — good schools, good societies, and the advantages that are found in cities in the old world are to a certain extent to be found in most of our larger settlements. Our brethren and sisters who come from the cities, need not stay here in Salt Lake City to enjoy the same advantages they did before they came, but they can go out into the larger settlements, and it will not be hard for those who are not too old to accustom themselves to labor on the farms. Many who have been brought up to a certain kind of employment in factories, or different handicrafts, may not be able to get the same kind of employment here, but many of them can go out and take hold of the work that is to be found in our settlements, and it will not take them long to establish themselves and get homes of their own. They will feel happier in doing so, and though farming is often connected with hard work, the labor has been lightened of late years to a great degree. Our farmers by getting machinery, can do much of their work sitting.and the hard work that our brethren tell us they did in early days is not required today. I speak thus to encourage our brethren and sisters, who have come to these larger cities and cannot get employment, to go out into the more distant settlements. I believe there are about as good openings now as there ever were. There are many places where people can take up lands yet, or can get land cheaply and have a chance to work for the land they get. It is true they cannot take up large tracts of land as the earlier settlers might have done if they had so desired, but they did not do that. The counsel was to make small farms, and we have seen the wisdom of this. The brethren who will go out now need not fear that they will starve and will be in want of anything. Our brethren and sisters out in the country feel to help those who come into their m dst. The Industrial Bureau, which was established, I hope will be an institution that can do much good for our poor. Those who have means ought to study  to use their means to give employment, that there should not be any idle hands in Zion. The hoarding up of means, trying to get riches for riches' sake, will not make a man happy. We had a text read here this morning by Brother Clawson, which I think is an excellent one. The prophet advises us before seeking riches, that we should seek the kingdom of God, and after we have done that, then he promises that we shall get riches, if we will seek them for the sole purpose of doing good. I believe the Lord will bless this people and make them a rich people if they will first seek His kingdom and Hi» righteousness, and providing the object in gathering riches will be that they may be able to do more good. 

"We used to have more preaching upon home manufacture. I believe those teachings are as good today as they were years ago. What if we cannot follow the fashions from abroad to so great an extent? We ought to make ourselves a self-sustaining people; we have all the elements right here in our State to make us such. Yesterday I read the report of Z. C. M. I. for the last year. It said there had been about seventy thousand pairs of shoes made by that factory. This is quite a step toward stopping the importation of shoes. If we had ten such factories in our midst I presume we could supply our needs in the shoe line. The report also stated that they had made some one hundred and thirty thousand garments — overalls and jumpers. I was pleased with this item. Though they do not make much money in these departments, yet they keep a great deal of means in our midst; and this should be encouraged. We should encourage all of our home institutions that are trying to stop the outlet of means, so that the money we obtain can be kept in circulation among us a longer time. Let us take a pride in our home manufactures. Let us see to it that we do as much as we can to give our poor employment. 

I am sorry to think our tanneries have not been a success; I think they could be made so. We have an enormous lot of hides going out from this State. They are tanned abroad and brought back here in a manufactured . We could retain a great deal of means here by manufacturing our own leather. Bark is not easy to be secured here, but perhaps other means of obtaining tannic acid can be had and a success made of this branch of industry. All of our wool that goes out and is brought back as cloth would have been a great saving if we could have manufactured it here, and then sent it out as manufactured goods. 

Brethren and sisters, there are so many things that our leading brethren in the different settlements should study and think of and advise the people to do that we may be a prosperous people. We cannot afford to keep up the style we do and do it on raising wheat and selling that at forty cents a bushel. Some change must be had in this. I noticed when I was back on my mission in visiting my native land, Denmark, that a great change has come over that country. The^' formerly exported their rye and other grain, and while they did so they were a poor people. Of late years they import grain, feed it to their stock and export their butter, their eggs, and their meat to England. They have been able to obtain a higher price for their articles of export. The farms there are prospering, or rather, they would have prospered, if they had kept to their old methods, frugality and simple manners; but they are trying to educate their boys and giving them city appetites; they can not live on their country incomes, and they are goins?- into debt, giving mortgages on their farms, while they are getting several times as much means as they were wont to do. I bring this up for our consideration. I believe if we could use up our grain at home and export that which does not weigh so much, we would not have to pay so much freight, would have more means and make ourselves more independent. 

I have erot on the subject of home manufacture. I believe it is a thing we ought to study, brethren and sisters, for our well being r and we should look after the poor and give them employment. 

May God bless you all and bless our leaders, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

Expansiveness of the Latter-day Saints— Material Interests of the people— Debt should be avoided — A porfitable course for young people — Value of the counsels of the Priesthood. 

At these conferences there are so many subjects discussed that they can not fail to be edifying to all of the people. If only one subject were introduced and all of the speakers dwelt upon it, perhaps it would not be so interesting. I am glad to be associated with my brethren and sisters in this general conference. I have had a good many reflections in listening to the remarks we have already heard. They have brought many things to my mind of a former date and of former times here in this country. While it is the privilege of all Latter-day Saints to have evidence for themselves of the truth of the Gospel and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, we are not only instructed and reminded on these subjects, but are reminded of affairs that pertain to us of a temporal character. The Latter-day Saints are growing and spreading abroad. 

I met a gentleman on the train the other day from San Francisco. He was born and raised there; and he hadn't heard anything about our people; and he seemed very anxious to know something about the doctrines of our Church. I said to him: 'We have a mission established in California; we have Elders laboring in the city where you hail from; you can hear our Elders any Sunday if you will inquire after them; and you can become acquainted with the doctrines of our Church.' He remarked that he supposed nearly all of the Latter-day Saints lived in Salt Lake City, and that during the last forty years there had not been much growth among them; that there had not been much expansion. I remarked to him that I was surprised that a man of his intelligence was not better acquainted with this people. 

Forty years ago I suppose the majority of the Latter-day Saints were located in this valley— Salt Lake Valley, but today they are spread abroad and I advise the gentleman to get our Church works and read them; and it was a good opportunity to bear my testimony to him of the Gospel. I believe there are many hundreds of thousands of good honest people in the world that have but a very limited knowledge and perhaps no knowledge at all of the existence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We would naturally suppose that everybody had heard of us from what has been said and published concerning us; but there are a. great many people that have not time to read those things. It is on a par with our conferences. A great many of our people right here in the city do not have time to come to conference; they are too busy, and they don't know anything of what is being done. Thus it is with the world; a great many ot them don't know that such a people exist as the Latter-day Saints in these mountains; and they have no idea of our expansion, our growth, and our development in this country. 

1 said a few moments ago that the Latter-day Saints may satisfy themselves with regard to the divine mis sion of the Prophet Joseph; and what does it require to become satisfied? It requires time and attention and a prayerful and thoughtful consideration of the doctrines of the Church, and of the scriptures; that which is written in the Bible, in the Book of Mormon, and the Church publications. Entreat the Lord in regard to it and no man will be turned away. It is said: "Knock and it shall be opened unto you; ask and ye shall receive." Do this that as members of the Church you may be able to give a reason for the hope that you have and have a testimony of this work . There are a great many conditions existing among the Lattei -day Saints on which we may improve. Apostle Lund referred to home manufacture. But little has been said a tout it of late years. There was a time when there was quite an excitement raised throughout the country about home production. I presume those things are going forward gradually, as we can find a great many things of home production throughout the couniry. It is a good thing and we should encourage it, sustain it, think about it, study about it, not only here but in all of the organizations of the Church. It is a grand thing to be selfrupporting An individual, a family, or a community that is self-supporting  the best off. They are easiest in their circumstances. 

I believe we have made many mistakes in the past as a people and as individuals; and there is no doubt but that we will continue to make mistakes from time to time, because our judgments are not perfect, and we follow the solicitations of our families and of our friends, and indulge in things that we should not indulge in. It is my opinion that we are being led to habits of extravagance and the result will be serious. It militates against us, and it militates against our improvement and advancement. I was thinking while Brother Lund was talking about the poor being employed, that if every man and woman in the Church (because there are sisters that manage things for themselves), that are able would employ some one or two or more as their circumstances would warrant there would be nobody looking for work; everybody would be employed. There are people that have natural endowments enough from the Ixjrd to direct the labors of others to their own profit and to the profit of those whom they employ. This is a matter for consideration by those who have means, to employ some of our poor. In some of the counties they begin to feel like throwing the poor on the county to support. They say: 'We pay our taxes to the county and the State and the poor should receive consideration from our officials in the county capacity or in the State capacity as the case may be. I do not think this is the proper thing. I do not think there should be anybody foisted upon the county for support. If we turn the poor off, peradventure the Lord will turn us off, for He said: 'The poor ye have always, but me ye have not always.' I do not believe we can afford to turn the poor off on the county for support. I believe if the Latterday Saints would turn their ear to the Lord and listen to the counsel of His servants that there would be means provided in all the settlements of the Saints to provide for the poor. They should not be turned on the Church either for support, but they should be provided for as the Lord has directed. It is my firm conviction, coupled with my experience, that if the poor were properly looked after in every ward and  people were particular to understand the necessities of the poor, every ward (there may be some exceptions) could support its poor without turning them on the county or Church for support. There are places in the Church where comparatively there are no poor. Well, the responsibility rests upon the people to contribute of their offerings for the benefit of the poor just as much as if they had plenty of poor to consume all they gave in. The counties have plenty of use for their means. "We have lived here a good many years and in some places it is difficult to travel because of the conditions of the roads and highways. The counties have plenty of places to put their means for the benefit of the great public. They can make our highways such as they are in the oldei countries. 

I heard day before yesterday from an eminent financier, a remark that struck me with considerable force. He was telling me how to get out of debt. It may be that you would like to know, for I imagine ia good many of our people here are in debt. This brother of long experience, who had passed through the mill, told me how to get out of debt and how the people could get out of debt. I listened with a good deal of attention, because I thought it was worth something, and something that all of us ought to know, for a great many of us don't know and have it yet to learn. It was simply this: "Stop immediately from going into debt. Don't go into debt another dollar until you get out and are free." That is a simple way, and it might prove to be an easy way, too, if we would do it. Stop going into debt; don't buy anything you can't pay for from this time henceforth until it can be said, "Israel Is free; there is a free people, untrammeled, not in bondage up there in the mountains; they are lenders, not borrowers; they will lend you money if you will give them good security." This is the situation the Lord will bring us to bye and bye, when He educates us a little further and takes us through the school of experience. We will come to this because the Lord has designed it. It is said that the people of the Lord will be a rich people. I believe this. I have heard promises  our eminent brethren of experience to the effect that the Lord would help us this one time if we would help ourselves in the future and cease our habits of extravagance. Everywhere, in all of our homes, we should cease these habits of extravagance; learn to economize; learn to save; learn to be prudent, wise, and judicious in the administration of our affairs. 

And young people that are of a marriageable age should get married. I don't mean to become engaged and then wait two or three years, or one year — to become engaged and think they are just about as good as married. I advise that they get married when they are of a proper age, and when they are married to cease as soon as possible to work for wages. Go out and do something for yourselves. Go somewhere; there are many opportunities in the West and in the South. We receive letters from people all over the country telling of opportunities for young people to commence in life, settle down, and become independent; where they can make themselves homes and rear their children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. This idea of people always working for a salary with nothing else to depend upon, I don't believe is a good thing for young people. I believe they ought to become independent, and not depend always upon some one else for a livelihood. It is true it is very pleasant to be in the city; it is very pleasant to have the society there is in the city, and to have the amusement and the natural advantages that accrue to the people; but the question is, can you afford it as young people? I know there is an idea growing up in the midst of the young people that they can not get married until they have as much as their father or their mother; they must have a nice home, well furnished before they can take a life partner. I be-ieve this is wrong. I believe young people of a proper age ought to get married and they ought to depend upon themselves; and a young man should marry a young woman that is willing to put forth her efforts to help. Get a helpmeet; one that will help to make your advances in life; help to make you a home; help to sustain the family; and will do something for the good of the community. This would be my advice and my counsel to our young people. Cease entertaining- this idea that you cannot get married until you have a home furnished and everything pertaining to it; nice surroundings, nice lawn and all such. Make the lawn yourself, and make your home just as beautiful as you desire. It is a good thing to have these surroundings; it is proper; but when it oomes to putting off the important things in life,the important matters, for a few years, until circumstances are such that they can marry, I don't believe it is a good thing. That is the way of the world. They have grown up with that idea in our large cities. Young people become enamored of city life. It is a good thing to have cities, but it is a good thing for young people to reflect and think over these things; and when they earn a dollar they should know how it comes. People who earn their money know just exactly how it comes, and they know better how to save it. These things should have the consideration of the young people. They should also be considered by the parents, because parents sometimes feel: "O, I don't want my son to go away off out there, and I don't want my daughter to go away from me and go out in the country somewhere;" and young people get discouragement many times from their parents. These things I know to be a fact, and I do not believe they have good results. 

Our people are a growing and prosperous people, and we should observe the counsels of the servants of God in regard to these things. This is a matter that is becoming more or less in disuse among the Latter-day Saints — to listen to the whisperings of the Lord through His servants. I repeat, it is becoming more or less in disuse among the people! and the older ones are educating the young people that it is not so very important to listen to the counsels of the servants of God. But I want to say unto you that according to my education and experience in the Church there is no other way whereby we may be saved; there is no other way whereby we may be exalted; there is no other way whereby we may obtain eternal life. We must yield to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit; we must yield to the counsels of the Priest, no matter what the world may think in regard to these things. It is a principle that God has established in the earth; God has established it and we can not change it. Those that will listen, and turn their ears to the Lord will be on the right side bye and bye; when the sheep are separated from the goats, those who have listened to the whisperings of the Lord through His servants will be found on the right side; and they will be remembered and they will have said to them: "Come ye blessed of my Father, etc." According to my education and experience in the Church, and according to the teachings I have had and the suggestions through the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, there is no man, I don't care what his standing is; he may be a president of a stake, or an apostle, no matter, he can not safely gainsay the counsel of the Priesthood. If he does he will have it to meet some day just as sure as the sun rises and sets. I know this as well as I know that 1 look upon this congregation. We must observe the will of the Lord; we must observe the counsels of the Priesthood, no matter what the world may think in regard to these things; and we can do this in all humility and maintain our right and manhood, and maintain our fellowship with each other and with the Lord: but when we turn away from these things we are like the sow that was washed and returned to her wallowing in the mire. The Lord has established His work; He is about to establish His kingdom; He has revealed the everlasting Gospel; and He has revealed the principle by which you and I may go back into His presence; but when we turn a deaf ear to these things, through some motive or other that may arise in our minds, we will have to atone for it sooner or later. Write it down in your journals if you please, because these are eternal principles of truth revealed to the Latter-day Saints! We are in advance of the world in regard to these things. The Lord has been merciful to us. He has given us line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little and there a little; not given it to us all at one time. We did not have everything revealed in the days of the Prophet Joseph; but we do not live up  what was revealed in his day. There are a great many things revealed to His servants iiom time to time that immediately concern the people. Many o! the revelations in the Book of Covenants concerning the people at the time they were given, and there are revelations given that concern the people today. The Bible is an excellent record, a good book to study, a good book to become acquainted with. The Book of Mormon is an excellent record, and precious truths are contained in it as well as the Bible, and the Book of Covenants is an excellent book giveiv from the Lord, but the whole of them together are not all that we need, because as circumstances and conditions change with the people, the Lord has His mouthpiece to say what shall bt> done nr.d how it shall be done and on what occasions it shall be done. That i& not written perhaps at all. You may hunt through, and through these books, and you would not find what you want to know. What shall we do? Turn our ear to the Lord and to the counsels of His Prophet and of His servants, and then we will be in harmony with the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and in harmony with the Lord; but when we depart from this and go astray, we are liable to be led into the dark, and when those who have been in the light get in the dark, u, "how great is that darkness!" These are matters for our consideration. In our secret places we should sit in judgment upon ourselves and ask ourselves such questions: How has been my course today; has it been approved of the Lord? We may know by the whisperings of the Holy Spirit whether or not our course has been approved by the Lord; and if we feel condemned, then we may know that there is something wrong with us. We want to be wise and prudent; want to be kind and good to one another; and learn to love one another; to love the Gospel and the work of God above everything else in the world. We get into a certain groove and think we must hang to that groove,and we can not be pulled out of it. It is not a good thing for any of us to get into grooves. Here are the living oracles of the Church that God has placed here to regulate all of the affairs of the people, not only  spiritual things but temporal things as well— in building up the various cities, in opening and developing the country. Who knows better than the Lord? And may not His servants have the whisperings of His Holy Spirit to direct them? Certainly; that is what the Lord has placed them in the Church for; and that is why we vote to sustain them in their position. We sustain the President as President of the Church in all the world. But how do we sustain him? Do we consider our vote? Do we consider the covenants we have made with the Lord when we turn a deaf ear to the counsels of the Priesthood? 

Brethren and sisters, let us be just, let us be true, let us be kind, and give to the poor; and let us pay our tithing as well as our offerings. This is the will of the Lord; and who among the Latter-day Saints is any poorer for having paid his or her tithing? Nobody who has done this and contributed to the building up of the kingdom of God and to the spreading of the Gospel in various lands. Let us not forget the Lord in our tithes and our offerings. If we do, peradventure, He will forget us. If we want to be remembered of the Lord we should remember Him in our tithes and our offerings; devote ourselves to the work of the Lord and the Lord will be merciful to us. 

God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

The great and beneficent physical and spiritual effects brought to the world by the organization of the Church. 

We have had at this Conference, so far, some very practical instructions and the Spirit of the Lord has been manifestly in our midst. I have had a good many reflections, that I hope will be profitable to me; and if I can relate some of them, I would like to do so this afternoon. In sitting here and contemplating that which has taKen place, and this large congregation, ihe reflection occurs to me that this is the completion of sixty-nine years since this Church was organized, since the Lord commenced this great work of which we form a part, and there are many interesting thoughts connected with this event. I could not help but think of pome of the results of this organization of six members into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sixty nine years ago. What has it done for the world? What changes have been wrought by the establishment of this Church? How much better is the world for its organization! How much better are we, who are members of this Church than we would have been had it not been organized in our day! Sixty-nine years ago but little or nothing was known about God. Communication between heaven and earth had entirely ceased. Every popular minister, and every man of science, every man that made any pretension to education, declared at that time that God had ceased to talk to man; that all communication between heaven and earth had been entirely cut off; that God had spoken eighteen hundred years before and had revealed His will, but since then He had remaitied silent. No man had heard His voice; no man bad beheld His person; no man had received communication from Him; but all' were left to wander as they pleased, to be guided by that which had been written so long before. The personality of God Himself was unknown. Extraordinary ideas prevailed as to the character of our God. That which had been written in the Scriptures concerning Him had been looked upon as spiritual; to be spiritualized and not real. He was declared not to be a personage of tabernacle, not to be able to walk, nor to talk, nor to hear, having none of these organs by which communication was had; but that He was a spirit, diffused through space. The most extraordinary ideas prevailed on this subject. The communication of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ dissipated that ignorance; it gave to mankind a knowledge of God; it restored to the earth the gifts and graces of the Gospel; it removed doubt concerning the plan of salvation; it revealed clearly the ordinances, by obedience to which man could be saved. It has had the effect of bringing the Gospel, the word of God, the salvation of God, to the poorest and to the humblest on the earth. 

We heard this morning about class distinctions. No power could have been  effective in leveling class distinctions, and it may be said in destroying them, than the revelation of this Gospel and the establishment of this Church. The thousands who have heard the Gospel in various lands, in lands of oppression, in the midst of poverty and destitution and hopelessness, where there was no prospect before them and their children, only to toil and live lives of drudgery, of poverty and deprivation — the thousands who in this condition have heard the message of salvation have had their hearts gladdened; it has been an emancipation for them, or a means of emancipation to deliver them from these sad and disheartening circumstances, because this brought to them a knowledge that they were the children of God, equally valuable, it may be said, equally esteemed in the presence of God with those who possessed so many advantages over them. The toiler in Europe, the man working in the mines in England or in Scotland, the toiler in Germany and in Scandinavia — these men so low that they were almost deprived of all hope, have heard the Gospel. It has come as a salvation to them and a means of deliverance. I heard one man say, who is now a Bishop in the north, that in Scandinavia, where he lived, he envied the position of the horse, and wished he had been born a horse. Why? Because the horse was cared for; the horse was fed; the horse was carefully housed; he had value; when he died it was a loss to his master; but as to him, the working man, he might die, and what loss would it be to anybody? Not to his master. It might be to his wife, or to his children, but not to his master. He could toil, could go hungry; he could go partly clad; he could go miserably housed and provided for; the animal that possessed value was worth something; that could be cared for, carefully blanketed at night, fed well and kept in a warm stable, and if he were sick taken care of that he might not die. This man's statement concerning his feelings was very_ strongly put; but his condition was that of thousands when this Gospel reached them. What has it done for them? It has lifted them up; it has made them feel that they are the children of God — peers of every one else on the earth, no matter how , no matter how learned, no matter how many advantages others may possess, tney are equal before the Lord with all of them. "Mormonism" has done this for the world. It has made every man, that is worthy, a Priest of God; it has had this effect. You have heard talk today about prophets; you have heard talk about oracles; you have heard talk about leaders and men being entrusted with authority; but there is nothing that is said about an> one of these that does not apply to every man in this Church. Every man thai has embraced this Gospel is raised to this dignity and to this power. Therefore, this Church has been a great blessing to the poor of every land. Those who have heard this Gospel have been delivered by it from their bondage and from their oppression, and they are brought to a land of liberty where they can receive of the benefits that liner tv bestows and all of the advantages which the Lord has promised to the inhabitants of this land. These, my brethren and sisters, are some of the blessings that have flowed to us in sixtj'-nine years. 

When I reflect upon all of the consequences that have followed that great and important event, although so little noticed \yy the world, my mind fails to grasp it in all its details, the benefits are so numerous. They extend in so many directions, not only to us who have received this Gospel, but to the world at large. They feel the effect of it. Contemplate the condition of tht. world when this Gospel was restored! What was known about heaven? What was known about hell? There are two places, one of bliss, the other a place of torment. How much terror was entertained by the people at large concerning this place of torment. To have to think that this was endless; to think how the hearts of mothers were wrung with anguish at the death of their wayward children, of their loved ones, when they were told by men who assumed authority and to whom they had been taught to look with respect, that they were eternally damned — sent to a place of torment worlds without end! Think of the misery of human souls in contemplating such fearful results! Is it any wonder that men wished they had never been born? They did not  what to do. Suicide brought no relief; they could not get deliverance from the inexorable consequences of living, because their souls were indestructible. They could not hope to escape from the justice of God, go where they might. And this feeling of hopelessness and misery filled thousands of bosoms, millions, I may say; but what did this Gospel do? It brought light from God, the author of our being. Instead of thinking it was a bad condition to be born, it produced a feeling of gladness in the hearts of men and women that they ever had been born; because when they saw the justice of God, that they would get rewarded according to the deeds done in the body,, all fear vanished, for they would be dealt with by a just and merciful God and not a tyrant, such as the world described the Lord to be. 

Not only this, but think of the glad tidings of salvation that have come to us through the revelations that God has given to this Church respecting the dead and their future fate. Before, the popular idea was that the unnumbered millions of heathen who had died in ignorance of the Gospel had been sent to this endless place of torment; that they were sent to hell without any hope of deliverance through the endless ages of eternity. The feeling of those who would dare think upon this subject, when such thoughts were presented to them, was only to hate, as a monster, the God who would do such things. What could be more monstrous than to send innocent people to hell for not being that which they knew nothing of? No wonder that men revolted at the thought. No wonder that men defied the Almighty under such misconceptions. The Gospel has brought to us revelations concerning this. We see our God in all His beauty; in all His grandeur; clothed with all those attributes that call forth our highest admiration and worship. We can worship Him in spirit and in truth. 

What has the organization of this Church done for us in regard to the future? Why, heaven is no longer a place that is vague and indefinite in our minds, or in the minds of the children of men to whom revelation has come. Heaven is something to be desired; not to sit idly and play upon golden harps; but heaven is a place of activity, a place of progress; that which furnishes man his highest enjoyment on the earth; that which develops and calls out his highest and noblest qualities, we are to have in heaven. And this is no new revelation; but it is beclouded and misunderstood by the world. "Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many," the Scriptures say. "What does that mean? That the man who has done his duty in his sphere here on the earth faithfully will have an enlarged sphere hereafter; will have greater power, more opportunities for development; shall have every God-like power; every power and attribute that we have derived from our ancestry— that is, from God our Eternal Father. We shall have room for infinite gratification, unlimited gratification, going on from one degree of power to another, and exercising it as our Father exercises it in the midst of the eternities. Is there not something delightful in this thought, and in the contemplation of such a future? If I have children; if I have a wife, I shall have them in eternity. I shall preside over that family no matter how small it may be, or how large it may extend. They will be my kingdom; for this is the promise of God. What is there that is more delightful in the contemplation of the future than this thought, that those with whom we are associated here, with whom our lives and happiness is entwined; who give unto us the greatest pleasure, because of the love we have for them and they have for us; that that union shall be perpetuated throughout eternity, and that there shall be an increase of that love and of that union and an increase also of that power, because the power of procreation is promised — the greatest power that man possesses on the earth. That is promised unto those who are faithful. I know the world say this is materialistic; that we take wrong views of this; that we are not spiritual enough. Well, I am willing to have that charge levelled against me. I want to be materialistic in this sense. I want to enjoy that which we enjoy here, purified, exalted, and increased beyond my comprehension or your comprehension at the present time; and  are to have this glory and this power; the Lord promises it unto us. Therefore, it can be said of us as it was said of our Lord and Savior, "to the increase of His kingdom there shall be no end." Why? Because of this principle that I spoke of— the principle of procreation. By it, and through that principle the worlds are peopled. The planetary orbs which stud our heavens so gloriouslv are peopled by that principle— the principle of procreation. God possesses it, and we as His children inherit the power. If we do what is right He promises to bestow it upon us. Our heaven, then, is materialistic in this sense; it is not altogether spiritual. But it is spiritual also. We shall have spiritual joy; we shall have spiritual pleasures such as have been described to us this day, for it is the highest pleasure or joy the human soul is capable of, to worship God, to do His will, keep His commandments and to serve Him. This is the highest pleasure that human beings can attain unto, and we shall have it in eternity, and it shall be the chief source of our enjoyment and of our happiness in the world to come. 

These are a few of the blessings that have come to us through the revelation of the Gospel and the organization of the Church sixty-nine years ago today. Think of it! What happiness it has brought to us individually! Each man and each woman in this congregation could tell this for himself or herself. Each one could reflect upon the benefits that have flowed to him or her individually. Contemplate the greatness of the work, the effect of the work tipon the whole world wherever this Gospel has been preached, and it has been carried to many lands. It has brought release to many captives; it has gladdened the hearts of the people of the civilized nations. It has reached even the barbarians, and it has gladdened their hearts. It has inspire.! the hearts of our Indian races with new hope, for they have had presented to them the promises of God made to their fathers, and they look forward to their fulfillment, and they look forward with joy to their redemption It has been proclaimed to som extent to the Jews, though th  has not yet come for them to embrace it. Still, it comes with the promise.and filled with the hope to these scattered remnants of the House of Isreal, these despised people who are persecuted in lands of civilization, because they are assured that the promises concerning' them and their restoration to their ancient land will be fulfilled. It has brought hope to the islands of the Pacific, to those despised races who have before them extinction unless this Gospel saves them; and it has filled them with hope and anticipation. In fact, it has gladdened the hearts of the people of every land who have heard the glad tidings of salvation. It has had more to do to dissipate ignorance and to save mankind than any other agency that has ever existed among the inhabitants of the earth since the days of the Redeemer. We can well spend money to send our missionaries with such glad tidings as they are to bear. We can do this freely, because the results are such as to gladden us and to make us rejoice that we have the opportunity of doing this. I would like to send every son I have, if circumstances would permit, to the world to deliver the glad tidings of salvation; to relate to the people of the world what God has done in the earth during these many years, commencing as it  in a small place, in a corner, and gradually spreading. "Light broke forth in darkness," as we are told it should do. It has broken forth, and it gradually spreading. As is written: "A light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness." It has broken forth, and it has spread gradually, is spreading gradually and illumining a larger circle, spreading into many lands and will continue until it will enlighten the whole earth. The light of' this Gospel, the power of this salvation, the extent and future of this work, and the knowledge of it, will spread from land to land, from nation to nation, from kindred to kindred, until it will embrace the wnole of the inhabitants of the earth; and they will see it and understand it and the prophecies and promises of God will every one be fulfilled concerning this work which He has established. 

That God may bless us; that we may be true and faithful; that we may have wisdom to do as we should do; that we may continue faithful and forget worldly things, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, 

Light and truth. Benediction by Elder C. D. Fjelsted. 