Overflow
09 04 1899




ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL. 

I have been very much interested during this semi-annual conference. Personally, I cannot remember the time when I have been more pleased with the discourses. There is one grand feature connected with them that has forced itself upon my mind. It is. "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things shall be added unto you." I remember instances when temporal matters seemed to be foremost. I comprehend as well as others how necessary it is that we should have temporal things brought to our attention. Sometimes I have felt a little in doubt which should be the most prominent at present, our temporal salvation, or our spiritual salvation, and I have been unable to say which should be first. Some of our people are in a regretable condition, and much has been said upon this question and it has seemed quite a hobby with me as I have passed through that experience, but I will not take time to say anything upon that feature. Our people should follow the instructions that have been given them and keep out of debt. 

I call to mind a saying- of the Lord: "I am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, then ye have no promise." He says to the young people: "He that seeketh me early shall find me, and he shall not be forsaken." The Lord has made great and wonderful promises to this people. 

I desire to call your attention to an incident that occurred when I was la boring in the Southern States, in 1884. I went there in 1883. The year 1884 was a time of a sad experience in that mission. It was then that some of our Elders lost their lives by mob violence. It seemed that there was bitterness on all hands. We had but few friends. I was at the office in Chattanooga under Elder Roberts at the time. I picked up a Chattanooga Times one morning, and I was very much delighted to see in print these words, speaking of Elder John Morgan. It said, "To shake his hand was to be his friend." I have never forgotten it. When you shook John Morgan's hand and he looked into your face you always knew that you were his friend. John Morgan understood that principle. Some of our people are becoming careless in the shaking of hands. I have shaken hands with some men, when I would just as soon have put my hand into a bucket of ice water as to shake hands with them. They may have been friendly, but I have no means of telling. Great sermons have been preached in this Church by the simple shaking of hands; and you who have been in holy places; you who have been in the holy temple, know what it means to shake hands. 

I witnessed a play in the Theater here, and was very much taken up with it— Julius Caeser — and when I saw the mimic representatives of great Romans walk up and shake hands, I presume every one in that large Theater was impressed with the idea that it meant friendship. But we have been too much carried away with temporal matters. When our Elders come home— we have probably eight hundred who return every year— they ask me what is the matter with the people? They discover it whenever they shake hands with you. When you meet the Elders that come home and shake hands with them, they will hardly let go of your hand, they are so friendly, and you can feel it in  hearts that they love you. They do it from the bottom of their hearts. You, who have lost children know when a person comes up to you and sympathizes with you on account of your loss, taking you by the hand and looking you in the face, notwithstanding they do not utter a word, you feel that friendship, that sympathy that pierces to the innermost recesses of your hearts. Those who have lost wives, if one who has passed through that terrible experience comes to sympathize with another man who has lost his wife, in shaking his hand there is a feeling of friendship and sympathy that cannot be expressed in words. 

Brethren and sisters, we can afford to be sympathetic; we can afford of all people on the earth to be filled with sympathy and compassion. I am not concerned very much about what other religionists do. We have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it has withstood every test. We have sent out our young Elders without experience, and it is marvelous, it is wonderful, it is one of the great testimonies to me how these young men can meet the men of the world as they do, with so little experience. It is a very strong evidence that we have the truth, that we have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I am not concerned about the Christian Scientists; I have little to say against them. If they do any good that is theh business, but I wish to say that there will be inroads made among this people. I call to mind now a circumstance of a Josephite preacher going into the city of Logan, among the intelligent people there, and going from house to house. It was discovered that our people were unable to meet him. He went to a Bishop's place, and he spoke unkindly to him, and a young Elder who had just returned from the East said: "Father, I am unwilling to stand by and hear that man talk as he is talking, and I will meet him in public debate," and he vaniFhed, and that man did not wish to see him any more. We must be informed. No church can find a more successful way of making inroads among our people than by getting them to extend the hand of sympathy, love, and affection in their trials and tribulations. We, who hold the priesthood, Elders, Seventies, Teachers, and Deacons — ought to perform our duties; our hearts are noit always as they should be; we do not always exhibit the sympathy, lov<» and affection that we ought. I am sorry to say that some of my acquaintances, siome who are near and dear to me, have been won from our Church through love and sympathy. 

My brethren and sisters, I have this to say in conclusion: Even if you are in a hurry, stop and shake hands before going on, but do it right; have the spirit of God within you, and when you greet them say, "God bless you." I know a good old sister, who is working for her living; she would not let the Church support her, she is too proud. She i» over 70 years old. She said to me that when an Apostle took her by the hand and said "God bless you" it was worth more to her than all the money they could give her. I remember Apostle Erastus Snow, and I will never forget him as long as I live on the earth. He stopped long enough to take me by the hand as a boy, after my father was dead, and said "God bless you." There are others that have done so, and they stand foremost in my mind, and I remember and esteem every one of them. "We should learn to love and honor each other. We should have the spirit of God burning within our hearts. You can make more converts in this way than by any other means. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang: "Who are these arrayed in white?" 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. My brethren and sisters: I also rejoice in the spirit of this conference; and I can say that it has been very enjoyable to me. It is the first general conference that I have had the privilege of attending for three years. Since that time it has been my privilege to labor in foreign lands, among strange people; but I rejoice all the more in coming back into the union of the Church, associating with the Saints, and mingling my testimony with those of my brethern to the truth of the work in which we are engaged. I rejoice in the progress of the work of God. I rejoice in the great advancement made by the Latter-ady Saints. While there is plen of room for improvement, yet we discover a great deal of progress being made among those who are really in earnest and are keeping the commandments of God — these are marching on toward the goal we all desire to reach. 

What does preaching amount to if it is not put into practice by the Latterday Saints; if we do not profit by the instructions which we receive? Every one who has heard the voices of the prophets of God, the holy apostles, and the instructions they have given during this conference, and has not determined within himself to benefit by them, will receive no good from them. They will simply be as a sounding brass and as a tinkling cymbal, so far as any benefit being derived from them is concerned. But if we will put into practice the principles we have been taught, and if we will yield obedience to the counsels that have been given, and live in accordance with the spirit that has been made manifest in this conference, then we will go onward and progress in the knowledge of God, and will prepare ourselves for the coming of our Savior. 

I was particularly impressed with the, remarks of the brethren in regard to the treatment that should be extended to those who are converted, and immigrate to Zion. It has been observed by many, and I have also observed it, that numbers of our new converts do not receive the kind reception they should. They come from foreign lands where they have received the Gospel, and the first love of the Gospel is burning within their hearts; they have been filled with a greaJt warmth of love towards our brethren and sisters, and in their far distant homes the spirit of gathering has come upon them and they have resolved to come to the land of Zion. They have been filled with a desire to cast their lot with the people of God, that they might learn more of His ways; that they might be taught the will of the Lord and learn to do it better, and that they might mingle with Latter-day Saints — men and women of God. Those have been their desires. They have sold out their little possessions in the foreign lands, have forsaken their native countries, bid adieu to the prospects of their youth, and have severed their communications with them in order that they might  with us. What has been the reception of many that have come up unto the land of Zion.? Instead of receiving that hearty and warm shake of the hand that Brother Kimball has been speaking of, they have not in many instances even received one of those cold greetings that have been referred to. They have felt a lack of that warmth of feeling that should be extended to them, and they have thought that lovfc was not abounding in our midst. I think it is time the attention of the Latter-day Saints was called to their indifference toward each other — they should learn to be brethren and sisters in very deed. I endorse the remarks of Brother Kimball in regard to this matter. I think when our Saints come here attention should be paid to them. I was pleased to hear the remarks of President Snow when he stated that some one would be appointed to look after these matters. It should be done in every ward in Zion, that when they come they may find that they are cared for. I am aware that a great many of the Latter-day Saints have felt the necessity for this, and I am aware, too, that a great deal is being done; but I feel in my heart that a great deal more could be done to make the reception we extend to our Saints more cheerful and warm. It is not always necessary to extend to them financial aid, but they should be made to feel that they are among their friends, their brethren and sisters. A little kindness, a little consideration, a simple visit, or an invitation, will often be the means of making them happy. It is the experience of missionaries in the field to find many of those who have come here to Zion, who have become dissatisfied through a lack of this warmth and affection, writing back to their friends concerning it; and in some cases the letters they write are too true. Of course they have happened to fall amongst those who are not abounding in that love and regard they should have for one another. When our Savior was upon the earth He preached upon this subject, as also did His apostles after Him. They ex horted the Saints then to love one onother, to be kind to one another and to be full of consideration one for the other. The first great commandment  that "we should love the Lord with all our might, mind, and strength," and the second, like unto it, was that "we should love our neighbor as ourself.' If that love abounds in the hearts of the people, it will make itself manifest among them. We read in the scriptures that "out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." We should give expression to the kind feelings that are within us, and should cultivate the spirit of the Gospel towards one another. We should learn to profit by these principes that have been revealed to us, for they are the power of God unto salvation. If we simply accept them with our minds, but do not practice them in our lives, they will not save us. If we will practice them, they will purify our hearts and bring us to a knowledge of God, "whom to know is life eternal." 

I bear my testimony unto you my brethren and sisters that I do know that this Gospel is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, that it has been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the salvation of the human family. 1 know that this is the truth by the revelations of God to me through His Holy Spirit; and I will say to the Latter-day Saints, as was said to the former day Saints by one of the Apostlee that "if we walk in the light as he is in the light, then we will have fellowship >ne for another, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse us from ah sin." In order to walk in the light, we must enjoy the light of the spirit of God, for that is the light that should lighten our path, and that should lead us onward to our salvation; and we can enjoy that only as we are yielding obedience to the principles of the everlasting Gospel and listening to the counsels of God through His servants, for we are told that "we should live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God;" and the words of God are those that are spoken through the inspiration of His Holy Spirit by those whom he has called to administer His word unto the people. 

May the Lord bless us with noble and worthy ambitions and with a determination to improve our lives; and let the love of truth burn within us, and also the love of our fellowmen. Let us do what we can for the onward progress of the kingdom of God, for it is a great honor that has been conferred upon us, in that we have received the Gospel, and in that we have been chosen ot God to be instruments in His hands to disseminate a knowledge of the truth among the nations of the earth. May the Lord help us to be worthy of the trust He has imposed on us; may He help us to improve the time and talents which He has bestowed upon us to tho interest of His kingdom; may we all seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and I promise you, in the name of the Lord, that all other things, prosperity, happiness, comfort, and wealth, will be given unto us, in the name of Jesus. Amen.  Sister Emma Ramsey then sang: 

Gome all ye sons of Zion, And let us praise the Lord. 

ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. 

I will read a few verses from the 28th chapter of Second Nephi: 

"And, now behold my brethren I have spoken unto you as the spirit hath constrained me, wherefore, I know that they shall surely come to pass. 

"The things which shall be written out of the book shall be of great worth unto the children of men, and especialy unto our seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel. 

"For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which are built up and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say I I am the Lord's. And thus shall every one say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord." 

Those who profess in the world to be ministers of Christ, are fulfilling this prophecy to the very letter. It appears that the ministers who profess to be the teachers of Christ's doctrine in this city and other parts where our people are located, have made a specialty of preaching the doctrine that the gifts and blessings which follow the believer have been done away. The Lord has said that certain signs should follow the believer, and this people knows that these signs and that these blessings which were to follow a true faith, a true repentance, a true baptism, and a  laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, are found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today. When men who profess to be ministers of Christ stand up and teach the people otherwise they are manifesting the spirit of anti-Christ— they are teaching anti-Christ doctrine. They are not teaching the doctrine that Paul referred to when he said: "Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." They are not preaching that Gospel which is the power of God unto salvation unto them that believe. They are preaching the doctrine and are representing the churches that have been built up to the honor of men— to the honor of Peter, of Paul, of Luther, of Zwingle, and other reformers— men who lived in former times. They are not teaching the one faith, the one Lord and the one baptism which Jesus preached when He was upon the earth. Just so long as God acknowledges His Church upon the earth the signs will follow the believer. I am glad to know that this is an individual work; that we have not to depend upon the testimony of Peter, of Paul, of Mark, or of Matthew, or any of those who lived in the days of Christ, to enjoy and have a testimony of this work. I thank God that every one that has arrived to the years of accountability, can know that this work is of God. When men seek to teach the people that these gifts have been done away, that they were simply necessary to establish the Church in ancient times, and that they have now been done away, they deny the scriptures. We are told in holy writ, "seek ye in the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and see if they are not they which testify of me." The scriptures testify that these signs should follow the believer. Peter taught it upon the day of Pentecost, telling the people if they would repent of their sins, and be baptized for the remission of them, they should receive the Holy Ghost, and these gifts would be made manifest unto them. When Peter and the other Apostles stood up before the people they taught the doc trine of the Lord Jesus unto them; but today men say these things are done away. It has been taught in the world,  in some of the sectarian churches in this city within the last few weeks that Abraham was an ignorant man; that God overlooked sin and crime in his case because of his degeneracy and ignorance. It is remarkable that we live in a time when those who profess to be the followers of Christ will ridicule the man whom the Lord held up and called righteous, and call him degenerate and ignorant; he who was held up through the mission of Christ as a perfect man, the father of the faithful. There are anti-Christs among this people; we hear anti-Christ doctrine from time to time — doctrine which is not in accordance with any of the scriptures that have been handed down to us, nor in accordance with the teachings of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our people should be warned of these doctrines, the doctrines of devils and of men, that are taught in some of the congregations of the world today by those who profess to be the followers of Christ — Spiritualists, Christian Scientists and others. Those who advocate them claim that they are Christ's. But they do not teach the doctrine of Christ? They deny the cardinal doctrines our Savior taught while He was upon the earth. Why don't they teach the one Lord, the one faith, and the one baptism that was taught by our Savior and His disciples? Why is it that they deny faith in the true and living God — a God with body, parts and passions. How is it that they deny these things? Why do they deny true baptism? Jesus says, "Except ye ara born of the water and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the kingdom of God." If they believe in the doctrine of Jesus Christ, why do they spiritualize awa> the resurrection, the fundamental doctrine which Jesus taught while He was upon the earth? I say our people should beware of them. Where can you find Latter-day Saints that have become discontented with our doctrines, that have joined any of these sects that have been instituted by men, if they have been faithful and kept themselves free from the sins of the world; there is a cause for apostacy; there is a cause for sin; there is a cause for rebellion; there is a cause for disobedience. They do not come by chance. It is all right to prove all things and hold fast to that  is good, but we should be established in the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ; we should have a testimony of the divinity of this work, for it is God's work and He will see it through. He will cause that it shall triumph over everything that is manmade; and He will choose those things which seem to be naught to bring to naught those that be. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

My brethren and sisters: This idea of having short speeches and songs interspersed meets my mind exactly. It is an arrangement which seems to please the people. In Boxelder Stake we have our opening exercises, then we have the sacrament, after the sacrament singing again, then a short sermon, then a song, then another short sermon, and after that the concluding exercises; and that generally brings us to half past three, and we close our meeting. This is a custom we follow at all times, except during our conferences, when we go a little beyond that hour. When this meeting shall have closed you will remember that the Temple choir has done a great deal in helping to make it interesting an<3 instructive. 

I sat in the Tabernacle and looked out upon the vast congregation of Saints, I was impressed with the remark of President Cannon when he reminded us that the Church had grown from a small beginning, from an organization of six members in the year 1830, to what we witness today. I remember the time when President Young was in our midst, and a large canvas was stretched through the centre of the Tabernacle, and at conference time there were no more people assembled to hear the instructions of the servants of God than we have in this hall today. We now have this congregation and an immense congregation assembled in the Tabernacle, and I see hundreds of people passing back and forth; and there are hundreds of Saints upon the streets of Salt Lake City at this moment walking back and forth, and visiting among their friends. And there are other hundreds of people that could not come to this conference being detained at home owing to the lateness of the season, as they are putting in their seeds, trimming their trees, and putting things in order. We have grown to be a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains; and the peculiarity of it all is that this people are held together. You go down into the Utah Stake of Zion, meet with ihe people there in conference, and you will find the same spirit prevailing in their midst as we have witnessed at this general conference. If you go up into the Boxelder Stake you will find the same spirit prevailing there. If you go down to Old Mexico and meet with the Saints in that part of the country, there will be the same good spirit of the Gospel; and so in Canada, and in all parts of the Church. How is it that this people are not wandering away into false doctrines and into heresies and becoming darkened in their minds and contending one with another? It is the marvelous power of God that holds them together. I used to wonder, years ago, how it would be when the Church grew in numbers and spread out, filling the land north and south, east and west — how they could be held together and kept as one people having one faith, one baptism and one understanding of the Gospel. There is no power under the heavens that could accomplish this wonderful thing but the power of God; and it is a testimony to me of the truth of this great work. If I saw nothing else about it, this would be convincing to me. We are established in the mountains, and the character of our organization, the character of our teachings, the character of our temporal work, is such that we are attracting the notice of the world; and the rich men, and the learned,and the d gnitaries o" this world who go forth and visit from place to place, feel that their, journey is not complete until they have visited Zion. They come into our meetings and learn something of our doctrine or organization; they go out upon our streets, visit the lake, and they see that wonderful building there; they go into our Tabernacle and are entertained there by musical selections from the great organ, and observe the remarkable accoustic properties of that building; they go out and look upon our Temple, and they see a building there that is fifty  ahead of the times, and it must surprise them greatly when they learn that that building was commenced in the days of poverty, and in the days of the afflictions of this people. But the grandeur of that building, which is estimated to have cost between three and four million dollars. The beauty of its finish, the richness of its furnishings, are nothing compared to the spirit that you find in that building. Strangers who look upon it and contemplate the work of the Latter-day Saints, have no conception of the spirit that dwells in that holy Temple. When the Saints go into that building they are at first impressed by its surroundings, by the spaciousness of the rooms, and the beauty of the furnishings; but after awhile they forget all that; they have no time to think about the building, they are so deeply impressed by the spirit that is there. A place where they can enter and leave the world behind them. They are not troubled in that house by the cares and the anxieties and the troubles of this world. The world seems to be far beneath them. They have no time to think about it. They are swallowed up in the spirit and power of God. In reflecting, I have been struck with the idea that had it not been for the condescension of God to His servant Joseph Smith the prophet, that magnificent building would be of little use to us, as there would have been no occasion to build it. We could not have used it if we had had it. Its arrangement is such that it would be good for no other purpose except the purpose designed by our Father — the performance of vicarious ordinance work for the living and for the dead. And it is through the blessing, mercy, and condescension of the Lord that we enjoy these blessings, and that we are permitted to go into the house of God; and that we are permitted to receive the Priesthood and go forth and work out our salvation in fear and trembling. 

I rejoice in these things, and I am truly thankful to be associated with you in this work of God. I have a desire in my heart to magnify the Priesthood and to follow counsel. I know there is safety in counsel. With the little experience I have had in the world, I have been delivered from many , I have been protected and shielded from harm, by following advice. I know that my Priesthood, my calling and the authority that God has given unto me, will be of little use in this world except I shall be submissive and willing to follow counsel. Let us reflect upon these things. Let us be wise in our day and generation, that God may be pleased to accept of our labors and crown us heirs with His Saints in His kingdom. I trust that this may be the case, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang "Along the river of time we glide," after which 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

My brethren and sisters: I desire your faith and prayers for the few moments that I shall occupy. I have very much rejoiced in the teachings of this conference, including this meeting; and the beautiful songs of praise which have been rendered, must of necessity impress the hearts of Latter-day Saints with the spirit of spiritual refinement, and tend to lead us to exercise our thoughts and influence our acts, when we shall leave this conference, in a strong devotion to the cause which we are so honored as to be identified with. 

I desire to ask m.y brethren and sisters, and in order to be consistent, I will covenant with you, (as we shall get the reports of this conference) to read carefully all the instructions which have been given by President Snow, his counselors, the Twelve Apostles, and the presiding council of the Seventies, whose representatives are with us in this meeting, and that we shall digest at our leisure the counsel which has been imparted. The instructions are important, and their propriety should be a testimony to us that they have been dictated by the inspiration of the Lord. We have been instructed at this conference with teachings that should lead us to respect and venerate the Father and the Son, and to cherish with profound respect the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and also his successors down to the present administration of the affairs of the Church. We have been counselled to utilize the means, the material substance with which the Lord has so generously  us in these mountain valleys, more liberally in the advancement of the work of God upon the earth. In connection with this we ought to encourage the work for the salvation of the dead. Our contributions to the temples ought to be more liberal; and the Saints who are home, and especially those who have been blessed with means and have considerable leisure, ought to go to the Temples in their respective districts and work for the redemption of the dead. If you have not names in the line of your own family genealogy, there is an abundance of genealogical records which have been prepared by the inspiration of the Lord upon the hearts of men, not Latter-day Saints. Since the Prophet Elijah visited the Kirtland Temple and turned the keys of salvation for the dead, that spirit has brooded not only in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, but it has operated largely in the hearts of men who do not understand the spirit which actuated them to write genealogical histories. We ought to work for the redemption of the dead. 

We have been cited by President Snow and others of the brethren to the necessity of paying our tithing, and we have been reminded that this law has been established to some extent as a source of education, to bring us to the observance of the higher law — the law of consecration. Zion can only be redeemed upon that law. Now, if we would come to that higher law, we must act upon the law of tithing, and we must pay our tithes honestly and fully in order to secure the blessings which are attached to that sacred requirement which God has established as a law in His Church. We have been reminded at this conference by numbers of the brethren that we should utilize the temporal blessings which have come to us in making the Latter-day Saints more of a self-sustaining people. I do not understand the design of God to be that His Saints shall be dependant upon any nation. I do understand that the decree has gone forth that Babylon shall fall — Babylon, the mother of harlots and the abomination of all the earth. Suppose her institutions should fail, and we should be cut off from that communication with the outside world that we now possess, what is our condition so far as material interests are concerned? We do not manufacture clothing enough to clothe our people; we do not manufacture boots and shoes enough for footwear; we do not manufacture the head-gear that adorns and shades the heads of the men and women of this Church. We do not utilize the elements with which the Lord has so abundantly blessed this land and work them into utensils that are essential for the benefit of the people as we should do. The time is coming when God will require us to do it, when He will require that the apparel and other articles of usefulness shall be of the workmanship of our hands, and it is the duty of the Latter-day Saints to use the manufactured materials that can be produced in this land by our own efforts. I do not think that we should be a covenant breaking people. I remember a few years ago, when Brother John W. Taylor and myself lived in the Fourteenth ward, on a certain occasion his father, Elder Orson Pratt, and Elder George Q. Cannon came to a meeting in that ward and they read to us what was designated as the fourteen rules of the united order, and there were a great many truths enunciated in that document. We made solemn covenants that we would observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy, and that we would not justify our young people in going to pleasure resorts upon that day; that we would not justify them in profanity, nor in the use of any unbecoming language. We made covenants that we would not take the name of the Deity in vain nor speak lightly of His character nor of sacred things. We made solemn covenants that we would sustain one another in our material interests, and that we would utilize the means which God had placed in our hands to manufacture the articles that were necessary for our use in the establishing of the work of God in this land. A great many other covenants were made, and we lifted up our hands in solemnity before God, just as we have done this afternoon to sustain the Prophet of God and his associates, who have been called to be the living oracles of God unto this Church. I will read a passage or two of scripture to show the responsibility  are under, and then I will close. I wish to say to the Elders of Israel that when they are called upon to bear testimony, or preach the Gospel at home or abroad, they are forbidden to do so, except through the prayer of faith, they receive the spirit of God and preach by the power of that spirit. In speaking of those who are called upon to preach the Gospel, it says they "shall reason and expound the scriptures unto them. 

"And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this Priesthood whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth; 

"And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and whatsoever they should speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation." Doc. and Gov. Sec. 68. 2-4.) 

Young brethren and sisters, what you have heard President Snow say in regard to doing the will of the Lord, no matter what the world might say was the will of the Lord, the voice of the Lord, and will be the power of God unto salvation unto all who have the integrity of heart and the courage to obey it. And whatsoever counsel is given by the Bishops, by the Presidents of Stakes, by the presiding authorities in every department is the word and will of the Lord when they are actuated by the light and intelligence of the Holy Spirit. "Behold, you are they who are ordained of me, and ordained priests and teachers." This calling, speaking of the Twelve, "is to declare my Gospel by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, and according to the callings and gifts of God, unto men." This is the way they are to do it — by the spirit and revelation of Almighty God. "Wherefore, lift up your voice and spare not." We are not to spare or neglect. It is the duty of the servants of God in every capacity to declare the truth and not mince it. "Wherefore, lift up your voice and spare not, for the Lord, God, hath spoken. Therefore, prophecy, and it shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost." 

"And again the Elders, Priests and 

Teachers of this Church shall teach the principles of my Gospel, which are in the Bible and in the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the Gospel; 

"And they shall observe the covenants and Church articles to do them and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the spirit; 

"And the spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith, and .if ye receive not the spirit, ye shall not teach." 

I might read many more verses, but this will suffice. Let us seek for the companionship of the Holy Spirit, that it may be our guide in all of our ministrations and in all our ambitions, and in applying to our conduct the excellent counsel and instructions which have been given unto us during this conference; and inasmuch as we do this the spirit of Almighty God will be with us and the spirit and peace of the Almighty will dwell in our homes. 

Have your family prayers every night and every morning, and let every man, woman and child attend to his or her secret prayers, that we may come near unto the Lord. Pay your tithing and the God of heaven will bless you. May peace be with you my brethren and sisters, and be taken to your homes and rest upon your children and your flocks and your herds and upon the soil which God has given us in this choice land, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Before closing, I wish to bear my testimony to what has been said, and concerning this Gospel. I know that God lives, and that every man and woman can have this testimony if they will devote themselves to God and keep His commandments. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, full of inspiration, and a man that had the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ continually delivered unto him; that the gifts and blessings that were in the ancient Church of Christ exist in the Church of Christ in our day. 

I wish to say to my young brethren and sisters, do not be led away by the sophistry of the world, "for straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life eternal and few there be that find it; and broad is the gate  wide is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat." If you will listen to the words of the Prophets of God, and will walk in that straight and narrow path, you can have a testimony of this Gospel. There are a few that enjoy these gifts and blessings, but it is a rare occurrence where a man can go among this people and see these gifts and blessings manifest in their midst. I feel that there is a responsibility resting upon this people. I will read a few verses, before I take my seat — the testimony of Moroni the Prophet:" 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. 

"And whatsoever thing is good, is just and true; wherefore nothing that is good denieth the Christ,.but acknowledged that He is. 

"And ye may know that He is by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore I would exhort you, that ye deny not the power of God; for He worketh by power according to the faith of the children of men, the same today, tomorrow and forever. 

"And again I exhort you my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the spirit of God unto men, to profit them. 

"For behold, to one is given by the spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom; 

"And to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same spirit; 

"And to another, exceeding great faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by the same spirit. 

"And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; 

"And again, to another tnat he may prophecy concerning all things; 

"And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; 

"And again, to another, all kinds ot tongues; 

"And again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues. 

"And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ and they come unto every man severally, according as He will. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that He is the same yesterday, today and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the unbelief of the children of men. 

"Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith, there must also be hope; and if there must be hope, there must also be charity; 

"And except ye have charity,ye can in no wise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God, if ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope; 

"And if ye have no hope, ye must needs be in despair; and despair cometh because of iniquity. 

"And Christ truly said unto our fathers, if ye have faith, ye can do all things, which is expedient unto me. 

"And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth, that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief." 

I admonish the Latter-day Saints to seek for the best gifts. Although all of the sects upon the face of the earth may say that it is unnecessary to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and that it is not necessary to have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost, I say that the voice of the Redeemer of the world cries out unto all the nations of the earth in His testimony to Nicodemus, "Except ye be born of the water and of the spirit, ye cannot enter the kingdom of God." I testify unto you as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in His name that you will not be prepared for His coming if you do not enjoy the gifts of God. They are as free unto the children of men as a well of living water springing up unto everlasting life, . if they will follow the admonition of Brother Kimball this afternoon to "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all other things shall be added unto you." What a grand and glorious promise! Young ladies, how many of you have a gift from God? How many of you have been clothed with the fire of the Holy Ghost, that ia as a fire burning within you ? How many of you enjoy a knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ? How many of you young gentlemen are seeking after these things? Have you a gift from God? If you have not seek earnestly after these things, for Jesus speaking of His second coming, said that the kingdom of God would be likened unto ten virgins, five of whom were wis'e and five were foolish, and he said but half of them  have oil in their lamps. What is that oil? It is the Holy Ghost, the power of God unto salvation; it is that spirit that will lead you into the ways of truth; it is that spirit which partake th of the things of God and reveals them unto the children of men; it is that spirit that makes children obedient to parents. Young people, obey your parents! Parents, let us not permit that commandment of the Lord to go unheeded: "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." Nine-tenths of the mistakes of this people would be corrected in the young if they would listen to the counsels of their fathers and mothers. Fathers and mothers are just as much entitled to the revelations of God for the benefit of their families, as President Snow is for the good of the Church. Young people, listen to the voice of your fathers and your mothers! They love you; you are the fruit of their loins, and they would give their lives for you. And they are entitled to the revelations of the Lord to guide you into the ways of truth. Every father and every mother if they are doing their duty, will have that inspiration they should have, and will have that knowledge, to counsel their sons and daughters to walk in that straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life, and you will not make any mistakes if you will listen to their advice. 

God bless you and fill you with His Holy Spirit. This is a time for preparation and not for many words. I rejoice that I am counted worthy to be in your midst at this conference, and 1 hope that what has been said will be as> leaven, and will go forth among the people until the whole lump is leavened, and until the desire of all is to serve God and keep His commandments. 1 feel to say God bless you and peace be unto you, and to your wives and to your children, and to the land of Zion, and may God temper the elements for the good of this people, that Zion may grow and increase until she shall be the glory of the whole earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, Sister Ramsey and the choir sang, "O, Holy Jesus," and benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson. 


