Outdoor
06 10 1918

An open air meeting was held at the Bureau of Information building at 10 o'clock, Sunday, October 

6, Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding. 

Music was furnished by the congregation, Elder Joseph Spencer Cornwall, chorister. 

Congregation sang : "Come, come, ye Saints." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Charles S. Parker. 

The Congregation sang, "Sowing." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We are very glad to see such a manifestation of anxiety to hear the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ expounded. While the weather is not very propitious, we trust that in our souls we may be fed with the bread of life, and that we may rejoice in the things pertaining to the kingdom of God that may be brought to our attention. 

ELDER JONATHAN C. CUTLER. 

(President of the Curlew Stake of Zion, Idaho.) 

The beloved apostle, John, left on record, for the benefit and consolation of the children of men, these words: "For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved." So, if men and women are condemned, it is by our own actions. It was not the purpose or the mission of the Master to condemn men. Salvation is held out to all of the children of men. 

While the Lord uses no particular coercion, we are persuaded, counseled, and advised to live the gospel. The Latter-day Saints have heen accused of being' a narrow-minded people, but this is from the lack of understanding of those who do not understand our intent nor the gospel as we preach it. We are broader than any other denomination in our views and in our teachings of the gospel. We understand that it is the object, and was the object in the beginning, to accomplish the salvation of all of the human family, and that some time and somewhere, all who desired would receive some kind of salvation. But the plan of salvation holds out, throug'h the gospel, a code of laws that can not only bring unto the children of men salvation, but will bring unto them exaltation, and bring them back into the presence of our Father, from whence we came; and in order that we may gain this exaltation, it is necessary for us to live up to the code of laws that has been laid down By the Master for us to follow, and we must comply with these in order that we may come back into his presence and receive the blessing that is in store for the faithful. We believe in an individual salvation as well as a general salvation, and in order that men may be exalted, they must comply with the laws and ordinances laid down by the lawgivers, even before the foundation of this earth. 

Some have the idea that salvation simply means a reunion of the body with the spirit, or a resurrection of the body; and if they can only attain to it, this seems to be the height of the ambition of a great many people with whom I have talked. But the atonement was as wide as the fall. We are told in the I Corinthians 15 that "As in 

Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." So, without any particular exertion upon the part of the children of men, we are going to be resurrected. But this does not insure to any individual salvation, nor exaltation, which to obtain, I believe, is the ambition of every man and woman. There is none but desires salvation, though there are a great many who are not working to that end. Now, in order that we may bring and merit unto ourselves a complete exaltation, and be worthy to come back into the presence of our Father, there is a code of laws that we must live up to. First, we must have faith in God the Eternal Father. We must be willing' to repent of our sins. And after we have repented of our sins, it then becomes necessary for us to be baptized by immersion for the remission of them, and receive the Holy Ghost, which is a guide to t-he path of men and women here in the earth. We take the stand as Latterday Saints that all men and all women must comply with the law in order to gain an exaltation. 

But, says one, are you going to condemn all who are not baptized ? There are millions of people who have not had the privilege of receiving the gospel, and what is going to become of this class of people? There is where we take a broader view of the gospel of Jesus Christ than does any other denomination. We do not hold that this life is the only chance that men have to hear or embrace the gospel, but we believe that the time will come when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, and men who do not have that privilege here will have the privilege hereafter granted  them. We are given to understand by the Apostle Peter that the gospel is preached to the spirits in the spirit world. Isaiah foresaw this. He foresaw the mission of the Savior. He saw that he was going to come here in the flesh, and would be crucified, and while his body was lying in the tomb, "He went and unlocked the prison door and let the captives free." Peter gave us to understand that this was carried out. He says, "For this cause was the gospel preached unto them that are dead;" showing that all who do not have the privilege here are going to have the privilege sometime and somewhere. 

Men may reject the gospel here, and it seems that even they are going to have another chance of hearing it, according to the words of Peter, though Noah preached to the people and warned them in his day and they rejected his counsel and teaching, and no doubt called him (as they have called the 'servants of God in all ages) imposters, and would not accept his message. The result was, according to the decrees of the Lord, that the flood came and overtook the people, and there were only a few saved; yet, even that class of people had the privilege of hearing the sound of the gospel in the spirit world, and were given another chance to receive it. 

But in this world, now and here, my friends, my brethren and sisters, is the place that we should receive the gospel. If we do not, we make the sad mistake that the people in Noah's day made, and condemn ourselves. Remember, there was a long period of time, for two thousand years, after that people had been swept from the earth, that they lay in the prison in the spirit world. 

Alma told his son, in pleading with him, trying to show him that the spirits of all men when they leave the body go back into the presence of God from whence they came, for a partial judgment, that the spirits of the righteous are assigned to a place of peace, rest, and happiness, while on the other hand, the spirits of the wicked go to a place of punishment during that period. This also bears out the statement of the rich man and Lazarus. While Lazarus was a good man and did all the good he could here, we find the rich man did just the opposite; and the time came that Lazarus died, and the rich man died, and they met on the other side. It was then that the eyes of the rich man were opened. He sawwhere he had made the mistake here in mortality, and he pleaded with Lazarus to visit him. But the answer was, There is a gulf between you and me, and I cannot come. The rich man felt the truth of it, and pleaded with Lazarus that a spirit or an angel might be sent down to the earth to warn his brethren, because he did not want them to come where he was. The answer was this, They have Moses and the prophets, and if they will not listen and hearken unto the voice of the prophets, they would not accept one though he be raised from the dead. This gives us to understand that a place of punishment and a place of anything but happines is prepared for the spirits who leave this life and go into the spirit world unprepared. We have evidence upon evidence, to which we cannot refer this morning on account of the time not permitting. 

What I wish to impress upon the young people especially is, prepare yourselves in this life, that you may be able to continue the work and not be hindered and condemned as were the rich man and the antediluvian, who by error hindered and condemned themselves for that period of time. The object of the gospel was to .save, and not only save, but to exalt all mankind. This is the object the Lord has in these the last days in revealing the gospel unto the children of men, that we may receive an exaltation, and come back into his presence. 

I want to bear my testimony to you here this morning. I know that the gospel is true. I know that the Lord has again spoken from the heavens, and revealed his priesthood, and has delegated the authority and power to men to officiate in his name arid make it binding, as was promised to Peter, that whatever he bound on earth should be bound in heaven, and whatever he loosed on earth, should be loosed in heaven. That same power is here, the same blessing and the same gifts are here with the Church today, as in that day. This is why we are called a peculiar people, because we differ from the world. We d,o not find anv fault with them. We think it is the right of all men to worship according to the dictates of their conscience. We do not condemn them, but we have a greater lieht. And it is our duty to hold that light up to the world, that it may shine that they may see as we see. 

I prav the Lord to bless us with his spirit, that our understandings may be quickened, that our determinations for good may be increased, and that we may be able not only to gain a salvation in the kingdom of God, but to gain an exaltation, ard come back into his presence and live forever, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID HALLS. 

(President of the Young Stake of Zion, Colorado.) 

I am reminded of a saying of the Savior, "Come unto me, ye that labor and are heavy laden." We can take that as we desire to take it. If we are sick, we think of that and seek our heavenly Father. If we are weary in mind or body, and think of that admonition, we turn to our heavenly Father. So we can construe that just as we please, according to our attitude and according to our needs. 

I am reminded of the time when Cornelius needed assistance, and he went to his heavenly Father, and he was directed what to do. He sent for the servants of the Lord, and they directed him what to do, and he was baptized, he and his whole household, and no doubt they were saved in the kingdom of heaven. 

I am reminded of another instance at another time and place, when a man went to his heavenly Father. You remember one time in the history of the Nephites that one Alma was converted by Abinadi the Prophet, and performed a wonderful work and brought souls almost everywhere, so far as he knew everywhere, to repentance, and established the Church. After a while his son and others, sons of Mosiah, went about trying to undo that work; and it worried Alma very much, and he importuned the Lord, and finally his prayer was answered. The Lord came to his rescue, and xAlma, his son, and the sons of Mosiah were converted, and much good resulted. Through their efforts, many of the Lamanites received the gospel. All this through the blessings of the Lord listening to his servant Alma and answering his prayer. So we  these instances, one on one continent, and one on the other, where the Lord was willing to listen to his servants and do what they asked him to do, inasmuch as it was asked in righteousness. 

I want to call attention to another time in the history of the world, in our day, when a boy importuned his heavenly Father to know what was right. He wanted to know whHi of the denominations that he was acquainted with was the denomination of the Almighty. He did not have any doubt but what one of them belonged to God. It was all he knew, and, of course, he thought that he had heard the truth among some of them. And so, according to his faith and his prayer and the trusting nature of his soul, the Lord came to him, and the Son was revealed to him, and after that, angels came to him and established this gospel; and so thousands of people have been made partakers of the truth through that humble boy's seeking his heavenly Father to know that which was the truth. So the Lord has blessed his people through the faith and fidelity of the boy prophet. 

I have quoted these three instances, on two continents and at various periods of time, to show unto us that the Lord is no respecter of persons, but that in every age and to every people, those who seek him in righteousness will be heard of him, and find him; and so we find him today, in these trying times — because some of us labor and are heavy laden. Into the homes of the Latter-dav Saints, as well as in the nations of the earth, sorrow comes, and probbaly will come, and we need to seek our heavenly Father and importune him for his blessings. 

I want, before I close, to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel. Not long ago I found myself in a hospital, surrounded by strangers, people not of our faith; and I want to testify that I desired more than anything at that time, to see an elder in Israel; and after a few days, one of my friends heard I was there, and came. The greatest blessing I received at that time was for that elder of Israel to come there and lay his hands upon me and bless me; and I know that the Lord blessed me, and I thank my heavenly Father for this manifestation of his goodness. I thank him that he answers my prayers, and that he answers your prayers, and the prayers of the honest in heart in all ages of the world. 

So may he answer our prayers in the future, that we may have peace in the land, that iniquity may cease, that war and bloodshed may be banished from the face of the earth, and the people of the earth and the rulers of the earth may be willing to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. And may truth and righteousness go out from Zion, and spread over all the earth, and the knowledge of the Lord cover the earth as the waters cover the sea; and may all people hear of the boy prophet, Joseph, and of the wonderful message that we have; and that the honest in heart may hear and obey the gospel, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Of the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City.) 

I am very glad to be with you, my brethren and sisters, but sorry that we cannot accommodate every GENERAL CONFERENCE.  who desires to attend this meeting; the weatKer being unpropitious has compelled us to crowd here. Whether or not you are all members of the Church, I do not know, for gathered together upon this block are many strangers from foreign lands. 

Many years ago two young elders were preaching the gospel as missionaries in one of our mining camps in the mountains. There were quite a few strangers gathered round to listen to them. They were only boys; but they were explaining the gospel as taught to them by their fathers and mothers and according the testimonies that they had received; and in that crowd were one or two Latter-day Saints, that these young elders did not know anything about; one of them was an elder, and he remarked to his companion. "I can hardly stand still; these people around us are listening to these young men, and I have a testimony of the gospel, too, and I want to bear it." So when the time came, and one of the elders discontinued, he stepped into the street and commenced also to bear his testimony. That elder had performed missions, he knew just what the gospel was, he wanted to help those young men, he felt the time was opportune for bearing his testimony, and he did so to the amazement and the consternation of some gathered there, the elders themselves not knowing who he was. 

Upon the Temple block it is perfectly natural for us to preach the gospel, very often unto strangers, however, for they are the ones who come here daily. Perhaps, for your information, I might say that upon this block everv year we have from 200.000 to 300,000 strangers from  parts of the world, desirous of knowing something with regard to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the principles revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith; they come, and we do not know who they are or where they are from, until they make it known; but the same testimony that you have, Latter-day Saints, is borne unto them under the shadow of this roof, and it commences very often with the beautiful little story referred to by Brother Halls. I want to emphasize that. To us it means everything as far as this Church is concerned, as far as our faith is concerned, as far as our hope of eternal life is concerned, for without that, we would not be here, nor would we understand the gosrel of the Lord Jesus Christ in its fulness. 

A gentleman came here recently and handed me his card. I have it here now — a t'tled gentleman, a professor of the Universitv and director of the Academy Royal, at Brussels. He was traveling through here and had called on the Presidency, had visited a number of our institutions, and he had seen what Salt Lake City was. He gazed with wonder upon the Temple, and later came into the office adjoining here. And this was his story, in his broken tongue, which I cannot give to you, for he gave it as only a Belgian can. 

"I have visited your city. I have seen these wonderful streets. I have seen those wonderful buildings. I have been talking to some of vour officers in the Church. I find that there is here in Salt Lake City something that I do not understand. I want to know something more of your faith and what you believe in." 101 

And then he asked the. very simple question, that caused some of our people to smile, "Do you believe in God? Do you believe in Jesus Christ?" 

You could observe how anxious he was to learn of our faith. How did we commence to answer that, think you? "Believe in God? Yes, the very first article of our faith is, 'We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost,' a sentence that every little boy and every little girl in our Sunday School can recite. It is taught unto them, and they understand it." 

"How do you know that? How do you know that there is a God? How do you know that he has a Son Jesus Christ?" 

And then comes up the story that Brother Halls very briefly touched upon, that the very beginning of our work was a revelation from God to the boy prophet Joseph Smith, as beautiful a story as is to be found in any literature — that a boy between fourteen and fifteen vears of age, with a deep anxiety to know the will of God, bowed in humble prayer, and in faith asked the Lord for direction. 

" 'How do we know that there is a God ? How do we know that he has a Son Jesus Christ?' We know it because Joseph Smith the Prophet saw God, he heard him speak, he saw his Son Jesus Christ, he heard the words of the Father, when nointing unto the Son, saying, 'This is my beloved Son, hear ye him.' It is not a fairy storv, it occurred in that beautiful grove near Palmyra, in the western part of the State of New York." 

The gentleman was surprised at that story. He could scarcely comprehend it. But I could tell by the  of his countenance, by the glance of his eye, by the eager manner in which he leaned forward to learn more, that he caught the spirit of that first vision as you and I caught it. 

And then he asked, "Well, that God, is he like a man?" 

Then comes the truth made known in this dispensation by the boy prophet Joseph Smith, that the Eternal One is not a mythical be ing, he is not a being without body, parts or passions, he is not a spirit pervading all space; but he is a personage, a personage of body, of spirit, with parts as I have, and that it has been made known through the Prophet Joseph Smith that man, in very deed, is in the image of God, the Eternal Father, that the Son is also in his express image. Joseph Smith received this testimony, he could never depart from it, he could not deny it. He had seen the Father, he 'had seen the Son, he had rereived from the Son, Jesus Christ, instructions with regard to this great mission; and this testimony many of my brethren and sisters here have received, and in this respect we stand to a very great extent in the same position as Joseph Smith. 

I trust we shall have the very same spirit, for after he had referred to the instructions given him of the Lord Jesus Christ, he stated — that the spirit of bitter reviling and persecution which followed gave him, the youthful prophet, a great deal of sorrow. Ffowever, he says in his own statement : 

"It was nevertheless a fact that I had beheld a vision. I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light. GENERAL CONFERENCE.  heard a voice; but still there were but few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; and he was ridiculed and reviled, But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew, and would know to his latest breath, that he had both seen a light, and heard a voice speaking unto him, and all the world could not make him think or believe otherwise. 

"So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did dn reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision, and who am I that T can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it, at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation." 

"Now," said my friend, "tell me something more." 

"Very well, we have commenced now with this great revelation coming in the latter days to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We believe in God the Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ. Why? Because the Prophet Joseph saw them, heard them, received revelations from them. We have faith in God. So that the first principle of the gospel comes in. Isn't it easy to have faith in such a God? Faith, followed by repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. We have these plain and simple principles before  day by day, and do not they inspire our lives?" 

I am not going to take more time. You want to hear from President McMurrin. We love to hear him and his testimony, for few men in this Church have been raised from ('eath unto life while defending the truth as has this man who is before you, a living testimony of the power of God in this dispensation, and we love him for that, as well as for his fidelity. 

Now, what is the lesson 1 want to draw ? We are amongst the people of the world, coming in contact with them day by day. . It is my privilege to meet them by the thousands, it is your privilege to meet them in your various localities. Where do we stand? We stand ready at all times to do as the Prophet Joseph Smith said : we have received this testimony of the gospel in our hearts, we know that it is true. God knows that I know that this gospel is true, that the testimony that I bear comes from mv very heart, and that the dearest thing to me on earth is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that it ha<; given unto me certain blessings. It has given them unto you Latterday Saints. In the temple of the Lord we have been sealed as husbands and wives for time and for all eternity. We have had innumerable blessings. What shall we do? We will do as the Prophet Joseph said, continue to bear this testimony. They may persecute us, ridicule us, heap upon us all manner of calumny but we know that the gospel is true. In our various localities, wherever we live, in every little village, in every little town, by our lives we will declare that this gospel is true. With our voices we will bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a 

ELDER JOSEPH U 

prophet of God. In our homes, with these little children, such boys and girls as these blessed mothers have clinging to them now, in our families we will teach our children from babvhood, that the greatest thing on earth is a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that it will save them, and save us through all the eternities to come. 

May God bless you, and may God bless all Israel. 

I rejoice exceedingly with you that the President of our Church, the Prophet of the Lord, is so fully recovered that he could be with 'is in this conference. I believe all Israel throughout the length and breadth of the land has been plead ing for him. Let us continue to prav that God will bless "our prophet dear." And may God establish us fullv in the truth and enable us to appreciate h : s revelations, as p-iven unto us through the Prophet T oseph Smith, is my earnest oraver in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

(Of the First Council ,of Seventy.) 

I hope all who are here feel that it has been better to come into this fathering here in the Bureau of Information building, than to have seoarated and gone to our homes without continuing the meeting, when the storm came upon us, which we started in the open air. 

I suppose everyone present knows that the same gospel taught in this Catherine - , is the gospel that has been taught, and is being taught, in the Tabernacle, and in the Assemblv Hall, by the servants of God who have been called to take part in those meetings, for there is but one 

. McMURRIN. 103 

gospel. We have all been baptized into one spirit. We all have the same feeling that has been referred to by the brethren, a feeling of absolute assurance relative to the truth of the work that God, our Father, has planted upon the earth in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. There is no doubt in our minds regarding it. We bear testimony to the mission of the Prophet Toseph Smith, and declare that he in answer to prayer, had a vision of the Father and the Son, and communication from our Father in heaven, concerning the fact that the time had come that had been spoken of bv the holy prophets; for the reestablishment of the work of God in the latter times. 

We bear that testimony because we have tested the work, just as was taught by the Lord Jesus Christ when he stood upon the earth and when men looked upon him as an imposter. Thev could not feel that the Messiah who had been spoken of by the prophets, wherein thev had oortraved the greatness and pTandenr of his mission and the work that he was to accomplish, could possiblv be the lowlv babe born in Bethlehem, who was looked nnon as the son of the carpenter. Surely he could not be the Being that had claimed the attention of the prophets from the beginnine of time down to that period. What rould the Lord Jesus Christ sav to the unbelieving people relative to his calling? Onlv, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If anv man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God. or whether I soeak of mvself." So taught the Redeemer of the world, this was the manner of test that he offered to the children of men. that they might know GENERAL CONEERENCE.  he was an imposter, or whether he was in very deed, the . Savior and Redeemer that the prophets had sung" about in all ages. 

In the remtroduction of the gospel of the Son of God in this last dispensation, by the commandment of our Father in heaven, the same test has been placed in the hands of men, that is, if this work that has been revealed from on high be the work of God, it is the right of men to know concerning the work, for God is no respecter of persons, and if men could know concerning the ministry and work and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ by the testing of the doctrines, through an acceptance of the truth he expounded, it is the right of men in this dispensation to know concerning- the revelation of God our Heavenly Father in the same manner. It is because men have tested the promise that has been made in our own age, that they bear testimony concerning the work of God, and declare without a semblance of doubt, that they know that this work to which they have given their allegiance is the work of God, that the gospel they are teaching is the very same gospel that was taught by the Redeemer of the world — not a new gospel, but the old gospel, for there is but one gospel. We should understand that. All men should understand it. It has been .declared by one of the inspired apostles, "I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel; which is not another; but there be some that trouble you. and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." This was the  of the apostle as he wrote by the inspiration of the Almighty; the .scriptures abundantly teach that there is but one gospel. This is one of the evidences of the truth of the work of God concerning which we testify, for we say today as the apostle said, there is but one way of being saved, Jesus our Lord is the only Being through whom salvation can come, and there is no other name under heaven whereby man can be saved, only the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

But men are saved, if Jesus Christ be true, by an acceptance of his gospel. So taught one of the apostles as he was lit up by the inspiration of heaven, when he declared, "For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation." The gospel of Christ is the power of salvation, and for that gospel we contend, because we know the truth of it. We bear record of this truth and ask men everywhere, "Why should not God the Father reveal himself in this age of the world as he has revealed himself in former ages? It is the doctrine of our Father, as taught by the holy prophets, and as taught also by the Son of God, and as taught in much plainness by his apostles, that our Father in heaven is the same yesterday, today, and forever, he is without the shadow of turning, his gospel is an everlasting gospel, not a gospel in the dispensation of the meridian of times for the people of that period, and then a changed gospel in the latter times for the people who live now. But it has always been the same gospel. 

It was this very gospel that has been revealed through the great prophet of the latter-days, and that we advocate today, that our father 105 

Adam received, and that he taught to his sons and daughters in the Garden of Eden. When the angel asked why Adam did certain things he could only answer, "I know not, save the Lord commanded me." And God revealed his plan of salvation to our father Adam in the beginning, and taught to our father Adam in the Garden of Eden the mission of the .Lord Jesus Christ, and commanded him to teach his children concerning the mission of the Redeemer, that they might know they were to obtain eternal life in the presence of God by obedience to the principles of the gospel that have been advocated by our brethren in this congreagtion this afternoon. And by that revelation of our Father concerning the mission of Jesus Christ, the fact, that the Son of the living God who gave his life for the salvation of the human family, has been spread among all nations in every land; and we are told that no matter how ignorant men may. be, or how they have fallen away from the truth that was revealed in the beginning, that in some form men everywhere still have some conception, however clouded it may be, concerning the mission of the Son of God and salvation coming to the children of men by the giving of the life of a God. 

I thank God for the gospel. I thank God for the disposition working in me to honor the holy priesthood. You who have been present in the meetings of this general conference have discovered the spontaneous feeling that ran from heart to heart at the appearance of the President of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, (who has been very sick for several months), when the great assemblage rose to their . I was glad to stand upon my feet to do honor to the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I love the man, I love him because of the wonderful example he has been to the children of men. I love him because of the uprightness of his life, his honesty, his integrity, his unflinching testimony concerning the truth, because of the giving of the very best that there has been in him during his whole life, for the advancement of the work of God. But above all that, we stand up in honor of the President because of the priesthood and presidency that has been conferred upon him as the mouthpiece of God, and as the man holding the keys of authority pertaining to this dispensation at the present time. 

I attended some years ago in theTemple in Salt Lake City a gathering in honor of President Lorenzo Snow, and there saw a banner stretched across a part of the chapel in the annex of the Temple, upon which was written, "We delight to honor the man whom God hath honored." I would like you to think of that, both young and old. Who could do better than to honor the man that God has honored? We are not worshiping men, we are not looking upon the President of the Church as some superior being to all other beings, but we see in him the authority that has been conferred upon him by the Lord our God, and we recognize and honor that authority. When we speak of earthly things, there is no trouble to honor authority. If the President of the United States were to make his appearance in a gathering of people anywhere in America, or for that matter anywhere in the wide world, men would stand up in his honor — not in honor of Woodrow GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Wilson, the man, but in honor of the President of the United States. We can all understand that, we can all see the propriety of such an act, and we can all heartily approve of men showing to one of their fellows just such honor. And yet there are men who would attempt to question and condemn their fellows if they stand up in honor of the mouthpiece of the living God. We, however, delight to honor him. 

I am told that these words to which I have referred, that were painted upon the banner in honor of President Lorenzo Snow, did not originate at that time, but a long time before. Dr. Bernhisel, who was our first representative in the halls of Congress from the territory of Utah, away back in Nauvoo, in the early days of the Church, when the Prophet Joseph Smith would enter a room where Dr. Bernhisel was sitting, the doctor would rise to his feet, and remain standing until the prophet himself took a seat; the prophet, it is ,said, was embarrassed at this mark of deference, and remonstrated with Dr. Bernhisel, who was a man of superior education. Such pronounced deference was not sought by Joseph Smith. It made him feel uncomfortable. But when he remonstrated, Dr. Bernhisel said, "I delight to honor the man whom God hath honored." Do you know, my brethren and sisters, there has been a disposition in my soul to honor Dr. Bernhisel from the moment I first learned of his making that declaration, of which I never could have been possessed, had I not heard the story. 

We honor the authority of God. It is a safe thing to honor such authority. Read the Holy Scriptures, and you will discover that God has  his authority in all dispensations. Our Father in heaven has blessed men who have respected the authority he has conferred upon men in every age. You can also read of the distress and trouble, and even death, that has come upon men in past ages who have dared to speak slightingly of God's authority. While men do not lose their lives today if they speak in contempt of God's authority, while they can sneer at his authority, and they can trample under foot the counsel God gives through authority to the people, I desire to say that the authority of God, in the eyes of God, is just as sacred today as it ever has been in any past dispensation. And just as our Heavenly Father has .delighted to bless men in past ages, who have honored the authority that God has given to weak men, so he will delight to bless men in this dispensation who will honor that authority. And I plead with this congregation, that men and women, that boys and girls, cultivate a disposition to honor the authority that God has placed upon men; and God will honor you, and he will bless you, and will reveal unto you the truth, more perfectly, continually, of his great work that he has established for the salvation of the human family. 

Without authority, what can be accomplished? Our Elder Brother, the Lord Jesus Christ, commissioned men in his time to preach the everlasting gospel. It could not have been preached without that authority. Men have forgotten the necessity of such divine commission in the age in which we live, but the necessity exists just the same. It is just as needful today for men to be properly commissioned in order 107  preach the gospel acceptably, and to administer properly in the ordinances of the gospel, as in any other age, and no man can minister, mark you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and have his ministry sanctified, and approved by our Father in heaven, unless he be called of God to preach the gospel. I cannot call myself. That is the doctrine of the world, that men can feel within themselves, "Why, I am called to cry repentance among the people." That is not true, that is the plan of the adversary, to blind the eyes of the human race, that they may be led carefully away to destruction. -Many men delude themselves with the thought that they are called without having been ordained and .designated by the voice of the living God. What saith the Scripture? "No man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron." So the inspired apostle hath written, and so teaches "Mormonism." This is the doctrine pertaining to authority as it was taught by the apostles in the meridian of time. The salfsame doctrine is taught by the apostles of today. Divine authority cannot be assumed by any human being, without calling down the displeasure of the Lord. 

When we consider earthly authority, we understand the question most readily. There is nobody in this congregation who imagines that any man in this land can feel in his heart, "I have been called to be a judge in the State of Utah, I have that feeling within me." Why, even the little boys and girls would understand, if a man set forth that sort of claim, and sought to maintain it, that there was something wrong with him mentally. Judges are not appointed by having a call  comes from within the individual. A man cannot even be a city policeman, or a country constable by any such feeling taking possession of his mind. . He must be appointed by proper authority, the authority that has its foundation in the people. We have designated how all these various positions shall be filled, and for any man to imagine that he can fill even the humblest of these callings without being appointed according to the law of the land, is but an indication of unusual weakness in his intellectual powers. 

When we come to the things of God, men seem not able to comprehend so readily the need of divine authority. Some feel that it is all right for men to say within themselves, that they are called to minister in the name of Jesus Christ, that revelation and ordination -ior the conferring of authority is nonessential. But the doctrine of the gospel is, "Ye have not chosen me, ["the precious words of Jesus Christ], but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring fruit, * * * that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you." Bible students, is not this the doctrine of the ancient apostles? In absolute harmony with this is the doctrine of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who has declared to us that John, the forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ, made his appearance, and laid his hands upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and said, "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of GENERAL CONFERENCE. ; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." 

Such is. a foundation stone of "Mormonism." An angel from on high, commissioned by the author of the everlasting gospel, the Lord Jesus Christ, laying his hands upon the head of the Prophet Joseph and conferring upon him authority. It is a bedrock stone, it cannot be overturned. It has withstood the onslaughts that have been made in the past. No weak place has been found in this story of "Mormnoism," concerning the restoration of divine authority. When we speak of the coming of the Father and the Son, when we speak of the coming of John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Redeemer, the being who was honored with the high privilege of baptizing the Son of God, when we speak of Peter, James, and John, who came restoring the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood — the men upon whom that Melchizedek Priesthood was bestowed by the Son of God — each restoring the authority they held in mortality, it is a story of strength, that has never been overcome, and there has never been any faulty place found in it; and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that with the restoration of this authority that we honor, has come the promise of the living God that the work established under the direction and by the authority of this Priesthood now restored, shall endure forever and forever. That is the promise of God. It shall not be uprooted, it shall not be broken to pieces, it shall not come to naught, but it shall endure. These men so testify, I so testify, thank God with all my soul, and I know whereof I speak. 

I thought when we started our meeting in the open air, of a time long ago in Scotland, when 1 stood out in the open field, a boy missionary, with some tremblings and with some little fear and doubt in my mind; although born in the Church, and taught the principles of the gospel; when I came to minister in the name of Jesus Christ, when I was far away from father and mother, far away from my country and people, then there was a cry went out from my soul, "Am I a servant of Jesus Christ? Have I authority to minister in the name of the Redeemer of the world?" That thought came to me, and that cry of anxiety was in my soul, until God in his kindness and mercy, and in fulfilment of his promise, because I was anxious to know the truth, I was anxious to do my duty and to preach the gospel, revealed to me by the power of the Holy Ghost the truth of this gospel; and the happiest moments I have ever known in my life, the happiest moments I ever expect to experience in the future of my life, have been and will be when T bear record in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that Toseph Smith was called of God to be a prophet, and was ordained an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and commanded to organize this Church to which we have given our allegiance. 

No wonder we honor authority, even the authority of God, and we honor every other proper authority, the authority in every land; because it is an article of our faith that we "believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law," wherever we may reside. We have honor for all authority, honor for the President McMURRIN . of the United States, love for America. Why, I wear a little button here myself, for two stalwart sons who are in the service of the United States. Of course it wrenches the heart when they say good-bye. It wrenches the heart when they write that" ? No, we cannot say it, we job we have in hand, but we expect to do our 'duty, like men, be the cost what it may." Do you think we can call them back, do you think we can say, "O, son, you are not to do that?" No, we cannot say it, we can only say, "Go forward, my boy, in the accomplishment of duty; consecrate your life to the performance of the labor asked of you, even tn the laying; down of your life, if need be, for what God hath wrought in the establishment of this great Government of the United States of America, must be maintained, God having declared that he raised up wise men and inspired them to write the Constitution of our Country, and to make firm and steadfast and sure, the Constitution of America, and extend Liberty at last to every land and every people in the world. God himself has so said, and it is right and pleasing in his sight that all men shall enjoy the same libertv. It is for that we give our sons, that they mav not only Uiohold and sustain the institutions of our Country, but also establish the decree of God, and bring the blessings of the land to every nation under heaven. 

I bear reroH of the truth. I know of what I speak. I d; d not obtain it from the teaching of father and mother, although, thank God, 1 had a good father and mother, who believed the truth and who loved the truth. But when I bore record concerning the truth of this gospel. 

I had to obtain that knowledge in the same way that father and moth er obtained it before me, by service, by giving my heart to God. There is no other way. Father and mother could not give me the testimony and knowledge, let them love ic ever so dearly, let them try ever so hard, they could only point out the way in which I should walk. In that path I myself finally came to a knowledge of the truth, revealed to me by the Lord God, just as it had been revealed to my parents before me. The same thing is true todav. I cannot give a knowledge of this gospel to my own sons and daughters. T can only sav to them, This work is not my work, but His who has called me to minister therein. If ve will do his will and test these ordinances and principles of the jrospel, von shall be brought to an understanding of the truth by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and know from the crown of your head to the soles of vour feet, that God has sooken and has established this work in which we are laboring. 

God help us to love it forever and forever, to maintain its principles, to uphold its authority, and to cultivate the disposition, every one of us, to say, not only when the President of the Church makes his apnearance, but to sav to all authority, in the wards, and in the stakes, and in the miss : ons, "I delisrht to honor the man whom God hath honored." I humblv prav in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The conpre°"ation sang: "Do What is Right." 

Benediction was pronounced bv Elder Hugh S. Geddes, president of the Oneida Stake of Zion. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 


