Overflow
06 10 1918

An overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Sunday morning, October 6, at 10 o'clock a. m., presided over by Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Council of Twelve Apostles. 

Singing and music were furnished by the LeGrand ward choir, Elder H. E. Dewsnup, chorister. 

The choir and congregation sang, ''Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Elias A. Smith. 

The choir sang the anthem : "How amiable are thy dwellings." 

ELDER DANIEL HEINER. 

(President of the Morgan Stake of Zion.) 

If the Lord will support me, I will be glad to say a few words. I have been very much impressed with the conference up to this time, with the "many things of real worth that we have listened to, and I have felt to say that surely the Lord is with hi.s people. Never in my life was I more pleased an 1 thankful for a testimony of the gospel than I am at this time. I also feel more thankful, it seems to me, for our valleys of these mountains, and for our beautiful homes, for  beautiful streams and for these beautiful mountains. I truly feel that this is a blessed spot, most blessed of all upon the face of the earth. I often think about the advice that was given to our leaders in early .days that they ought to go to the Lower California to locate. I visited Lower California a couple of years ago, all the way up as far as Berkley. I spenr a month up there, and I thought of what had been said, that we ought to locate up there. But while they have a beautiful valley, especially around Los Angeles, with their beautiful groves of oranges, etc., yet it took millions of money to get the water out to produce what they have there. I want to say that we Latterda v Saints ought to be very thankful for what the" Lord has done for us in locating us here. 

W e are surely living in a wonderful time. It seems that great things are transpiring nearly every minute; and if there ever has been 'a. time when the Latter-day Saints ought to be true and faithful to their covenants it is now. I have often wondered if we are thankful enough for our country here and for the land of America. You know, we are a blessed people to have the (privilege to live in this land of America. One of the Nephite. Prophets, 2,400 years ago, stated : "Blessed are the people whose feet are planted in the land of Zion." As I have said, I wonder sometimes if we appreciate it as we ought to do. I often times wish that the rulers of our own Nation and even other nations would read the Book of Mormon, and study its contents. Frequently I have thought they would figure things out in a different way if they did. I feel that we ought to stand by this great Nation, and I feel that the whole people of the United States ought to really repent and turn from immorality, and live better lives. I have sometimes thought, I would like to hear of the President of the United States making a proclamation, asking the people to repent and turn to God. I have thought that if that could be done, and the people would listen, that the peace of the millennium would be much nearer. 

Our boys now over in France are very anxious for us to live righteous lives. They are not only expecting us to put up our money in buying liberty bonds, but they expect us to keep our covenants. They are anxious for us to keep the home fires burning, and if Ave can assure them that we are true to our covenants, and that we are waking up and understanding the real condition that the world is in at the present time, and that we are living up to the requirements of the gospel, it will help to keep up their morale, and they will surely feel like thev had more to fight for and to come back to. 

I would just like to leave a thought with you, and that is for us to attend to our prayers, to attend to our sacrament meetings, and to wake up, and not be so indifferent, remember the Lord and be true to our covenants. I ask the Lord to bless us and help us to live aright, in the name of Jesus Chrst. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

T sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the few moments I occupy this morning I mav be assisted by the Spirit of the Lord, and I therefore ask an interest in your  and prayers, that his Spirit may be with me and with you, and that we may be mutually benefited by what I may say. 

I am grateful to my heavenly Father for the privilege I have had to come up to this conference; and we, I think, as a people, should be grateful to him for the blessings we have already received in this conference. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord, and I believe firmly that the sincere prayers of the Saints in behalf of our beloved President have been answered in Irs behalf, and the Lord has permitted him, after a long illness, to stand again before the people and give them counsel and advice. 

A reference has been made by the brethren who have- spoken in the sessions held in the tabernacle to the missionary work, and the miss : onary obligation that rests upon the people of he Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This gospel of the kingdom must by us be preached to every nation, kindred and tongue. We have heard it declared in unmistakable terms that the gospel as it stands revealed in the earth today through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Church as organized through h : s instrumentality, are the very gospel and the very Church of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We recognize good wherever we find it, but we declare with boldness that the power to preach the gospel and to officiate in all of the ordinances thereof exists only with the Church of T^sns Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now that being the case, it seems that we should sense the res^onsiIrlity that rests upon us to carry the gospel -message to the untold millions of the Lord's children who yet sit in darkness among the nations of  earth. "God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform," and who knows but what the mighty conflict being' waged in the world today is the Lord's way of preparing for the further spread of the gospel even among peoples who up to date have not been able to hear it, in nations where the elders of the Church have been debarred from carrying the gospel message of peace and salvation? 

Brethren and sisters, a thing that it seems to me we should realize and sense is the fact that our Father in heaven. is just as much the Father of the heathen races, of the benighted tribes and races of the earth, and of all people upon the earth, as he is our Father. I call your attention to the writings of Paul to Timothy. "I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers and giving of thanks be made for all men, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who will have all men to be saved, and come into the knowledge of the truth." We see therein that the Lord does not design and desire only one portion or part of his people, or one nation of his children to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth; but lie wishes all to be saved. We are prone to think, just as the Jews ol old thought, that we are the only favored people upon the face of the earth in the sight of the Lord. And the Jews were a favored race. And so today the blood of Israel as fathered out among the peoples of the Latter-day Saints are highly favored of the Lord. But I want to bear you my testimony that, just as the Tews fell into disfavor when they disobeyed the one God whom they worshiped, so might we, if we should turn our backs upon the Holv One of Israel, and if we re the teachings of his gospel and cease to live by the things that he has given unto men. A lesson was given to Pecer, the chief of the apostles, in times of old in the conversion of Cornelius, a Gentile, and after Peter had witnessed the manifestations of the Holy Spirit as poured out upon this man and his family, "then Peter opened his mouth and said, of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted of him." Now this is just as true today as it was then. And this gospel of the kingdom is being preached in all the earth, among all people and among all men, to search out those who will accept it and who will live according to his commandments. And I want to tell you that it makes no difference what blood flows in our veins, only those who accept the Lord and live humbly before him, in harmony with him and his commandments, will be favored of the Lord and accepted of him and be saved in his kingdom. Nationally, at least, we are learning the same great lesson. There was a time when the people of this great country of ours were termed IrishAmericans and many other kinds of hyphenated Americans. Down in the section of the country where I am do : ng missionary work the politicians always count upon the Mexican vote, for I will say in passing that we have hundreds and thousands of Mexicans, or .oeople of Mexican blood, in the United States, who are native-born American citizens. But this great world conflict will eradicate that spirit that is predominant in certain sections of the country. 

T want to believe, and do, that when this war is over we will all GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in a political sense just as the Nephites and Lamanites were in a religious sense after the advent of the Savior among them. Where before there had been jarring sects and parties known as Nephites and Lamanites, Zoramites and other "ites," after the Savior had come and taught them the gospel of truth, and after they had been chastened by the terrible judgments of God upon them, those who escaped turned from their wickedness and from their evil contentions and became a united people, and they were no longer known as Nephites or Lamanites but were all known as the Church of Christ. And so, I believe that in this country of ours after the war is over all who live here will be true Americans, and there will be no German- Americans, Irish-Americans, Mexicans, or the like, but we will all be known as full fledged American citizens. 

I had the opportunity a short time ago of speaking at the service held; n honor of the first boy that fell from the countv where I now live. L T pon the stand sat his aged father, eleven years a cripple from rheumatism. He was of Scandinavian origin and could scarcely speak the English langauge, but that bov of his in the spirit of true Americanism volunteered with the first that served their country and he gave his life in defense of the spirit of Americanism. Can we say he was less an American because of his Scan d : n avian blood? T can indeed say that he was a true American. At the close of the meeting, word came in that another young man, who a few months before hai left a bride of eight months and his aged parents, had also been killed. That boy was a Mexican from just below where I live, yet  man will be able to say that he was not a true American, and no father or mother can offer a greater sacrifice for freedom than did his. And can any wife be more faithful to her country than that one who sent her husband away to defend that country? So we see that in our country's hour of need men of different bloods faithfully spring side by side to her defence and by their lives and deeds they make themselves true Americans. 

So also it is in the Church. Deeds, and not blood, determine our right to be called Saints of God. Away down there in Mexico our native Mexican brethren and sisters, although for four years left alone, ^continue to meet together and praise, the Lord and testify of his goodness and that the gospel is true. They are living their religion and keeping the commandments of the Lord as they understand them. Are they any less worthy to be called the Saints of God because of their blood? I recall a man down in Mexico who was drafted into the army and forced to leave everything he had and to leave h : s family destitute. After having been away about a vear, during which time he received a daily pittance of twenty-five cents from which he had to feed and clothe himself, he wrote to me and asked "Where shall I send my tithing?" On learning where to send it he sent a tithing of the pittance he had received while in the army. Is his offering less acceptable, or is he less a member of the Church, or less worthy of receiving an inheritance in the kingdom of God because of his blood? I want to tell you that such is not the case. God is no respecter of persons,  why should we be? But this thing he does require of Jew and Gentile, and of every nation whatsoever, and it is due from all those who may be found among all nat : ons, that they live the gospel and live according to its requirements, and when the Savior comes there will be a universal brotherhood of man and we shall not look down upon a man because of his blood or his station, but he shall be measured according to his worth. 

I wish to testify, in conclusion, that I know that the gospel is true. I know that it has been established upon the earth for the salvation of all men, and I know that your sons who are in the mission field bearing their humble testimony and teaching this gospel are just as loyal to their country as are your sons who are in the army, and those sons of yours out there are not in any way hiding behind their ecclesiastical calling to avoid a duty ?n the armies of their country. They have received a classification and have been assigned a .special work by the Government of the United States which recognizes the necessity of doing just the work that they are doing, and when the United States needs them and wishes to call them in they are willing to serve their country in freedom's cause wherever they may be called. 

May the Lord bless us in our endeavors to serve humanity I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER PETER M. HANSEN. 

(President Bear River Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters; It is a pleasure to me to meet with you this beautiful morning in continuation of our splendid eighty-ninth semi-annual conference of the 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints; and to hear the excellent testimonies we have received. It is an evidence to us that we are indeed the Church of Christ, and a joy that we have the privilege of living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, led by prophets and inspired men who have been chosen of the Lord to guide and direct his people. 

We have been interested in the discourses that have been delivered which are testimonies to us that the great latter-day work in which we are engaged, is of God. 

What we need in this Church today, my brethren and sisters, are teachers, to teach the word of God to our young people, men and women who are qualified for this duty, and I hope that we will not shirk the responsibility that rests upon us. We cannot dodge the responsibility that is required of us in this beautiful world in which we live. If we do, T think we will not live in a better world. But there are certain responsibilities that are resting upon every man and woman in Zion. One obligation is to teach the gospel to the young people in the splendid organizations that we have in this Church today. We call, perhaps, a number of sisters to preside in the Primary organizations in the wards and stakes where we live, and we send our children, but we never go there ourselves, we never meet with those s : sters in teaching our children. Now if we would make it a point to meet in this organization once every year, what a splendid thing it would be for us, and what a splendid thing it woidd be for our children, what interest they would have in us and the work in which we are engaged! So in the Mutual Improvements Associations, we appoint a certain number of men and women to preside in these organizations, but we never go there ourselves. We never show much interest in them. We leave the work to these officers that we have appointed. Now, if every man and woman would make it a point to visit these organizations once a year, what an excellent thing it would be for us and our interest in these organizations. How the young people would rejoice to see our presence with them once in a while. The same with our priesthood quorums. Men shirk responsibilities more or less. We should not shirk responsibilities; we should not dodge these things, because it is detrimental to us as well as to the Church at large to do so. 

The greatness of the work and responsibilities that rest upon us, my brethren and sisters, we canhardly comprehend. Our brother has said it is our responsibility to preach the gospel to the world. Half of the people of the world today are starving for a little love and sympathy that should be extended to them, and the other half of ail the world today are starving because they are not willing to give it. That is the condition the world is in; arid I hope that we as Latter-day Saints may not be starving for the want of these things, that our young people may be more diligent in serving the Lord and striving to keep his commandments. 

I have a son in South Africa, who has been in that field laboring now for nearly three years. A short time ago he was sent to a new field of labor, where elders had not been before, a stranger, a poor, insignificant boy, as it were, yet an elder of the Church going there in the service of the Lord and with the  of the. servants of God upon his head. He labored there for ,six months. Lately I received word from him that he had been called into another field to labor. He says, "I have baptized two members of the Church, I have blessed two children; and we had a meeting a short time ago, where I made my farewell address. The people of the little meeting we had of ten or twenty shed tears to know that I was to leave that little community and go into another." He went there as a strange boy, yet he made converts, had the love and confidence of the people, which love we have inasmuch as we strive for it, inasmuch as we seek to do the will of God and to keep his commandments. 

I was very much intereste l la .t evening' in Brother Nibley's address delivered before the priesthood, wherein he stated that the Latterday Saints are blessed with bounteous crops this season, more so than he could ever remember before. Now I bear that same testimony, my brethren and sisters, that our people are blessed this season as perhaps we have never been blessed before. I hope that we will not forget the Lord. Elder Hyrum M. Smith, in one of the last discourses that he delivered, I think, in one of the Idaho stakes of Zion, said that if the Latter-day Saints will be a prayerful people, if they will be diligent in saying their prayers morning and night, if they will be diligent in attending their sacrament meeting's every Sunday or as often as they can, if they will pay an honest tithing, doing those duties, they will never apostatize from the Church. I believe that, and it is possible for us all to do. It is possible for the little children even to  together often and to partake of the sacrament, to pay an honest tithing, to say their prayers morning and night, and in secret. It is possible and it would not be difficult; if we would do that, what a reformation would come in the Church. Let us be more diligent. 

In the stake in which I reside, we have over a thousand people who are non-" Mormons." a splendid class of people. We visit with them, we associate with them, and it is a pleasure for us to do so, because they are good neighbors, they are good citizens, they are good home-builders, and we appreciate their company. We do not quarrel with them; we let them worship as they will, and they do. We say, do not embrace "Mormonism" until you investigate for yourself, test its principles, and if you find them worth while, if we can assist you, if we can help you in explaining the principles of the gospel, we shall cheerfully do so. The consequence is that we have a satisfaction in living among them, and I trust that they have with us. I wish that we may be exemplar)- men and women. That preaches the gospel more than anything else that we do in the Church. How effectively it preaches the gospel to those who are not of us. if we can be exemplary men and women! 

I reioice in the. spirit of the gospel. I rejoice that we are here in conference, and that we have the privilege to listen to the servants of God. Another thing, my brethren and sisters, this is a splend'd year to pay our debts and obligations. 

A dollar now, you know, is not worth more than about 50 cents in the commodities of life, but it is worth one hundred cents on ^the  in paying our debts and obligations; and for that reason, this is a splendid year to meet our obligations. 

I am a little interested in the banks of the state where I live, and men will come to the banks, and beg for money at eight or nine per cent. Now that should not be the case. Let us pay our obligations as we can, while we have the splendid opportunity now afforded us. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May peace and the blessings of the Lord attend us, and may we be worthy of every blessing that we enjoy, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Amelia Margetts sang a solo, "Song of my soul." 

ELDER THOMAS D. REES. 

(President of the Juab Stake of Zion. ) 

I assure you that it is not my wish that I occupy this position this morning. I would far rather be seated wtih you in the audience, and listen to the instructions from my brethren. When I was called to occupy this position the thought never entered my mind of not beuig present, even though I feared I might not be able to instruct you in our most holy faith. I have been taught in this Church that obedience is one of its great principles — -that they who obey it never fall away from the teachings of the Lord. 

I have been taught to obey the laws of our great Government, the authorities of this Church, and my father and my mother giving - to them the obedience of a ,son. This lesson came to me in early life. I remember on one occasion my father invited me to accompany him to an adjoining valley. There were others in the company, and we traveled through the canyon from one valley to the other, changing our directions often, and as we emerged into the valley that was strange to me, I beheld, to my astonishment, that the sun was going down in the east. But all day long I had been curious in asking questions, and I thought I would remain silent and watch for the morning. And when the morning came, behold the sun was coming up in the west, and I turned to one of my brethren and said, "What a peculiar place, the sun is coming up in the west!" Jokingly he said, "Another one of your wonderful questions." One of the boys from another place stated, why you are twisted. My father came to my rescue, saying, "No; the sun is rising in the east all right," and I looked at him. I could see. I had eyes. I knew directions, and the sun was coming up in the west, even if my father told me that it was not so, and he could not convince me; yet I obeyed. Have you ever been turned round, and some one has tried to change you as to the right direction by conversation ? You will realize my situation. And when we started out with the wagon, he gave me the lines. I was a youngster of seven and eager to drive. As we came to the parting of the roads, I knew that we were to go south, and I turned the team south, as I thought. My father said, turn left, and lo and behold, when I turned left the team was facing the north. Now, he said, drive south, and I started. Driving north I knew I could see the sun coming up in the west, and the directions — why, I was positive that I was going north, and that my father was wrong. He talked to me. He said, "Yes, you are going south. Keep on going , and I knew I was going north. And I kept on going north, but the thought of disobeying my father never entered my mind. I thought he was wrong, but I obeyed, and drove on. Finally we came to our destination all right. 

In my work as a boy, and as I _ grew older, I met many people who would come to me and ,say, "The Church is not the same as it was in the .days of the Prophet. It is not the same as it was in the days of Brigham Young." I thought in my heart, your point of direction is lost, even if you think absolutely that you are right; if you will obey, the rime will come, as it came to me in that valley, when things will adjust themselves, even as I could see that my father was right and I was wrong. So, when I see some of . those who were brethren stray away from the Church, and are positive that they are right, I think of the lesson I learned when I was a boy. Within themselves they seem to feel that they are right, but if they had the power to obey they would again adjust themselves. 

As Latter-day Saints we owe it to the principle of obedience, to teach it to our boys and our girls, telling them that this Church is the Church and kingdom of God, given to us through his prophets. We are not afraid to state to all the world that this is the true Church that we belong to, and the people should not take offense at that, nor claim that when we do it we are egotistic, because Christ tells us unequivocally that there is but one Church that is or can be his on the earth. As Latter-day Saints we are just following his admonition, and stating boldly to the world that we possess that truth. It is possible for all the churches to be wrong, but it is not  for more than one to be right. And therefore we feel that we have the right to testify to the world of these truths. That is the reason we cherish the salvation of men so greatly, considering it a privilege to live on this earth, accounting the human being the greatest gift. We have given our boys and girls the greatest riches God has ever given us, because they will stand with us in the eternities as our wealth, to hold up our hands. They are the riches God intended we should have when he sent us to this earth to live and enjoy the gospel. O what a beautiful thing is virtue to every boy and girl in this Church! How grand it is that we can give to them that wonderful, progressive spirit that God has given us, a knowledge that we can go back to our Eternal Father. 

The I AM within us teaches us that we existed before we came here, that we exist now, and it seems impossible with the feeling that we have within us to ever cease to exist. Then we should teach our boys and girls the lessons of obedience, virtue, honesty and truth, that they may walk before their heavenly Father as he would have them walk, and before their fellow men, in dignity, and in the power of the holy priesthood. We are claiming the greatest blessing that can be given to the children of men — these boys and girls — for they will be with us throughout all eternity. In the eternities they can be perfected with us. Think of the possibilities, what they mean to us, the little children whom God gives to our arms to teach. Think of the minds of these children and the power inherent in them to be creators in the hereafter! Do they not mean more to our lives than our  and our chattels? For our children will have the power of eternal progression, until out of their hands will roll systems of worlds, with all the wealth necessary to the : r creation. Far greater are these blessings to us than the things of this life. When we measure them, how we cherish this privilege of coming upon this earth and taking upon us this tabernacle of flesh that we might be able to go onward in this great progress of eternity! 

I have always said, teach the boy to kneel down and pray unto his heavenly Father, because it takes a strong character to kneel down in prayer. It takes a character whose soul will enlarge so that he forgets the little things of life, and becomes mighty in himself, when reaching up in the spirit of a good prayer. 

Hence, each father and mother should teach their boys and girls to kneel down in prayer before God, that they may be exalted in themselves. It requires obedience, and a power of character to kneel down each day in prayer. It builds us up so that we are more like God intended we should be when he sent us here to this earth. It builds us up so that we can look upon our fellow men as our brethren, and look out upon all God's creatures giving them a sympathetic hand, enabling us to feel that all mankind are the children of God. But we despise sin. We love the human race and the children of God, but the sins that men commit we despise. It is our mission upon this earth to seek to do away with ,sin, and teach men that the greatest joy and the greatest happiness, the greatest love, can come from living an honest life, from living this religion of ours, where jealousy should find no place, but peace of mind with God, and good will to our fellow men. 

May God bless and help us, that we may be of service to him, that we may have time to turn from the things of earth and spend more time with the wealth that God has given us, our boys and our girls; because, after all, they will go with us and be ours when we leave all this world's goods behind. This is my prayer for the Latter-day Saints and for the people of this earth. And may peace come to this earth, and may the day speedily come when we will live as our Father .desires we shall live, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH B. KEELER. 

(President of the Utah Stake of Zion.) 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord is here, because of the words that have been uttered in our hearing and the thoughts that have been going through our minds. Some of them have been passing through my mind, and likely through your minds, and to a great extent we are one in the Lord this day. May this Spirit continue to be with us throughout the sessions of this conference, as it has been through the sessions that have preceded this. 

A great deal has been said, and will be said, regarding the patriotism and the loyalty that has been manifested toward our Government and the cause of the allies in which we are now engaged to bring about freedom and justice in the world. We have another loyalty and patriotism that we should never forget, and that is to the Church of Jesus Christ to which we belong. Peace would be in the earth today if all the  thereof were members in full fellowship in Christ's Church. There would be no war, there would be no trouble, no famine, no pestilence, if there were a brotherhood of man, if we could say truly that we are citizens of this world. 

I said to a German brother the other day, it is impossible for us to be at war. It is impossible for us to hate each other. We cannot do it, and why ? Because we are members of the Church of Christ. And so the millennium would be here today if men and women were obedient to the principles of the everlasting gospel. Now this thing that is so much desired, peace and good will in the earth will come to the extent that men will forsake unrighteousness and cling unto that which is good. This Church is so organized that these principles of love, of intelligence, may be disseminated throughout the earth. And how thankful we should be, my brethren and sisters, that we are members of the Church of Christ, the only true Church that God recognizes upon the face of this earth. 

We have institutions in the Church that are intended for our development and our education. Elder Stephen L. Richards remarked yesterday that we are all teachers, that is, the priesthood, and we can well include in that class the sisters now, to the extent that we will be patriotic and loyal to these institutions. To that extent will this Church grow and increase in the earth, and we will not only become teachers of one another, but Ave will become teachers of the world. But I apprehend that in preparing ourselves to become teachers, we are doing as much or more for ouselves individually than we are to others. Really, the Lord  not intend men and women to preach this gospel more than men and women need themselves to be obedient to this call to be teachers. 

Let us read the ninth and tenth chapters of TTI Nephi, and there see how completely Jehovah preached the gospel to the people then upon this continent, to half a world, we may sav. Every soul, whether he was in the open field or in the home, or in the fastnesses of the mountains, heard his voice. He preached to all the world with one voice, and all the world at that time heard his voice. T mean noAv, of course, the earth. That was then understood by that people to whom he preached. We need the Lord, we need the institutions of his Church, and therefore it would be well for us to sustain everv organization. I always feel to bless the sisters who so faithfully perform their labor in the Primary organizations among these young and budding children. Our Father in heaven notices them, notwithstanding the fact that we sometimes almost forget them as parents. T sav to you, my sisters, go on in this good work. God notices you. and will bless you. So with the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations. What a wonderful organization for good! What a social function it performs anion? the Latter-dav Saints. So with the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. What a grand opportunitv it is there for every voting man to become acquainted with the principles of the gospel and to learn how to deliver those principles in such a wav that thev may be listened to and understood by others. The Religion Class organization, that organization which has not, I feel, received the support that it  to receive, O that is a wonderful organization, my brethren and sisters. There is no organization in the world like it. It comes to our children in the day time, in the week clay. It comes to them alongside of their school work while they are getting this secular training. Here is an opportunity for them to be truly built up and trained. 

I feel that we do not appreciate the wonderful blessings and opportunities that we enjoy as Latter-day Saints through these organizations. 

And then there is that wonderful organization of the young, the Sunday School. The churches, the school houses, the assembly halls could not hold, as they are able to do, all of these young people, if they would embrace the opportunity presented to them in attending this wonderful institution. 

And then the Relief Society. There is another institution, humble in its action, but very efficient in everything that it does. I am glad indeed to learn now that it is coming more to the notice of Latter-day Samts and of the world. God bless that institution. May it prosper. 

We have another organization in our midst, and that is the Church schools. The Church, through the Trustee-in-Trust, is taking something like a third of a million dollars annually, and giving it for the support of these institutions. 

I feel that sometimes the Latterday Saints do not fully appreciate this wonderful blessing which we have, especially in these regions where they are located. Why, these school rooms ought to be filled to overflowing, so that each teacher who is employed there should be able to teach to his or her full capacity, that the Latter-day Saints should be there so that there would not be empty benches nor small classes. It is a great thing, a great blessing, to be able at the same time that our young people are receiving secular knowledge and training, to be also trained in the principles of the everlasting gospel, and be immersed, as it were, in the Spirit of the Lord at the same time, which gives light and understanding to the human mind. 

One thing in this connection that I will take the liberty of mentioning. The United States Government, through its liberality and generosity, has established one of the units of the Students' Army Training Corps in one of our Latter-day Saint institutions, that of the Brigham Young University, at Provo. Now here is an opportunity along with the other institutions of this day for our young men to go, who are nineteen or twenty years old, who are about to be called now to go into the service of their country for the cause of liberty and justice in the world, to receive a training in the world and to be under the influence of this institution, and be prepared to take very active part, even that of officers, if their work so qualifies them. I hope that the Latter-day Saints will take advantage of this and see to it that no young man is deprived of the opportunity. Now then, my brethren and sisters, we need these institutions more than the institutions need us, and it behooves us to take advantage, while our day lasts, so that we may regard the opportunities that have been given to us. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the Church and kingdom of God. All things will be shaken that can be shaken, thrones will totter, because earthly nations  they are now constructed will pass away, and there will be an end of such nations, but the Church and kingdom of God will not pass away. It will endure through all of the vicissitudes that this poor world is called to pass through. We belong to this Church, and if we adhere to its principles we will weather the gale with it, which may God grant, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A selection entitled, "Friendship" was sung by a quartette compose! of Elders Pike, Acomb, Aldous and Shurtliff. 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS. 

(President of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.) 

I was strongly tempted to put my hand out to steady the ark by suggesting to Elder Richards that my time be given to President Seymour B. Young and to himself; but I thought that obedience, after listening to President Rees' remarks, was the better. 

I have greatly rejoiced in the inspiring discourses of this most excellent conference. I wish that all the young men and young women of Zion could have heard what Elder David O. McKay had to say yesterday in his great appeal for better morals. I deplore, with elder Richards, that there were so few of the young men and young women who were present on that occasion; and I hope that something will develop that will bring about a reform with respect to the attendance at the meetings of the Saints. There should be, and can be, I believe, a great improvement, when we consider that there is so  a percentage of attendance at our priesthood meetings, and a correspondingly small attendance of the membership of the Saints at the regular meetings. It was a great height that Elder McKay reached, but unfortunately it will only reach a few of us, with his soul-burning and soul-moving words. I rejoiced in the very enlightening discourse of Elder Orson F. Whitney, regarding the discovery of America. I appreciate, perhaps as never before, what a great thing it is to be Latter-day Saints and to have the Latter-day Saints' comprehension of things, and to know something of America and its origin; to know that it was the very cradle of humanity; to know that it was not the new world but the old; to know that God has held it in reserve until this day and age for the consummation of his great and mighty purposes in the earth. 

I am a better American because of my being a Latter-day Saint, and so are you all, and America is enriched and benefited by the fact that the "Mormon" people have these exalted conceptions of the mission and destiny of America in the world. 

I rejoice in these things, because they reflect to me the inspiration of God and the providence of God over mankind and particularly over his people in this dispensation. 

I rejoice that we are living in a land of peace and security, a land to which war has not yet come, al,thou,gh we have gone to war. There is an infinite difference between those two propositions. 

Listening to those inspiring addresses in the tabernacle last evening, I could not help but feel and my soul went out in gratitude to 

God for his mercy in gathering this people in these western mountain regions, yet I feel thankful that we can take part in this great and terrible conflict, which means the great turning point in human history. 

I rejoice in the hymn, which I have never heard sung, written by that estimable little Latter-day Saint, Sister Emily Hill Woodmansee, on page 434 of our hymn book, and which I will take the liberty here to read : 

Uphold the right, tho' fierce the fight, 

A,nd powerful is the foe; As freedom's friend, her cause defend, 

Nor fear nor favor show. 

No coward can be called a man — No friend will friends betray; 

Who would be free, alert must be; Indifference will not pay. 

Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, 

Who plundering plots devise; Yet time will teach, that fool's o'erreach 

The mark, and lose the prize. 

Can justice deign to wrong maintain, 

Whoever wills it so? Can honor mate with treacherous hate? 

Can figs on thistles grow? 

Dare to be true, and hopeful too; 

Be watchful, brave and shrewd; Weigh every act; be wise, in fact, 

To serve the general good. 

Nor basely yield, nor quit a field — 

Important is the fray; Scorn to recede, there is no need 

To give our rights away. 

Left handed fraud let those applaud Who would by fraud prevail; 

In freedom's name, contest their claim, Use no such word as fail; 

Honor we must each sacred trust, 

And rightful zeal display; Our part fulfill, then, come what will, 

High heaven will clear the way." 

Such sentiments, my brethren and sisters, are in beautiful contrast to the spirit of selfishness, hate, desire for dominion and glory. 

We were all moved greatly and deeply by the dispatches which reached us last night; but these things should not move us from duty. We should not quit the field, because it is an important fray. 

I have thought the day would come, and I hope soon, when there would be a declaration of peace, when the world would be restored not only to a normal condition, but to a far better condition than it has even known. But the ends of justoe must be met, and though France and England and Belgium and Italy have been glorified by the baptism of blood and fire through which they have passed, I fear that the lesson has not yet been written deep enough in the heart of America to make of us the nation God would have us be. I don't believe that peace is quite at our doors as yet. If it is a lesson God would have us to learn, it has not been fully learned. 

I have hoped for .some weeks that when the time for a dictated peace come, that America would prove herself the great, big magnanimous nation that she is, and bring back her two to four millions of men from France to their homes, where they should be just as soon as conditions in Europe will permit; and then let this great army of industrials, workers and artisans of all kinds, go back there as volunteers to help build devastated Belgium and France. England cannot do it; France cannot do it; Italy cannot do it; America can do it. Such an act of magnanimity, such an evidence of human love and fraternal spirit and disposition would forever revolutionize the world. I do  believe we shall see such a thing accomplished; but while sitting here this morning this thought came to me. Yes, Germany, if you are ready for peace, stay where you are, in Belgium and in France. Lay down your arms and pile them mountain high, and utilize your efficiency and your ingenuity for the reduction or trans formation of those arms into plows and pruning hooks and the various implements of husbandry, and break up and put in tillable shape the soil that you have torn up, and plant the_ trees that you have chopped down, and construct the highways and the cottages and the buildings which you have destroyed. Remain there, and make restitution now, and undo as far as you can that which you did in your mad rush for glory, conquest and power. Make restitution as far as you can. You cannot restore those husbands, those fathers, to the children of that land; you cannot, in the least degree, repair the broken hearts, the deserted firesides, the desolate homes; but you can, and if I had my way, you would, restore Belgium and France completely, in terms of bricks and mortar, and macadamized roads, and farms and orchards and vineyards, and make full restitution. Justice demands that of you. 

God hasten the day when Justice shall rule in the world and selfishness shall hide its head and stand subdued, for selfishness is always destructive of self, and the only hope of the great and goodly race, the German people, is that contrition of heart shall be given them, till they are willing to make restitution. If not, they must be continued in the conflict until they are brought to their knees. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters: With you I am in deep sympathy with the remarks that have been made by my brethren during this semiannual conference. I rejoice when I hear the testimonies of my brethren, brethren who stand as leaders of the people. 

I believe I echo your sentiment, every one of you, when I state that my heart bounded within me with joy, it had a new mooring, a new rhythm of happiness, when I saw President Joseph F. Smith enter the tabernacle on the first day of the conference, and then, yesterday, as well, heard his voice again in our midst. With you I have been praying for this, for this denoument, and the Lord has heard the prayers of the Saints. President Smith has had a new lease of life, as it were, and we hear his voice again and his teachings, and I pray that this may continue, that his power of health and life may increase, that he may live to be a blessing and a comfort to Israel for many years to come. 

As my brethren have expressed themselves this morning, I agree fully with their sentiments, that "obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." The power of faith also that was in the heart of the Prophet Joseph Smith, prompting him to kneel in humility in the sight of heaven before his heavenly Father, away from the haunts of men — he wanted to be alone, in communion with his heavenly Father; he wanted to know of his existence; he wanted to know of his willingness to respond to a  prayer of one of his humble children; and the Lord was never found to fail to respond to such prayer, and he gave the response in full measure. And so, year after year, teaching, in answer to prayer, this humble youth, giving him line upon line and precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, and finally the culminating power and faith to that degree that he was permitted to bring to pass the righteousness of God in the organization of his Church and to begin the institution of the latter-day gathering of Israel. Josiah Quincy wrote of his interviews with the prophet, a short year previous to the martyrdom of the prophet. He describes him as physically one of the perfect men of nature, and of high spirituality, and then he makes this wonderful prediction, if it may be a prediction, and I believe it will be verified: "It is not improbable that, in the coming generations, this question may be asked in our public institutions of learning, What great American has made the greater impress upon the hearts of h:,s countrymen? And this answer will not be unlikely, it will not be improbable, 'That man is the 'Mormon' Prophet Joseph Smith." 

The result of his ministry, the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ once more upon the earth, the calling around him of stalwart men, men who were not afraid, to attest and to speak their convictions, men who, though strong of nature and brave of heart and fearless, were yet humble as children, so that the spirit of inquiry could reach them in the humility of their souls. They could see that God had raised a prophet again, and given him his power and his strength; and in their humility they accepted of the testimony of a great prophet. They knew that he had seen God, the eternal Father. They knew that he had heard the voice of Jesus Christ, and seen his person. They knew that by that inspiration which followed him, and which responded to his prayer on every occasion; holy messengers came to him and delivered to him the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the way to organize the Church, the plan by which salvation was to reach humanity the world over. And so the gospel began to be preached by this united band of brethren, who gathered around the Prophet Joseph, in the days of the infancy of the Church, and the result has been wonderful to behold. 

And I was thinking, like Brother Morris, of the wonderful plan God instituted through his Prophet Joseph Smith, how the very events, the very providential occurrences, and the times, have been so propitious that seemingly everything has worked out for the advancement of this great cause of truth. Do I include with that everything, the opposition, which they have met from time to time? Yes, for that was a schooling to them. It was a necessary schooling. The men who were known as among the leaders of the Church from the time of its organization to the present have been men that were willing to accept of the providences of God. I remember reading something about their experiences in Jackson county, Missouri, in Far West, and in the massacre that occurred at Haun's Mill, 1838, and other places, showing what those new beginners felt, if I may use the sentence, members who had had little experience or none, meeting these awful conditions, where they saw their , their sisters, their children, shot down : where men and women and children were banished from their homes in winter season. This came to the new converts of the faith. It had made such an impress upon them, this gospel of Jesus Christ had found such a hold upon their hearts that they never flinched nor turned from their conviction. Although caused to wander, to wade through these scenes of oppression and deprivation, yet they remain true and faithful. So the Church had, in the beginning, stalwart men, as it has today, only they are multiplied by thousands and hundreds of thousands. We have our leader with us, the prophet, seer and revelator, the man who says, Thus saith the Lord to Israel, to all the world, if they believe, for his ministry extends to every son and daughter of God that will hear, and to them he has promised, as you have heard today, he will own them to be his children, if they will accept his word. 

My brethren and sisters, I have as great a wish that the war would speedily terminate as any man can have; and yet I feel, as Brother Morris has expressed himself this morning and other brethren during this conference, that in the due time of the Lord he will bring peace to the earth. And when he brings peace to the earth, and establishes his rule and reign of righteousness, it will be established, and we will see the glory and the happiness of that peaceful reign upon the earth. 

I hope with all my heart that the teachings of these good mothers and the teachings of these good fathers may be so deeply impressed upon the hearts of our soldier boys that they will go into action, go  the trenched fields and receive their training, and march, into the battles with clean hands and pure hearts, as they left you from your firesides. Should they do this, and I believe they will, most of them, and I hope all of them, you will .see the blessing of God upon them wherever they go; and this may be a consolation to every mother's heart. 

God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and hasten the day of peace, and the rule and reign of righteousness upon the earth, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I am sure that I speak your feelings when I say to the LeGrand ward choir, and the excellent musicians who have accompanied them, that we have enjoyed their splendid music this day. We thank them, also those who have sung to us in the selections intervening, for the very excellent renditions with which they have favored us. 

I am also very sure that we have greatly enjoyed the excellent and inspired words that have been spoken by the brethren who have addressed us. 

The choir sang: "With sheathed sword." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Elijah Allen of the presidency of the Maricopa Stake of Zion. 


