Second Overflow
06 10 1918

A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, October 6, Elder Anthony W. Ivins, of the Council of the Twelve, presiding. 

Singing' and music were furnished by the LeGrande ward choir under the direction of H. E. Dewsnup, chorister. 

The choir and congregation sang : "The spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Elder Rodney C. Badger offered the opening prayer. 

The choir sang: "The Pilgrim Chorus." 

The general authorities of the Church were presented by Elder Anthony W. Ivins and unanimously voted upon and sustained as at the closing meeting in the Tabernacle. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

While I am on my feet, my brethren and sisters, I desire to call attention to the fact that, at the coming election, which will soon be held in this state, there will be presented to you for your vote, either for or against, an amendment to the constitution of the State of Utah providing for perpetual prohibition in this state. We already have laws prohibiting the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors in the state, which were enacted by the last legislature. There was also passed by the last legislature a resolution which is to be referred to the people amending the constitution of the State, so that prohibition will become per unless the ,state constitution shall be again amended. 

I do not think it necessary to enter into any argument at all to convince you of the action that ought to be taken by Latter-day Saints on this measure. We are only just now beginning to appreciate the benefits that have come to us through the abolition of this obnoxious business, and we trust and expect, in order that we may be in harmony with this nation, with its executive who calls our attention to the fact that the use of intoxicating liquors ought to be and must be prohibited in the nation, and the fact that all civilized nations in the world which have engaged in the great strug'gle that is now on, so far as I am able to learn, have placed themselves on record in opposition to the use of intoxicants. And so we want you to carefully consider this question, to think of it, and if you want a dry state to vote for that amendment to the constitution. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and .sisters, and his Spirit be with you while we shall continue the service this afternoon, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WM. H. MENDENHALL. 

(President of the Bannock Stake of Zion.) 

To begin with, my brethren and sisters, I desire to commend to you the advice of Brother Ivins in relation to the constitutional amendment, prohibiting the manufacture and sale of liquor in the State of L^tah. We have that amendment on the .statute books of the state of Idaho, and we would like to see the time when every adjoining state Ill  adopt the same constitutional amendment. 

In Idaho we have tried two forms of prohibition. In the county from which I come we have had prohibition for a number of years. The county seat of our county is Pocatello. I remember in our campaign against the traffic in liquor that the whisky men tokl us that if we adopted the prohibition measure, the grass would grow up in the streets of Pocatello, business would be stagnant, and ruin would come to that city. And now after a number of years of prohibition in Idaho, I am proud to say .to you that Pocatello is the most prosperous city in the state, and instead of grass growing in the streets, the bu; Hings that were used for the traffic of liquor have been transformed into buildings used for other purnoses, the streets and the sidewalks have been paved, and the city as a whole shows marked improvement over the conditions that existed in the days when liquor was transnorted and dealt out to the people in lour county. So, from the experience that we have had I des : rc to recommend to the people of the 

tat- of Utah the adoption of the constitutional amendment forever rrohibitm ' the manufacture and cale of Honor in the state of Utah. T am verv grateful, my brethren sisters, for the opportunity that T have of being present at this conference. I rejoice in the testimony of my brethren. I rejoice in the instructxn and the counsel given by the presiding authorities of the Church. And our service does not end. my brethren and sisters, at the dismissal of this meeting. But we who have been in attendance at the 

<=e^sions of this conference have a  to perform after we have gone home from this conference of the Church. It becomes our duty to adopt in our homes the teachings, and instructions given by our brethren. It becomes our duty to disseminate the principles of the gospel in our wards, as they have been made clear to us, among our friends and our brethren and sisters wherever we may go, that all may have the privilege of enjoying the blessings of this great conference of the Church. All men and women in the Church have a right to know what the Lord expects of them. The Lord has said, "If any lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not." And the Lord Jesus said upon one occasion : "Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you." The privilege of knowing our standing before the Lord, and what the Lord expects* of us as members of the Church, is within our right, and we have a right to go before the Lord and ask him, and receive from him inspiration and revelation pertaining to our own selves and the work that we should perform as members of the Church. 

Every blessing is predicated upon law, and in order for us to enjoy the blessings of the gospel, we must obey the commandments of the Lord. If we desire a blessing at the hands of the Lord, it becomes our duty to ask for it. In that connection, let me say that the Latterdav Saints should observe their secret pravers. Latter-dav Samts should call their families together in the time and season thereof, and nour out their souls unto the Lor 1 that thev mav ^e in communion with the Holy Spirit and be directGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in their labors to do the things that the Lord requires at their hands. 

It is not the rule that the Lord shall come to us and bless us with blessing's that we need, without our asking. In reviewing the history of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the beginning, when his mind was wrought up as to which of all the religious organizations of the world was right, and while he was pondering in his own mind, the Lord did not come to him and say that none of them are right. He went out into the woods alone, and poured out his soul to God to find out which of all the religious organizations was right. Then the answer came to him in the visitation of the Father and the Son. The Father, pointing to the Son, said to the Prophet boy, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." Then the voice of the Lord to Joseph was that none of the organizations was acceptable to him, and that he should wait, apart from any organization, and in the due time of the Lord he should be the instrument in bringing about God's purposes. Later on, when the Prophet desired to learn his standing before the Lord, pondering upon this question while lying upon his bed, an angel of the Lord appeared to him. Then the angel Moroni reconciled the Prophet boy by saying that his labors, his acts, were acceptable before the Lord, and that he was in good standing, hrvine repented of his shortcomings, before our Father in heaven. Then he rehearsed the c torv of rh Q whereabouts of the Book o f Mormon, or the plates f^orr which : t was afterward translated by him. and what the mission of the prophet should be in relation . Later on, during the translation of the Book of Mormon, the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery encountered some problem in reference to baptism for the remission of sins, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, and desired to know what was meant in relation to the subject of baptism by immersion. I presume they consulted one with another, and talked about this matter of baptism, but the Lord did not come and say, This is the proper mode of baptism; but we find that Joseph and Oliver went out and prayed to the Lord relative to the subject, and while in the attitude of supplicating the Lord upon this question, John the Baptist appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowderv, and laid his hands upon their heads and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood, and commanded them to ordain each other, and also commanded that they should baptize each other. 

So also, when any principle or ordinance of the gospel, or any laws of the Church, have been given in this dispensation, the brethren who stand at the head and have the right to receive these revelations have Qove to the Lord in secret prayer, and the Lord has come to them and revealed his mind and will upon these matters. 

When the question of tithing came up in the early historv of the Church, the Proohet Joseph went to the Lord, and said: "O Lord, show unto ns, thv servants, what tbrn rentiirest of this people as a t; thinp\" Then the word of the Lord came to the Prophet Joseoh. that all of the surplus property of the people should be turned in as a tithmsr of the peoole. and after that one-tenth of all their interests should be given to the Church for 113  upbuilding of Zion upon the earth. 

So that is the example set for us. While we have not the right to receive revelations and visions for the Church, as has been explained in the discourses of our brethren, yet every member of the Church, whether he be young or old has a right to know his or her standing before the Lord, has a right to enjoy the testimony and the divine influence of the Spirit of the Lord, has a right to receive revelation pertaining to himself and his .duty and ministry in the Church : and it only comes to us by our performance of rluty, by our drawing near unto the Lord, as in the history of the organization and the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony that I have of the gospel of the' Lord Jesus. I know it is true. T know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, and that the brethren who have succeeded him. including President Joseph F. Smith, were prophets, seers and revelators, and were the right men in the right place. When T heard our beloved president say in his opening address that for seventy years he had devoted his time to the ministry, to the work of the Lord, to the spread of the gospel in many lands and climes, and in presiding among the brethren and sisters here at home. T honored and respected him. When I thousrht of the blessings we have enjoyed here at home, and of the wisdom and understanding exhibited in his life, T am certainlv led to say that the Lord certainly blesses his servants. If we will devote our time and our talents to the ministry and the work of the Lord, the snirit of the go.spel. and the establishment of truth  righteousness in the earth, the Lord will continue to bless us. 

I bear witness to you that the Lord has again spoken from heaven, has revealed his gospel, organized his Church, and placed therein every blessing and gift that is necessary for tie to develop and grow and become like our Father in heaven, even in the gospel within the Church. It is an individual work. Every man must save himself. True, we can do a great deal by helping one another, but the salvation, the exaltation, the blessings that we obtain hereafter depend upon ourselves, upon our labors and faithfulness in keeping the commandments of the Lord. 

May the Latter-day Saints everywhere be faithful and devoted to the cause of Christ. We have been told during this conference, and it has been pointed out to us. of the great responsibility of the Church in relation to this great world war, and I trust the Latter-day Samts everywhere will prepare themselves to do theu full duty in whatever calling may come to them. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH REECE 

(President of the Neho Stake of Zion.) 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will bless me noon this occasion, that I may be able to say something that will instruct vou who have come here to learn the ways of the Lord. 

I have one thought in my mind at present, which has come to me wh'le our brother has been speaking i" relation to 'the organization of this Church. While he was enumerating to us the different personGENERAL CONEERENCE  whom the Lord has sent from the kingdom above to restore unto his people this great organization, this great Church and Kingdom of God in which we are members. When we refer to the fact, that our kind eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of mankind, condescended to come to earth in answer to prayer, to deliver unto that boy the message which was essential at that time in order to prepare the way and to lav the foundation of this great work, — when we speak of the Lord Jesus Christ whom the Father introduced on that occasion to the boy Prophet a.; his Son, "My Only Begotten Son, in whom I am well pleased," — the question comes to me, who was that Son ? It occurs to me that this same Jesus Christ, the Redeemer and the Son of God, to whom the Father introduced the boy, was the same Jesus Christ who lived upon the earth during the meridian of time; that he was the same Christ that was born of the Virgin Mary. He was born of a mortal mother and an immortal father. He lived upon the earth for a short period of time, for about 33 years. He entered noon his ministry; he organized his Church with apostles, and evangelists and so on. In time he gave up bis life for the sins of the world, th?"c all the children of our Father *n h°aven who live today, and who lived at the time of the Savior, or " T ho had lived noon;h° earth before his dav, or shall live after we have passed awav, might be saved throusrh obedience to his laws. He pave un his life as a ransom for us all. My brethren and sisters, the Savior who talked with Joseph Smith the bov prophet was the identical Savior, the identical Testis, who was born of the Virgin Mary, who  crucified upon Calvary's hill, whose body was laid in the tomb, and arose from the tomb on the third day and appeared to his friends and brethren. That identical Jesus Christ who was baptized in Jordan, appeared to Joseph Smith and gave him the necessary instruction for the founding of his Church in our day. 

Our brother referred to the fact that John the Baptist had appeared and laid his hands upon Joseph and Oliver, conferring upon them the priesthood of Aaron, and had given them instruction as to how to go forth and labor in this great ministry, and how to organize the Church of Christ. Who was this John? After that messenger had delivered his message to the prophet and had conferred his priesthood, he said, "My name is John, the same who is called John the Ba.ntist in the scriptures." He was the same man who baptized our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, in the river Jordan, and none other. 

Who were Peter, James and John who laid their hands upon those two men, and conferred upon them the holv Melchizedek priesthood? Tt was the same Peter, and the same Talipes, and the same John who were Wt as the Presidency of the Church bv the Savior of the world at the time he ascended to heaven. Thev held the same authority, and conferred that authority noon Joseph in the dav in which we live. 

T hen we know of other visitations. We know that Moses apnea red. We know that Eli i ah appeared. We know that Moroni annearerl. and who was Moroni? He was the identical person who was entrusted with the care and disposition of the nlates, the records from which the Book of Mormon were 115 , and the identical person who placed those plates in a secure place, where they were when he revealed them to the Prophet Joseph Smith. And it was his .duty, his prerogative and privilege to come back to this earth in his resurrected form, with that same body and that same person and stature, at the proper time, and to the proper one. These are the facts that have been passing through my mind while I was listening to the discourse of my brother. We know that these things are true. 

We know of a surety that there will be a resurrection of the body of every child of God. These things are not a mystery to us. We have been blessed with the revelation of Go f1 . We have been blessed and favored witti a visitation of these great men who have come in their resurrected form, and restored thes° things. And these things are true, my brethren and sisters. There is absolutelv no delusion about them. True? Why, of course they are true. How could they be otherwise? How could all these things have transoired, how could this Church have been organized, and how could it have attained to its present standing and accomplishment? How could all the work that is beine accomph'shed by this Church, for instance the establishment of the missions that have been prooken of. to carrv this truth to the nations of the earth? How could all this be carried on with zeal and that same attainment, if it were not true ? 

Yon and T would have faltered Irnp- since if these rhinp-s had been a delusion. But these things ar° true and fa : tM 11 b and we have this I'"nw1e/Vp. God has descended to reveal it unto us, to all his children. 

We have this advantage over the children of the world. We have been willing to accept of these precious things, and the Lord has been merciful unto us. Through the direction of his Spirit he has permitted and enabled our leaders, the men whom he has chosen, to establish this work. Where would we have been if it had not been for this Church? God has blessed this work and prospered it till it has grown to the proportions which it has, and all these things have been brought about, mv brethren and sisters, through the obedience of his people to the things he has revealed for their abidance. 

All these things, these blessings, which we have received, have been ordamed of God. and brought about hv his power. We mav go out into <he world to preach the gospel and t^ifv to the nations of these truths which we have accepted, but we camot force them to accept of them. T t is not our privilege so to do. The Lord does not expect it. but h^ has commanded that we carrv this message to the world . that we use our means and our efforts and our talents as he shall bless us from time to time, in order that all of his children who live upon this earth may have the privilege of enjovin^ the same blessing and the same testimony and the same knowledge of things that we as a people enjo v. 

We cannot afford to falter, my friends. The work of the ministry is great, and we are called and appointed each one in our place to perform a certain labor. Mv brethren and sisters, let us attend to that. Let us see to it that we are found in our places, that we are perform)n<y (-fre W ork that the Lord has designed, in the way that he has reGENERAL CONFERENCE.  for his servants and his handmaids to follow. Let us see to it that we keep the commandments. Let us see to it that we attend to our prayers. Let us see to it that we attend to our work that he has called us to perform. Let us see to it that we attend to our worship, that we partake of the sacrament upon the Sabbath day, and that we do all things that will have a tendency to bring us together and to make us more faithful and more appreciative of the things that the Lord has done and is doing for us as a people. 

May God bless us and help us appreciate his blessings, and may they be increased unto us. May we grow in wisdom, in knowledge, and understanding. May we continue to be so faithful and true that the Lord will be pleased to own and bless us, as his people. May we be able to enjoy every blessing, privilege and gift which he has in store for his' faithful Saints. Nothing short of this, my brethren and sisters, will be satisfactory to you and me. May God help us in our weaknesses, that we may be able to overcome with his strength, and make us equal to every occasion, that we may not falter, but that we may ever look forward to the promises which he has made. May we have the testimony burning" in our hearts to know that Jesus is the Christ, to know that Joseph Smith is a prophet; to know all that he received, and all the visitations that came to him, and all that has been revealed and restored to the earth, and know that these things are true, that we may not falter in the least, but continue to be faithful in good works, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. HENRIE 

(President of the Panguitch Stake of Zion.) 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may direct me in the remarks I make. It has been indeed a great blessing to me to have the privilege of attending this general conference of the Church, and listen to the many testimonies that have been borne, and further to listen to our brethren explain and enlarge upon the principles of the gospel that have been given to us in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. We have had enumerated to us in this meeting events that took place in connection with the restoration of the gospel. These things are marvelous and great. Our brethren and sisters who lived in the early history of the Church, had to wonder as to what would be the result of this great move, because it was new to them'. We live as those who direct the affairs of business after it has become established, by those who have gone through with the experimental part and have learned to know that it was successful and good. The stocks of corporations become valuable after the corporation has made a success, and paid great dividends; and I look upon this work' in, that same connection. It has become greater to us because of our seeing the wonderful success that has crowned these events that have been enumerated here in our meeting. If we had not received any advantages because of the visitation of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ to the world, we might not be as strong in our testimony of its truths. But if as members of the Church we can individually see where we have been greatly 117  because of that event, then our standing in the Church ought to be esteemed much higher by us much more so than if we had lived in the early part of the history of the Church, when it was experimental to a large degree with the people who lived at that time. I have thought often of my case, and wondered what I would have been, had it not been that the glorious visitation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and had not the gospel been restored. In my case, as with many of you, my parents were found in different parts of the world.. No other means under heaven, probably, could have found them, and brought them together, and given me birth under such faorable circumstances and conditions as I enjoy. My mother, a little girl in a great city in the old country, was found and brought out into the valleys of these great Rocky mountains where there was great room for development. My father was found in an entirely different part of the world, and brought here by his parents, and united in the house of God, under the New and Everlasting Covenant, for time and eternity, to her, who gave me birth, with which I am pleased and well satisfied. This applies to a very large number of Saints who have been gathered to these valleys and who have had similar history and origin. These things have been brought about by the restoration of the gospel and the establishment of this great work. 

Another thing that I want to speak of briefly : in the day that the gospel was restored, our parents and grand parents were groping in darkness to a great extent as to what was the best means of living, whether,^ for instance, it was proper to par of stimulants to give them the strength needed for the accomplishment of their work. Light came through the restored gospel, showing that men are better without stimulants, without the use of narcotics, and things that have a tendency to injure and weaken our systems. This truth did not come to us from a scientific source, but through the restored gospel, and by revelation from God. To me there has been nothing that has blessed me more than the words o; f wisdom that were given through the Prophet of God, who received the visit from the Father and the Son. You apply that to yourselves, as I can apply it to myself. We may contemplate now a great people who have been blessed in their bodies and in their minds, and above all in their spirits, because of the knowledge revealed from heaven in connection with these other great events that took place. 

It has been made known to us that our citizenship in this, the United States, is in a government nearest to God, our Father and the government of heaven. Is that any advantage to us to have that faith in these trying circumstances confronting the world at the present time? To me the knowledge and testimony that every effort I put forth to assist our government and its allies in establishing freedom and equal rights among the children of men in the world, are stimulants to me to perform my duty as a citizen of the government of the United States. Is it any advantage to you to have that same knowledge, or that same testimony? I am sure that you all enjoy it as I enjoy it. Is it any advantage for us to know that we went down into the waters of baptism under the hands of our GENERAL CONFERENCE.  who received of the priesthood that was given unto the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, by divine administration of heavenly beings? It is certainly a blessing to me to believe that I was. baptized by one who held the authority of God, and that my sins were remitted because of that baptism, and that through the imposition of hands of those who are in authority I am entitled to the Holy Ghost to direct my every act in life. This is not, as I view it, any longer guess-work, or a matter of wonder as to what the result will be, because I see, as I associate among the children of the Latter-day Saints, men and women in every part of this state and in other states, and in every part of the world, people who have been enlig'htened through the imposition of hands and the reception of the Holy Ghost. 

Is there any one who has a desire to know the things of the Lord that could not accept of these great principles, and see that they were a blessing to them because of having received them ? Is it any advantage to me as a husband and a father to know that I was married in the house of God, and that my _wif§ and children were sealed unto me for time and eternity, and that we shall know each other in our family circle throughout eternity? Does that bless us, my brethren and sisters, or are we still in wonderment as to whether that is a good doctrine or not ? It seems to me that no man or woman who is honest could deny the very power and effect of such a doctrine as that being taught to the children of men. 

Now, as I said, we are not guessing any longer as to what will be the result, but we live in this day when the God of heaven has permitted us  see the result and to know what the effect has been among the children of men. We see here an organization of people who stand wholly and unitedly behind the great cause of the great portion of the world that are fighting for the liberty and the uplift of mankind. I do not know of anything that gave me greater pleasure than to see the unanimous vote of that great gathering of people this morning sustaining and supporting the president of the Church to appropriate all of the means that we could .spare from the treasury of the Church to support this great cause. 

There are two things that I have a greater appreciation for this day than any others. One is a knowledge of the truthfulness of the gospel, that we are in the light, that we know to that extent that we serve God, and develop within us the Spirit of God and magnify the priesthood that he has given to us, that our lives are acceptable to him, and that we can ,see that the result is good, that we are made stronger and more perfect and Godlike than without the organization of the Church and the principles of the gospel as they have been given unto us. I believe in this day when our time is required for so many different purpose that we ought to be sure that we do not neglect anything that pertains to the gospel of Christ and our eternal salvation, that we may thus have power within ourselves not only to serve our country in this time of need, but to serve God,, and this is one of the great things that I am most pleased for. Another thing is citizenship in this great Government of the Linked States, and the faith that has come to me that its Constitution is an inspired instrument, and that 119  Declaration of Independence was never made by man alone. Man would not have had courage and grit to have undertaken such a thing, but it was inspired of God, and the Constitution of the United States is superior to the documents or charters or constitutions of any other government given unto men. This great organization of government is big enough to take in all peoples as rapidly as they are able to come in and enjoy the blessings of it. 

I feel that as Saints of God we should realize the great responsibilities that rest upon us in the service of God, and live up to the requirements of the gospel in full, and develop within ourselves the Spirit of God, and a determination to be worthy, true citizens of this great Government, and assist it to the fullest possible extent. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the truth of the true gospel, and in the testimony of the truthfulness of the mission of the men who preside in the Church in this day, as well as those who have preceded them, in the past history of the Church. I am glad to feel within my soul, that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet and that he is recog'nized of the Lord as the head of the only Church recognized of God in the world; and that his brethren who are numbered with him as counselors, apostles, seventies, stake presidents, and bishops, are in line and in harmony with him. I am glad to know for myself that the gospel is true, and that there is power in it to save men from destruction and eternal torment and sufferings. There is no other people in a condition to know and enjoy the great blessings that the Latter-day Saints possess. Let us rejoice in that truth. Let us develop a further knowledge and  a greater power than we have already gained, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A young ladies' trio sang: "I bring hearts-ease." 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of the California Mission.) 

How blessed it is, my brethren and sisters, to have faith in God and in his work; to know in one's own soul that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer, the Savior of mankind, the Mediator of the New Covenant, and one who pleads with God for the salvation of his brethren and sisters. This is the thought that came to me whilst our brethren were bearing witness of the testimony of truth that is welling 'up in their souls. They are not tossed about by every wind of doctrine, not driven with the wind, not moved out of their place. Yet, whilst they were speaking I wondered if here you had met some such conditions or whether you have had any such cases as we have met in the mission pver which I preside, of men who would "run without being sent," men who did not await until they were called upon before they think they can be teachers of men, and who rise up with their hands to steady the ark of the covenant. 

I have wondered if in this land you have had any who are "mighty and strong who are come to divide by lot the inheritances of the Saints." We have had five such in the California mission since I have had the honor to preside in it. They have come to naught, and dwindled away. One in particular that I have in mind, who gathered GENMRAt CONFERENCE.  him quite a little body of honest people, God-fearing people, humble and contrite and repentant when they were shown the error of their ways, for T had the privilege of baptizing a goodly number of them. This man went on for years, pretending that sometime he would come as a mighty and strong one and set the Church in order. He said that the people would be tried in all things; so frequently he would be drunken with wine, that they might be tried in that way, and he reveled in the use of some drugs and tobacco, so that they might be tried in their faith because of this weakness. He took wives from .some men and gave them to others, and then took them himself, and then turned them back to the original husband, that they might bt tried in that way. And still they endured it because of their faith in .some of his prophecies and the manner in which he interpreted the scriptures. When stricken and about to die, he was taken to a hospital, and several days before his death he told them not to bury him, but to watch over his body for three days and he would come and take it up again and establish them in their inheritance in Zion before God forever. They watched his body for six days, and then they buried him. 

I have wondered if there has been any one come to you who wanted to establish the "Order of Enoch," who want you to "join the United Order." We have had such one, and when certain of che Saints, his associates, moved by his testimony and his oratory, joined with him to have a "community of interests," in all of their real estate and effects, and they came with the deeds to their lands to be conveyed  the body that was being organized by him, and they asked him for his deed, why, he had deeded his property to his wife and all he had was but the watch that he wore. This made them a little bit jealous' and fearful of the scheme, and so it all came to nothing. So I have noted that some men here at home, who have met with financial failures, are quite willing to join the "Order of Enoch," and have the people pay their debts and take care of their families. I don't know whether you have met any such or not. 

I want to read to you, thus extending the remarks of my brethren this afternoon, and what was said in the general conference yesterday, from the Doctrine and Covenants, 42 : 1 1 : 

"And again, I say unto you, that it shall not be given to any one to go forth to preach my gospel, or to build up my Church, except he be ordained hv some one who has authority, <md it is known to the Church that he has authority, and has been regularly ordained by the heads of the Church." 

Has any one been telling you that God can raise up a prophet at any time? That it does not require the authority of man to make prophets and apostles and leaders of the people? Have they quoted to you that Paul has said, that he "was an apostle not by man nor the hands of man," as a proof of this doctrine? Or, that God sent his angel to ordain John when he was eight days old, or that he ordained Esaias by his own hands? If they have, they have told you the same things I have heard in the mission field. T am mindful of the fact that the least deacon in the Church could say with as much appropriateness as 121 

Paul that he has the priesthood, "not by man nor by the hands of man," for man did not bring the priesthood, did not ordain it and cannot bestow it within and of himself. The priesthood of the Son of God is without beginning of days or end of years; without father, and without mother, and without descent;" but it is always, and has ever been given under the hands of some one 'whom God hath appointed. Paul was chosen and set apart to the ministry with Barnabas, by the Apostles, in the Church, and he was sent by the Lord, Jesus Christ, to Ananias, in Damascus, that through Ananias he might receive the Holy Ghost; and Cornelius, devout as he was, and visited by angels, did not receive the Holy Ghost until the proper authoritv had been sent to him to bestow it. And so we may rest assured that John received his priesthood either from his father, who held it and who ministered at the altar in the temple, or from some one who was authorised to give the 'priesthood. Men may be appointed and ordained to fill certain positions; but all the wav through you find that the priesthood came through the proper order in the Church. Esaias received his priesthood at the hand of Melchizedek, the great high priest. So when, men claim these things, they are either ambitious to claim leadership themselves or have lo.st sight of the word of the Lord in reference to priesthood and presidency. 

I am told that this 85th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, written into a letter of the Prophet Joseph Smith as he wrote to W. W. Phelps, is yet to be fulfilled, and men are teaching it and writing about it today as they have been  the very time it came forth in the Church, and it was given November, 1832. T want to read just a little. And if you will read the 48th and 51st sections, you will find how the Lord determined that his Saints should receive their inheritances in Zion. They were consecrating their goods when they were converted in the world and sending their funds up to Jackson county, to the Bishop of the Church, who was to buy lands for them, and give it to them "legally" by "deed" under the law, that they might receive it in severalty for themselves and their heirs after them. And when people had sent their moneys and then emigrated to Zion they found the Bishop was a little slow in doing his appointed work. The anger of the Prophet was aroused, and he wrote to Brother Phelps how badly tried he was over this matter, that people who had sold all they possessed, and had left their friends in the East and had sent their moneys ahead of them to Zion, and then came there, and found there was no place there, no inheritance prepared. It looked like a fraud upon the face of it. So he wrote to Brother Phelps how his soul was wrought up over this matter. Yet some men can read into this revelation, this letter of the Prophet, an event yet to be. I want to read to you just one paragraph when this one mighty and strong was to come, for we read here that record of all things that transpire in Zion should be kept, and that all who consecrated property should receive an inheritance legally from the Bishop. And if the Bishop would not do this, then God would send a mighty and strong one who would see that it was done, and that man*who zvas GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and who was called of God, "that putteth forth his hand to .steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning - ." A man in 1832 must today be 112 or 115 years of age, to say the least. Do any of you know of a man who was appointed at that time to do a work who is still living? And yet men, deluded by the cunning influences of the adversary, would today see a present fulfilment of these words as I have read them to you. 

How delightful it is, how thankful men should be, that God graciously has given them faith, that they do not question his authority, that they are willing to follow the lead of the brethren who have been called to preside in the Church; and we may rest assured that there will be none come out of this order, for as I read to you, they who preach the gospel or organize any of its branches or set in operation any of its functions must be regularly ordained by the heads of the Church, and be known by the Church. So even if John should come, as some friends would try to make me believe, how would he be known? "O, his prophetic power and his personality would  declare him," they say. Aye, but that does not answer. The Lord has said, that he that is called must be regularly ordained by the heads of the Church, and knozvn by the people of the Church. While I agree John has a great work to perform yet, as we read in the scriptures, if he comes to us it will be as he came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and doubtless with other witnesses. Their work will have to be done by and through the proper order and priesthood, and through the proper  correct channels of the Church, and the people will know and understand it, and it will not be a side issue, where Southerner or Northerner or West-man or "East-man" can say 'T am he." It is true that when the Prophet Joseph had his vision there was none others present of mortal men; but the Father and the Son, two witnesses, were there, and when we stand before the pleasing bar of Almighty God, they will bear witness to the unbeliever, that they revealed themselves to the boy Prophet in this day, and under their divine guidance and instruction he set up the Church of Christ for the last time. And when John came with his, the Aaronic Priesthood, there were Joseph and Oliver present. When Peter and James in their resurrected bodies and John still in the flesh came, there was Joseph and Oliver again. When the might v angels, Adam or Michael, and Elias and Elijah came, in the Kirtland temple, there were the brethren to bear witness of it, and "every word of the gospel shall be established in the mouth of two or more witnesses." So when one man rises vp> to iudge Israel, and to sav how we shall walk, and to divide the word of God to us, even though he claims an angel has visited him, we should look with suspicion upon that individual. In the last days, it is true that God would pour out his Spirit upon all flesh, and "their old men shall dream dreams, and their voting men shall see visions, and their sons and their daughters shall prophesv," that is not limited alone to the Church of Christ. It is to all flesh who accept the Christ as their Pedeemer. There are wise men in the world and there are daughters who prophesy; but I am 1?3  there are some in the Church who dream dreams only. I have told the sisters in our mission, for several of them have dreamed dreams, that there has been no provision for them to dream dreams for the Church. "Their old men shall dream dreams, their young men shall see visions, and their sons and daughters shall prophesy," but there is no chance for the sisters to dream dreams. So when they come to me with their wondrous dreams about what I .should do in order to establish the Church to save the Saints from destruction, I have met it with more or less suspicion despite their faithfulness and their sweetness and the consideration that should be given them because of their regard for me per.sonallv and for my people. But I am afraid of dreamers of that kind. 

I have never asked, since I arrived at the. age of judgment, and of ripe manhood, nor since I have been called to preside in the order of God and labor in his ministry, — I have not asked for visions nor tongues, nor the gift of prophecy, in the sense of being a prophet to Tsrael. T have asked for &ood common sense. I have asked the Lord to keen me humble and stable : and T thank him with all my heart that I believe his word and sustain, with all mv heart, his priesthood. If I cannot both with my head and mv heart love him, let me love him with my heart alone and believe in his WOfd with all mv soul. I pray that it shall not be left to mv head alone, which mav err, and which is cold, and calculating. You wives want to be loved by your husbands with their whole hearts. No matter how much thev admire you, and speak of yotir graces with their lips, and tell of your virtues, you want their . And ,so God has said, "O son, give me thy heart." We are told by the poet Holland, who was at once a poet and philosopher, that 

"Ofttimes the heart is wiser than the intellect, 

And leads with swifter hands and surer feet to wise conclusions." 

These men who spend all their time trying to figure out in the scriptures what awaits us, and to steady the ark by their interpretation of the word of God, ofttimes are giving their heads to the adversary and withholding . their hearts from God, and stand on dangerous ground. 

I ask for the faith of the ancient seer who, stripped of his riches, his children taken from him, his friends finding fault with him; sitting in the ashes of a once happy home, afflicted with a nauseating, humiliating, disease, scraping the exudations of that disease from his bodv with a potsherd; his wife sickened with his appearance and what he had passed through, saying to him, "Whv don't you curse God and die ?" said, exulting in his heart because he knew his God and his salvation, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him," for, "Though after my skin worms destroy this body of mine, yet in mv flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for mvself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed within me." 

I want the faith of Paul who, persecuted, maligned, misunderstood, imprisoned, poverty stricken, earning his own livelihood as he oreached by the wavside, appealing from the courts of Rome to the Caesar himself, the head of the Roman government, in order, I take it, that he might bear witness of the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Christ to the very head of the civilized world at that time, (for he need not have gone had he not desired it), I want the faith that he had after he had borne his testimony, after he had bidden farewell to the Saints, as he wrote to his loved son by adoption, Timothy, from his prison cell, perhaps by the rays of the sinking sun, that last that set for him in mortal life, these words: "I have fought the goo r l fight, I have kept the faith, I have finished my course, and henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which God, the just iudge, giveth to all those who love him and his appearing." 

I want the faith of President Smith who, after seventy long years of service, whilst broken in body with the responsibilities and labor of guiding this people, said : "Although I am weak in body, I was never stronger in my spirit and in my intellect and my determination to serve God and keep his commandments than today." You heard him Friday morning bear witness of that in our conference. 

I want the faith of the Prophet To.seph Smith, who thought perhaps if he withdrew from his people for a little season, he might relieve them from persecution; but, his wife, like Job's wife, sent for him complamingly with others, asking him to return to the body of the Church. He said : "If mv life, is no longer of worth to mv friends, it is useless to me," and added these words, as he set his face toward Carthage, knowing full well that his blood would be shed to bear witness of the Christ and the message he gave in this day: "I am p-oing like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning; T have a conscience void of  towards God and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood.' " Dare any sycophant, any heretic, any fallen teacher, any coward, use the words that the Prophet Joseph did ? Dare any man within and of himself, unless his conscience was void of offense toward God and man, declare such a thing when he knew that death awaited him on the morrow? O, the peace of Christ which passeth the understanding of man; when it takes possession of the souls of his children, they are unmoved as a rock. When dire things come to them, they are unafraid, and like Joseph, "calm as a summer's morning," content to await their redemption, for they are not afraid of the bar of God, when they shall stand in the flesh for the final judgment. 

I want the faith of Hyrum, so sweet in his soul, so full of loyalty and fealty to his brother, the Prophet, reading the words of Moroni, who had seen ten thousand led by him, murdered about the Hill Cumorah; who before closing the record of the Nephites uses these words, and Hyrum read them before that last trip to Carthage, and turned the leaf down, upon them as his testimony : 

"And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would eive unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, if they have not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful, wherefore thy garments shall be clean. And because thou hast seen my weakness, thou shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father. And now I, Moroni, bid fare125  unto the Gentiles, yea, and also unto my brether whom I love, until we shall meet before the judgment seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my garments are not spotted with your blood." 

May each one of us have that faith dwelling in our hearts that we may not be afraid when we stand before the pleasing bar of Christ, is my prayer, in the name of th^ Lord Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang: "God is our refuge." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Milando Pratt. 


