Morning
06 10 1918

The great congregation, filling every available space, was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, let us anew our journey pursue." 

Elder Arthur Winter, offered prayer. 

The hymn, "Sweet is the peace the gospel brings," was sung by the choir. 

President Joseph F. Smith said: "I understand there are 42 members of our choir, many of them among the best of our singers, who are now in the military service of the United States." He also announced the overflow meetings in the /Assembly Hall; and at the Bureau of Information, the weather permitting. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN. 

Why should we come together, so often in worship? — Purpose of meeting is to learn to do better — The lesson of the Pharisee — The fundamental make-up of Government and Church is their sons and daughters — To make good men and women of them is an end for which we struggle — An example of missionary work — Importance of the greatest Church and Nation — A letter from which may be learned how more successfully to teach — Institutions in which the Latter-day Saints have aid in teaching their children. 

I certainly desire that while I stand before th; s great congregation, the words I speak mav be prompted by that same excellent  which has directed the other utterances of this conference. 

It seems odd that we should meet together so frequently and should have such tremendous interest in this one subject — the gospel of Jesus Christ. The reason we are not weary from this repetition is that the gospel of Jesus Christ is classic. A classic grows better and dearer and sweeter with repetition, "it is always new and incapable of growing old." 

As I see these presidents of stakes their counselors, their bishops of wards and counselors, high councilors and other leading Church men sitting here day after day listening to the teachings of the servants of our Father in heaven, and realize what important elements they are in a business and financial way, in their respective communities, I appreciate that they regard, as do we all, these meetings, these conferences, this worship of ours, as of first importance. What are we struggling for ? We are aiming to reach perfection. We sang it yesterday in that glorious hymn : "Thus on to eternal perfection, the honest and faithful will go." 

It was intimated yesterday by one speaker that perhaps all of us are not living in strict conformity with some of the teachings and practices of the Church. It was said, with regret, that some of the members of the Church may not be prayerful. Perhaps some do not pray in secret, and there may be some who do not pray with their families. Why is it necessary that we should pray in secret and that frequently? Why is it necessary that we should pray With our families? Why is it necessary that we should come together so often to worship?, The reason is because we are clothe;! upon with mortality. We all have tremendous imperfections. We all have shortcoming's and weaknesses to overcome. We pray in secret, we pray with our families, we go to our places of worship, we come together as we have met this morning to worship in order that we may become perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. When we go from this building, this conference will not have been a complete success if as a result of it we say only in our hearts, "How well the brethren have spoken." We should leave this service with bowed hea r1 s thinking. These meetings should make us all reflect and resolve anew to be better. This lesson is beautifully and forcefully taught by the following familiar but classic lines from the scriptures : 

Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. 

The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. 

1 fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. 

And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. 

And the great Master said : I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 

Here in humility we are studying, teaching, learning, helping one another to be perfect in accordance  the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We believe in being honest. Are we honest? We believe in being true. Are we true? We believe in being chaste. Are we chaste? We believe in being benevolent. Do we love the unfortunate, do we feed the hungry? do we clothe the naked ? do we visit the widows and the fatherless? We believe in .doing good to all men. All these teachings are a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Until we are able to love perfectly in accordance with it, we have reason to meet, we have reason to pray, we have reason to worship, we have reason to partake of the sacrament. All these things we aim to do that we may finally be perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ — it includes every earthly and heavenly thing that is good for man. Every rule, every teaching, every philosophy, every principle, that lifts man up, that makes him strong, that makes him better, that makes him Godlike — all these things belong to the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we may more nearly live in accordance with it is the purpose of our meeting. If here or elsewhere, in any philosophy, or in any science, there "is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy," whether it be in our own country, or any other country, whether it be in our own or any other church, we. Fatter-day Saints, seek for these things. 

In our great democratic government, the fundamental element in its makeup is its daughters and its sons. In this Church of ours, in our own families, the fundamental element is also our daughters and our sons. To make these men and women truly good, truly wise,   Godlike, is one of the ends.for which we struggle. The spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ tends to lift men up — to make them stronger and better. Nor are our labors confined to our own families. We do missionary work with our friends and with our associates and with our neighbors. 

Only a little while ago I sat during an evening with a man who is comparatively old. He said that one of the traveling brethren of the Church came to him when he was a young man, and he said, "I will never forget the lessons he taught me." He came into my place in the early evening; and explained that he was to leave at five o'clock the next morning, but he said, 'I want to talk to you. I want to teach you. I want you to know the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to be a man. I want you to be clean. I want you to read the scriptures, I want you to be familiar with the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth. 

"He not only pleaded with me for one hour or two hours, but all night long. At five o'clock in the morning his team came and he drove away without having- taken off his coat or his shoes. He would not be satisfied until I told him that I would give the matter serious consideration, and if upon investigation I found these things as he represented. I would be willing to lay my work aside and go into the mission field and teach others. He came to me thus earnestly when I was a boy, and he made me a man. He taught me to look towards the rising sun. He gave me art ambition. He taught me to be clean. 

"I have introduced you to my sons and to my daughters, to my sons-in-law and my daughters-in and you have ,seen my grandchildren. For these, for the example I have set them, I am indebted to the man who labored so earnestly all night long to induce me to take a mission. If some degree of success is coming to my children and you can see that it is, I feel sure, that it is to a degree because of, and not in spite of, the life of their father." This is an example of the intense missionary spirit — the desire to do good to others — that fills the hearts of faithful Latter-day Saints. 

The important element in the Church, in the Nation, in the family, as I have said already, is our daughters and our sons. We want them to be true, we want them to be good, we want them to be virtuous. We are meeting here, we are uniting our hearts, we are uniting our faith in prayer to our Father in heaven that he will give us the power to bring them up as they ought to be brought up. O, that we had the faith, O, that we had the power, O, that we had lived the life that would bring such faith that we could know that those who have gone abroad, would come back to us clean, noble, men of God, protected bv his Soirit from every harm! Who is there here that has alwavs prayed, who is there here that has alwavs had the faith, who is there here that alwavs partakes of the sacrament worthilv, and therefore has the right to expect such a blessing? Who is there here that deserves to have the life of his son nreserved bv the power of God? Being mortal we each and all have reason to .smite upon our breasts and exclaim, "Father, have mercv on me s sinner." We are struggling for the good, for the salvation, for the education, for the progress, of our daughters and our sons. In this great struggle we need our heavenly Father's help. 

I have in my hands a recent number of The Outlook. In it is a letter written by a father to his soldier son. From this letter, some of us may perhaps learn how, more successfully to teach our own sons. — I quote with a few slight changes the following portions of the letter. 

My son, hold fast always to the grand old Anglo-Saxon ideals of personal chastity. So live, that when you return, you will not have to turn away from your mother's or your sister's kiss. 

The part religion will play in all these things of which I. have written, I shall not amplify, but only remark, it needs all the assistance of a supernatural faith, a faith in God, to keep most of us, all the time, up to the level of our possibilities." 

We pray, we fast, we partake of the sacrament, — we live the lives of Latter-day Saints so as to have this faith. 

T have written you a long letter; but, as I see before me on my table this portrait of a boy in uniform who is taller than his father, and, thank God, better equipped for life and fitter to command men and himself, I have been moved to go on and on to the point of tedium. Let me whisper a secret. While it has tickled my vanity to know how proud you are of your father's little successes, and while this has been a real spur to me, yet all the while I know, and so should you, that you, my son, are my real success. Every line of your clean, strong body, every expression of your alert, steadv mind, has been to me a joy beyond all rewards of money or distinction or service. I suppose children never can know until too late what they mean to parents. If this letter were not already so long, I could tell you tales of men known to me personally and to the whole world, who would gl?dly give every dollar they possess and every shred of fame, if their sons  only honorable, useful, and noble men. I blush to think how often I've boasted of you, my boy. All that ever I dreamed of doing or being I know you will accomplish, if you come through this war alive. 

As for that, it is in the hands of you and God. Remember there are a thousand things worse than being dead. I know you will never take an ignoble chance to live or refuse a noble chance to die. Either would be sorrow's crown of sorrow to your mother and me, who have poured into your life more than you can ever surmise — more, even, than we possessed, it seems — of high purpose and expectation and patriotism. You are the flower and fruit of our life; therefore, we thank God daily that you are a good soldier of the world's welfare and of the American flag. 

We have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints our Religion Classes, the Primary Associations, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Sabbath-Schools, all devoted to the training of our boys and girls. In these we struggle, we try, we pray, we fast, we teach, we partake of #ie sacrament, and we worship, in the hope that our Father in heaven will bless us with wisdom to so bring up our daughters and our sons that to us, to him, to the Church, and to the country, they will be a credit. 

A .sacred tenor solo : "O divine Redeemer," was sung by G. W. Charlesworth, of Idaho Falls. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH. 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church.) 

I am grateful for another privilege of meeting with the Latterday Saints in general conference, and trust that while I stand before you I may be blessed with that same sweet spirit which has ac my brethren who have already spoken to you. I know that our Father in heaven is kind and merciful unto us, and that he, like all natural fathers, is grieved when he hears his children cry in distress. He is also grieved when he sees his children suffering because of their sins or their weaknesses. Our Father in heaven, like our fathers in the flesh, loves to see our purity and our good lives, our good examples; he loves to see us grow in good and in doing good. 

In section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we read these distinctive words : 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

"Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven." 

Now, he does not say how soon that forgiveness shall come, but does make it plain that he will forgive those who repent and keep the commandments of the Lord. 

T have been very much blessed and edified in the instructions of the general authorities of the Church, and in their remarks concencerning the holy priesthood and the officers therein. I desire to add my testimonv concerning the faithfulness of the brethren and sisters who are called into positions of responsibility throughout the stakes and wards of Zion, for we have men and women who love the Lord, who love to obey his commandments, and are receiving his mercies and favors in their labors, in their homes and in their ministry among the people; and those who are crying unto the Lord, or those who are suffering in sorrow or sin are  few. We have also discovered beauty and harmony in the organization of the Church. We find here the order of which the Lord has spoken, the different officers of the holy priesthood, from the lowest to the highest, and each one knows his place and his duties. The deacon knows his place, the teacher knows his, the priest, his, and so on up the scale in the priesthood. 

Elders know their places and their duties. Many, of them go abroad in the earth preaching the gospel, baptizing honest and converted souls into the fold of Christ. They do not do these things just because they have the priesthood, but because they have been given special appointment and they are working in the order which has been appointed unto them. Going on up the ladder in the priesthood, we have other officers who labor not only because they have, been given an office of. power and authority, but because they have been called and appointed and given a particular field of labor. We have bishops who preside over wards. Each one presides over the particular ward which has been appointed unto him. He does not preside everywhere just because he is a bishop. Neither does the elder labor everywhere just because he is an elder, but he labors only in the field appointed unto him. 

We have in the Church a number of men who have been called and ordained to administer blessings unto the people, blessings of comfort, blessings of prophecy, when they are directed so to do. These men are given an office in the priesthood, and just because they have this office, it does not mean that they can bless everyGENERAL CONFERENCE.  and everybody, but, like the bishops, elders, and other officers in the priesthood, they are given their particular field of labor. So we would have the Latter-day Saints understand that in the Church, which is a part of the kingdom of God, there is order, and the officers of the priesthood are the men who should establish and maintain this order in the Church, that the work of the Lord may go on with his blessings upon it. There a|re a number of members of the Church who go about from place to place, from one ward and from one stake to another, seeking their blessings, which may be permissible if done in strict accordance with the established order of the Church; otherwise they are out of order. If they have a righteous purpose, a righteous desire, it is their privilege to secure their blessings from the Lord at the hands of the brethren who are ordained to the office of patriarch; but I would like to admonish my brethren and sisters not to seek blessings of men only, but seek the blessings of the Lord at the hands of his authorized servants. It does not matter particularly who the man is, if he holds the keys to your blessing's, and if you live in his stake or in his field of labor, he is authorized to administer unto you the blessings of the Lord. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that we shall all receive our blessings, and that we shall understand that they are predicated upon obedience to the law of the Lord. The Lord has made the laws upon which our blessings are predicated, and if we observe those laws then the Lord is bound, he says, and we shall receive the blessing; but if we have committed sins which are displeas before the Lord, if we have broken his commandments, we may deceive his servants here upon the earth, we may deceive the bishops, the presidents, the patriarchs, or other servants of God, perhaps may secure the words of a blessing, but the Lord who gave the commandment, who knows the law, who knows our sins, will not give the blessing until we have rendered obedience unto the law upon which it is predicated. So that, though it may be possible for us to deceive our fellowmen, let us not think that we can deceive the Lord; for he knows our hearts, our desires, our deeds, and will reward us day and night, year in and year out, according to our faithfulness in observing" his commandments as they have been given unto us. 

So let us, brethren and sisters, learn the law r s upon which our blessings are predicated, and then render obedience unto them. Then our promises will be sure and we will not have to practice deception in any way to get a blessing which might otherwise be withheld from us. 

The Lord desires to bless his children, he has in store every blessing that is needful for the faithful; and, as his servant, I invoke his blessings upon you, my brethren and sisters, and upon the faithful Latter-day Saints throughout the world, whether they be gathered here, or whether they be in their homes abroad, I invoke the blessings of God upon them all. 

I pray that the Lord will continue to bless his servants whom he has called to hold positions of responsibility in his Church; that he will continue to heal up the body of our dear president, that he will comfort and sustain him and preserve him  many years to live with us in usefulness according to his desires, to teach us both by his word and by his deed, as he has done so nobly in the past seventy years. We love him and we know the Lord loves him. We cannot hold up before our Father in heaven a more noble example of faithfulness in all the history of the Church. And so I pray with you, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will continue to remember him, and also his associates in the holy priesthood and in the organizations of the Church, down to the least and Hast one called, that the work of the Lord may continue to grow in the earth. I also pray and invoke the blessings of the Lord upon good governments throughout the world, upon those who are called to establish good governments, that these may be established as this government was established, under the power and influence of the Holy Spirit. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters; God bless all faithful Latter-day Saints, and the honest in heart in all the world, that the truth may be learned and obeyed, that God's purposes may be brought to pass, that peace again may soon come to the world; and I pray for these blessings and invoke them upon us all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Iniz Robinson, of the California mission, sang a sacred solo, entitled, "My Fa : th in Thee." 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

This is a duty from which I naturally shrink. To address so large  congregation as I see before me, rather fills my spirit with awe. Nevertheless, I am glad to meet with you and to try to fulfil the duties always that are assigned me in the Church. 

I see nothing but good ahead for Israel, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Church is increasing, I believe, in every way — increasing in numbers and increasing also in faith and good works. Surely this is a day when our faith should be made stronger, when we see what is transpiring in the world and what is being brought to pass; this day when thrones are tottering and falling; when abdications of kings and kingly powers are taking place when everything is in commotion and when men's hearts are failing them for fear of the things that are coming or transpiring upon the earth. 

I do not see how it could be otherwise than that our faith in the Lord and in the gospel of Jesus Christ should increase. The Church from the beginning has grown, notwithstanding the terrible oppos : tion of ignorance, chiefly ignorance; the opposition, too, of maliciousness, wickedness, persecutions which it endured until very recent years, and which was so pronounced against it by all people misinformed concerning it. 

During the fourteen years in which the Prophet Joseph Smith led the Church, it increased, notwith'standing the malicious and wicked opposition that he encountered and that the Church encountered under his presidency. During the thirtythree years that President Young led the Church, notwithstanding its trials and tribulations, it increased in a wonderful way — a marvelous work and a wonder. In the ten years that President Taylor presided over the Church, the Church still continued to grow and increase; and during the ten years or so of President Woodruff's presidency, and the three or four years of President Snow's presidency, making seventy-one years of growth of the Church in all; during the presidency of these brethren whom I have named, it grew and increased all the time. During the Presidency of President Smith, which will be seventeen years now in a few days, the Church has doubled in numbers and has more than doubled in wealth; that is to say, the membership of the Church has increased to as large a number as the membership of the Church was after a growth of seventy-one years during the presidency of the former five presidents of the Church, and durin that seventeen years the Church has more than doubled in wealth and in the payment of tithes. So that I see nothing but growth and good and development and spreading abroad and the fulfilling of the mission of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Why should it not grow? Has God not spoken ? 

I sat here this morning looking at this vast congregation, and I said to mvself, "Why are we here? Why am I here?" Well, the answer came to my mind in this way. If Joseph Smith had not declared that he had a manifestation of the Father and the Son and a visitation from them, and that he had conversed with the Father and the Son, the Almighty God and Jesus Christ, his Son, the Redeemer of the world; that he had seen them and talked with them and been in by them; I would not have been here. It is because of that vision that I am here, that my parents received of that truth, believed it, accepted it with all their hearts, and for that reason primarily, fundamentally, I am here in this conference this morning. If the Book of Mormon had not been revealed in the marvelous and miraculous way that it was, I would not have been here today. This wonderful gathering of Latter-day Saints that we see here today and which gathers here for every semi-annual conference, would not ,so gather and we would not behold the spectacle that we do in this congregation, had it not been that the Lord spoke; the Lord manifested himself; the Lord sent angels to reveal his gospel, to reveal the Book of Mormon — a most wonderful and marvelous manifestation. Something to lay hold of from the Lord, is the Book of Mormon. As the tablets of stone with the Ten Commandments handed down to Moses became something real and personal in the way of manifestation to the people, so also the Book of Mormon, handed down in the miraculous way that it has been, is real and something tangible for us to take hold of and believe. If it is not true, what is it? Where did it come from if it is not true? If its origin is not what it proclaims it to be "then what is its origin? It is there and cannot be explained away as I see it, only by accepting the truth; only by accepting the statement made by the Prophet concerning its origin. 

We all know of the witnesses to it. Three men testified to it; truthful men, that God Almighty sent down an angel to reveal and testify to them of its truth, and their testimony stands; it cannot be impeach. Had Joseph Smith, in company with these three witnesses, framed up a story to delude and defraud and ensnare the world, it would have been quickly exposed, for the reason that these witneses, one and all of them, became bitter enemies of the Prophet Joseph Smith and were cut off from the Church. Now, would not they have said, "We have been trying to palm off something on the world which is fraudulent, which is not true, which is false?" These three men became bitter enemies of the Prophet; they were cut off from the Church, as I remember, in 1838. Oliver Cowdery lived for ten years out of the Church; in 1848 he was rebaptized as a member of the Church, and I believe died in that year. During that ten years he was at enmity with the Prophet Joseph Smith and with the Church, now, wouldn't he have denounced the thing as a fraud and set himself straight before the world by publishing to all the world that he had made a false statement concerning the Book of Mormon, if his testimony had not in the first place been absolutely true? 

David Whitmer lived some fortythree years after he was cut off from the Church in 1838 and never rejoined it. In 1878, the late Elder Orson Pratt and President Joseph F. Smith, who is with us today, visited David Whitmer at his home in Richmond, Missouri. That was forty years after David Whitmer had been cut off from the Church. David Whitmer at that time was in the possession of his faculties, clear and keen. A number of his relatives and immediate friends who were not members of our Church, were called into his room and sat in it with Elder Pratt and President Smith, and then and there David Whitmer  the story of the visit of the angel to him and of the voice of God affirming that the Book of Mormon is true. For forty years this man, David Whitmer, had been out of the Church, estranged from it, he was never reconciled to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Don't you think that if he had been mistaken as to seeing and hearing an angel and hearing the voice of God, would not he .in all that time have roused himself and said, "This thing is a fraud; Joseph Smith was not a true Prophet; our testimony concerning the Book of Mormon is false." But during all that time, notwithstanding his enmity to the Church, his ill-feeling toward the Prophet, he not only did not deny his testimony concerning the Book of Mormon but affirmed and reaffirmed it time after time, and this latter time that I speak of, in 1878, he affirmed it in the strongest possible manner in the hearing of Elder Orson Pratt and President Joseph F. Smith and a room full of non-"Mormon" friends, who were there and heard him. He declared to them all that his testimony was true, the God's truth; that he did see and hear the angel of the Lord, and that he did hear the voice of the Lord from Heaven, and that his testimony concerning the Book of Mormon must stand as the truth forever. 

And Martin Harris, the third witness, the same. I heard Martin Harris in 1870 stand right here on this stand, and although he had been out of the Church for thirty-two years, yet he came back and stood here, and . I heard him testify that his witness to the divinity of the Book of Mormon was true before God. 

Can you anywhere in all the world get such convincing and unimpeachable testimony? No, you can't. Well, that is why I am here; that is why you are here; that is what brings these people together. 

The Lord has manifested by the power of the Spirit the truth of his work, and that with this work he has conferred upon this Church divine authority, given to his priesthood. He has conferred upon it authority to act in his name so that whenever an elder of this Church shall take a man down into the water and baptize him he does it by the authority of God and that ordinance is recognized by God the Eternal Father. And when the elders lay hands upon him and say unto him, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," he receives the Holy Ghost. That divine authority is here and it is nowhere else in all the world than here. What! Do you mean to say the Lord does not operate with any other people, only the small number of Latter-day Saints who are in the world? Oh, no! Oh, no! The Lord is operating all over the world by his power and manifesting it, oh, so gloriously these days in the battles that are going on. The Lord is there to see — to see what? To see that right shall triumph and that freedom shall obtain. The Lord reveals himself to the world in many ways. One of the old prophets declared that in the last days the Lord will pour out his Spirit upon all flesh. That means Chinese, Japanese and all others as well as white people; upon all flesh, he says he will pour out his Spirit. 

In this wonderful age in which it is such a glorious privilege to live, since this spiritual truth was introduced into the world through the ag'ency of the Prophet Joseph Smith from God Almighty himself, see what has transpired; see what  come to pass! Why, for nearly six thousand years ships had been sailing as St. Paul said he sailed and waited three days for a favorable wind. They" could not go anywhere without it. Could people travel to and fro as they do now? No. Daniel, the prophet, says that in the last days knowledge shall be increased — that is, the Spirit of the Lord .shall be poured out upon the people and they shall get more information, more knowledge than they ever had before. And he is not pouring out that Spirit alone upon us but on all the world, and, as the Prophet Daniel said, knowledge shall be increased and many shall run to and fro. I do not know how the whole changed situation between the olden time and now could be put in fewer words than that knowledge shall be increased and many shall run to and fro, because there was not so very much knowledge on many things and people did not travel and had not the means to move to and fro, so these are the last days and the Lord has poured out his Spirit upon the people and invention after invention, multiplied by the million; knowledge after knowledge; improvement after improvement, we see in so many marvelous ways. Why have not these inventions come before? Because the last days were not yet here. Was the mind of man during the five or six thousand years that had passed up to the time of the great manifestation to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1820, not as acute, not as capable of comprehending as the mind of man is today ? We have it on the testimony of the greatest scientists, that there has not been any appreciable difference between the mind of man today and the mind of man four thousand years ago. 

Alfred Russell Wallace, and other scientists, so declare, and they declare further that the mind of man is just as much depraved today as four thousand years ago, so it is not that the mind of man is any brighter to grasp these things today than the mind was formerly, but because the Lord Almighty has poured out his Spirit upon all flesh ki all nations, and so invention after invention goes on. 

What was it that made a James Watt s : t there by his mother's fire in Scotland, and notice the tea-kettle lid move up and down? A thought, an inspiration of the Almighty fastened it in his mind. "There is power there," he said: "There is something there that makes that tea-kettle lid rise — the power of steam." Why, men had sat looking at tea-kettles for five thousand years or more. They had not thought of that power because the inspiration of the Almighty had not touched the mind to make them think of it. That is why. and that is the only reason why. "There is a spirit in man," says the Scripture, "and the inspiration of the Almighty sdveth them understanding," and so he is pouring out his Spirit upon all flesh and these wonderful, marvelous inventions are the result. Here we see in this building these electric lights. Somewhere in the 'canyon, miles away, water is tumbling down hill over a wheel and here is the light. Wonderful! Marvelous! Why, on every automobile you have a complete electric light plant. Did you ever think of it? It is all so common'' with us now that it almost ceases to be a wonder. Rut when we stop to think, we see how wonderful it all is. Think of the engines of destruction that have been invented and manufactured during the  world-war. The whole face of the world seems changed through the knowlede that man has received from the Almighty. The Lord is giving this information and glory be to him and not to man. That is where the world makes a mistake, they take all credit to themselves. 

For about six thousand years men had been reaping their grain with a sickle. Why was there no improvement during all that time? I can remember between fifty and sixty years ago when we used to take a sickle and reap grain and lay each little bundle down as it was reaped. I can remember when we used to flail out wheat with a flail or tramp it out with oxen like they had done in the time of Moses when he delivered the law that thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. There had been practically no change in all these matters for about six thousand years. We do not sow and reap in that manner now. All these wonderful inventions and mechanical improvements, practically every one, have been revealed by the inspiration of the Almighty to the mind of men since the day the Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith and revealed himself and started what Brother Whitney so beautifully referred to yesterday as the new spiritual forces which should revolutionize the thought of the world, and which have in them the means of salvation for the world, for the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. It is not in man that walks to guide his steps aright. The Lord is working these wonders and overruling in it all, and while we know that he is working in the nations and give him all honor and credit for it, we still know absolutelv that in a special way he is working with this organization, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, in which alone is the f orce and agency and power that will save the world and redeem mankind, and shall persist and continue forever. 

I thought yesterday, as Brother Whitney was talking, of some lines of Byron, who, lamenting how nations rise and nations fall, and history repeats itself — just a repetition of the old story — Byron says in these lines : 

Here is the moral of all human tales, 'Tis but the same rehearsal of the past. First freedom, and then glory; when 

that fails. Wealth, vice, corruption, barbarism at 

last. 

So history, with all its volumes vast, Hath but one page. 

It would seem it is just the same old story told and told, but I thought to myself, poor sceptical, unbelieving Byron. Has the Lord Almighty through the Prophet Daniel not declared that in the last days — and these are the last clays all right, and don't you forget it — in the last days, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which shall stand forever; it should never fall; it should never be given to another people, but it should endure forever? 

This is the Church of God. This is Christ's Church; Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the Most High God. The leaders of this Church have been inspired and are inspired of the Almighty to give direction, to give revelation, to give guidance to this great work, none more so than the present president of the Church who lives and has always lived so that the Lord, through his Spirit can manifest unto him, give direction and counsel and guidance to the Latter-day 

Saints, and it will not fail, it will stand forever. God grant it, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A number of notices of meetings were given out — among them a notice of a special priesthood meeting in the Assembly Hall on Monday, Oct. 7, 10 a. m., and of the conference of the Sunday School Union, this evening at 7 o'clock, to which all are invited. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

VOTE ON THE PURCHASE OF LIBERTY BONDS. 

The Latter-day Saints are well aware of the fact that the Church has appropriated, on account of liberty bonds, a sum aggregating more than half a million of dollars. I feel to propose that we again appropriate the sum of $250,000 for the purchase of bonds of the Fourth Liberty Loan. The motion is seconded. I sincerely regret that the financial condition of the Church — on account of the great demands upon it for funds for the support of our educational institutions, and for the accomplishment of our building operations that are in hand — is such that we cannot offer more at this time. This is a matter that is beyond the immediate reach of the council of the Church, appointed by the authority of God, by revelation, to use the funds of the Church, and therefore I submit it to this great conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. All who are in favor of this move will please signify it by raising the right hand. (Unanimous response.) Contrary minded, if there are any, by the same sign. (No response.) I see no contrary votes. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

Benediction was pronounced byElder Charles H. Hart, of the First Council of Seventy. 


