Afternoon
05 10 1918

The Conference was called to order at 2 o'clock by President Joseph F. Smith, who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "High on the mountain top." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The choir and congregation sang: "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

A call to repentance — Man's duty following repentance — Order in the government of the Church — Fallac: of purported and false visions and revelations by lay members for the people — Only one man properly called and appointed to receive revelation for the guidance of the Church — The word of the Lord on this subject which should set all doubts at rest — -When the Elders speak by inspiration they speak in .order and according to the doctrines and revelations given to the Church — Members are entitled to know for themselves, by searching  revealed word of God — This word is not given in a corner ^ut openly. 

I trust and pray that I may be led, in such remarks as I may make this afternoon, by the Spirit of the Lord, for I desire, my brethren and sisters, to speak only that which will be in harmony with the word of truth as it has been revealed for the salvation of the children of men. 

I was greatly edified this morning by the remarks of the brethren, likewise by the remarks of those who occupied the time yesterday. I rejoice in a knowledge,such as I have, of the truth and a testimony of the truth as it has been made known to us in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I will read, with your permission, a word or two from one of the revelations given through the Prophet Joseph Smith. This revelation was given in the year 1830, in October of that year, the portion to which I refer reads as follows : 

Yea, open your mouths and they shall be filled, saying — Repent, repent, and prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. 

Yea, repent and be baptized, every one of you, for a remission of your sins; yea, be baptized even by water, and then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost. 

Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel, and remember that they shall have faith in me, or they can in no wise be saved. 

And upon this rock I will build my Church; yea, upon this rock ye are built, and if ye continue, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you. 

And ye shall remember the church articles and covenants to keep them. 

And whoso having faith you shall confirm in my church, by the laying on of the hands, and I will bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost upon them. 

And the Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures, are given of me for your instruction; and the power of my Spirit quickeneth all things. 

Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and ,oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom. 

For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly. Even so. Amen. 

Now I desire to call attention to bne or two things in these passages of scripture. In the first place in order that a man may be saved in the kingdom of God he must have faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, he must accept him and believe that he is indeed the Son of God and the Redeemer of the world. When he knows that, repents of his sins, and is baptized for the remission of his sins, then it is his duty to continue in well doing, remembering, as stated here, the Church articles and covenants to keep them; and the Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures which contain in great part these articles and covenants. For the Lord declares they are given of him for our instruction by the power of the Spirit which quickeneth all things. Now, the book of Doctrine and Covenants was not mentioned in this revelation for the very good reason that in the year 1830, in October, there was no book of Doctrine and Covenants; otherwise, without a doubt, the Lord would have added it to these scriptures and would have commanded us to search the things contained therein which pertain to our salvation. Indeed, we may say in truth that the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants are included in the holy scriptures, for such they are. 

Now, the Lord has revealed unto us in these modern scriptures as  as in the scriptures that were given in ancient times, the necessary articles and covenants by which we may be guided and directed in church government and understand the truth of the gospel. Through the faith, diligence and heed we give to these instructions, we may know that the Lord and Savior of this world is indeed our Redeemer and the Son of God. We may know this provided our studies and faithfulness are guided by prayer, for in this same commandment, the Lord declared that we should pray always. "Wherefore," said he, "be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and'oil with you." 

I desire to say in connection with this which I have read that there is no reason in the world why each member of the Church should not have a thorough understanding of the principles of the gospel, of the order of the Church, and the government of the Church, so that none need be led astray by any wind of doctrine, or notion, that prevails among the children of men, which may come to their attention. If we are firmly grounded in the faith and built upon the rock, we will know the truth, the truth which will make us free. There is a Tying spirit abroad in the land. In my travels in the stakes of Zion, my attention has been called, on a number of occasions, to a purported revelation or vision or manifestation, whatever it may be called, supposed to have been received by President Smith sometime in the distant past, in regard to events of great importance dealing with the nations of the earth and the Latterday Saints. Many things in that purported vision, or revelation, are absurd. My attention has been call to this thing, and good brethren and good sisters have inquired of me to know whether or not there was any truth in that which had come to their attention. It is in printed form; and I have been under the necessity of telling them that there was no truth in it. Then, in other places I have discovered that people have copies of a purported vision by the Prophet Joseph Smith given in Nauvoo, and some people are circulating this supposed vision, or revelation, or conversation which the prophet is reported to have held with a number of individuals in the city of Nauvoo. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that if you understand the Church articles and covenants, if you will read the sciptures and become familiar with those things which are recorded in the revelations from the Lord, it will not be necessary for you to ask any questions in regard to the authenticity or otherwise of any purported revelation, vision, or manifestation that proceeds out of darkness, concocted in some corner, surreptitiously presented, and not coming through the proper channels of the Church. Let me add that when a revelation comes for the guidance of this people, you may be sure that it will not be presented in some mysterious manner contrary to the order of the Church. It will go forth in such form that the people will understand that it comes from those who are in authority, for it will be sent either to the presidents of stakes and the bishops of the wards over the signatures of the presiding authorities, or it will be published in some of the regular papers or magazines under the control and direction of the Church or it will be presented before such a gathering as this, at a  conference. It will not spring up in some distant part of the Church and be in the hands of some obscure individual without authority, and thus be circulated among the Latter-day Saints. Now, you may remember this. 

Again, here is another thought I desire to call your attention to, Not very long ago a good sister, I suppose a good sister, one who means well, placed into my hands a purported vision, or revelation, which she claims she received, dealing with matters pertaining to the welfare of the people. Now, the Lord is not going to give unto any woman in this Church a revelation for the Church. He is not going to give unto any man in this Church, other than the one who is properly appointed, a revelation for the guidance of the Church, for everything will be done in order. When you find good sisters, or otherwise, and brethren, circulating revelations or manifestations which they themselves have received, you put it down that it is contrary to the law and the order of the Church and the doctrine the Lord has revealed. In the early days of the Church, back as early as the year 1831, a woman by the name of Hubble claimed to have received revelations which caused a great deal of confusion among some of the members of the Church because they did not understand the proper order. The Church was young, the people who had come into it were new and untrained so far as the gospel was concerned, and did not thoroughly understand the order of Church government. The woman was deceiving them. Also on another occasion one Hiram Page received what he claimed to be revelations, which he gave forth as coming from the Lord for the benefit of the Church, and there was necessity of rebuking him. The Lord gave a revelation unto the Prophet Joseph Smith in February, 1831. declaring the proper order in the Church for the bestowal of revelation, a few verses of which I w.ll read to you : 

O hearken, ye elders of my. church, and give an ear to the words which I shall speak unto you. 

For behold, verily, verily, T say unto you, that ye have received a commandment for a law unto my Church, through him whom I have appointed unto you, to receive commandments and revelations from my hand. 

And this ye shall know assuredly that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me. 

But verily, verily. I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him, for if it be taken from him, he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead. 

That provision for the appointment of another was never exercised, because the Prophet Joseph Smith did remain true and steadfast to the end, and there was no necessity for the Lord choosing another to take his place because of any transgression on his part. But, to continue : 

And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments. 

And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me. 

For verily I say unto you, that he that is ordained of me shall come in at the gate and be ordained as I have told you before, to teach those revelations which you have received, and shall receive through him whom I have appointed. 

And now, behold, I give unto you a commandment, that when ye are  together, ye shall instruct and edify each other, that ye may know how to act and direct my church, how to act upon the points of my law and commandments, which I have given; 

And thus ye shall become instructed in the law of my Church, and be sanctified by that which ye have received, and ye shall bind yourselves to act in all holiness before me. 

Now I maintain that there is no occasion for any member of this Church to have a doubt in his mind regarding matters of revelation as coming for the guidance of the Church, because when such things come they will come in the proper channels and be presented by those who are ordained to this calling and who are known to the Church. Therefore, when you hear these rumors, you put it down that they are false, and it is absolutely unnecessary for you to ask the question of anyone, because you ought to know by the inspiration you have yourselves whether or not they are true. 

Now, just one more thought. I realize this, when the brethren, the authorities of the Church, the elders of Israel, speak unto the people, and the)- have the Spirit of the Lord, they speak by inspiration, and, as we read in Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, when they so speak, that which they say is scripture, and the Lord will recognize it as such, and it is binding upon the people when they so speak as if he himself spoke unto them; but when they speak unto the people by inspiration, as they 'do from time to time, it will be in order and according to the doctrines and the revelations which have been given to the Church, so that all who hear may understand. 

If we will hearken unto the words of the Lord and search for  and obtain knowledge from the Book of Mormon, from the Bible, from the Doctrine and Covenants, from the Pearl of Great Price, and from the instruction given us from time to time by the authorities of the Church, and seek to do the will of the Lord, remembering our prayers and our covenants before him, we will not go astray. 

I wonder, let me say in conclusion, I wonder if we are indeed a praying people. I know that many of us pray. I doubt if we all do. I rather fear there are some among us who have neglected this important duty. In regard to this there is a statement in Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants that I think our attention should be called to. The Lord says here that it is the duty of parents to teach their children the principles of the gospel before they reach the age of accountability, and among other things that they should teach them is to observe their prayers; and further on in this revelation we find the following: 

And a commandment I give unto them, that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him he had in remembrance before the judge of my people. 

Now, I say this is a very serious thing. We ought to be a praying people, and if there are in Zion those who do not observe their prayers in the season thereof, they are amenable to the law of the Church and may be brought before the judge, or in other words, the bishop, and he can try them for their fellowship, because the Lord himself has declared it in these words which I have read unto you. 

Now, let us serve the Lord and  his commandments, labor in righteousness, and in all things remember our covenants and look for guidance to the captain of the ship, and not be led astray by what may be purported as having come from him when it is done in a corner and not openly and above board and presented to the Church in the proper manner. The Lord bless you is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

SPURIOUS REVELATION. 

Again I feel that it is an opportunity for me to say a few words. This wonderful, mysterious revelation that I have been said to have received a great many years ago, was given in French, and I never knew but two or three words in French in my life; consequently, I could not have been the originator of that revelation. I want you to understand that. I have denied it, I suppose, a hundred times, when I have been inquired of about it. It was gotten up by some mysterious person who undertook, to create a sensation and lay the responsibility upon me. I am not guilty. When the Lord reveals something to me, I will consider the matter with my brethren, and when it becomes proper, I will let it be known to the people, and not otherwise. 

HOW THE "BLACK/' "red" AND 

"white horse" revelation was started. 

The ridiculous story about the "red horse," and "the black horse," and "the white horse," and a lot of trash that has been circulated about and printed and sent around as a srreat revelation given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is a matter that was trotten up, T understand, some ten vears after the death of the Prophet Toseph Smith, by two of our brethren who put together some broken sentences from the Prophet that thev may have heard him utter from time to time, and formulated this so called revelation out of it. and it was never spoken bv the prophet in the manner in which thev have put it forth. It is simply false; that is all there is to it. 

HOW THE STRANG REVELATION WAS CONCOCTEP. 

Tn 1858. I had the privilege of traveling throus'h California with Charles Weslev Wand ell. a former member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, and at that time also a member of the Church. He told me himself, in the presence of witnesses, that he wrote the document himself on which the organization of J. J. Strang was founded, and he was never so surprised as when he found that J. J. Strang accented his vagaries for a revelation from God, and he had onlv laughed at it and repented of it ever since. 

HOW MEN MAY KNOW THE TRUTH. 

Now, these stories of revelations that are being circulated around are of no conseauence except for rumor and silly talk bv persons that have no authority. The fact of the matter is simply here and this. No man can enter into God's rest unless he will absorb the truth in so far that all error, all falsehood, all misunderstandings and mis-statements he will be able to sift thoroughly and dissolve, and know that it is error  not truth. When you know God's truth, when vou enter into God's rest, you will not be hunting after revelations from Tom, Dick and Harry all over the world. You will not be following the will of the wisps of the vagaries of men and women who advance nonsense and their own ideas. When you know the truth you will abide in the truth, and the truth will make you free, and it is onlv the truth that will free vou from the errors of men, and from the falsehood and misrepresentations of the evil one who lavs in wait to dece : ve and to mislead the people of God from the paths of righteousness and truth. God bless you. Amen. 

A trio, "Loyalty," voices selected from the choir, was sung. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

The comprehensiveness of the gospel — Thing's of men and things of God  — The one to be rooted up, the other to endure — The present the predicted time of commotion — A day of shaking — The Church of Jesus Christ not sectarian — A reorganized Church of Jesus Christ impossible — A new and an everlasting covenant. 

I believe that no person who has followed the addresses at this conference can fail to have reflected upon the comprehensiveness of the rospel of Jesus Christ. The truth has been declared unto us in simplicity and plainness. We have not fathered here to listen to fervid oratory, or impassioned speech, but we have heard again and again the eternal truth delivered with that eloquence that appeals to the heart instead of to the ear. We have had instructions given unto us relating to the affairs of every-day life, go back into the eternities that preceded mortality, and onward into the eternities beyond the grave. 

We have learned that the things of man shall endure as man endures, and that the things of God are eternal as He is eternal; that in the things and affairs of man the authority of man is operative, and that, in the affairs of heaven, only the authority of heaven is valid. There is nothing new in this; it was preached in earlier dispensations; and, indeed, has been made known to those who would listen, even from the time of Adam. I remember that on one occasion the Christ was particularly emphatic in elucidation of that eternal truth. There came to Him certain hypercritical Tews who, not being able to answer His doctrine, undertook to find fault with some trifles in the life and conduct of His followers, as you mav read for yourselves in the fifteenth chaoter of Matthew. They came asking why His disciples transgressed the tradition of the elders, in that they ate without first washing their hands, and the Lord turned 11 Don them, it seems to me — I believe He sometimes became incensed, and if He ever did He was incensed on this occasion, for when thev asked Him that question He said unto them : 

"Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition ?" Mark you, not by the law. It was no part of the law of Moses, the thing that they did, and for which He arraigned them. It was only their rabbinical tradition, and this was it. "For God commanded, saying, honor thy father and thy mother." And then He went on to explain and bring home to them the fact that they sanctioned dishonor to father and mother: "Ye hypo," said He, "well did Esaias prophesy of you saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." 

Then crying out to the multitude He said unto them : "Hear and understand; not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but that which cometh out of a man, this defileth a man." 

And now for the point I would have you specially observe : "Then came his disciples and said' unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended after they heard this saying? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. Let them alone : they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." 

"Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up;" and conversely : Every plant which our heavenly Father hath planted, shall endure. So it is with the institutions on earth. Every one that has not been formed in accordance with the will of God shall be rooted up, overthrown, or brought into the dust. This is the day of commotion. Have you never read that all things should be in commotion in these the last days? This is the day of shaking, when everything that can be shaken shall be shaken, and only those things which are established upon an eternal foundation shall endure. The writer of the epistle to the Hebrews understood that principle, as is Dlainly set forth in his warning to the people : "See that ye refuse not him that speaketh" referring to the Christ, "For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that spcaketh from heaven : Whose voice then shook the earth; but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. And this word, Yet once more signifieth the removing" of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain." 

The things of God are not to be shaken by the boom of man's greatest artillery; they shall endure in spite of bomb and shell. But the handiwork of man shall be shattered and crushed. So not only all material things, but all man's theories and conjectures and philosophy, and science falsely so called. One of the results of the great conflict into which the world is plunged shall be the dethronement of German philosophy, as .well as the overthrow of German autocracy, for much of it is false and shall not endure. Rio-ht 8: lad am I that we stand upon the rock of revelation, and though the rains may beat and the winds may blow, we shall not be moved unless we get frightened and abandon the refuge of safetv, and be swept into the whirlpool of man-made doctrine. True it is that kingdoms rise and fall sometimes by direction, sometimes by permission of the Lord, by allowance, because of His respect for higher laws. He will not interfere with the agency of nations or of individuals. 

But I .do not believe that God ever planted the plant of tyranny or kinerlv despotism. That is a weed that He has permited to erow up, and vou know how careful He is not to prematurely root up, as evinced  His own teaching to the people in that wonderful parable of the wheat and the tares. The impetuous disciples would have rushed into the field to pluck up the tares, but He forbade them, saying, "Let both grow together until the harvest," and explained to them that any forceful extirpation of the tares would have imperiled the wheat. 

Never before, since the days of the Son of Man in the flesh, has the earth been prepared for the kind of government that shall be established abroad as it has been established here. Fifty years ago, twenty years aeo, ten years ago, to have attempted forcibly to extirpate the weeds of autocracv would have imperiled the wheat of real democracy. There is a wonderful element of timeliness in all the doings of God, and He doeth all things well, and in the right season. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ ^s given of God; it is eternal. Have vou ever found a single passage in Holy Writ that indicates in the least degree any revision or alteration of the fundamental laws and principles of the gospel? Have you ever found it necessarv for God to amend Himself and His words? Men make constitutions and enact laws, and then have to repeal and alter them, but the fundamental laws of truth are eternal; they will never be amended, thev will never be changed. As declared to Adam, so is it declared unto the world todav: Fxceot ye have faith in God and in His Son Testis Christ, as the one and onlv Savior and Redeemer of mankind : except ye repent of your sins with a real and genuine repentance; except ye be baptized by immersion in water, at the hands of one having; authority, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the  laying on of hands, there is no possibility of your finding place in the kingdom of God. We look in vain for modification or qualification. The gospel is as simple today as it ever has been, and it will never be less simple. Therefore the Church of Jesus Christ, which is the earthly embodiment of the gospel, the organization through which the gospel is to be declared to the world, is established in this dispensation, for so the Lord hath declared, never more to be thrown down. You have never learned of any revision, amendment to or alteration in the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the form of the Church. Like the gospel itself, the Church adapts itself to the necessities of the times, to the conditions of life, but without the alteration of a single vital principle revealed of God. 

The world is full of sects and churches, and there is scarcely one that has not a counterpart in the form of a revised or reformed or reorganized sect; but the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is no sect. Even its worst and most unprincipled critics have never ventured upon such a palpable falsehood as would be the declaration that this is a sectarian organization. What was it ever dissected from? From what other organization has it ever been divided? And the thought of division, breaking away from, is essential to the idea of a sect. Now, be it known that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is no sect. It is an original creation with the Lord, and when reestablished upon the earth in this age of the world it was a restoration. Therefore, if I may be permitted the paradoxical expression, I would say that the concept of a re Church of Jesus Christ is unthinkable. Such a thing cannot be. It would mean that the Lord had changed His word, and that when He said that this, the restored church or kingdom of God should nevermore be thrown down, He spoke falsely; that after all, these are not the last clays; that this is not the dispensation of the fulness of times; that there is to be another restoration. Such contradiction in terms my mind is altogether too feeble to comprehend. This Church will never be reorganized. There never will be a reorganized Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth. There can be none such, except as man misuses names. 

My heart and soul are in this Church for what it is. I cannot be mistaken. I take it to be what the Lord has said it is, and if it be not that, it is but another deception of the devil. But the glorious fact is that its fruits are not the fruits of deception; they are love for humanity, reverence for liberty and the inherent rights of men, tolerance for another's opinions, as long as he does not carry his opinions, if they are wrong, too far, so as to infringe upon the rights of others. I am willing that a man shall believe just what he likes, as long as he does not try to force his belief upon me, if I think he is wrong. 

Now-, in this day of whirl and swirl, when all things are in commotion, and men's hearts are failing them, is there no sure anchorage for our individual barks? Is there no haven of safety to the great ocean of unrest? Thank God, we find it in His word; for all that the Lord has foretold shall come to pass literally and in fulness. To regulate the things of God, to administer in the ordinances of heaven, requires a power higher than any that man can originate or arrogate to himself. 1 doubt if any one would challenge me to serious debate upon that proposition. Let Caesar regulate the things of Caesar, if you will; but do not let Caesar try to administer the things of God, for God's house is not a house of confusion. Reference to this great principle was made yesterday. Men may establish laws, and so far as they are not infringements upon the inherent rights of men they are valid and must be obeyed by all concerned; but no legislature, no parliament, no congress created by man, can legislate with regard to affairs beyond the grave. As illustrated by the instance referred to yesterday — the covenant of marriage — man may establish laws and may perform ceremonies of marriage to be of effect "until death do you part." Those are the very ominous words that occur in many prescribed ceremonies. But we regard marriage as something more than a ceremony. It is an ordinance, and that ordinance can be administered only by those having the authority of God, if it is to be in effect beyond the grave. And so with every other relationship that is established by and among men. 

Permit me to read to you from the 132nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants,' wherein the Lord says : 

"Behold! mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. 

"Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name! 

"Or, will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed! 

"And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law,  as I and my Father ordained unto you, before the world was! 

"I am the Lord thy God, and I give unto you this commandment, that no man shall come unto the Father but by me, or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord; 

"And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me, or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection saith the Lord your God; 

"For whatsoever things remain, are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me, shall be shaken and destroyed." 

Could it be otherwise? Human institutions, purely, human institutions, will end with human life, and in and after the resurrection they will have no place nor name; but the institutions established by the authority of heaven .shall endure, and these alone are the things that can endure. In the same revelation we find this doctrine set forth, with which I am sure you are familiar, but on which we may well refresh our minds, relating to what the Lord calls by the comprehensive and significant name of "A new and an everlasting covenant." 

"And verily I say unto you, that the conditions of this law are these : All covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, vows, performances, connections, associations, or expectations, that are not made, and entered into, and sealed, by the Holy Spirit of promise, of him who is anointed, both as well for time and for all eternitv, and that too most holv, bv revelation and commandment through the medium of  anointed, whom I have appointed on the earth to hold this power, (and I have appointed unto my servant Joseph to hold this power in the last .days, and there is never but one on the earth at a time, on whom this power and the keys of this Priesthood are conferred,) are of no efficacy, virtue or force, in and after the resurrection from the dead; for all contracts that are not made unto this end, have an end when men are dead." 

Is that not consistent with our conception of the eternal character of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Were the power to direct this authority in operation vested in more than one man upon the earth at a time, there would be introduced at once the possibility of confusion and of a conflict of authority. With respect to the word of the Lord as given unto the people, I do not think that you have found any of the general authorities of the church, of the Council of the Twelve or others, who have independently undertaken to give out to the people any new revelation involving vital principles of doctrine or practice; and no one of them would think of doing it until it had been submitted to the one man who holds the keys of that power and priesthood here upon the earth at this time. God's house is a house of order, I repeat. Let us put ourselves in order, if there be need of such renovation, that we may be fit for an abiding place in the Lord's kingdom; for while the Church shall never be reformed and reorganized, there is need of individual reformation in many cases. I trust that we shall increase in faith and in works, and come to be what the Lord would have us be, and serve Him with full purpose of heart, that we  be ready to go out when the cry shall be heard, as soon it shall be heard, "Behold, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him." For such I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

The gospel in application — Necessity of utilizing all existing organizations of the Church — Eminent need of counteracting the influences of the world — Our opportunity and obligation to cultivate the spiritual in man — The high mission ' of America in the world, to be accomplished largely as the Church fulfills its destiny among God's children. 

Great truths have been declared in our hearing at this conference; the eternal principles of the gospel have been pronounced with marked and impressive emphasis. I have been built up in my spirit, and stimulated in my resolution to keep the commandments of God, and to do his will; and I am certain that the feeling that has come to my heart has come to the hearts of all those who have heard the inspired words of this conference. 

The excellent themes of the gos- , pel, however, can save the souls of men only as they find application in their lives. The spiritual refreshing that we get from a consideration of these great truths cannot be effectual in bringing the exaltation and the glory that we hope for, unless we incorporate them into our lives. I have been thinking, as I have listened to the exposition of these great principles of truth, how it may be possible for the men and women here gathered to disseminate them in such a manner as to bring them home to those who so sorely need them, and upon whom the Church and the country and all depend for advancement and progress. I have looked through this great congregation, and so far as I am able to see in to this sea of faces there are substantially none of the young men to whom our beloved Elder McKay addressed his stirring"- appeal here this morning: T can discern scarcely one of the whole number present who has not reached maturity, whose life and habits are not substantially formed, and who, according to the best of my opinion, is not conducting himself in substantial conformity to the principles of the gospel and attempting to live according to its teachings. But we know that there are thousands of young men and young women in the Church of Christ who do need the refreshing and the upbuilding" which comes from the exposition of these great truths. We do know that there are many who need to have the word of God brought home to them, so that they may live according to it and entitle themselves to the rich blessings which are promised to the faithful and the good. Not only do we know that there are to be found thousands of such young men and young women within the Church, who are sorely in need of these saving gospel principles, but we know that there are countless millions, both of young and old in the world, who need these great truths and their adoption in their lives. Hence we are confronted with this momentous question : how shall we perform our service and our obligation to those who are not here, and who do not come within the sound pi the inspired voices which have so eloquently and impressively declared the great truths of the gospel? 

Some one said yesterday that this was a representative gathering. I think it is indeed representative, be as you look over the faces of the men and women here you see that they are in the main the officers of the Church, the officers of the various organizations which make up the Church; and it is fortunate indeed that these men and women come to receive the word of the Lord, and are able to carry it backto those whom they represent. We have been given these Church organizations to provide for all the needs of the people. There is the great organization of the priesthood, with the various quorums, appointed by the Lord. How eminently proper and fit it is that these quorums of the priesthood should see to it that the word of God is taught to their members, and that they use their good offices to see that ' these great principles of the priesthood and of the gospel of Jesus Christ are made applicable in the lives of those to whom this delegation of authority is given. To my brethren who preside over these quorums I suggest that when they go to their homes they try to give to those who have not come to this great gathering of the Saints, something of the Spirit and of the words of instruction that have been here so forcibly and impressively given. 

Aside from the quorums of the priesthood there are the auxiliary organizations of the Church, given through the providence of the Lord as helps to the priesthood, for the establishment of his word and truth in the hearts of the people. These organizations are chiefly devoted to the care and nurture of the young in the principles of the gospel. What remarkable opportunities we enjoy in these splendid organizations, but how essential it is that every one of them be used to its full extent. To my thinking, there has never been  time in the history of the Church when there was more real need of using- these great auxiliary organizations of the Church to the full measure of their capacity, than there is today. Our young people are surrounded with influences, the like of which have seldom, if ever, been brought to them in such large measure as we see now. Everywhere and on every hand come the influences of the world. In our schools, in the work in which our young people engage, in every environment of their lives is bo be found prominently and predominantly the influence of the world. Our schools are devoted to tne culture that comes to the mind. They do something to help improve the bodies of the boys and girls, but they eliminate every single thing that would contribute to their spiritual growth and advancement. They will not even permit the reading- of the word of God without comment in many of them, and they place the ban- upon any teaching that tends to teach boys and girls their relationship to God, and their true relationship to each other. All that partakes of the Spirit has been banished from the schools. What a great need there is for something to take the place of this great loss in the educational processes of the clay. How necessary it is then that the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Religion Classes, and the Primary Associations, receive the support and the cooperative assistance of every man and every woman in this Church. 

I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we cannot hope to counteract these outside influences unless we unite in bringing to bear upon the minds and the hearts and the souls of our boys and girls the precious  of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We must let them know the beauty, the comprehensiveness, the desirability of the incorporation of these great principles of the gospel in their lives. We must counteract this environment. We must let them know that the spirit of the world will lead them away from the Spirit of God, and we must infuse into them a testimony of the truth of this gospel, and a desire to live it and to keep the commandments of God. To that end I take it we must use the utmost of our endeavor to teach our boys and girls to keep themselves ever clean and pure and wholesome, so that they may be in condition to receive of the Spirit of God and a testimony of the truth. The Spirit of God cannot dwell in unclean persons, and whenever our boys and girls are permitted to go astray, they alienate themselves from this benign Spirit which keeps them true, and which will lead them back into the presence of their Father in heaven. 

I plead for the young people of the Church. We have all the agencies that we need. Unlike the people of the world, we have every organization that is necessary for the care and the protection of oUr youth. I have heard men and women engaged in the social work of the world wonder what on earth they could do to meet the emergency that has arisen at this time of war, and to provide methods and means of protection against the ev'ls that . war always brings to .people. We have that protection; all of these means are at our disposal, ami it seems to me that it is for us here highly to resolve that each and every one of us, as the representatives of the people of God, will use our best effort, will devote ourselves and lend ourselves to the great task of keeping our boys and girls free from the influences of the world, and of implanting in their hearts the sacred principles of truth which have been enunciated here at this great conference of the Church. 

No man can do a bigger thing, nor a better thing in this world, than to save his fellowmen. No man can do a bigger job than to teach boys and girls the principles of truth. We are essentially a great body of teachers. We ought to devote ourselves to our callings. We ought to equip ourselves with everything that we can get in order to help us counteract the evils that come into our midst, and to keep our boys and girls true. We have heard, in a most impressive way, of the destiny of America. We believe that which has been said. We all know that this is the land of Zion, and that from this great country shall go forth the saving principles of liberty and freedom to the ends of the earth. 

Is it presumptuous to say that this great land of America can only accomplish its high mission in the world, just to the extent that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints accomplishes and fulfills its great destiny among God's children ? I believe it to be the truth. I believe that right here is the nucleus of the great principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that must spread out from these mountain valleys into this gxeat land of America, and from thence to the very remote corners of the earth, in order that people may be given the opportunity of embracing the gospel of Christ, which is the true law of liberty. God help us, my breth and sisters, to so live this gospel that the sermon of our lives shall preach it everywhere we are known and (spoken of, and help us to protect ourselves against the incursion of the follies and the sins of the world, to keep ourselves immaculate and spotless before God, that his Spirit may be with us and go out from among us. These are the desires of my heart, and I believe that they are the desires of the men and women who are here assembled. May we all go forth and keep the commandments of God, and teach our children in their homes and the organizations of the Church the truth of the everlasting gospel, and prevail upon them to live clear and free from the sins of the world, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Edna Gottberg sang the sacred solo, "I will lift up mine eyes to the hills," Psalm 121. 

Announcement was made of the holding of overflow meetings tomorrow in the Assembly Hall, 10 a. m., with Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve presiding; 2 p. m., with Elder Anthony W. Ivins, of the Council of the Twelve, presiding; also open air meetings, near the Bureau of Information, the weather permitting, at 10 o'clock, a. m., with Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding; and at 2 p. m., with Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, presiding. 

The choir and congregation sang the Doxology, and the closing prayer was offered by Elder Junius F. W r ells of the General Board, Y. M. M. I. A. 


