Morning
04 10 1918


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

As most of you, I suppose, are aware, I have been undergoing a siege of very serious illness for the last five months. It would be impossible for me, on this occasion, to occupy sufficient time to express the desires of my heart and my feelings, as I would desire to express them to you, but 1 felt that it was my duty, if possible, to be present and take some little part this morning in the opening session of this eighty-ninth Semi-annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ' 

CLEAR OF MIND THOUGH WEAK IN BODY 

For more than seventy years I have been a worker in this cause with you and your fathers and progenitors, pioneers who broke the way into these valleys of the mountains; and my heart is just as firmly set with you today as it ever has been. Although somewhat weakened in body, my mind is clear with reference to my duty, and with reference to the duties and responsibilities that rest upon the Latter-day Saints; and I am ever anxious for the progress of the work of the Lord, for the prosperity of the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints throughout the world. I am as anxious as I ever have been, and as earnest in my desires that Zion shall prosper, -and that the Lord shall favor his people and magnify them in his sight, and in the knowledge and understanding of the intelligent people of all the world. 

CONTINUOUS COMMUNICATION WITH THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

I will not, I dare not, attempt to enter upon many things that are resting upon my mind this morning, and I shall postpone until some future time, the Lord being willing, my attempt to tell you some of the things that are in my mind, and that dwell in my heart. I have not lived alone these five months. I have dwelt in the spirit of prayer, of supplication, of faith and of determination; and I have had my communication with the Spirit of the Lord continuously; and I am glad to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that it is a happy meeting this morning for me to have the privilege of joining with you in the opening of this eightyninth Semi-annual Conference of the Church. 

God Almighty bless you and those who shall address you, and President Lund, who will continue in charge of the services, in my absence, at least; and all who take part in the services of this conference, that you may have a time of rejoicing and of great reward. 

SOME CURRENT HISTORY. 

I have drawn a few items, by request, from the current events of the Church and its history, that I think will be interesting to be read by our people in the Deseret News, this evening, and for thi f s reason I will submit these items to the clerk to be handed over to the Deseret News for publication. 

Hoping that you will pardon my effort to say anything under so unfavorable circumstances to myself, I bless you in the name of the Lord 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 3 

Jesus Christ, and invoke his favor and blessing and protection upon you now and forever. Amen. 

At the close of President Smith's remarks the organist struck a chord of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." The congregation arose in unison, and without announcement, and under strong emotion, sang that sacred song so dear to the Saints. 

The following are the items of current history referred to in President Smith's remarks : 

TITHING 

We have been blessed with a most abundant harvest in all the stakes and wards of the Church. The Lord has greatly blessed the people, and it is gratifying to note that our tithing records show an increase in tithing paid for the first nine months of this year over the corresponding- months of 1917. 

PRIESTHOOD ACTIVITIES 

In consequence of so many of our young men being drafted into the war, the activities of our quorums of the priesthood, especially of the Elders, Priests and Teachers quorums, are very much impaired. In some wards nearly every priest and teacher of draft age is in the war. The quorums have been seriously depleted, and a corresponding effect has also been felt in the Sunday School and Y. M. M. I. A. 

MISSIONARY WORK 

The extension of the draft age has also affected our missionary work, and we are not now sending missionaries out who are within the draft age. 

RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT 

Our Relief Societies were called on, just prior to harvest time of this year, to supply the government with all the wheat they had stored up for years. Of course, they promptly and loyally complied with the request, and the wheat has been taken over by the government and used to help meet the demand made upon this country by our allies. The money received for this wheat is a trust fund, and should be kept in the banks, and when the proper time arrives, used to purchase wheat to be saved up against another time of need. The policy inaugurated by the leaders of the Church years ago with reference to this matter is a sound policy and should be continued. 

TEMPLES 

The Hawaiian temple is now nearing completion. Substantial progress is being made with the Cardston temple. The building is enclosed, and the finishing work now in process. 

MILITARY SERVICE 

We believe that our brethren who have answered the call of their Country and entered the war should have their names on record in the Church, and Bishops should enter every member of their ward who is in 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the military service of the United States or its allies on the tithing record, as this record is a roll of honor. Further details will be given by the Presiding Bishopric. 

REORGANIZATION OF THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Bishop Orrin P. Miller, first counselor to Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley, passed away on July 7, 1918, after a long and severe illness. On July 18, Bishop David A. Smith was set apart as first counselor, and Elder John Wells ordained a Bishop and set apart as second counselor to Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley. 

DEATHS 

Since our last conference Bishop William Fairbourn, of Crescent Ward, Jordan stake, has passed away; and Marion A. Woolley, of Kanab stake, and George E. Giles, of Provo, Utah, laboring in the Australian and Samoan mission fields respectively, also passed away. 

NEW WARDS ORGANIZED 

The following new wards have been organized since our last conference : 

Redcliffe, Utah, Strawberry and Alterra wards, in Duchesne stake; Veyo and Central, in St. George stake; Wandamere, in Granite stake; Lark, in Jordan stake; Topaz, in Portneuf stake, and Pegram Branch in Montpelier stake. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

I believe I can answer for all present that we are most happy to have the privilege to see our beloved President with us again. I know that he has the prayers of his people who are asking the Lord to restore him, to strengthen him and to relieve him of his sickness, and I hope that the prayers of the Saints will be heard in his behalf, that we may again see him able to be with us, and again sit under his voice and hear his inspired instructions to us. The Lord bless President Smith and make him well. 

ZION IS PROSPERING 

I am glad this morning to see this sea of faces beaming with joy at beholding our President in the conference, and I believe that the Lord will bless his servants who shall address us this day. We can bring you the glad tidings that Zion is prospering, that the work is going forward, and, I believe that the Saints are making headway, both spiritually and temporally. 

I received a few notes from Brother Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric. He tells us there has been an increase in the births, blessings and bap- ' tisms in the stakes of Zion compared with the corresponding period of the previous year. A larger number of recommends for the temples have been issued for the first six months of this year than in the same length of time of any previous year. During the six months ending June 30,  were performed in the temples 119,166 baptisms, and 119,400 endowments, sealings and other ordinances. 

We are pleased to see the people flocking to the temples. We know that they do this for an unselfish purpose. They go there to labor for others, and spend their means to get to the temples, and yet I believe that all who attend to this work feel that they are paid in the present, though there will be a great reward for them in the future, when they shall meet their ancestors and friends, and be able to tell them what they have done for them in the temples. In working for others in the temples they themselves get strengthened in their faith. They feel that thy are indeed helpers in the great work of salvation. Our Redeemer is the Author of the plan of salvation, he has given his life for us all, and has accomplished and finished the work given him by his Father for the redemption of all his children who are willing to believe in him as the Savior of the world. His is the only name given whereby salvation can be obtained. We are helping in this great work by doing for others that which they cannot do for themselves in their present condition. Millions of spirits who have occupied tabernacles upon the earth have not had the opportunity of hearing the voice of the servants of God, and have not even heard the name of Jesus Christ; but the plan of salvation, as framed in the eternal councils, was so broad that it provides the means of redemption for every soul that has lived or shall live upon this earth, who will accept its conditions. 

The subject of doing work for the dead was revealed very early to the Prophet Joseph. In the first visit made to him by the angel, when Joseph was about eighteen years old, the angel explained the scriptures to him and quoted the last chapter in the Old Testament, where Malachi refers to the coming of Elijah who should turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children's hearts to the fathers. Joseph may not have fully understood it then, but before his death the spirit worked upon him to make things plain, and to give the keys of this great principle to his fellow laborers, the apostles. And he was so impressed with the work that he calls it the "most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel." So I am glad to state to you that there has been progress in this matter; that the Saints are influenced by the spirit of salvation for the dead, and are accomplishing a great work in the temples. 

ATTENDANCE AT SACRAMENT MEETINGS 

There has been a larger attendance at sacrament meetings in the six months ending June 30, than during any other similar period since reports were kept. We are pleased to hear this, and we want to say to the Latterday Saints that none of them should be satisfied to stay at home and not attend the sacrament meetings. Don't feel that you can get along just as well without as with attendance at these meetings. It is a great loss to those who stay away. You go there to worship God, to be instructed in his ways, and to renew your covenants with him. In partaking of the sacrament you make the promise that you will take upon you the name of the Son of God, that you will always remember him and -keep his commandments which he has given you, and then the promise is that you will have his Spirit to be with you. You cannot progress spiritually if you do not partake of these holy things, and doing it will strengthen and inspire you during the week days; and, therefore, let us all feel that it is our duty to attend sacrament meetings and thereby help to build up one another in our holy faith. 

PRIESTHOOD MEETING AND MILITARY SERVICE ' 

The attendance at the weekly priesthood meetings has fallen off, in consequence of a large number being in military service. Many of our boys who hold the priesthood have been called to go in defense of our Country. Willingly they have accepted the call, and, I believe that they will do honor to their parents by noble devotion to the cause of their Country, by their righteous living, and by the example they will show to others. We pray that God will be with them, shield and protect them, and that we may have the joy to see them come back pure and good, as they left us. 

There are fifty-six thousand holding the priesthood. Of these there are fifteen thousand who are not able to do much active labor, mostly on account of 'age, infirmity or sickness, or by reason of their occupation or absence from home on military service. 

I thought these few items would be interesting to us all. They were just handed to me. 

THE WORK IN THE MISSIONS 

Our missionary work, brethren and sisters, is still progressing. In the different missions of the United States, a good work is being done. We still have a goodly number laboring in these missions, and they are meeting with success and performing their labors to the satisfaction of their presidents. In the neutral countries, in Europe, we are hindered somewhat in keeping up the usual number of missionaries. At present we have very few in the Scandinavian countries and in Holland, and we haven't any over in Turkey. The elders fyave been withdrawn from there on account of the unsafety of strangers, and especially Americans, in that country. In Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, we have but thirteen missionaries left, where we used to have a hundred or more. Much work, therefore, is resting upon these few men, and most of them have been longer than usual in the missionary field. The expenses now are double what they used to be, and this makes it quite hard for them to meet the cost of living, but they are willing to do what they can to keep up the work. At present the governments of these countries do not want aliens to come and take up residence with them. I suppose the reason for this is mostly of an economic nature. They want to save provisions at home, and not have aliens come from other countries to settle there and thus increase their burdens. I do not think it is on account of their being "Mormons" that our elders cannot be admitted. I believe they are just as free to come as other people, but when .one comes into a city in Norway, he is only allowed to stay two or three days, and then he must travel further. This would prevent our missionaries from taking charge of branches and con. We hope that some arrangement can be made whereby a few experienced elders may be permitted to go there and take charge of the work. We can use quite a number of our local men there to labor in the work, but very few of them are able to support themselves like our missionaries from home do, hence we are limited in using many of them, but the work will go ahead. I remember the time when we had no elders from Zion laboring with us in Scandinavia, and yet the work progressed. The Lord cannot be stayed in carrying out his purposes. 

In Australia and New Zealand we were prohibited from sending more elders there, but this has been modified. The matter has been taken up in Washington with the ambassadors from those countries, and they have given us permission to send elders to replace those who are released, so that we can keep up the work on that side of the globe. On the islands of the sea we have not been hindered much, and the work is progressing there. Our elders who go there are a blessing to the natives, not only in preaching and in spiritual matters, but also in temporal things. For instance, in Tahiti, at the pearl-fishing season, it has been the custom for the natives to get their supplies from the merchants who allow them to keep an open account. The natives are not careful in their buying and often find their indebtedness far in excess of their wages, and therefore are under the necessity of working another season to pay the bills due their creditors, and then again obtain their supplies on credit. President Ernest Rossiter, who presides over the members of our Church in Tahiti, and some of the elders laboring there, now accompany those of our people who are engaged in diving for the pearl oysters. They encourage the natives not to run in debt, and they help them to get their supplies at wholesale rates. The consequence has been that when the fishing season is over they draw their wages and are no longer in the bondage of debt. The elders hold meetings and encourage their members to resist temptations and live lives of Latter-day Saints. Workers, not members of the Church, see the beneficial results of this move and are trying to follow the same course. The same way on other islands, the Elders are trying to teach the people a better way of living, temporally as well as spiritually. 

THE TEMPLE BLOCK MISSION 

We have one of the best mission fields right here on this temple block where Brother Goddard and his assistants are laboring diligently in explaining the principles to tourists who come here to see what the "'Mormons" have done and learn what they believe. They ask many questions, which guides are always ready to answer in explanation of our belief, and many of them go away without the prejudice against us which they entertained when they came. We have found the effect of this temple block service in the different missions. When our elders chance to enter the homes of these visitors they have invited them in, treated them kindly, and told them what a splendid time they had in Salt Lake City, and how pleased they were to hear the gospel explained to them by our guides. In this tabernacle we have recitals during the summer. Brother McClellan and his assistant organists are doing a splendid work here. People come and listen to the great organ, they hear the beautiful music, and many have been moved even to tears. So that when they go away they cannot believe the stories that the "Mormons" are such an ignorant, uncultured people as some have tried to portray them. They remember with pleasure what has been done for them. 

LABORS OF LADY MISSIONARIES 

In the mission fields, now that so many of our young men have had to come home and go into the army, we have been assisted very much by our young women, who have gone out and filled missions. They also are successful in tracting, in meeting the people and getting into their homes. Those who may be afraid of the elders, cannot believe that these innocent girls can come for any purpose of deceiving, and they are willing to listen to them, and many have been brought to believe in the truth by the simple testimonies borne by these young women who have accepted missions. The Lord bless them and make them successful in their labors. OUR DUTY IN WARNING AND HELPING TO WARN 

This duty of informing the world concerning our belief and warning them of what is coming, rests upon the Latter-day Saints. If you read the 33rd chapter of Ezekiel, you can see what the Lord says against those who are watchmen and not performing their duties. If the people are warned and do not heed the warning, the Lord says their blood will be upon themselves, but if they are not warned and the watchman has been careless in failing to give them the warning, the blood will be on his skirts. Now, we elders of Israel do not want to incur any blame or punishment because of neglect of duties in regard to informing' the w r orld. We cannot send our young men. We will be obliged therefore to call on our experienced elders, many of whom have performed excellent missions before. When we ask them to go today we find in some cases that their circumstances are such that they cannot go. But we have a great many who have not been on missions, and perhaps are not suitable for missionary life, but who could do their duty by helping some of these able and experienced men to go and preach the gospel. It would not cost much; it is a good way of using the mammon of unrighteousness to make friends for us hereafter, as alluded to by Jesus. Why, in early days of the Church when we sent men out as missionaries, they went without purse or scrip. I remember two elders who were sent to a large city in Norway; one was a g'ood speaker, the other was not much of a speaker, but he was a good tailor. He took work and he supported his fellow missionary, and they laid the foundation of a splendid branch, and so wherever the elders were sent they were willing to work for the furtherance of the cause, they would labor with their hands and give all they made to help in this work. However, we do not go so far as this at home. Many of our brethren who have been blessed temporally would feel more blessed if they would use some of their means to have a good elder go on. a mission and labor where we are under the necessity of sending missionaries. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND 9 

THE ADVATAGES AND BLESSINGS OF CHURCH GATHERINGS 

Now, brethren, I am afraid my voice doesn't reach you all. I am glad to see this congregation. I know that you came to learn more of the ways of the Lord and to worship him. What a splendid thing it was that  the Lord in the very opening revelation in April, 1830, gave us the command, that we should meet in conference every three months, or at times appointed. We come together, we meet friends, we talk over past times; those who are a little wayward get strengthened and encouraged to take a right course, and the Saints rejoice in learning what the Church is doing, and to know that they are in accord with the spirit of the work. 

When the tribes of Israel rebelled in the days of Rehoboam they followed Jeroboam, who led them into idolatry. A few years before, they had helped to build that beautiful temple, Solomon's temple, and they had rejoiced in going there. It was a command of God that they should go every year and make an offering in the temple of the Lord. Jeroboam j-ealized what that meant. If his subjects should go to Jerusalem, they would soon go back again and join with the two tribes in their worship, and his power over them would be lost, so he established places of worship on mountains in his own country to keep them away from the temple, of God in Jerusalem. 

Now, we love to see our people come here to our conferences, and we know that they feel blessed in coming, and that when they return home the spirit of the conference will follow them. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, help us to be faithful and true in our covenants with the Lord, and to so live that when life is ended we may feel that we have done the best we have understood, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

It would be .very difficult for me, and I believe for any one of our brethren to express the joy and gratitude which well up in our hearts this morning in beholding the form and features and hearing the voice of our beloved president. 

THE PEOPLE'S LOVE FOR PRESIDENT SMITH 

We have sympathized with him in his affliction, and have earnestly desired that he might be touched by the healing power of God, so that his days might be prolonged on the earth, and that he might be spared to be with us again to give us instructions, to preside over the Church and all its affairs, as he has done so well in the past; and the Lord has heard our prayers, to the extent, at least, that he is present with us this morning. This has been the desire of the Latter-day Saints everywhere, I believe also, the desire of many people who are not members of our Church. They have learned to love and respect President Smith, and I have heard from many of them the earnest wish that he might fully recover. Wc value him not only as a man clothed upon with the Holy Priesthood and holding the keys of the kingdom of God on the earth, but we love him for himself; and those of us who have been with him so much in the past and know of his labors from boyhood up to the present time, feel very thankful this morning to God that he is with us, and hope and desire that his days may be still prolonged, that he may be able to accomplish all that he has in his heart to do, and that we may be blessed with his presence and teachings. 

A REPRESENTATIVE CONGREGATION 

This congregation this morning and those who will be here during the sessions of this conference are representative people. We represent the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world. We have people here from all the stakes of Zion, from the various missions abroad, acting in different capacities where they dwell, and they are here to represent those among whom they live as well as being present themselves. And this is a very important gathering. I hope we will all hear with prayerful hearts and recipient souls, so that we may receive the word of the Lord through our faith, and that what we hear we may remember, and that the spirit of it, if not the actual words, may be carried to every part of the Church where these representative people reside. 

OUR WORK DIFFERENT FROM OTHER CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS 

This work in which we are engaged is altogether different in many respects from any other religious organization in the world. This we should feel in our hearts, and the testimony we have received concerning it should have weight upon our minds. Every person who has been baptized into this Church and confirmed as a member, and especially those who have been ordained to any office in the priesthood, have a mission to perform in the world. This gospel is to be sent to every nation and kindred and tongue- and people. This was the voice of the angel that came to the Prophet Joseph in his boyhood in revealing the place where the plates were, the language of which has been translated into English and called the Book of Mormon. We have the gospel to present to the world, to all nations, to every class and kind of people, to the Christian world and to the heathen world, to the preachers as well as to the people. While we do not despise the teachings of good men in the various Christian sects or in the various sects in heathendom, when they endeavor to enlighten the minds of mankind, when they desire to benefit the people, but feel in our hearts to bless them so far as they are sincere and earnest in their work; at the same time, we must not lose sight of the fact that this organization to which we belong, of which we are members and should be active workers in, is the only Church upon the face of earth with which the Lord has declared he is pleased, well pleased, when the people do right, that this is the only Church of Jesus Christ on the face of the earth. There could not be a dozen or even two different churches of Christ. There could not be two different religions from God, the 

Father. Our common sense tells us this, if there' were no particular revelations to that effect. 

THE MISSION OF THE CHURCH 

We should understand that we are called of God to be sei ✓ants of the Lord Jesus Christ, to follow in his footsteps as far as we are able to do so; that we should embody his character, that we should observe the law of obedience to God as he observed it; understand that we came here not to do our own will unless it be like God's will, in conformity therewith, in harmony with him and his purposes; that we came here for this purpose, to learn the ways of God and to walk in the path that he marks out for us. And the Church is organized to that end, to carry and to send forth the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel of salvation, to all peoples upon the face, of the earth, to every country, to the islands of the sea, the continents, and every part of this globe where there are people dwelling. This is our mission, and those of us who cannot go there should do everything in our power with all our hearts to send the gospel there; and, as President Lund has intimated to us this morning, when able men, men who are able to carry this gospel and to preach it in plainness, by authority and in the power of God, are not able financially to perform this duty, they should be aided by their brethren and sisters at home. We have proven how easy it is comparatiyely to raise funds for different purposes, worthy purposes. Israel has responded to the call of the Nation. This is right, part of our duty, but it just shows to us what we can do when we get the spirit of a work; and there are means enough that can be raised from the ranks of Israel to send just as many elders as we are able to send in these times at any rate, abroad in the world and sustain them or sustain their families at home while they are away. 

THE DUTY OF THE SEVENTIES 

I might say that this work ought to, in my opinion, devolve largely upon the different quorums of seventies in the Church. This is a wonderful organization in every respect, and the seventies, those elders who .are called to compose quorums of seventies, elders presided over each one by seven of its number, should have it in their hearts to send this gospel to the ends of the earth. That is what they are for; that is their special calling. Every elder has received authority from God to hold the Melchizedek Priesthood and to be a minister of the Most High, whether he be a standing minister in the stakes of Zion or is sent forth by proper authority to different parts in the world; but especially the seventies in the Church are called and appointed and ordained to preach the gospel to the ends of the earth under the direction of the Twelve apostles. 

This is part of the system to which we belong. What a beautiful system it is! Provision made in it for carrying the gospel abroad and for preaching to the people at home, and for setting in order the people in all the different parts of Zion, and for the establishment of the purposes of the Almighty, all in perfect order. If you would all keep in the order that is appointed by revelation from on high, there would be no trouble among us, all the powers and authorities vested in different callings in the Church, but all would work in perfect harmony, and it does to a very large extent. We only have a little ripple now and then from persons who are either not fully informed or become ambitious, wish to step out of their place and do' that for which they have not been appointed. 

OUR AUTHORITY DIVINE 

Now, my brethren and sisters, this morning I rejoice in the testimony in my heart of the divinity of this work, and of this great fact that we are representing the only Church under the direction personally of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, which is recognized on high. The power and authority has come from on high to the leaders of this Church to seal on earth, and what they seal in the way appointed will be sealed in heaven; to loose on earth when it becomes proper and necessary, and it shall be loosed in heaven. We work together with the powers on high. The authority given by the Lord to us is divine authority. It is not the authority of men although it is given to men. Men are called and ordained to different offices in the holy priesthood that they may labor for the salvation of souls, not only for the living but also for the dead. 

THE DUTY OF THE PRESENT 

Our work goes back to our ancestry, to former generations as far as we can extend it. It also goes forward for the benefit of our posterity, and we stand here on the earth between these two seas, not "unbounded" seas, as we used to sing in one of the old sectarian hymns — "On two unbounded seas I stand" was one of the songs that used to be sung in the old Dissenting churches; of course that is an absurdity — but we do stand between the past and the future. W r e, who are here today in the present, not only have a duty to perform in carrying the gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been restored in the latter days, to all the world, but to labor for the salvation of our ancestors by attending to ordinances for them which they could not now perform, being in the spirit world; also to lay a foundation for our posterity to walk in our ways as far as we do right, to learn to keep God's commandments and, when we pass away, to bear off this kingdom and carry it to a consummation under the direction of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, who is perfect in his obedience to the great Eternal Father whom we worship. 

DOCTRINES REVEALED FROM GOD 

The doctrines of the Church that have been given to lis have been revealed from God. The doctrine of faith — real faith, not mere belief, but real, whole-souled faith in the Supreme Being, the Father of us all in our spirit state; to have faith in him and in his Son Jesus Christ, who represents him fully and completely in personality, in appearance, in form, in feature, in spirit and in power, and is appointed to be the manifestation of God in the flesh. He has ended his mission on earth; he is  it on high; he kept every commandment of God before he came into the world; he kept the commandments of God while he was here, and has continued to be subservient to his Father .in heaven, so that they two are one, and the Holy Ghost, the third person in the holy Trinity — a personage of spirit — is one with them; and by the power that emanates from Deity the worlds are created and peopled and led on from stage to stage in progress towards perfection, all to be obedient to the eternal principles of right embodied in the personages of the Trinity, our Father, our Elder Brother, and the Holy Ghost. From them proceeds that universal essence or spirit, the Holy Spirit, which is "in all things and through all things and round about all things," and as we are told in God's revelation to us, "is the law by which all things are governed." 

The Lord has revealed to us through the prophet Joseph that by the power of that Spirit he created all things, firstly spiritual and afterwards temporal. That is boundless; wherever there is space, that Spirit is, so that there are kingdoms everywhere, as the revelation says : "There is no space in which there is no kingdom, and there is no kingdom in which there is no space;" and this universal Spirit, which is the Spirit of life, the Spirit of light, the Spirit of truth, is the vital principle that animates all things organized under the direction of our Father and those associated with him, and is the one eternal Spirit by which things that are spiritual are manifest to those who are temporal. Now, that Spirit is with the Saints in its higher forms, in its higher gifts, in its higher manifestations. It is sealed upon us by the laying on of hands after we are baptized, as a heavenly gift, an abiding witness, and the doctrine of faith in Christ has to be taught to all the world as plainly as we can make it clear, to overcome the fallacies existing in the world — in the Christian nations and in the heathen nations — about an impersonal deity, about something which is nothing, a blank contradiction, that error may be dispelled, that darkness may be rolled away from the minds of the children of men, and the light of the everlasting gospel shall shine in, that they may learn something about God their Father, something about their origin, something about their duty, and something about their destiny. 

, EVERY MAN SHOULD LEARN HIS DUTY 

This work belongs to us who are here today, and those whom we represent in the different parts of the Church, and every man should learn his standing in the priesthood which is given to him, learn his duties. He can read most of them from the Doctrine and Covenants, which God has given to us as a sacred book, one of the written standards of the Church, which with the Bible and the Book of Mormon and the Pearl of Great Price comprehends the written standards. And we are not bound to receive every book that somebody publishes with his own personal views and notions to' lead people astray and to glorify himself. Every man should learn his duty from that which God has revealed, and there is plenty revealed to enable us to understand our callings, our duties, our powers in the priesthood, and its limits. We are to advocate the freedom of conscience, and the freedom of speech and of good law. The freedom of speech should not be extended to license, whether it be by word of mouth or by the press, but that liberty which God designs for his children to have is embodied in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, so that our gospel is a gospel of liberty. It preaches liberty from sin, shows how people may repent, how they may turn away from evil doings so as to preserve their bodies as well as their spirits in purity before the Lord so _ that they may be quickened by his Spirit and learn of him, and come into sweet communion with him, and learn by the revelations of the Holy Ghost to them individually what they are required to do. Every man should understand that. Besides that, there is order in the Church, by which the law of the Lord can be made known to the members of the Church, and the man who stands at the head holds the keys thereof. If we would all do that it would save a great deal of trouble and would accomplish a great deal of good. 

OUR CHURCH IS DIVINE 

Now, T desire this morning in my heart that all persons who attend this conference shall go away feeling the fact to be clear to their minds and burning in their souls, that this Church to which we belong is a divine Church. It is not a church of men. It is a Church from God, revealed by Jesus Christ and by those whom he has appointed. He visited the Prophet Joseph, personally, and the priesthood itself came from on high, and was bestowed by the laying on of hands upon the Prophet Joseph, by beings who held the keys, and has come down from him to us and is the same to us as it was to him and the brethren associated with him in the early rise of the Church. It is called the priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, because Melchizedek was a very great and effective high priest, and the priesthood after the order of Aaron is so named because he was in a large degree a leading faithful priest. Some things he did that were wrong, like Moses did, and they were chastised for their misdeeds and weaknesses, but this priesthood is that which they held, and it is the only authority that God has given to man on the earth to represent him and to administer the ordinances of the Church in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, or in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, in those things that the Lord has specially required to be done in that order. 

OUR DUTY UNDER THIS KNOWLEDGE 

And, this work should be rooted in our hearts. We have a duty to perform. We are here to do it. That is what we are here for on the earth. The Lord kept our spirits back to this dispensation, that we might come here and aid in the building up of his kingdom and bringing about his purposes, which are all bound up in the redemption of the race, as President Lund has told us this morning, for the salvation of all mankind, with only a few exceptions. Everything is to be saved that can be saved, and onlv those who will utterly rebel against the principles of salvation will be ultimately lost and "go away with the devil and his  in eternity, to suffer the wrath of God;" they are to receive the penalty that is their portion, but all the rest are to come forth, every man in his order, and be judged according to his works, and when he has received the proper penalty or has been forgiven through deep and earnest and real repentance, and turns unto God and bows the knee and is willing to do all things that the Lord commands, then all these can be brought up into some place or position where they can glorify God, and enjoy their own existence, and unite with their kind in the kingdom or order to which they are appointed, and in which they receive a just degree of glory. 

This is a great and mighty work because it is divine, and we should carry that knowledge with us. While we treat everybody in the world with proper respect, respecting their feelings, respecting their notions and ideas, as far as they are worthy of any respect — we do . not wish to interfere with the mode of worship or anything in which they may engage that is lawful— at the same time we have to remember the fact that we are the people of the Lord, and that we are here and are baptized into His Church, and ordained to the priesthood or appointed in the several auxiliary societies, that we may be saviors of men and of women and of children, and that we may plant in the earth a structure that cannot be uprooted, the benefits of which will go to our posterity and reach back to our ancestors for generations that are past. It is a splendid work. There is no language in which its greatness can be properly extolled and glorified and explained, because it is divine, and carries the mark of divinity in every part of its organism, in all its doctrines and precepts and ordinances and ceremonies, all of which are from God and not from man. 

OUR MISSION THE SALVATION OF SOULS 

Now, brethren and sisters, this is our mission on the earth, to labor for the salvation of souls, to do good and fear not, to stand, each man and woman in his or her lot and place, and labor for the redemption of the race, under the direction of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Master. It is a splendid work in which to be engaged. I have been in it for a long time, and I can say that I have more joy, and always have, in carrying the gospel to people afar off, or preaching it to people at home, when I have the spirit of it, than in anything else that I have been engaged in at any time. There is a joy. a complete satisfaction and contentment of soul in laboring for this cause, that does not go with anything else in the world. This will be our payment right here, if we get no other pay, but the glory that is to come, oh! if we could only express what we can see and feel of it, I think we would enthuse other people. I think we would inspire them to works of righteousness, and to join in and bring about the purposes of the Almighty, because this work is to go pn forever and ever, and there is no end to it. This work will go on in the worlds that are to come, and our posterity, if they are only trained up in the right way and will walk in the path of righteousness, will help to carry this on, generation after generation, eternity after eternity, and there is no end of it. ETERNAL OR CELESTIAL MARRIAGE 

One of the greatest manifestations of the mind and will of God to this Church is in the doctrine revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith on eternal or celestial marriage. This ought to be impressed on the minds of our children, our hoys and our girls. Not merely as a matter of duty should they receive the ordinance of eternal matrimony, but as a great deligkt, as a privilege. Thankful they should be in their hearts that they can be worthy of receiving that great blessing — a man to have a wife sealed to him by the holy order of God, by that which is from all eternity, by the power of the eternal priesthood, which is without beginning of days or end of years, and that this shall be recorded on earth and recorded in heaven. It shall be sealed on earth by the power of the Most High in men appointed to perform it, and sealed in heaven to stand forever, both beyond the veil and in and after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God. What a privilege for men and women to be sealed together by the holy order of God in holy matrimony, loving one another with all their hearts, putting down every feeling of discord that may arise, subduing every feeling of personality wherein they disagree, trying to harmonize in the household and build upon a foundation that shall never be destroyed, that the children after them shall come forth in purity to serve the Lord, to spread his gospel in the world, and in the world to come shall be with them in the holy patriarchal order of the family rela-. tion, and that they shall increase, worlds without end, in their posterity, in knowledge, in wisdom, in understanding, in dominion, in power, in glory, and in close intercourse with the great Eternal Father and beings of his character. That is what is involved in this splendid order of celestial marriage. 

When I speak of "celestial marriage" I mean just as we can read about it in the 132nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants. It is given as a commandment; that is, this celestial marriage, which is eteral marriage, marriage for time and all eternity. That is necessary for a man and a woman to attain to the highest degree of glory in the celestial world. If they do not receive it in their hearts they are damned, or condemned, because if they do riot receive it then they cannot go further; their relations will end at death. But if they are united by the holy order of God, by that power which is from all eternity,ordained, as Jesus said, by him and his Father before the world was. it shall abide in death and it shall abide in and after the resurrection. The children, the posterity of the persons thus joined, shall belong to them, to one another, and with that order they will progress in all things and have an endless posterity while eternal ages roll along. That is a privilege. We need not class it as a duty, although it is, for it is a commandment of God. 

PLURAL MARRIAGES NO LONGER SOLEMNIZED 

There is another portion of that revelation which relates to further orders in that holy order of marriage which is under special direction, the power and keys of which are confined to one individual, who is the 

President of the Church. Read it carefully. The keys of that power are given only to one man at a time on the earth, and you will see sometime, if you cannot now, the wisdom of that law. He holds the key of that power, and when he turns it, as Brother Woodruff did, it closes the door. He issued a manifesto which was adopted by the Church, that plural marriages should no longer be solemnized, because the highest court, the court of last resort in this land, passed upon the laws that had been enacted by Congress, and pronounced them constitutional, then we submitted to the law of the land, as we are told to do in the revelations of God, and to the authority that belongs to the one man in the law of God. Now then, when you hear of people — I want to refer to this as clearly as possible, and I find it necessary to do it because of some recent occurrences — when men go around and whisper in the ears of the people that this thing is all right if you can keep it secret; keep it from the man that holds the keys — Think of it! — if you can keep it from him, don't say anything to him about it; it is all right. Such deception has been exposed and condemned several times, but it is cropping out again. 

President Lorenzo Snow, in the year 1900, the 8th day of January, issued a statement through the Deseret Neivs, announcing that plural marriages were positively forbidden. They were stopped before that, of course, and the congregation in conference assembled endorsed the decision of President Wilford Woodruff, who held the keys, that this kind of marriages should be permitted no longer. President Lorenzo Snow, on the date named, published in .the Dcscrct News a statement to the effect and told the brethren everywhere that if they entered into that kind of marriage it would be at their own risk under the law, for the Jaw is against it, the law of the land and the law of the Church; and when people are inveigled into any relation of plural marriage by persons pretending to have a right to do it, they are led astray, and I am afraid when they are, they are very willing to be led astray, at least in some instances, but there are only a few such cases to be heard of nowadays, and yet they continue. There are persons who claim to hold the priesthood, who go around among the people and tell them it is all right and that it can be done. 

President Joseph F. Smith, in 1904 — he had spoken about this before, but he then issued a public manifestation which also was published in the Dcserct News, proclaiming to all the Church that there was not one man in the Church that had any right to administer that order of marriage, and yet such things have been done since that time, and we hear now that it is springing up again, and there are persons going around among the people and trying to lead them astray in regard to this. Let me read to vou a verse or two. Here is what President Lorenzo Snow said January 8, 1900 : 

"I feel it just to both 'Mormons' and non-'Mormons' to state that in accordance with the manifesto of the late President Woodruff, dated September 26th, 1890, which was presented to and unanimously accepted by our general conference on the 6th of October, 1890, the Church had positively abandoned the practice of polygamy or the solemnization of plural marriages in this and every other state, and that no member or officer thereof has any authority whatever to perform such plural marriages or enter into such relationship." Here is what was said over the signature of President Smith: 

"Inasmuch as there are numerous reports in circulation that plural marriages have been entered into contrary to the official declaration of President Woodruff of September 26th, 1890, commonly called the Manifesto, which was issued by President Woodruff and adopted by the Church at its general conference, October 6th, 1890, which forbade any marriage violative of the law of the land, I, Joseph F. Smith, President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, do hereby affirm and declare that no such marriages have been solemnized with the sanction, consent or knowledge of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I hereby announce that all such marriages are prohibited, and if any officer or member of the Church shall assume to solemnize or enter into any such marriage, he will be deemed in transgression against the Church, and will be liable to be dealt with according to the rules and regulations thereof, and excommunicated therefrom." 

Thereupon the following- resolution was unanimously adopted when this instruction and decision from the President of the Church was presented : 

"Resolved that we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, in general conference assembled, hereby approve and endorse the statement and declaration of President Joseph F. Smith, just made to the conference concerning plural marriages, and will support the courts of the Church in the enforcement thereof." 

On January 31st, 1914, a message was sent to all the presidents of stakes and counselors, signed by the Presidency of the Church, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose, saying: 

"Having reason to believe that some members of the Church are secretly engaged, advising and encouraging others to enter into unauthorized and unlawful marriages, we have deemed it advisable to call your attention to the communication we addressed to you on this subject on the 5th of October, 1910, a copy of which is herewith appended; and believing, as we do, that these people are at the bottom of all the violations referred to in our communication, we direct your special attention to them, with the request that any information received by you from time to time relating to cases of this character, be followed up and investigated, with a view to having this class of offenders placed on trial for their fellowship in the Church, as we regard them equally culpable with actual offenders. Please make the same request of your bishops." 

Now, perhaps it might be thought there was no particular need to speak of this in this public conference, but I feel it a duty resting upon me, because I have heard so many stories that are being told concerning this that I thought it ought to be presented to this congregation, and I hope I have not trodden on the feet of any of my brethren in doing it. I know that this is their mind and will, and I know there are many members of our Church who point to certain parties and say they know that those parties have been married in plural marriage, that is, they have been joined — for there is no marriage in it — in plural marriage, but they do not tell that in a way that those parties can be properly handled. There is order in this Church, as there is in all the works of God, and there are proper tribunals to which these things should be presented. The bishops, as common judges in Israel, can take up such cases, and when they find the evidence, the proof is given them, can withdraw the hand of  from the offenders, and they can send up the cases of men holding the priesthood, who have been shown to be transgressing in this way, to the high council of the stake wherein they reside, and it is the duty of the high councils in the respective stakes of Zion to act on these cases when they are so presented. 

The Council of the Twelve, which is a traveling, presiding high council, has had to take up some of these cases and has acted upon them, but the Twelve are not in a position always to do this, and when the people say: "Oh, the Church knows about it, the Church knows about it," they are mistaken; the Church does not know, and if they know, it is their duty to take the matter before the proper authorities and get the matter handled, and stop this talk about the Church knowing it. Every case of this kind, when people make such remarks, is a reflection upon the President of the Church, who holds the keys, and it is intimated that he has one thing for the public and another thing in private; that is a wicked falsehood, and I denounce it as such. I know that President Smith is the very soul of honor. I know that he stands, in his right place and holds the keys of this power, and if he thought it was proper to countenance such things in any way, he would do it with the greatest boldness in the world. I have not talked to him about this particular point, this morning or at any time recently, but I know that this is his mind, and I think that it is a good time to speak of it now. 

STATUS OF PEOPLE WHO ENTER MARRIAGE WITHOUT AUTHORITY 

Brethren and sisters, when we enter into any order that God has appointed, we have to do it properly, righteously, in the right spirit, and the man who holds the keys only has the right to regulate the matter. Do not believe these stories that men who are seeking to indulge their own lust are circulating around among the people, but try to guard the purity of our innocent girls, many of whom have never heard of such things, and these things are whispered in their ears by some designing person who is a rebel, a rebel against the Church of Christ and a rebel against the laws of the land — the laws of Utah I refer to. The laws of Utah forbid these things. The laws of Utah provide a very heavy penalty for any person who solemnizes such a marriage, a very heavy penalty for the man who enters into such a pretended marriage. It is not recognized as a marriage, but it is called a marriage so that cases may be tried in court. So that a man who goes around and does this, either by solemnizing such a thing or by advocating it, is a rebel against the Church and a rebel against the country, the state to which he belongs. That may sound rather harsh language, but it does not fully express my feelings and the feelings of others in regard to such persons. Now, I hope there are only a few cases existing among the people that I have referred to, because it is a serious thing to have people fancy that they are married, when there was no real marriage, no marriage according to the Church, no marriage according to the laws of the land; and yet they live together with all the privileges of matrimony. It is wrong, displeasing to the Lord, displeasing to those who are in authority in the Church, and offensive to a great many people who are surrounded by such persons and have to meet them pretty nearly every day. I would say to my brethren in the priesthood that while we want to extend the hand of kindness to repentant souls, while we do not want to throw a straw in the way of a repentant sinner, either in time or eternity, it does not follow, when such persons really repent, that they should be put up on high to be a mark for the people to respect in high places. Just think that over in your minds. Repentance is right, and encouragement of repentance is right, and the forgiving of sinners is right. God forgives sin when people properly repent, but that does not involve the idea that they should be set up in high places to be a mark of respect for people who feel that these persons have been in transgression. 

THE SPIRIT OF GOD AS A CONSTANT WITNESS 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us all do our duty. Let us rejoice in the Lord. Let us feel glad in this splendid work of the Lord that has been established. Let us do all in our power to spread forth the gospel by carrying it or sending it to the ends of the earth. It is a glorious work to carry this message of salvation, to bring souls, honest souls, into the knowledge of the truth and into the Church of Christ, to baptize them for the remission of their sins, and their sins are washed away : as the water washes their bodies, so their souls are cleansed, their spiritual beingis cleansed and revived, and they are born unto Christ Jesus, and become part of him, or of his body, the Church; and then by the laying on of hands to confer upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost as a gift from God, the Holy Spirit to be with them as a constant witness, as the abiding testimony, as the light of God, lit up in their souls, and to enable them to come near to the Lord and receive the revelations of his will concerning themselves, but not to govern the Church unless they are so appointed. Now, that is a splendid thing, and it is a reality. I know it is true. I know "it works," as the saying is, in every land to which it is carried. People of different languages and countries and customs, to whom I have had the privilege of bearing my testimony, who have embraced the gospel, have received this one spirit, which gives the testimony of Jesus, and it is a reality and no moonshine about it. It is the light from the Sun of Righteousness. It is the glory of God that shines around about them. It fills the soul with peace. It gives them an abiding witness of the life and death and atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the divine authority of the Prophet Joseph Smith, of the divine authority of the elders of Israel who bear this priesthood, and it is a real thing in the soul of man. 

TESTIMONY AND BLESSINGS 

I thank my God this morning in the midst of this congregation for this knowledge. I desire it to rest upon the people. I desire the Latterday Saints to realize that they are members of the body of Christ, that they are all under covenant to walk in his ways, to serve him and keep his commandments, and when they receive the sacrament of the Lord's sup, that they renew their covenants with him, declaring that they are willing to take npon them his name, and to keep the commandments which he has given them, so that the Holy Spirit may be with them always. What a blessing! What a great gift from God, and it is true, just as true as that we are here in this congregation this morning. 

Now, may the Lord bless his servant, President Smith, and prolong his days on the earth in usefulness, according to the full desire of his heart. The Lord will bless him in time and in eternity, in the body or out of the body. He is one of the chosen of God before the foundations of the world, to come here on the earth and hold the keys of this last dispensation, and he will carry with him wherever he goes, on the earth or in the spirit world, the might and strength and power of the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, to be a witness for Him, to spread truth and light and salvation among the children of men, when they are out of the body as well as in the body, and stand in his lot and place as a leader in Israel, with the glory of God surrounding him forever and ever. God bless this congregation, and while we are here together in this conference may the Spirit of the Lord inspire every one who speaks, that they may bring forth words of eternal life, and may the Holy Spirit accompany them, and may we all be able to carry it with us wherever we go, as ministers of Christ, exemplars as well as preachers of the word, and stand in our lot and place and do our duty to the full extent, then our glory is sure, our exaltation is certain, and it will be forever and ever. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I feel it imperative upon myself to endorse and affirm without reservation the statements that have been made by President Penrose in relation to the subject upon which he last treated. I want to say to this congregation, and to the world, that never at any time since my presidency in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have I authorized any man to perform plural marriage, and never since my presidency of the Church has any plural marriage been performed with my sanction or knowledge, or with the consent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and therefore such unions as have been formed unlawfully, contrary to the order of the Church, are null and void in the sight of God, and are not marriages. I hope you will put this down in your note-book of remembrance, and bear it in mind henceforth. 

The Choir and congregation sang Elder Joseph R. Shepherd, former 

the hymn, "Guide us, O Thou great president of the Bear Lake stake of 

Tehovah." ' Zion. Conference adjourned until 



