Overflow
03 10 1926

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure for me to be with you tills morning. I regret that we can not be in the Tabernacle where we could listen to the opening address of our President, for no doubt we shall miss something through not having that privilege; yet jl am sure that if we have faith, desiring the blessings of the Lord, we shall be blessed with his Spirit and shall have a time of rejoicing here. 

As I looked upon the great throng as they were making their way early this morning to find seats in the Tabernacle or in this building, I remarked to Bishop Cannon that they were showing their faith by their works. The fact that so many will come out in a rain storm such as we have this morning, making the atmosphere so disagreeable, shows that these people here hope to be fed the bread of life; and I sincerely pray that those who are assembled will not go away hungry, and that the Lord will bless me while I address you and will give me strength and wisdom to speak to you words of truth and encouragement. We have all, no doubt, discovered that there is always more to be gained through personal contact with the speaker than through reading his addresses alone, for personal contact enables us to catch the spirit of the remarks better than can be done through the written word. This may explain why so many are willing to face wind and rain to be Where they can hear the words of those whom God has chosen and whom we sustain as our leaders, for they are anxious to receive that spiritual food which comes to those who attend such gatherings, hungry for spiritual food. Each individual may test for himself the Savior's words: "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness : for they shall be filled." What a wonderful privilege it is to partake of this spiritual uplift which brings us together in one great cause! 

I found an interesting example of this during the latter part of July. I was called, by the First Presidency of the Church, to take charge of an excursion of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir to California. It was a pleasure to accompany them ( and help to look after them, although a strenuous undertaking. The Choir train carried more than three hundred fifty people, two hundred fifty of whom were choir members. They gave nine concerts in ten clays and traveled every night but one. During the trip each member seemed <to have a desire to make the most favorable impression upon the people, both in their singing and in their conduct, which was above criticism. Through the help of President McCune, of the Los Angeles stake, and his associates, President McMurrin, of the California mission, and the missionaries laboring under him, we were received cordially and had full houses wherever concerts were given. This enabled us to return home, having paid our expenses through the receipts from these concerts and from others given at 'home prior to our departure. 

On the way, and before we entered the city of Sacramento, an official of the Chamber of Commerce of that city boarded the train, and, coming to the car where I was, he said, "Bishop Smith, I have come up here because I desire to talk to you concerning matters which we consider important and I knew I could not have much of your time when you arrive in Sacramento. It is my business to look after the Tourists' Department and the Colonization Department of the Sacramento Chamber of Commerce and the development of the Sacramento Valley. After studying the situation carefully, -we jhave decided to request that your Church give us a stake organization in this district." I asked him whether or not he was a member of the Church, although I did not think he was, for when he boarded the train he was smoking a cigar. He answered, "No, I am not a member of the Church." Then I asked, "What do you know about a stake organization ?" His answer was, "I know that it is impossible to get your people to gather in one place in any great numbers unless they have an organization to keep them at work and supply their spiritual needs, and we want to fill this valley with Latter-day Saints. 

"Years ago," he said, "settlers in this valley started to get the water out upon the land. Among these settlers were a few 'Mormon' families. The first year these people failed, and their crops failed, and many of the settlers moved away. The next year they continued their work and planted their crops, but were not successful in getting sufficient water to save all of them, and still more of the people moved away. The 'Mormons' stayed and continued digging ditches to provide a means of getting water on to the land. They worked with one another and for one another, divided their substance, and helped one another in every way, that all might succeed. They showed none of the spirit of selfishness commonly found, and were filled with hope that they should eventually succeed and make prosperous homes for themselves. The next year they succeeded and put water on to the land, and their ground became productive, a garden spot in a desert; and those who had moved away, and others who had come in to look and see what had been done,' were encouraged. Then men with money, seeing what had been accomplished, and having dreams of what might be accomplished, came in with their money, and the result is that the Sacramento Valley is today the best watered valley in California." 

I have not verified that statement, but the thing of interest to me is that this man and many others have discovered a principle that is a fundamental doctrine of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints : That to succeed we must cooperate one with another, we must help one another, we must set aside all feeling of selfishness which is found in all the world in this day, and we must have an interest in our brother and render assistance to him whenever it is possible to do so, whether that assistance be temporal or spiritual; and this 'help should be rendered in the spirit of love and good fellowship, following the teachings of the Savior. This spirit must be manifest in great abundance before Zion can be finally redeemed, for Zion is to be redeemed only when the people keep the celestial law; and this ,is a state preparatory to the coming of our Lord and Savior to establish his kingdom in the earth. 

Down there in California men whose only interest is to make money, and who are seeking to bring settlers in upon their land, for the main purpose of bringing" wealth to them and their communities, see a way of capitalizing this principle, a principle which I believe many Latter-day Saints have not fully discovered, although it is a dominating factor in their success. In order to succeed, we must have the spirit of this ,work, and when I say we must have the spirit of this work, I mean the God-given power of discernment which keeps before us the vision of eternal life; and unless we serve God we cannot possess this spirit, and the nearer we draw to him, the more this spirit is felt. Having discovered this, his servants find that strength that comes- from personal contact with one another and through hearing the word. This is, no doubt, one reason w'hy so many have gathered here today, in spite of the storm, to hear the wx>rd of the Lord. It is what causes them to stay where they can serve God as he has commanded them to do. One of the apostles of old has stated in I Corinthians 3:13-19: 

"Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. 

"If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. 

"If any man's wcrk shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire. 

"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 

"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. 

"Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world,, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. 

"For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness." 

We see how those Latter-day Saints in California referred to were tried, how their work was revealed, how their success came through the spirit of cooperation and unselfishness, just as the pioneers who settled this valley performed their work in unselfishness, and whose sufferings and hardships were tempered with songs of thanksgiving and praise ,to their God, for through their faith and their works they hoped to get a reward, perhaps not in this life, but surely in the life to come. 

Man may easily deceive himself, and say in his heart, "There is no God." He may see no injurious effects irorn contaminating his body through mental debauchery or physical contamination, and "Why should God interfere?" they may ask. Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who have received the gift of the Holy Ghost, should have no trouble in answering these questions, for they believe their bodies to be the temples of the living God and that his Spirit dwells within only when that dwelling place is clean and made fit to house that spirit. 

We have recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. It was not given as a commandment or by constraint, "but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days — 

"Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all Saints, who are or can be called Saints." 

Since this time, it has been accepted as a revelation and made binding upon the Church. When first given, it seemed revolutionary in its nature, but now, after ninety-three years we find leaders in health movements and physical culturists advocating these principles. They mean more to us than to others, for they look only for physical strength to enable them to enjoy life. We add to that a desire to make of our bodies fit dwelling places for the Spirit of God which, when possessed, brings joy unmatched by physical strength alone. Time will not permit me to dwell at length on the many wonderful promises made in this revelation. I am, therefore, referring only to the use of tobacco and strong drinks : 

"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you : In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned ycu, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word, of wisdom by revelation — 

"That inasmuch as any man drinkcth wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. 

"And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine of your own make. 

"And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

"And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill." 

It may seem strange, but nevertheless is a fact, that men who use tobacco or liquor soon lose the spirit of Church work. Let me give you an example of what I mean: . 

The other day I met a young man, a member of the Church who has filled a mission and who knows the doctrines of the Church, and who at one time was active in Church work. He had a cigar in his mouth, and I asked, "Aren't you ashamed of yourself?" He answered, "You 'don't know how good a cigar is after meals." And I answered, "You and the Lord for it. He says it is not good, and the fact that it is a filt'hy habit and what the Lord has said, would keep me from it, even though it did taste good." He answered, "This doesn't hurt anybody. It is jail nonsense to think tobacco hurts a person. I am just as strong physically today as I have ever been." I asked, "Are you, mentally?" He answered, "It has not hurt my mental condition a bit. I can carry on my business as well as ever I could." "How has it affected you spiritually?" "Well," he answered, "I don't think it has hurt me spiritually. I still have a testimony of the gospel." I asked him if he' attended his meetings. "No," he answered. "Are you active in your Priesthood quorum?" He said he was not. "Do you pay your tithing?" "Well, I am not a full tithepayer; I pay a little once in a while." I said, "Now, honestly, do you ever do anything in the Church at all?" "No," he answered, "I must admit that l'do not." "And why don't you?" After a moment's pause he answered "I don't know." I then quoted for him a part of the passage quoted above, and as he looked at me he said, "Well, I don't know. I have never looked at it in that way before." 

My mission calls me, as one of the presidency of the Aaronic priesthood, to study the conditions of the young men in the Church. I have seen them grow into manhood, become active in Church work; and I have seen some drift away and become inactive. In every case investigated — and I have studied many — the cause of their indifference has been traced to the use of tobacco; and I am satisfied that. the use of tobacco or liquor will drive the Spirit of the Lord from a person and leave that' person to grope in darkness. To partake of and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and the blessings promised, we must keep the commandments and remember that every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it because it shall be revealed by fire. 

I don't know that the Lord meant that he would destroy the body in the literal sense of destruction, although there is no sound argument that can be used to show that liquor and tobacco do not have an injurious effect upon the body. They are injurious not only to the physical body, but to the spiritual body as well. I have yet to find one person who has had the Priesthood of God conferred upon him who indulges in the use of tobacco and who insists upon continuing in this habit who has retained the Spirit of God and continued active in the Church. This is evidence to me that it destroys a man's usefulness and spirituality. 

I suggest' that we give some little thought to this, that we may see for ourselves, not for the purpose of ridiculing our brethren who are so weak that they give themselves over to these filthy habits, "but to  them and to strengthen ourselves, in order that we might see the dangers lurking in our midst and keep ourselves free from these dangers. Let us cultivate the Spirit of the Lord; let us cultivate that spirit of cooperation and love which the world has discovered exists in our midst, and let us go to those who are engaging in these pernicious practices and encourage them to clean themselves up, in order that they too may be fed spiritually and may partajce of the blessings of God which he has promised. Do we truly believe that we are the children of God, created in his image, and that we are bought with a price, the price of the blood of our Redeemer shed for us? If so, let us glorify God in our bodies and in our spirits, which are God's. We should always be in possession of the Spirit of God and should give heed to its whisperings, for without that Spirit, we are told, we cannot know the things of God. His Only Begotten Son suffered and was crucified that we, as his children, might enter again into his presence and partake of his joys. He has provided different degrees of glory and has given us to understand that we are to inherit the degree we earn, through our faithfulness upon this earth, which we are told is a preparatory state. Being a kind and loving Father, he has given every opportunity for us to know of the things that we should know to prepare us for the glory in which he dwells. 

One of the ancient apostles has said: 

"But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you. 

"Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. 

"Fop if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. 

"For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God." 

May we conduct our lives that we shall never grieve that Spirit or cause it to depart from us, but may we possess it always to guide us and help us in our efforts to serve God, is my prayer which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER M. HOWARD RANDALL 

President of the Morgan Stake 

My brethren and sisters: I must confess that this is a surprise to me to be asked to say anything at this conference. I have enjoyed the exercises and the remarks made thus far this morning. My heart is in the work. I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. I know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized and instituted through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that he was an instrument in the hands of God in doing this work. I am proud to be numbered as a Latter-day Saint, and to be with you to bear testimony to the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I have had a good many thoughts while sitting here this morning, and I feel that if every one of us responded to the calls made upon us, carried the responsibilities placed upon us as members of this Church, that this work would be more successful. I fear that sometimes there are men and women upon whom we place responsibilities who, to a certain extent, shun those responsibilities, and feel that they are not so important as thought by those who placed the responsibilities upon them. I often wonder why it is that men and women who have accepted the gospel, and have a testimony burning in their souls that Jesus is the Christ, shun these responsibilities. I often wonder why it is that they do not sense the responsibilities placed upon their shoulders. 

Not long ago I listened to the testimony of a young man who had been on a mission. What Brother Smith said brought it to my mind. He and another elder had filled missions and were given honorable releases. Just previous to their departure, a family of Saints gave a little banquet in their honor. Just as they closed the banquet, they passed tea around, and asked them if they would have a drink of tea. The elder that was with this young man said, "I have received my release; it is all right for me to drink tea."' He drank five cups! After it was over, the lady took the other) elder aside and made this remark, "I have always understood that ten cups of tea would kill a man. He drank five cups. I wish I had given him the .other five." The elder taken- aside said, "I wished I could have given him the other five cups myself. To think I have labored two and a half years preaching the gospel and then the elder I had labored with and associated with do the thing Ij had been teaching people not to do — the very thing he had been teaching them not to do!" The result was that he left, disgraced; people were disgusted with him. 

At this same gathering I heard of a missionary who had labored two and a half years in England and had been successful in converting a young lady and her mother to the gospel of Jesus Christ. 'They came to the valleys of the mountains, expecting to see the Saints living the gospel, but she told me, "To my surprise, as I walked down the sidewalk in Salt Lake City, I met the very man who had taught me the gospel in England walking down the street with a cigarette in his mouth." And she wrote to this elder, "I am disgusted with 'Mormonism,' with the elders who taught me the gospel in England, to think that, after I have come to Zion, they live as they do live. I looked to see men of God,: living the things they had taught me; but on the contrary, I see some of these young men are not living as they ought to live.'" They bring disgrace upon the cause of God, and upon the great: majority who live their religion. I would not have you think, my brethren and sisters, for one minute, that I would justify the woman in leaving the Church, because of this. But I do believe that men and women who accept membership and positions in the Church should live so that when they come in contact with other people, it may be seen that they are living their religion. 

I often wonder if I am going through life failing to sound the  voice that I should sound. When I meet my Maker on the other side, if the question is asked, "Did you do your full duty as a servant of God and as a Latter-day Saint in teaching the men and women that Jesus is the Christ and Joseph Smith a prophet of God, and in performing every obligation that God asked you to perform, or did you evade the responsibilities he placed upon you?" I often wonder what my answer will be. 

One time, when I was stake superintendent of Sunday Schools, a woman came to me and said, "My son has more confidence in you than in any other man that I know of in the stake." I won-, dered then, as I have wondered since, if my life was of such a nature as to affect this young man growing in this Church, growing in knowledge and information, or taking the downward road that leads to destruction; and whether, if my life affected him in a way that caused him not to live as he should, I would be held responsible in any degree for his action. The thought came back to me that if my life affected men and women so that they did not live right, I would be held responsible in the end for some of those conditions. I believe it is my duty, my responsibility, to live the life of a Latter-day Saint as the Lord intended I should, that T shall listen to the whisperings of the Spirit of God and obey them, that I may not be found in by and forbidden paths, or in company that the Lord does not desire a servant of his to be in. I should be exemplary and carry with me the dignity of my position, the sense of responsibility that God has placed upon me and live and magnify the same before him. I hope and pray that when I meet on the other side with my children or associates that none can say that I did not do as I should, that I did not teach them by the proper example. 

I remember a number of years ago visiting a family in our stake. Previous to visiting them, the lady of the house came and asked if we would not please talk to her son about his drinking beer. I remember going into the home. The elder with me talked to the young man and said it was not right to get drunk, as he was doing, that it was breaking his mother's heart. The young man turned around to the elder and said, "I want you to understand that my mother is responsible for the life I have lived. When I was a boy twelve or fifteen years of age. my mother set me down to the table with crackers and beer. It created a desire for beer, and I cannot leave it alone." Could you have seen that mother, as she sat by the old stove, the fire burning bright and showing the tears running down her cheeks, it would have grieved your heart. 

I do not know whether the son told the truth. There may have been some truth in it. I felt that a young man should have had respect enough for his mother not to have made the statement in her presence, at least. On the other hand, I have wondered many times since, "Were the words of that young man true? Did his mother's, life affect his life in such a manner that he did not care for her teachings? 

I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that these are serious reflections. The souls of the children of God are precious in his sight. It should be the aim and desire of every father and mother to teach fthe gospel in a way that will impress men and women. I believe with all my soul that it is true. The young men and women of the Church today are growing, and to a great extent, their destiny is in our hands and power to place them in an armor that will lead |them upward in the cause of truth, that they may bei virtuous and live as God intended, or downward against his will. 

We spend thousands of dollars to convert men and women who live in foreign lands and in America, who are not worth any more, or as much, perhaps, as the men and women who are in our midst, who are our neighbors day by day and who are starving for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Perhaps some of you may say, "They have plenty of opportunity to go to the organizations,, where the gospel of Jesus Christ is taught.'' It is true, but the responsibility that God has placed upon us carries with it enough importance to teach wherever we are, that we should bear the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, and in such a manner that it will convince men that it is of God. 

A little piece of poetry I sometimes read as I visit the Sunday Schools of our stake, called "The Sunday School Automobile," applies to every organization in the Church : 

All rules cf success considered, the most essential element is "Getting started." Therefore, use a self-starter on your Sunday School automobile. Use the brakes of patience and self-control. Put large quantities of hope in the grease cups. 

Use a perseverance brand of gascline as motive power, instead of hot air. Have the timer properly set, EARLY. 

Have the carburetor properly adjusted, admitting a mixture of equal parts of earnestness and will power. 

Use the primer of enthusiasm. 

Best results can be obtained by using the four cylinders of knowledge — 

The knowledge of self, 

The knowledge of company, 

The knowledge of work, 

The knowledge of children (men). Advance the sparker of ambition for more speed. 

Open wide the throttle of faith in yourself, in your work, and in your calling, to secure more power. Use the polish of courtesy. 

Use tires of stick-to-it-iveness, on non-discouragement rims. Use the Golden Rule steering wheel 

Put on search lights of character, and with the foregoing equipment, the Sunday School automobile will take every hill of disappointment and discourage, ment on high gear. 

I believe, brethren and sisters, if these things were put into the life of every man and woman who accepts responsibility in this Church, if we would sense that responsibility, if we would first  an inventory of our own lives and gather out the weak points and improve upon them, that we would be successful as individuals. It is said the chain is no stronger than its weakest link, and it is so with men and women who accept positions in this Church. I have delighted in working in the organizations of the Church. I consider it an honor to be permitted to work in the organizations for the growth, development, and benefit of the human family. My desire is that we may all sense this responsibility. 

My testimony is that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God, that he gave his life as a testimony that his doctrine and teachings are of God. I recall his words when he left Nauvoo to go to Carthage jail. When he looked upon Nauvoo he said, "I have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward all men. I shall die innocent. It shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood'." 

My grandfather heard a message delivered to the governor, saying, "They intend to kill the prophet," and he said, "If yo t u know anything about it, keep still." My grandfather said it always seemed peculiar to him that a man who held a responsible position, and who was, no doubt, in a position to prevent certain conditions, should say, "If you know anything about it, keep still." My testimony to you is that the present leaders of this Church are men inspired of God and doing their utmost for the advancement of those who are members of this Church. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us with his Spirit, protect us from harm, and extend to us and create within our minds a : greater desire to love and honor the authorities and to honor our* call, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

A duet, "Come unto me," was sung by Earl Martin and Ronald 

Salt. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

The next speaker will be President Soren M. Nielsen of the North Sanpete stake. Brother Nielsen was formerly stake superintendent of Mutuals, and a military leader. He is now proving himself to be a real captain as a president of the North Sanpete stake. 

ELDER SOREN M. NIELSEN 

President of the North Sanpete Stake 

I appreciate the kind words of our presiding authority here this morning. I have learned to love President Hart through my acquaintance and my associations with him. He was present at the time I was set apart as president of the North Sanpete stake of Zion and had something to do, I am sure, with my being chosen. 

Last evening after arriving in the city, I was dining with a person from home who said he intended to leave the city some time today for home. I urged upon him to attend some of the sessions of the conference hefore he returned. When he informed me that time would hardly permit, I rather insisted that he attend at least the Opening session of the conference, this morning in the Tabernacle, as that, I thought, was the most important session of the conference, the most interesting, and he would feel well paid for spending that much time in the city. This morning, when the president of the Church read my name as one to speak here, it came as a thunderholt from the sky, and I have been wondering since if that is my penalty for singling out one of the sessions of the conference as being better than another. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, whether it is the opening session or the closing session, it matters little to Latter-day Saints who are present to participate in the Spirit of the Lord and to be fed the bread of life. I am sure the message delivered in one session is as important as that in another, provided our hearts are in tune with the mission and purpose of this Church. I am convinced of that this morning, for I have thoroughly enjoyed myself here, and I pray that while I occupy this position, the same Spirit may actuate my thoughts that has prompted those who have spoken before me, and that has influenced the rendition of the songs and the music listened to this morning. 

I was impressed with the testimony of Bishop Smith in his conversation with the non-member of our Church in California. We see on every hand where men are trying to capitalize the organization of this Church for the purpose of making money. I remember reading in the public press of a certain organization that- had offered to contribute to this Church a site for a temple in one of the California cities. Their sole motive, my brethren and sisters, was to bring Latter-day Saints there in a body, sell them real estate, perhaps, or in some other way enrich their pocketbooks. 

I want to contrast that with the motive of a man with whom I held a conversation just recently, a man whom I have known all my life. We have grown up, virtually, together, at least since boyhood — he a member of the Presbyterian Church, and I affiliated with the Latter-day Saints. He said to me, "Brother Nielsen, I have come to the conclusion that if there is a true Church of Christ on the face of the earth today, it is not the Presbyterian church, but that it is the 'Mormon' Church. I have learned to appreciate you people. I have marveled at the accomplishments of the membership of your Church. I have learned to love and admire you and others with whom I have mingled all my life. I have learned that there is nothing uplifting or that will tend to uplift the souls of men that the Latter-day Saints are not seeking. There is nothing that will tend to destroy the character of individuals but that the Latter-day Saints are always ready to condemn it. They are constantly striving for the development of the talents of their children; they are anxious to see them grow, and they make liberal provisions for their education and their advancement in . The social and community life of no other people can be compared with theirs. When I compare a community of Latter-day Saints with one made up of other organizations, I note that when men and women belong to lodges and secret organizations there is a tendency to pull apart, to segregate themselves into classes, each one destroying, or at least tending to destroy, the efforts of the other. I see no good in lodges or fraternal organizations. I see definite good in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are banded together working for a common cause — and that always characterized by the highest ideals." 

I said to him, "I have noted you in recent years especially, that you have been more friendly to us, and I have predicted to others that you some day would become a member of this Church; I trust that I shall not be disappointed." 

And he said to me: "I am ready now, if I only dared, if I only had the courage, to enter the waters of baptism, but I know what will happen to me; I shall be ostracized by my family and friends, those who have been near to me all the days of my life, and I have not the moral courage to break away from those associations to become one of your people. I know the criticism that would be heaped upon me. . And yet I am a Latter-day Saint. I am willing to confess that I have accepted of the gospel, that I believe it; and even now, if I had the least assurance that through my membership in the Church I could enjoy a small portion of the growth and development that I have noted in others, in your Church, even though I am pretty well along in life, if I could be able through affiliation with your Church to learn to stand before an audience, to express myself in public (he is a talented man, by the way, but (timid), if I could acquire that knowledge and ability, even now I believe I would become a member of your Church, in spite of the criticism that I know would come to me." 

I promised him that if he would come into the Church, accept the Priesthood, lend himself to its influences and teachings, he would live to see the day that he would be an active member of this Church and that his voice would yet be heard publicly in the defense of its truth. 

Brethren and sisters, I want to express to you my appreciation for my membership in this Church, for the fact that I see, as this brother has discovered, that there is no place in the world I would rather be than here. I thank my Father in heaven for the fact that the missionaries of this Church have invaded foreign lands and preached the gospel to my family and made it possible for me to come here and enjoy the associations and the blessings of membership in this Church. I have heard many of, the testimonies borne in this building; I have been here at Mutual Improvement conferences, where our testimony meeting is usually held, and I have heard some inspiring testimonies borne. Usually they begin by saying, "I have been taught the principles of the gospel by my parents. I am thankful that I was born in a Latter-day Saint home, etc. I am thankful that I have been able to go on a mission and receive tbere a testimony of the gospel." 

I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that being born in the Church is not necessary. I was not born of "Mormon" parentage, though my mother is a member of the Church. I was not raised in a Latter-day Saint home, strictly speaking. I have never been on a mission. But through my affiliation with the auxiliary organizations and the Priesthood quorums of this Church, I have acquired a testimony of the divinity of this gospel. I have learned to know that this is the Church of Christ, that it was reestablished under the inspiration of our Father in heaven and through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that those who adhere to its teachings, make the ideals of the Church their ideals, will enjoy greater blessings than any other people on the face of the earth; also, that we can become a happier people, and more fully comprehend the purposes of life than any one else, through the study of the gospel. I pray, brethren and sisters, that all of us may sense our responsibility as Latter-day Saints. 

In conclusion, may I say that I am confident that the influence brought to bear upon the individual to whom I referred has come from the example set by members of his community, not by their sermons. I believe that the family life of the people of that ward, the community life, the social activities, in other words, the conduct of those people as Latter-day Saints, have converted him to the principles of "Mormonism," and not the sermons they have preached on the Sabbath day. May we so order our lives, brethren and sisters, that those who are watching us, and observing our actions, may come into the fold of this Church through the example we set, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A quartette, composed of the winners of the M. I. A. Salt Lake District contest, Earl Martin, Ronald Salt, Leonard Strong, and Harold Keddington, sang, "Prayer Perfect." 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

Assistant Church Historian 

In just three years and a half from now the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be one hundred years old. It has been, and is, a most remarkable organization. There never has been another one like it upon the face of the earth. We do not have to compare the Church to which we belong with any of the so-called Christian churches of today, so far as members and progress are concerned, but we can -consistently compare it with other dispensations that the Lord has established upon the earth for the salvation of mankind; -and particularly do we take pleasure in comparing it with the Church which was organized more than eighteen hundred years ago by the Savior himself and his apostles. We can also draw comparison between the Church to  we belong and the Church organized among the Nephites about the same time that the Church was organized in what we call the old world. But the history of the Nephite Church is very brief. And the same might be said of the history of the original Church organized in Palestine, or in Asia. 

There are some comparisons that I sometimes think of. Jesus was thirty years old when he commenced to preach. Up to that time we have but very little knowledge of what he did. Joseph Smith was twenty-five years old when he, as an instrument in the hands of the Lord, organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1830. After one hundred years had passed away from the time that Christ commenced his ministry we find (by referring to the historians of that day, such as Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, the Acts of the Apostles and the writings of the historian Eusebius, who wrote the history of the first 325 years of the so-called Christian church), that there was scarcely anything left of the original church. It is a strange thing that such should be the case, but it was undoubtedly in the providence of the Lord. Before the first century of that dispensation had passed away all the apostles had been killed except John; other leaders of the church had also gone to their rest, most of them falling as martyrs to truth, for that was a time of martyrdom. John, who did not taste death, as we understand it, was the only apostle left. So, at the end of one hundred years from the time that Christ commenced his ministry in (Galilee the great majority of the people who belonged to the original church had passed away, either by natural death or had fallen as martyrs, or gone into apostasy. The falling away had become so universal during the latter part of the first century of the Christian era that there was scarcely anyone, to speak of left professing the true gospel of Jesus Christ when the century ended. False doctrines had been introduced into the church, and the falling ,away, which had been predicted by Paul and others, had indeed taken place. 

It is different with the dispensation to which we belong. When this Church shall be one hundred years old, the historians will be able to record that it never before was any stronger or its membership more numerous. We can easily judge the condition of the Church three years and a half hence. At the present time we can say that the Church never had so many organized stakes of Zion as it has now, and never before so many bishop's wards, nor so many missionary fields at one time; that is, if we make exception of a few temporary missions established in the early days of the Church; but, taking it all throughout, the Church to which we belong never had a more prosperous existence than it has at the present time, when we refer to the thousands of noble men and' women in it. We may regret that there are some weak members, who are not as true to the gospel of Jesus Christ as they might be, but there is a sufficient number of faithful men and women, both young and old, to warrant my statement; the majority of the members of this Church would be an honor to any community. That really should prove to all that we have borne good fruit, and our actions are now being copied by many of the people of the world who have figured with organizations that have been less successful than ours has been. \ . .  

It is one thing to make history, another thing to write it. If it had not been for the writers I have mentioned, who belonged to the original Church, what would the doings of Christ mean to us? We would have known next to nothing of his activities. The doctrines he taught would have been hid in mystery and conjectures. For instance, if Matthew, or some other historian, had not recorded the Sermon on the Mount, we would not have had that splendid exposition of gospel truths. And if somebody had not recorded the many other beautiful sayings _ of Christ and his apostles, what would we have known of the ministry of Christ and of his apostles? We would merely have, had some vague ideas handed down by tradition that would lead astray more than lead aright; but because these things that are written, we have at least some knowledge of these earlier dispensations. 

In our day, the first thing the Lord did after the Church to which we belong was organized with six members, in the little village of Fayette, Seneca county, New York, was to command that a Church recorder should be appointed, a man who should write down what was taking place. That man was Oliver Cowdery. He had previously assisted Joseph Smith the Prophet in translating the Book of Mormon; and now, after that sacred record had been completed and printed, his labor with the pen was continued through his appointment as the first Church recorder. Since that time we have had recorders and historians in the Church who have been more or less faithful, and more or less efficient in doing their work. Soon Oliver Cowdery was appointed to other positions in the Church, and another man was called to be Church recorder. But as that man was not very faithful in the discharge of his duties the early history of the Church is not as complete as we would' like it to be. There are certain very important dates lacking because John Whitmer did not do his duty. Nevertheless, we have sufficient to show that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a most complete and successful organization, and we also rejoice in the promise made that it shall never come to an end. Other dispensations have ceased to exist, but this one to which we belong will continue, and the Church shall finally grow into the Kingdom of Heaven, over which Christ shall reign as King of kings, and Lord of lords. 

It requires much effort and labor to keep track of the thousands and tens of thousands of missionaries who have gone out from the headquarters of the Church to preach the gospel. We are, at the present time, engaged in making a list of them. In a few weeks we expect to complete the same, and we will then be able to state approximately how many elders, and how many missionary sisters, have been sent out from the headquarters of the 

Church to preach the gospel in different lands and climes. We will also have a good idea of how many people have been baptized since the Church was organized, notwithstanding the fact that many important Church records have been destroyed or lost. We will also know approximately how many branches of the Church have been organized in the different countries of the world, where our missionaries have labored. You will, perhaps, be surprised to learn that they are numbered by thousands, and you will be astonished to Know that at one time there were nearly a thousand branches of the Church in Great Britain alone. We will surely have something interesting to tell the Latter-day Saints when the Church is one hundred years old. 

It has already taken much time and money, and also necessitated much travel, to gather material and record the events of the history of the Church from the beginning to the close of the nineteenth century. Years ago we found, at the Historian's office, that we could not locate ourselves within the walls of that little building which stood across the street from where the large Church building now stands, and there write histories of the stakes of Zion and of the different missions of the Church. We found it was necessary to go abroad, travel extensively and gather material for history in many lands and climes. Your humble servant has had the pleasure, if I may call it such, to be a globe trotter. Some people have thought that I have traveled more than necessary, but I know better than that, and am convinced that I have not traveled nearly as much as I should have done in order to become a good and' reliable historian. Yet I have traveled about 490,000 miles in the interest of the Church, and I have come to the conclusion that the work accomplished could not have been done in any other way than by going into the f'eld for material. We have had Church recorders and historians all the time since the organization of the Church, and they have found it possible to record facts as they have been reported to headquarters from time to time; but the recorders could never . make a complete . history of this Church unless they go abroad, visit with the elders and saints in different parts of the world, peruse records and become acquainted geographically with the stakes of Zion and the countries of the world. Then, in connection with the reports that are sent in from year to year, they can write history, and it may be said that these reports are now better than they have been before. A complete history of this Church, in my opinion, can never be written unless that mode of procedure is followed. 

We do not know what will take place in the near future; only this we believe, that great events are close at hand. But we do sincerely hope and pray for a general awakening in the interest of Church history. Sometimes, when I visit some of the stakes of Zion in the interest of history I am looked upon as a sort of Rip van Winkle, or some ancient of days, who has been asleep for twenty years, or more, and it seems as if some people are actually annoyed by it. I do not say this as a slnr upon the Saints generally. This lethargy can perhaps be traced to the fact that for years only very little attention has been paid to Church history in a public way. We preach about the Word of Wisdom. Imagine what the consequence would be, if our brethren from time to time did not open their mouths to draw attention to that particular word of God. Even, after mentioning it and speaking about it repeatedly, such conditions exist as those we have had explained to us in this meeting by the brethren who have preceded me. Now, inasmuch as the importance of history has not been mentioned much of late years, the people have become careless about it, and quite frequently we hear somebody say, "We have enough to do with the present and looking out for the future; let the past alone." It may be true that the present is more important to us than the past; and yet I contend that without knowing something about the past, we do not know where we come in as elders of the Church laboring in the vineyard both at home and abroad. It is necessary for us to know how w r e fit in as we continue the labors, commenced by) Joseph Smith the Prophet and continued by Brigham Young and his successors. In Great Britain we need to know how the present missionaries fit in with the labors in earlier days by Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Brigham Young, Orson Pratt, Wilford Woodruff, and many others. We from Scandinavia need to know how our present missionaries fit in with the labors commenced by Erastus Snow and his fellow-laborers seventy-six years ago. Without some knowledge in regard to the past, we scarcely know where we are at. We know we belong to a great organization, but not always what our particular duties are in building upon the foundation that the heroes and heroines of this Church laid many years ago. 

My message as one of the historians of this Church is this : We want cooperation; we need a general awakening in regard to the importance of record-keeping. We must become better posted in regard to the history of this Church, the most important organization of its kind that ever existed upon the face of the earth. We cannot sit still and quietly at the Historian's office and steer the great ship of Zion historically, we need the cooperation of the local authorities and the people generally. We want the stake clerks and ward clerks, and clerks of the priesthood and auxiliary organizations to stand by us. And when we send out, or go out, for information we want to examine and peruse the records that are in existence for historical material. We raise our voice against the destruction or the losing of records, and draw attention to the folly of looking upon record-books in the same light that a school boy looks upon his copy book — when it is written full it is of no further use. The records of a ward or quorum are entirely different from that. A blank book is worth nothing to the historian, but being filled with records it is, in many instances, worth its weight in gold. We would, therefore, earnestly insist that the brethren and sisters  charge of records, or even private journals, do not destroy them or lose them. The time will surely come when they will be wanted. Probably much that is in them may be mere chaff, that never will be worth copying - , but there will always be something found in these records that will be of use to k the historian. I cannot remember that I ever in my life have perul&d a record book of any kind — and I have perused thousands of them — but what I have found something in it of historical importance. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us wake up to a realization of the fact, that there is something of vital importance for us to know in the past, as well as in the present and the future. I speak as one who has devoted almost his entire life in the historical field, and who for many years has endeavored to draw attention to the fact that the writing of history is the next thing to making it. M'ay God bless us and enable us to be faithful and diligent in discharging the duties pertaining to our respective callings in the service of God, I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I think you will agree with me, my brethren and sisters, that we have had a musical and spiritual feast here today, and now I am anxious that during the few remaining minutes I may be able to continue the feast that has thus far been served to us. 

Among the minor prophecies given to Joseph Smith was the prediction of the angel Moroni, that Joseph's name should be known for good and for evil among every nation, tongue, and people; that is, that good and evil should be spoken of him among all people. "For many years the great preponderance of the things uttered and written in fulfilment of this prophecy was against him, but now the tide is turning. Mr. Cody, better known as ''Buffalo Bill," in writing the preface to his book entitled, The Great Salt Lake Trail, called attention to the fact that the libraries were full of books written about the "Mormon" people, "generally," he said, "against the people, and usually with an inexcusable ability at exaggeration." There is this to be noted, that wherever there has been one to raise up his voice against the prophet or his people, there has been one equally strong in his defense. The prophet gave the instance of Mr. Reid, the lawyer who defended him in one of the fifty-five trumped-up cases that were brought against Joseph. Mr. Reid said that the thought came to him that he must go and defend the' Lord's anointed. Said he, "I did not know what it meant, but thought I must go and clear the Lord's anointed." 

There is this peculiarity, that even those who have attempted to be spiteful toward the prophet and his followers have often unwittingly contributed to their good. That was true in one of the early books written against the prophet by Pomeroy Tucker of Palmyra, in his book entitled, The Origin of Mormonism. He gives us the picture of Martin Harris, one of the most prosperous farmers in the neighborhood, being willing to sacrifice his fertile, eighty-acre farm on the north side of Palmyra, and his wife and family, for the testimony of the gospel. He also tells us of writing to Sidney Rigdon for help and encouragement in the production of this anti-"Mormon" book, at a time when it would have appealed most strongly to Sidney Rigdon, for at that time he had returned to Pennsylvania a disappointed man in his vain ambition to lead this Church. But he got no aid or comfort from Sidney Rigdon. 

In a later book, by Gregg, bearing the euphonious title, The Prophet of Palmyra, an affidavit is presented from the ex-Governor of Utah, Mr. Harding, in which he gives his testimony of Joseph and Oliver, walking through the woods every morning a considerable distance with a small "take," as the printer calls it, of manuscript of the Book of Mormon for the publication of that volume by Mr. Grandin of Palmyra; and so sacredly did they esteem that manuscript that they would not permit it to be in the care of the printer or in his office over night, but walked a long distance through the woods to have returned to them the portion of the manuscript of the Book of Mormon which they had delivered in the morning. 

It is interesting to note the views of those who attempted to be friendly and who express opinions as to the perpetuity of "Mormonism." Here is Mr. Gregg, seriously declaring at the conclusion of his book in which he purported to write in all fairness, his conclusion that before the end of the twentieth century the story of the Golden Bible would be but a memory — quite a different conclusion from that penned by the writer of a book entitled, A Tramp With a Poet Through the Rockies, to the effect that "Mormonism" "has a great future in America — it is not a dying cult." 

Quite recently we have had some very warm commendation by different writers. Many of you have read in the Saturday Evening Post that friendly article in which it was said:^ 

"It is a common practice to speak with admiration of the business organization of large corporations, and there is little doubt that the executives whose powerful intellects are. responsible for the economic and efficient operation cf the countless departments and divisions of a great steel company or great oil company are entitled to a large amount of respect and esteem. There is little doubt that there is no other organization in the world that obtains from its employees the loyalty and labor and the results that the 'Mormon' Church so bountifully receives from its five hundred thousand unpaid members. This statement may possibly be laughed off. but only after a spell of laughing so protracted and so forced as seriously to damage the most powerful laughing apparatus in existence." 

So, if there is any one who wishes to laugh off that thoughtful statement in the way suggested, they are welcome to do so. 

In the September number of the Pacific Netvs, Mr. C. I. B. Moore, the Vice-President of the Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company of 

California, who  traveled through Southern Utah, wrote this concerning our people : 

"I want to say right here that my visit to Utah gave me a very favorable impression of the 'Mormon' people. We saw many evidences of th.ir thrift and intelligence and found those we conversed with most agreeable 'and hospitable people, and in many instances educated and well informed. As good citizens, I doubt whether Uncle Sam possesses any more favorable type." 

A Utah man who travels the United States over in a civk position told me yesterday of some kindly words given to him recently at Atlantic City by the multi-millionaire, C. Z. Mitchell, of New York, sometimes called the dean of electricians, or the dean of the electrical field. He met this man from Utah at the close of a meeting of the electrical convention and expressed very friendly regard for any one from Utah, and then explained to representatives from other states who stood near, "I have a fine feeling toward your state;" and to another, "There is much that can be said in favor of your state;" and to a third; "I could say a good deal in praise of the state you are from, but I want to say that Utah, in my opinion, -stands without a peer. I am thinking of her people, and I say that for sobriety, sincerity, industry and honesty of purpose, and the cardinal virtues generally, I feel that the Utah people have no equal." - And then he went on to refer to his experience in meeting President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors and said that whatever they said to him they said in great sincerity, and that he was much affected by jthe simplicity and the democratic attitude of the great president in assisting him on with his overcoat at the close of the interview. 

Recently I was told of this incident that occurred in ,the Michigan University about thirty years ago when there were a number of Utah boys there. Some of the evangelical preachers of Ann Arbor sought to have these boys expelled from school on the ground that they were simply missionaries of the Church and not there for the purposes of scholarship. The dean called one of the Utah students before him and asked him if the accusations were true, and he was assured that they were not true, but that the Utah boys were there as legitimate students for purposes of study only. And then my friend said to me : "I was surprised to hear Dean Hutchinson, dean of the Law Department of Michigan University, say that both morally and intellectually the students from Utah stood higher than the students from any other state in the Union, and that he would strongly oppose any effort to expel them from the institution." . 

Mr. Frankau, a writer for the Sunday Pictorial, London, gave us some interesting words as the result of his visit here. I think our young sisters may be interested in the compliment he pays them. He is answering, of course, the old theory that existed in his country that the missionaries were in England for the purpose of winning young women to bring them to Utah for questionable purposes. The writer disposes of the question in this language : "And if anybody after reading this article, still imagines that 'Mormon' missionaries come to Great Britain for the purpose of decoying British spinsters of certain or uncertain ages into secret harems, I can only advise him to take a little walk down State street or South Temple avenue of Salt Lake City, when the high moon is riding molten above the elms and poplars which Brigham Young planted, and observe the many Utah maidens whose bright eyes regard the stranger sidewise from under isilken lashes as he passes by; for they are very, very alluring, these Utah maidens, st> alluring indeed that 'Mormon' polygamy, if it ever comes to be restarted will most certainly begin, like 'Mormon' charity, at home." 

In the future there will be scarcely any excuse for people to be so uninformed as to slander this people, because they can go to such a book as that recently issued by Macmillan & Company, entitled, The Fruits of \Mormonism, and can see from United States census figures how this people stand on all the vital questions — of the high birth-rate and the low death-rate, the high marriage-rate and the low divorcerate, the low insanity percentage, the high charitable-rate, the high educational standing, and from all those things that are known as vital statistics, determine from impartial government statistics the true standing of this people. 

Time will not permit to continue along this line, but it is for us to be prepared to receive praise as well as censure, and we may appropriate praise without immodesty, knowing that it is said concerning the people collectively and not individually — a very telling distinction, which the Lord made through the Prophet Joseph Smith in speaking of this Church, as recorded in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants. May we always merit the good spoken of us. Amen. 

The choir sang, "And the glory of the Lord," by Handel. The benediction was pronounced by Elder Quayle Cannon, of the Bountiful First ward. 


