Afternoon
04 10 1926


ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I very much desire that the few moments I occupy may be profitable to you, and to that end I ask an interest in your faith and prayers, that my mind may be touched by the power of the Lord to say those things that he would have you hear. 

We have had much in the way of instruction. Many delightful discourses have been delivered here. We have been edified under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. I feel grateful to be here. I rejoice with you that we are permitted to meet under such favorable conditions and to enjoy those things which our heavenly Father would have us hear. 

GREAT PRIVILEGES ENJOYED 

Today throughout the world there are millions of our Father's children who would give all they possess if they could be present to hear the instructions that we have received here. There are millions who have no conception of the purposes of our heavenly Father in placing them here upon the earth, yet we have been so favored that we not only have the instructions that were given to ancient Israel, but we have information that was given to us in this latter day in addition. There is no doubt in the mind of a Latter-day Saint who has received a testimony of the divinity of the mission of Christ our Lord. That is fundamental to us in building our hope for eternal life. We believe in God the Eternal Father and we believe that Jesus Christ was the manifestation of God in the flesh, his Only Begotten Son; and we believe in the Holy Ghost and the power that it manifests unto those who seek to do the will of our Father in heaven. This belief is fundamental with us, and it leaves us in the position of children of God. We are the children of our heavenly Father. He is the Father of our spirits. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

OUR PRE-EXISTENCE 

We lived before we came here and our birth into this world was the reward of having kept our first estate. When we were born we received a physical tabernacle without which we could not be exalted in the presence of our heavenly Father. It was necessary for his Son Jesus Christ to be born into the world in order that he, too, might have a tabernacle like unto the one that his Father has. We dwell here upon this earth realizing that we are indeed the children of God, knowing that he prepared this earth particularly for those who dwell upon it, that he has placed upon it those things that are necessary to sustain life and make all men and women happy, as far as the creature comforts of life are concerned. We should take advantage of the opportunities he has given us so abundantly. 

PURPOSE OF OUR EARTH LIFE 

We are placed here and instruction has been given us. We are informed that we will not be held responsible for the sin of Adam, but that we will be held responsible for our own sins. The atonement of Jesus Christ removed from us the responsibility of atoning for the sin of father Adam, and he has made it possible for us to live here upon the earth, and in due time, if we take advantage of our opportunities, we will be prepared to be resurrected from the dead when that time shall come. There is no doubt in the mind of a Latter-day Saint as to the purpose of our earth life. We are here to prepare ourselves and develop ourselves and qualify ourselves to be worthy to dwell in the presence of our heavenly Father. We must learn to overcome our passions, our evil tendencies. We must learn to resist temptations- That is why we are here, and in order that we may more perfectly do that the gospel has been restored to the earth, and we have been made partakers of it, and we have the strength that comes to us as a result of the power of the Holy Ghost. We not only have the resistance of an ordinary individual, with the limitations that such an individual has who has not a knowledge of the truth — we have equal resistance with him, and in addition the resistance which comes from knowing the truth and knowing the purpose of our being. 

SCRIPTURE STUDY IMPORTANT 

Now how important it is, with that understanding, that we phould study the scriptures, that we should search the word of the Lord. The Savior said, "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me." With that understanding we are not left as the world, but we have been warned by the Redeemer of mankind and we have been told just what we must do. We must have faith in God, we must repent of our sins, because while we are in a sinful condition we are in no way prepared to enter into the celestial kingdom, and we are informed that if we 103  keep the celestial law we cannot abide a celestial glory. The gospel has been restored in these latter days to prepare- men for the celestial kingdom. This gospel has not- been given to qualify men for any other kingdom, but has been given to us to prepare us that we may dwell upon this earth when it has been celestialized, when our Redeemer will dwell here and he will be our lawgiver and our king. 

CARE TO BE EXERCISED IN EVERY-DAY LIVING 

Knowing these truths, how careful we as Latter-day Saints ought to be to live every day of our lives that we may be influenced by the power of the Lord, and that we may be able to turn aside from those things that have a tendency to break down our power to earn the celestial kingdom. The fact that we have been baptized into the Church is not sufficient. The fact that our names are on the Church records is not sufficient. The Redeemer himself has said that "not every one that sayeth unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." That is well defined, therefore we cannot drink with the drunken, we cannot debauch our lives, we cannot be dishonorable in our dealings with our fellowmen and gain celestial glory. We must keep the commandments of our heavenly Father. We are told in other scripture that those who do not keep the commandments of God will forfeit their right to the blessings of the celestial kingdom. If we had been left to speculate on these matters, if we had been left without suitable information to prepare us for this life and to make preparations for the life to come, perhaps we might be indifferent and excuse ourselves as the world does. They do not understand, but for those who have been made partakers of the gospel of Jesus Christ in these latter days there is no excuse if we are not living a righteous life. We have been fully taught, we have observed the effects of righteousness upon the lives of others. We have had the assurance that by living the commandments of God happiness will be our portion here, and that this will be the foundation upon which we will build for eternal happiness. 

DUTIES OF TEACHERS IN THE CHURCH 

Throughout the stakes and wards of this great Church there are men whose duty it is to teach these principles. We send into the world missionaries by thousands to proclaim this gospel. There is no charge made for this service, it is offered to the world, to the whole human family without money and without price. It is so important that people shall understand this gospel that our heavenly Father sent his Only Begotten Son into the world to teach it, and he died that we might live, that we might be resurrected from the dead. And in order that there might be a well defined pathway to the celestial kingdom he organized his Church and set in it the officers that were necessary — apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc. These were the officers that were GENERAL CONFERENCE  be maintained in the Church. One of his disciples is recorded as having said that these are to remain in the Church until all shall come to a unity of the faith. Why is it necessary that we come to a unity of the faith? It is because there is only one true faith, there is only one true gospel, and if we partake of some other gospel, if we devote our lives to work for some other god, then has the adversary taken advantage of his opportunities and destroyed for us the benefits that our heavenly Father intended that we should have. So the gospel was restored, and we are informed what we are required to do. Not only must we be identified with this Church by faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands, for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but we must live every day of our lives in such a way that we will be earning the reward of celestial glory. The man who violates the Sabbath day loses the Spirit of the Lord, and forfeits this companionship. The man who violates the rules and regulations that govern the Church forfeits that sweet influence that would lead him eventually into the presence of our heavenly Father. Knowing that, how careful we ought to be to teach our boys and girls, and to teach our neighbors the things that God has intended that they should know. And not only teach by word of mouth but exemplify our teachings in the lives that we lead. 

MESSAGE OF THE CHURCH MUST BE PROCLAIMED TO ALL 

There is a wonderful group of men and women in this Church, each one of whom has come out of the world, or has been born to those who have come out of the world. It is not a popular thing to be identified with this Church, but in various parts of this earth, in various nations of the earth, where the gospel has been taught, it has been preached by men possessing the same authority as that possessed by the disciples of old, men who had the right to declare in the name of the Lord that this is the latter day, that our heavenly Father is preparing for the second coming of his Son Jesus Christ. That message must be proclaimed in all the world before the end comes, and that dutyhas been laid upon the membership of this Church, and to that end, in order that men might do it properly and under proper direction, the authority of the Holy priesthood has been conferred. Men have been ordained and set apart to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, and they leave their homes and their loved ones and they travel for years among the children of men and divide with them that glorious truth that leads to eternal life in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father. 

A GREAT OBLIGATION IS OURS 

What manner of men ought we to be in the darkness that surrounds this earth, in the uncertainty that exists everywhere, as to why we live and where we are going? Our heavenly Father has taught this gospel to us in great plainness in this day, and we are told by one who lived centuries ago, and it is recorded in the scriptures, that 105 

"a wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein." We have that information that they possessed, and in this latter day there have been added to it the testimony of the Book of Mormon, the testimony of Joseph Smith and the revelations that the Lord gave to him, supplementing the things that we already possessed, adding to the information that God had given to the children of men, to the end that we might be prepared when our Redeemer shall come to dwell here upon this earth. 

Therefore, my brethren and sisters, a great obligation rests upon us. We have received this knowledge and we may possess it only ou condition that we keep the commandments of God. A man may know as he knows that he lives that Jesus is the Christ. He may know that this is the gospel which is the power of God unto salvation; but if he transgresses the laws of God, if he becomes evil in his life, his mind may become darkened and he may turn away from that faith that points directly to the celestial kingdom, and spend his time along by-ways that will only lead him eventually into sorrow and distress, and that will mean that he has failed of his opportunities. 

THE GREAT NEED OF FAITH AND GOOD WORKS 

With that obligation resting upon us, what a wonderful thing it is that we are able to declare that we know the truth. It is not that we reason it out by the power of intellect alone- A man of his own thinking cannot find out God. We must keep the commandments of the Lord, we must follow the teachings of our heavenly Father, we must Jive in such a way that the whispering of that still, small voice will come to us and will indicate to us the truth. 

Today as I realize the need of faith, when I think of the multitude of our Father's sons and daughters who are in darkness, I realize that each of us ought to be putting forth every possible effort to carry this message forward if possible here at home and abroad. To that end we have been given divine authority, so that when an elder of this Church goes into the world he does not go to be instructed of those who have been educated in the seminaries of learning necessarily, but he goes with the information he may possess. He may have a trained mind, he may possess the learning that he has obtained in our great universities, but the thing that he possesses that is important to the world when he goes out to teach is a knowledge that God lives, a testimony of the divine mission of Jesus Christ; and to that end we have been called and chosen and set apart. And as a result of that wonderful gift from our Father in heaven, he expects us not only to say to others : Keep the commandments of the Lord, but he expects us to keep all of his commandments and live according to the laws that he has given to govern his Church. For that purpose we are called together upon the Sabbath day, in our quarterly conferences, and our general conferences. All these meetings are intended to keep us in touch with that intelligent Spirit that will interpret for us the things that are necessary for us to know. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

OUR DUTY TO RAISE A WARNING VOICE 

Now today, assembled as we are, if we were like all other denominations, we might seek the Lord and receive his blessings, because every man that does good in the world receives a blessing; we might have all the cardinal virtues and make them our own, but without the power of God and the authority of the holy Priesthood it is not possible for men to attain to the celestial kingdom. And, knowing that, how gladly we ought to give of our time and our means and of the power that the Lord has bestowed upon us to raise not only a warning voice, but a teaching voice, a voice of love, a voice of kindness, a voice of instruction to the children of men, and deliver our message in such a way that they will be constrained to listen, and that they will be anxious to know whereof we speak. Our heavenly Father has made it possible for all normal people in this world to know the truth if they will. He has made it possible for every man and every woman to receive the gospel if they will. We have our agency. Herein is the condemnation of man, because that which is the truth has been plainly manifested from the beginning. Knowing the truth how anxious we should be to disseminate that truth, how gladly we should give of the powers that we possess to do the good that our heavenly Father would have us do. We strive for the things of this earth that perish and by and by we leave those things behind, but if there has been burned into our souls a desire to serve God and keep his commandments by living our religion and teaching it to his children, then we are laying up for ourselves eternal riches of which no one can rob us. 

This testimony has come to me. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I know that this is the latter day. He loved the world, he restored the gospel and he sent divine personages here upon this earth to renew the gospel and confer the divine authority that was necessary in order that the mission that we had given to us here in the world might be rounded out and properly fulfilled. 

OUR SERVICE SHOULD BE FAITHFUL 

Now, brethren and sisters, these are the facts. This is our mission, this is our opportunity, and the Lord has promised us in return for availing ourselves of this opportunity that we shall have eternal life in the celestial kingdom, honor and glory throughout the ages of eternity. When we go to our various homes how anxious we should be that our houses be in order; how pleased we should be to lead our families along the pathway to eternal life; how grateful we should be to the Lord that he has given us this information, and as a result of it we ought surely to be an example to all the world. I pray that that Spirit which will enable us to serve faithfully may be with us, that that desire to do good may overcome the temptations that are placed in our way, and that, wherever we go, others observing our good works may be constrained to glorify our Father who is in heaven. This is our Father's work. It is not a militant work, but it is a work of love, and with the help of our heavenly Father let us make it what he intends it should be— the glory of the earth and the means, for that is what it is, for the salvation of millions of his children who have not yet heard it, by reason of the faithfulness of our lives. 

That peace may abide in our hearts, that the testimonies that we have already received may remain with -us and be added to by reason of righteous lives, and that in the end, when we have finished our mortal lives, we may be found worthy to receive the reward of a permanent home in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father, in company with those we love, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord may direct what I may say this afternoon. There have been so many good things pass through my mind while the conference has been in progress, that it almost seems, at this present moment, that everything I ever thought of has been in the past. 

I am very grateful for the testimony that has come to me through my experience in the work of the Lord, that it really is his work and that it is not a work of man, nor any set of men, but that it is a wonderful work established in the earth for the bringing about of the Lord's purposes concerning" his children upon the earth. 

REALITY OF THE MISSION OF JOSEPH SMITH 

I have met a few people who have not yet a full understanding oi the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They declare that it seems to be a myth or something that they cannot comprehend, something that does not seem a reality. But to me, ever since I was a small child and had the privilege of hearing the testimony of my parents and the teachers of the Church, the mission and life's work of the Prophet Joseph Smith have been wonderful realities. I picture certain important instances in the life of the prophet which seem to be more impressive than other instances. For example, the occasion of his annual visits to the Hill Cumorah, and in fact the first vision of the Angel Moroni. Up to that time all of the artists and the scientists and the teachers of the world pictured to us that an angel was either a woman or a child. But here a man appears declaring himself to be an angel of the Lord, and coming directly from the presence of the Lord in answer to this boy's prayer. Joseph said that he was frightened at first. Well, I think most of us would be just a little frightened. 1 fear that I would be more so than I am now. This angel declarec that he was a man who once lived upon this earth, and that he ha<, GENERAL CONFERENCE  with a glorious message to declare to this young man, who had desired to know the truth. In all the anxiety of his heart and the earnestness of it, he had gone to his parents and friends and to the ministers, who were teaching religion so-called, and he had not found satisfaction. He did not find that which satisfied his heart, until finally he went to the Lord and received a satisfaction that was wonderful beyond our power at times to appreciate. For the Lord, our Father, and his Son Jesus Christ descended from heaven to answer the boy's question concerning his desire for the truth, and this was a reality, not a fancy or a dream. 

Many people desired and attempted to destroy that testimony and that conviction which came to that boy's heart. But he said that he knew that God knew that he had seen it, therefore, he could not deny it, it was to him a reality. It was a part of his life and he could not change it and be honest with himself nor with the Lord. In the great anxieties that followed the years in his great mission, to fulfill the great destiny of his life, he was visited upon many occasions by other heavenly messengers, and they, too, were a reality and not just myths, or dreams, or fancies. 

REALITY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

After this angel, called Moroni, had explained to the boy during that whole night many important things pertaining to his mission, he showed him the Hill Cumorah, in which were deposited the plates from which was translated the Book of Mormon. This reality was of such a character that the next morning, or perhaps about noon time, this young man went to the place called the Hill Cumorah, because he had seen it in vision the night before and that early morning with such completeness and such plainness that he went directly to the place which was shown him in the vision, and where the plates were deposited. And with some kind of an instrument cleared away the remaining earth that covered the stone which covered the box; and, after he had removed the covering of the stone box which contained the records, like any curious youth or man, he reached forward in an attempt to take from the sacred box its contents, when, to his astonishment, he heard a voice forbidding him, and telling him that the time had not yet arrived for him to take these sacred treasures, and that he must further prepare himself by a course of waiting and preparation until such time as he might prove himself worthy of this great responsibility. 

This incident brings to me a feeling of the greatest reality. An angel we sometimes think of as being mystical, visionary and difficult to understand in appearance. But this was a reality, a person who could give instructions and talk as one man talks to another. 

And other instances of this character have so impressed me with the reality of the mission and instruction of the Prophet Joseph Smith 109  it is today a part of my very being. I believe it with all my heart, and the instructions and the great mission that have come through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the children of men in these the latter days are to me one of the greatest realities that come to us, and I believe in them with all my heart. 

TESTIMONY OF THE KINDNESS AND REALITY OF GOD. 

The principles of the everlasting gospel which have been proclaimed to us during this conference until the Latter-day Saints have been very well instructed pertaining thereto; and the faith and devotion of men and women who are earnestly and sincerely striving to carry out those instructions and so to live that they may enjoy the blessings which the Lord has prepared for them — to me these are a wonderful testimony and reality of the kindness and mercy of the Lord. I am very grateful for the association that I have enjoyed laboring with the servants of the Lord, going about from stake to stake, from ward to ward, and conference to conference, doing what little I have been able to do to keep the work going and to encourage others to go on with it. 

THE REALITY OF THE WORK OF THE PATRIARCHS. 

I was very much impressed yesterday morning, and in fact during the whole day's services yesterday, when the house was packed to overflowing, men and women standing in the doorways and in the aisles. I do not know just how many were present, but I made this comparison : In just the few brief years that I have been sustained by the people as one of the general authorities, I have been instrumental in the hands of the Lord in administering blessings of the Lord to more people than were in the tabernacle yesterday morning. Of course that was not all at one time because that would be like speaking to them all at once. But during the years that have passed, since the conferences and the Church have sustained me as one of the general officers, 16,006 people have had blessings recorded in my office. That gives you just an idea of the reality of this work. Throughout the stakes of the Church men have been called to assist in this important work, and I desire to bear further testimony relative to the responsibility that has come to these men as well as the responsibility that has come to me, for their commission is of the Lord just the same as mine. Their commission is a reality and it is of the Lord, just the same as the commission that has come to these other brethren. In their calling it is just as important as my calling is to me in my place, because "it is the work of God, it is not the work of man. Their commission is through the priesthood of God, and it is just as important in their place as my work is in my place, and I would like to encourage the Latter-day Saints to give greater honor to the men who bear the Priesthood at home. I do not want to discredit anything GENERAL CONFERENCE  I might do, because I have a testimony that my work is important. I did not always have that testimony. There was a time when I doubted it, but the Lord in his kindness has banked up testimony after testimony around me until I believe I can almost sympathize with the great Patriarch Job, because he was banked up all around with blessings and with testimonies. I hope I shall not have to endure what he passed through in order to prove the realities of those testimonies. I am perfectly satisfied with them as they are, and I hope they shall be strengthened through my further devotion to the work. 

PRIESTHOOD SHOULD BE HONORED. 

I should like to encourage all men who bear the Priesthood to honor it because it is of God; it is a reality and a power that is not given without a purpose to men. I have faith that the Priesthood of God has been given to men for service, to act in the name of the Lord to do his work; and when they fail to serve they fail to get his blessing. So, I desire that the members of the Church will honor those men who are given this important office in the stakes of Zion, as well as honoring all other men who bear the Priesthood, from the president of the Church down to the least and last officer, because I am satisfied, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that this is the work of God. and that these men who sit before me and those who sit upon the stand today, who are called to be officers and leaders in the Church, are men endowed by a power that is not found anvwhere else in the world, because it is the power of God that has come to men through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith and those who have succeeded him. 

A PRAYER TO BLESS THE CHURCH AND ITS MEMBERS 

I am very grateful that only in a few short stens I sm able to trace back, throusrh the lives of those who have received this Priesthood, that power which has been given to me. I was ordained to the Dower T hold todav by the president of the Church, the prophet Toseph F. Smith. He was ordained by the president of the Church, Brigham Young. President Young was ordained bv Oliver Cowdery, who was ordained by the Prophet, who was ordained bv Peter. James and John and they were ordained by the Savior himself. And so within a very few, short steps I am satisfied, beyond the shadow of doubt, that the Priesthood of God is given to men to function for the Lord, and that his holy purposes may be accomplished. In humility, with the faith that these realities have developed in me. and with eratitude for the testimonies I enioy, I pray the Lord to bless the Church, all of its officers, all of its members, and all of those who are taking part in this great work, from the greatest to the least. I pray that peace and the testimony of this truth may burn within your hearts, that the 111  of its worth and honor may help you to live so that you may obtain the glorious blessings that have been predicted and pronounced upon you through your faithfulness. I bless you all, my brethren and sisters, that the enjoyment of the truth may be your portion; and that, through your faithfulness, you may overcome every barrier that may come in your pathway to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments; and that you may triumph in your efforts to bring about the holy purposes of God. I pray that these blessings may be upon all the officers and members of the Church, whether they be gathered or scattered. I pray that the time will soon arrive when the Lord will come and accept the work that is being done by this faithful people, and that they may grow and increase in faith and in principle, until they shall accomplish his work, and we shall enjoy the blessings which the Lord has prepared for us as his faithful children. I pray for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Come unto me," was sung by Mrs. June Marley. ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and purple robe, and Filate saith unto them, Behold the man!" 

THE WORLD NEEDS MEN 

My brethren and sisters, when Pontius Pilate used these words, he directed attention to a perfect man. The world needs men, men of character, God-fearing men. "The world needs men, true' men who cannot be bought or sold, men who will scorn to violate truth, genuine gold." 

What is the end and purpose of religion, "swaying the lives of men the centuries through?" The Latter-day Saints answer in the words of the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph, that the end and purpose of true religion,, which is the work of God, is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

WHAT IS THE CROWNING GLORY OF MAN ? 

And what is the crowning glory of man in this earth so far as his individual achievement is concerned? It is character — character developed through obedience to the laws of life as revealed through the gospel of Jesus Christ, who came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. Man's chief concern in life should not be the acquiring of gold, or of fame, or of material possessions. It should not be the development of physical prowess, nor of intellectual strength, but his aim, the highest in life, should be the development of a Christ-like character. "In the destiny of every mortal being," says Phelps, "there is an object more worthy of God than happiness. It is character, and the grand aim of man's GENERAL CONFERENCE  is the development of a grand character. A grand character is by its very nature the product of a probationary discipline." 

FOUR PICTURES OF IMPORTANCE AND BEAUTY 

There are four pictures upon which I always love to look. Three are imaginary, one is real. The first of these is the picture of Christ before Pilate when that Roman official said to the angry mob, "Behold the man!" As he said it he pointed to Jesus, crowned with thorns, bearing upon his shoulders the purple robe. He pointed to one at whom the angry mob sneered, condemned as a felon and blasphemer, and yet when he said, "Behold the man!" he described one who was perfect in character, who was conqueror over weaknesses and temptations, and who could say, as he did to his fellow workers, "Peace be unto you! I have overcome the world." He is our pattern. 

The other picture is Christ in his youth. Have you not admired the paintings of the best artists who have tried to picture purity and strength in that young boy of twelve years? I have, and I never look upon one of the choicest of these without feeling that I am looking upon one who is the embodiment of youthful strength, vigor and purity. 

The third is the picture of the boy who, as Hawthorne describes him, looked upon the great stone face, and, while thinking of the ideals and virtues characterized in that great work of nature, developed those same virtues in his own life. 

The fourth is a picture in real life, a youth whose clear eyes picture the strength of young manhood and the purity of the life he has led. What more beautiful thing can one see in nature than that? We love beauty in womanhood, we also love beauty and strength in young manhood, and that strength and beauty come as a result of true living. 

THE GREATEST ORGANIZATION IN THE WORLD FOR CHARACTER-BUILDING 

I am grateful this afternoon to be associated with you in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the greatest organization in the world for the building of character; an organization which is striving to bring to pass the end and purpose of true religion, which is the immortality and eternal life of man. This earth life is the probationary state through which every soul must pass. By overcoming difficulties and temptation, and by rendering service to others, each may develop toward the Christ character as he revealed it among men. It is a glorious ideal; it is inspiring. 

TWO WAYS IN WHICH CHARACTER IS BUILT 

There are two ways in which this character is built in our Church. One is positive. In that positive development we ask young men and young women to participate in the various organ113  and the quorums of priesthood. Fathers and mothers, do we realize what this means in the development of the character of our boys and girls? I have just time to suggest that we go from this conference this October with a determination to unite with the officers and teachers in these associations in helping them to win the interest of our children who participate in these organizations — the Primary, the Religion Class, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Relief Society. I wonder why more of our young girls do not join the last named organization, and not leave it entirely to our mothers. But, it may be, that the younger women's time is occupied with these other associations up to their taking the responsibility of the home. These organizations, however, with the seminaries and the Church schools, are but auxiliaries in this great organization of character-building. They are but helps to the priesthood. No youth in the Church who reaches the age of twelve should be excluded because of unworthiness from membership in the Deacons' quorum, and that membership should signify a clean life, a prayerful life, faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Every bishop should ask the boys of his ward what their attitude is in regard to these things before he ordains them to the priesthood. So throughout the Teachers' quorum, and the Priests' quorum. That is but a glimpse of the positive means of character-building, bringing our children to Christ. 

Now there is alongside these positive means a negative means. All through life the Latter-day Saint child is asked to refrain from indulgence in things that will tend to weaken character. He is asked to keep the Word of Wisdom, he is asked to keep himself pure and unspotted from the sin of immorality. That is a wonderful thing, and especially when the community sentiment in the Church upholds that teaching. 

TOBACCO A GROWING EVIL 

There is a growing evil, I fear it is growing in the Church, to which I wish to call attention, and ask all these forces to cooperate in overcoming, in assisting the youth to resist. I refer to the evil of cigarette-smoking. Smoking is, an indulgence which tends to weaken manhood and womanhood and to undermine character. I have always felt that, and I have wondered recently if thinking so much about it I have not become extreme in my condemnation of the habit. With the view of checking myself I took occasion recently to read another book setting forth the supposed benefits of cigarette-smoking. It was written expressly to prove that cigarette-smoking is not injurious. I tried to be fair as I read the two hundred and some odd pages, and I stand today more firmly convinced than ever that the cigarette has no defense, particularly among youth. The habit is wasteful, but worse than this, it does undermine the character of youth and leads to greater evils. The GENERAL CONFERENCE  man who writes so carefully and, as he thinks, so logically in the defense of that habit has this to say about its indulgence by youth : "It is agreed that the only possible harm that might result from over-indulgence in tobacco must come from the nicotine that is a natural compound of all tobacco, and man very quickly immunizes himself to the effects of nicotine." This is an acknowledgement that there is something against which the body must become immune. The writer continues : "Yellow fever, as every one knows, is a horrible and deadly disease, and yet a man who has once had it may regard it ever after with the calm indifference which an ordinary man regards nicotine." 

I like the comparison. The use of nicotine should be looked upon just as we look upon yellow fever. No one will expose himself to that disease merely for the sake of becoming immune. It is too great a risk, so sane persons prefer to keep from it entirely. That is the pruper attitude also toward the use of tobacco; and that is just what the author quoted desires regarding his own boy. Says he : 

"I do not believe that growing boys or girls either should use tobacco in any form." Bear in mind, fellow workers, this is written by a man who tries to prove the beneficial effects of the cigarette. "My own boy," he continues, "has now reached the time in life when habits are easily formed. That is the age when there naturally arises in him the desire to imitate his elders by smoking. Realizing this I persistently urge him, as well as all other lads over whom I' believe I may have some influence, to refrain from the use of tobacco during their tender years, and quite as persistently do I advise them to refrain for the same period from too much meat and from the use of strong spices, cocoa^ tea and coffee. But the best of all arguments against the smoking of cigarettes by minors seems finally to be the fact that such simoking is unlawful in most states of the Union. For my part I wish it were unlawful in every state." 

It is unlawful in the State of Utah. And besides these evils mentioned by this advocate of smoking for older ones, there is this moral danger that youths who participate in smoking frequently do it surreptitiously without the knowledge of their parents, thus adding to it an element of dishonesty, and dishonesty is one of the most disintegrating elements in character-building. 

WHAT OUR HOMES SHOULD ESTABLISH 

Our homes should establish the fact that the boy who indulges in cigarettes is not contributing to his advancement and growth in the Church and Kingdom of God, neither preparing himself for his responsible place in society. Today leading business men and leading firms throughout the country discriminate in their choice between the boy who smokes and the boy who does not smoke, favoring the latter always, and in many cases refusing absolutely to employ the young man who has contracted the habit of the cigarette. That is only from an economic standpoint. 

We as Latter-day Saints have a stronger reason and one that 115  directly to the strength and growth of the character of our boys and girls. We heard the opening address of this conference, from the President of the Church who read the word of God to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that tobacco is not good for man. The statement is not qualified in any way. Scientists have demonstrated it; men who have tried to disprove it have failed, and we as a people stand committed to that command of God. Keep the habit of smoking and the use of tobacco in any form out of the lives of our boys. Resistance of the appetite will react upon the character and strengthen it. Just because a man has developed the habit is no justification for his continuing it. Just because some men may become immune (granting this man's argument), from the ill effects, that is no justification for its use in the priesthood of God. 

FATHERS AND ELDERS SHOULD BE WORTHY OF IMITATION 

Fathers and elders have the obligation of setting an example worthy of imitation to the youth. Boys want to look upon you as men. Their ideals incorporate in your life all the Christ-like attributes, as near as you can develop them, which Christ had when the Roman governor pointed to him, saying, "Behold the man." Remember, even though you have the habit, overcoming it will make you stronger. 

"It is easy enough to be virtuous When nothing tempts you to stray, When without or within no voice of sin Is luring your soul away. But it is only a negative virtue Until it is tried by fire, 

And the soul that is worth the honor of earth Is the soul that resists desire." 

God bless our boys and our girls! May they stand out in clear, distinct manhood and womanhood to the admiration of all who see them, bearing witness that the power of the gospel, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in this dispensation and as being preached throughout the world by two thousand of these young men and women, is indeed the power of God unto salvation, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

My beloved brethren and sisters : I do not expect to present anything that is new, in fact we have not heard anything that is new during this conference, but we have heard the simple truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which have been from the beginning and which never grow old. I trust that what I may add may find a response in your hearts, that I may leave some impression that will abide with you when you return to your homes. GENERAL CONFERENCE 's marvelous work 

As I have listened to the most excellent testimonies and instructions that we have received during the sessions of this conference, my mind has turned to a prophecy given hundreds of years before the birth of. Christ, by one of the prophets of Israel: 

"Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men": 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder : for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

Thus prophesied Isaiah, speaking of these latter days- The Lord by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the year 1829, before the organization of the Church, declared that this time was at hand, and that he was about to commence his great and marvelous work among the children of men. I think it is a great privilege to have the opportunity to live in the world when this work is established — this marvelous work which is recognized not only by those who have come into the Church, but by many who are not in the Church. I look upon the kingdom of God. or the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as being the corner stone of this great and marvelous work which the Lord was to perform. And as I look over this vast assembly into the faces of men who hold the Priesthood, it is impressed more deeply upon my mind that there is great significance in this organization, and in this Priesthood which has been restored for the salvation of the human family. 

WE LIVE IN A MOST WONDERFUL AGE 

We are living in a marvelous age, a most wonderful age. The Lord is fulfiling his purposes very rapidly, both among the Latter-day Saints and among the peoples of the earth, everywhere. I am fully convinced that the time is now here that was also spoken of by another of the prophets, who said : 

"And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions : 

"And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit." 

GREAT MODERN INVENTIONS AND DISCOVERIES 

Of course, it was those who held the Priesthood and who were members of the Church, who had made covenant with God, that should prophesy and see visions, 'but the Lord was also to pour out his Spirit on others beyond the borders of modern Israel. 

I remember sitting in a meeting some thirty or more years ago when that meeting was being addressed by one of the members of the Council of Twelve Apostles, who has long since departed this life. In the course of his remarks he made a statement that impressed me and which has stayed with me since that time. It was to the effect that the time would come when men would communicate from city to city, conversing without the aid of the telephone or intervening wires. As I pondered over it I thought: Of course, that time will come, but it cannot come until after Christ comes again, and his truth shall have been acknowledged over the earth during the Millennium. Then such great power will be exercised, but even then it will be granted to those who are in the Church and to no others. I have lived, however, to see the fulfilment of that prediction. I am witnessing it now, as no doubt many are who are listening to these services throughout the land, for the voice of the speaker is carried abroad in each instance, how far I do not know- The voice is heard and recognized, perhaps a thousand miles away, and the words leave their impression on the mind of those who are listening almost the same as if they were sitting in the presence of the speaker, as you are doing. I think this is very wonderful; and yet, this great discovery did not come through revelation to a member of the Church; it was not sent through one who holds the Priesthood, but it came through one not of the Church but who was inspired of the Lord to give this great blessing to the world. So with many other things, the automobile and the airplane as means of transportation; the talking machine and all of these great discoveries that have come through scientific research, they have come, most of them, outside of the Church. Yet I maintain that had there been no restoration of the gospel, and no organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, there would have been no radio; there would have been no airplane, and there would not have been the wonderful discoveries in medicine, chemistry, electricity, and the many other things wherein the world has been benefited by such discoveries. Under such conditions these blessings would have been withheld, for they belong to the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times of which the restoration of the gospel and the organization of the Church constitute the central point, from which radiates the Spirit of the Lord throughout the world. The inspiration of the Lord has gone out and takes hold of the minds of men, though they know it not, and they are directed by the Lord. In this manner he brings them into his service that his purposes and his righteousness, in due time, may be supreme on the earthINSPIRATION AND THE GREATER ACCUMULATION OF KNOWLEDGE THE 

CAUSE 

Now let me say ^briefly that I do not believe for one moment that these discoveries have come by chance, or that they have come because of superior intelligence possessed by men today over those who lived in ages that are past. They have come and are coming because the time is ripe, because the Lord has willed it, and because he has poured out his Spirit on all flesh. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I know it is quite generally believed that the people living now are more intelligent than were those who lived in former ages. I cannot accept this view because, with the understanding I have of the restoration of the gospel and of the dealings of our eternal Father with his children from the very beginning, I know that he would not choose and send into this world inferior intelligences to stand at the head of his work. We are informed that in the councils that were held in the heavens, when tests were made, the spirits of the men, then living in the pre-mortal state in the presence of the Father and the Son, were chosen to stand upon the earth in the various ages of the world's history to hold particular positions of responsibility because of superior intelligence manifested in the spirit world. I am satisfied with the thought that among these spirits there was none greater, except the Savior of the ,world himself, than the one who was called to stand at the head of the human family. So it is not because of greater intelligence, but because, no doubt, of the greater accumulation of knowledge together with the inspiration that comes from the Lord as he grants it unto men, that we receive the benefit of these blessings. The time has come for the Father to gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth, that the fulness of his work may be consummated. For this reason we are seeing and enjoying the great advantages of our time. The prophets anciently, I am sure, spoke of these marvelous events that should come to pass in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

HAS THE RACE PROGRESSED INTELLECTUALLY? 

I have before me an excerpt taken from a lecture delivered on the 9th day of February, 1925, before the Philosophical Society of Great Britain, by Avery H. Forbes, a member of that distinguished body. Discussing the question, "Has the race progressed intellectually?" he makes this comment: 

"That information, knowledge, facts, have vastly increased is undisputed, but that the increase is favorable to the moral nature, or even to the worldly wisdom, is yet to be shown." 

He then quotes the following from Alfred Russell Wallace, one of the noted scientists of the past century : 

"The great majority of educated persons hold the opinion that we are more intellectual and wiser than men of past ages, that our mental faculties have increased in power, but the idea is totally unfounded." 

HAS THE RACE MADE MORAL PROGRESS ? 

Then, discussing another problem, "Has the race progressed morally?" Mr. Forbes concludes that it has not, but on the contrary, with the greater knowledge that has been imparted and the greater power to act, men have used these agencies for the creation of greater crime. However,- they have had the means within their hands to benefit mankind and to bring about increased righteousness- I think his conclusion is in perfect harmony with the revelations of the Lord to his people. 

WHERE MUCH IS GIVEN MUCH IS REQUIRED 

In conclusion, I want to call your attention to this fact, that members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who have received the greater light and have made greater covenants to serve the Lord, are under the necessity of keeping those covenants and commandments in righteousness and humility. We are living in perilous times, notwithstanding the remarkable wonders and accumulated knowledge of the present age. This is a day of ungodliness and increased iniquity and men everywhere are paying little heed to the commandments of the Lord. These evil conditions which confront us tend to lead us from the path of truth. As members of the Church we have greater opportunity, because of modern revelation and the Priesthood, to serve our fellows and to teach them the ways of eternal life. Let us remember the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation. 

"Ye call upon my name for revelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings, which I give unto you, ye become transgressors; and justice and judgment are the penalty which is affixed unto my law." 

I would like to present all of this revelation, but you may read it yourselves. It is found in section eighty-two of the Doctrine and Covenants. I will, however, read one or two more verses : 

"And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you; 

"Or, in other words,_I give unto you direction how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation. 

"I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." 

The man who has received the truth and yet will not walk in it deserves the greater condemnation. A member of this Church who will indulge in the use of tobacco, who will violate the Word of Wisdom, who refuses to pay his tithing, to keep the Sabbath day, or who iri any other way will not hearken to the word of the Lord, is not loyal to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I was thinking, when Brother Rey L. Pratt was speaking of his labors in South America, how certain Italian brethren came confessing their sins and in humility forsaking them — giving up everything in the world for the gospel's sake because they had found the truth, how characteristic that is of those who receive the gospel out in the world. Yet, here at home in the stakes of Zion, in the shadows of Temples, are to be found those who are numbered with the Church who GENERAL CONFERENCE  not keep the commandments of the Lord. Some of them have made covenant in holy places, and yet they do not value the truth; they do not value the teachings of the servants of the Lord and they will not walk in the knowledge which they possess, much less by every word that proceeds forth from the mouth of God- These shall receive the greater condemnation. Oh how I wish all who live in the stakes of Zion could get the same spirit of humility and faith that is manifested by these humble converts out in the world. What a power we would be for righteousness. May we seek for it, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I made a memorandum to speak of the statue which has been completed and installed in the Bureau of Information, commemorating one of the most remarkable incidents in the history of the Church; namely, the migration to these valleys of men and women in this great cause, pulling handcarts and bringing their blankets with them. Brother Knaphus has done himself proud in producing this small statue, which can be seen in the Bureau of Information building. Some of the most heroic and self-sacrificing pioneer work that was ever done by those coming to the valleys is accredited to the people who came in the handcart companies. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel." The benediction was pronounced by Elder C. Alvin Orme, president of the Tooele stake of Zion. 


