Afternoon
03 10 1926


PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

My brethren and sisters: It has always been a considerable task for me, at the general conferences, to address these large gatherings of Latter-day Saints, although I have had many years' experience. Approaching a task of this kind gives one a feeling of awe. 

A GREAT WORK ^ACCOMPLISHED BY THE SAINTS 

I rejoice in the work that the Lord has accomplished with the help of his Saints, imperfect as most of us are. Under his guidance and direction we have been able to accomplish a igreat work. I believe that he would say now, as he said to the Church in former days, that he is well pleased with his Church collectively — not individually, but collectively. GRATITUDE TO GOD FOR THIS AGE AND NATION 

I feel very grateful for the privilege of being here. I often think what a grand thing it is to be permitted to live in the world today — this wonderful age of the world, with its marvelous developments of science and art, and the great progress that has been made from the conditions of the world as they existed two or three hundred, or even a hundred years ago. What a different world! And what a wonderful land of liberty we are living in — a choice land; under the freest and best of all governments on the face of the earth; where there is more security, more protection for the rights and liberties of the people, than there is in any other nation. The hand of the Lord has guided the destinies of this great nation, for he it was that planned it. 

He tells us in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith which we often quote : "I, the Lord, raised up wise men for this very purpose"; that is, to found this government; and it has had divine guidance all the way through. The people here in the United States, even those who are not so well off financially, are housed better, fed and clothed better, and better situated than the rich and well-to-do in most other nations. Never before in all the history of the world has there been a nation like this, of such commanding importance, and yet not desiring anything but what rightfully belongs to it. I 

REVERENCE FOR GOD 

I was glad to read the inaugural address of President Coolidge, delivered a year ago last March, particularly the closing paragraph wherein 'he showed such reverence for God. He concluded the address with these words : 

"America seeks no earthly empire built on blood and force. No ambition, no temptation, lures her to thought of foreign dominions. The legions which she sends forth are armed, not with the sword, but with the cross. 

"The higher state to which she seeks the allegiance of all mankind is not of human, but of divine origin. She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God." 

"She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God". These words constitute an acknowledgment of God in the affairs of the nation, and a desire to be governed by the spirit of righteousness and justice, to do good and to uphold the principles of freedom. 

THE STRUGGLE FOR LIBERTY 

The liberty that we enjoy today has come only after a hard struggle in the world. Four hundred years ago the fight for freedom was on. The reformers, as they are called— Martin Luther, John Knox and others— rose up and protested against the tyranny to which they were subjected. They demanded more liberty. They were few in number compared to the many millions, but under the blessing of the Lord they conquered. (Finally, little by little, liberty was conceded to the people by the potentates and popes that then ruled the world. But it  a hard struggle and cost some of the best blood of that period. The Rise of the Dutch Republic, by Motley, gives a graphic description of the terrible sufferings endured by the Dutch people in this long fight for liberty. For the liberties that we enjoy today we are indebted in large measure to the people of the Netherlands. For many years they fought most valiantly for religious freedom and the extension of the rights and liberties of the citizen against all the might and power of Catholic Spain, backed by the Spanish Inquisition. They were small in number and weak indeed compared to the thousands and tens of thousands of Spanish troops, led by the notorious Duke of Alva. But they finally conquered. Why ? Because the guidance of the Lord was with them, and he gave them his favor and blessing. 

A hundred years later the same desire for liberty was again manifested. Oliver Cromwell was raised up, and he fought a good fight and kept the faith. We are also largely indebted to him, and to those who fought with him, for the freedom that exists in America today. 

A hundred years after that we find George Washington and the patriot fathers contending for the liberties of the people, and the Lord gave divine guidance to them. They could not have succeeded without his help. His power and his hand were over them. 

So, as we heard from President Ivins this morning, it comes about in the progress of the spirit of freedom and liberty, that the Lord has prepared the way in this nation for his Church to be established. 

(DISTINCTION BETWEEN DIVINE GUIDANCE AND DIVINE AUTHORITY 

But here let me emphasize one thought. To all of these men — Luther, Knox, Cromwell, Washington, and their compeers — there was given divine guidance. But they did not have divine authority. The Lord today gives divine guidance to good people of the world who seek him — and many millions do. It is true that there is a divinity that shapes our ends (and the ends of nations, too) rough-hew them as we will. But he has not given to the'm divine authority. As we heard this morning, religious denominations sometimes meet together and pass resolutions against us. They are without divine authority. And there is a marked distinction between divine guidance and divine authority. People can see and acknowledge the guiding hand of Almighty God in the formation of this government and in its growth and development. It is plain to many that we have enjoyed his favor as a nation. But as to divine authority, that is different. Let me read from the very first revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, [We heard from President Grant this forenoon of the necessity of preaching this gospel to all the nations of the earth] by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants." 

That is a little different from divine guidance. In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he was only seventeen years of age, in 1823, we read: 

"Behold, I will reveal unto you tlie Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the proph< t, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. 

 And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. 

"If it urn not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." 

DIVINE AUTHORITY CONFERRED BY HOLY MESSENGERS 

Was that divine authority bestowed? Let me read another section. On the 15th day. of May, 1829, an angel of the Lord, known as John the Baptist when he lived upon the earth in the days of the Savior, appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them, in these words, the (Priesthood of Aaron : 

"Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which hold,s the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." 

Here is divine authority. Do any of our friends or neighbors make such a claim? We know the claim of the (Catholic church, and all we say in response is that "By their fruits ye shall know them." These were the words of our Savior, and that is enough on that score. But our Protestant friends do not even have that much of a claim. They have a form of godliness, but deny the power thereof. And because they do not have the authority themselves they think no one else has. 

I have read to you. how the Lord conferred the lesser Priesthood upon the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Let me read from the 27th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The Prophet Joseph, in preparing for a sacramental meeting in August, 1830, started to go to a neighbor's house to secure wine for the sacrament, because that is what had been used. He was met by a messenger from the Lord and instructed that he need not go for wine; that pure water should be used instead : 

"It mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partakt of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory — remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blcod which was shed, for the remission of your sins." 

Then this messenger goes on to tell the prophet that the day will come when he, Joseph Smith, would be able to sit down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, with Moses, with Elias, with others of the ancient worthies and partake of the sacrament "and also with all those whom my Father hath given me out of the world." So, some of us may have the privilege of being there. But he said further, that the iProphet would have the privilege of sitting down "with Peter, and James, and John, whom I 'have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and  the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them." 

Here was divine authority in these last days, conferred by holy messengers, the same men, Peter, James and John, of whom the Lord Jesus Christ said, in his time : "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you." The Lord Jesus himself ordained those three men, and they came, as I have read, and conferred the holy apostleship upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. So here is divine authority to act in the name of the Lord. Our claim is that the authority of the Priesthood has been conferred upon men and given to this Church which is the Church of Christ. It is not given to the nation. But the nation has had divine guidance, as I have said. Individuals not of our Church may have divine guidance; but divine authority, to act in the name of the Lord, to baptize, to lay on hands, to say : "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," as the apostles of old said, and then to have them receive it, that is a different proposition. 

WITNESSES OF THE BESTOWAL OF DIVINE AUTHORITY 

Upon these statements of divine authority we rest our case, as the lawyers say. If these heavenly messengers did not come to Joseph Smith and confer upon him this divine authority, then is our preaching vain and our faith is vain also. But we know, and the world may know also by the fruits of "Mormonism" that there is divine power in this organization. Moreover, we have witnesses. Through Joseph Smith the Lord called three special witnesses, to whom was given the great manifestation of the truth of the Book of Mormon. We have not only three witnesses to the testimony of this divine auhority, but we have three hundred thousand of them, and more, that can rise up and testify that by the power and influence of the Holy Ghost they know that this is the work of God, that it is the power of God unto salvation. It is not a form of godliness without any power; it is tJie power of God unto salvation, the salvation of all those who will accept it, in this land and in every other land. That is the difference between this Church and all other .churches in the world. We call upon all the world to know that that divine authority is here, in this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that it is nowhere else. God bless you. Amen. 

STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

God is in heaven, but he is not- far removed from them that seel« him. He is a friend who never fails. One can always trust him. 

THANKS AND GRATITUDF 

I thank God for the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for the great conceptions of life which it offers for the comfort and the encouragement and the hope of all mankind. 

I thank him for the Church with all its great institutions, -built up and maintained under the power of the holy Priesthood for the salvation of the souls of men, and for their direction in the great cause of truth. 

I thank God for the Saints, the blessed Saints, who make up the Church of Christ, who have testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master; who know of the great mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and who seek to carry forward the mighty work which he was instrumental in establishing. I am grateful to be identified with the Saints of God. . i 

I thank God for the Priesthood, for that great power just spoken of, a very portion of Godhood itself, which enables men to administer the ordinances of the Everlasting Gospel, in the name of Jesus Christ, and with his authority. I am grateful for the fraternity and the friendship which come from associations in the Priesthood. 

I thank God for my brethren of the stakes, where my duties call me, for my associations with them, for their uniform kindness and consideration and love. Brethren, I love you, I love you in the bond of the holy Priesthood, and I trust that that bond may always keep us together.;Thank God for the handclasp of a man who is united with me in the Priesthood of God. Never neglect those friendships, brethren, be one and you will be Christ's. 

I am grateful, beyond my power of expression, for the companionship of my beloved brethren who surround me, my colleagues, my true friends, men whose examples stimulate and encourage me and protect me from temptation and error. I am grateful for their confidence in me, and I have continually prayed that in some measure I might be worthy of that confidence. 

The Lord is good. All his judgments are righteous. He makes no mistakes. Never complain at the judgments of God; never mock him. Always trust him. He will never forsake you. Seek the things of eternity; they are worth while. All other things are of but passing worth and comparatively valueless. 

Oh, I thank God for the home and for the great conception of family which we have, Ifor the eternity of these sacred and beautiful relationships that under the power of the Priesthood have been established. If there were nothing else given to the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith than our great and beautiful conception of home and family, he would have made the greatest contribution ever made to humanity by any man who has lived. 

I praise his great name, the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that his mission was divine. My heart, my soul, and every faculty of which I have possession, confirm that knowledge. The work that he established is the work of the living God. 

In your presence, humbly, I consecrate and dedicate all that has been given to me to the establishment of that work. May we all make it prosper as God would have us do, I pray humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish that it were given to all of the audience to stand here and see this magnificent sight as we are standing and singing our songs. Of course, we get a view that those of you in the audience cannot have. This is a wonderful inspiration — to view such an audience, the main body of this house full of men holding the Priesthood of God, and the power of Almighty God, to declare his will to the world. 

REED SMOOT 

I could do no better than repeat the words that have been spoken by President Grant. I had it in my heart to do so, and I want to say amen to all that he has just said, also I want to express my appreciation for the privilege of attending this general conference. While we were singing the last song, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," and the one before, I thought, if the author of these two songs were allowed to be present and hear the words sung by this wonderful and enthusiastic audience, such an audience as cannot be found in any other place on earth, his heart would be filled with joy and praise-giving. The fundamentals of the gospel of Jesus Christ are found in the words of these two songs. Where else in all the world could you see an audience of ten thousand people every one of them capable of quoting every) word of the song, and every soul interested in singing the praises toGod as contained in these two songs? 

NEVER DESPAIR 

The other day a middle-aged man called to see me. It was about a question in which he was deeply interested, and after I advised him that his wishes, as far as any action on the part of our government was concerned, were useless, he began to talk to me about his life and what he had been called upon to sacrifice for the gospel's sake. He said that he became almost discouraged and was almost at the road of despair. I thought, my brethren and sisters, that that condition, if a man reached it, is a most dangerous one, and at that time if a word of encouragement or a helping hand could be extended, it may save him. I remembered when I was going to school as a young boy of being asked to learn and repeat an article found, I think, in the National Fifth Reader, entitled "Never Despair," and as I had it with me I read it to him. I think, my brethren and sisters, that perhaps it would be a proper thing to call it to your attention, and I shall do so, in part : 

"There is no trait of human character so potential for weal or woe as firmness. To the business man it is all important. Before its irresistable energy the most formidable obstacles become as cobweb barriers in its path. Difficulties, the terror of which causes the pampered sons of luxury to shrink back with dismay, provoke from the man of lofty determination only a smile. The whole story of our race — all nature, indeed — teems with examples to show what wenders may be accomplished by resolute perseverance and patient toil. 

"It is related of Tamerlane, the celebrated warrior, the terror of whose arms spread through all the eastern nations, and whom victory attended at almost every step, that he once learned from an insect a lesson of perseverance, which had a striking effect upon his future character and success. 

"When closely pursued by his enemies — as contemporary tells the anecdote — he took refuge in some old ruins, where, left to his solitary musings, he espied an ant tugging and striving to carry a single grain of corn. His unavailing 1 efforts were repeated sixty-nine times, and at each several time so soon as he reached a certain point of projection, he fell back with his burden, unable to surmount it; but the seventieth time he bore away his spoil in triumph, and 1'efiJ the wondering hero reanimated and exulting in the hope of future victory. 

"How pregnant the lesson this incident conveys! How many thousand instances there are in which inglorious defeat ends the career of the timid 'andi desponding, when the same tenacity of purpose would crown it with triumphant success! Resolution is almost omnipotent. Sheridan was at first timid and, obliged to sit down in the midst of a speech. Convinced of, and mortified at, the cause of his failure, he said one day to a friend, 'It is in me, and it shall come out' 

"From that moment he arose, and shone, and triumphed in a consummate eloquence. Here was true moral courage. And it was well observed by a heathen moralist, that it is not because things are difficult that we dare not undertake them. 

"Be, then, bold in spirit. Indulge no doubts — they are traitors. In the practical pursuit of our high aim, let us never lose sight of it in the slightest instance : for it is more by a disregard of small things, than by open and flagrant offenses, that men come short of excellence. There is always a right and a> wrong; and if you ever doubt, be sure you take not the wrong. Observe this! rule, and every experience will be to you a means of advancement." 

THE TESTIMONY OF THE GOSPEL IN US MUST COME OUT 

My brethren and sisters, it is in us, it must come out. We have the testimony in our souls that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, that God, through him, established this Church in this dispensation, nevermore to be thrown down or given to another people. As I looked at the f aces of this vast audience of the priesthood before me, I wondered if there is made that determined effort for success, that firmness maintained that is so essential to success in every vocation of life, and in their belief in any principle; that if it were, what could not be accomplished. I am not afraid of the ultimate success of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God is at the helm. I can see every year that passes by, step by step, it is gaining its way and men are studying the results of it; men who hold mighty positions, men of affairs. While, of course, they have not the knowledge that it was from God, they can't but look at the results of it, and they can't but see there is something in the gospel of Jesus Christ greater than mere numbers of souls. If we are faithful, if we are true to the covenants that wQ have made with God, if we have, an eye single to his glory, if wa think more of God's work and its success than of our own in-i dividual success, or our own individual positions in this world, I  to you now that the gospel of Jesus Christ will grow just as fast as God wants it to grow, ,or knows that the people are ready for it to grow. 

PREJUDICES NOT ALL ELIMINATED 

The prejudices against our people that have been so bitter in the past are not all eliminated yet. Perhaps they never will be until final success comes, but I want to testify to you that this wall of prejudice is crumbling, it is being destroyed in the minds of the opposition when they see the results of "Mormonism" in the community in which "Mormons" live, and I haven't any doubt, my brethren and sisters, that the final triumph of the work of God will come in his own due time. I thank God for his Spirit made manifest to us this day. My heart gave echo to all that has been said, and I am, with my brethren, interested in the advancement of the Church that it may spread to all the four corners of the earth, that the testimony of the elders shall be heard in all lands. 

A WEALTH OF SPIRITUALITY AND FAITH 

I wondered when we were singing the last song if every person in the world could have heard it — and that time may c'ome when they can do so, if they desire — what effect it would have had upon them. 1 know that no stranger, no man, could have been in this building today and heard the song that was sung and the power that was manifested by every one who took part in the singing and not have been touched to the heart. He never could have said there is not faith among the people known as the "Mormons." He never could have claimed that there was not a wealth of spirituality and faith emanating from those who have taken part in the singing and speaking, both would have impressed him with the earnestness and with the truthfulness of the words that were sung and the testimonies of the gospel of Jesus Christ as proclaimed. 

GOD LIVES AND THIS IS HIS CHURCH 

My brethren and sisters, I want to leave with you today that testimony for which I prayed so long. My mother said if I would keep myself unspotted from the sins of the world it would come, and this is that testimony, that I know that God lives and this is his Church. I hope, as long as I have breath, that whatever is required of me as a servant of God, I shall be perfectly willing to do, to make sacrifice of any name or nature, even unto life itself; and if a humble prayer, offered to my heavenly Father morning and night, will keep me in that same frame of mind, I shall glorify his name and thank my Maker for that testimony. 

May God's choicest blessings be with his people. May they increase in wisdom, and may their works be such that the world seeing them will concede that they are directed from other sources than man, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. RICHARD R. LYMAN 

We believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet; that Joseph Smith is a prophet; and that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, through him, has been re-established upon the earth. 

BEAUTY, POWER AND GLORY OF THE CHURCH 

In this Church organization, as I see it, there is every element that will make people stronger, better and happier, and I am of the opinion, at times, that we ourselves, who are the living elements of this great Church, do not comprehend its beauty, its power and its glory. 

ADDRESSES AT THE OFFICER'S MEETING, Y. M. M. I. A. 

We had a meeting of the officers of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church, in the 'Bishop's Building, this morning at 8 o'clock. We listened to addresses given by four of our ninety-six Y. M : . M. I. A. stake superintendents. We have one stake superintendent in each of the ninety-six stakes of the . Church. 

These superintendents are but young men. I wish all of you could have heard the four who spoke this morning. They stood before that great group of Mutual Improvement workers like generals at the head of an army. 

I was so profoundly impressed by the scripture which one of these speakers quoted that I am going to read it to you : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." (Doc. and Cov. 4:1.) 

This, the L. D. S. Church, is that marvelous work. And the more I study it, the more marvelous things I find in it. 

MORE BLESSED TO GIVE THAN TO RECEIVE 

The whole Christian world is pretty generally agreed, I believe, that there is hardly a more important element in the teachings and in the example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ than that expressed by the Apostle Paul when he said : "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than it is to receive." (Acts 20:35.) 

Measured by this matchless measuring stick given by the Lord Jesus Christ, the L. D. S. Church is marvelous. In all the world there is no other institution which, in proportion to its size, has in it so many volunteer workers, or so many who contribute so lavishly, of both time and money, as do its members, into whose souls has come the conviction, as a result of faith, prayer and righteous living, that Jesus is the Christ, that by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel men may be saved, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet. Match if you can in any other organization anywhere the unselfishness of our army of two thousand missionaries who preach the gospel, as  believe it, in nearly every quarter of the globe without money and without price. These not only give their time to this great cause, but they pay their own expenses. 

OUR VOLUNTEER WORKERS IN THE CHURCH 

It is not, however, of the missionaries abroad, but of the volunteer workers at home that I desire to speak on this occasion. 

Each of these ninety-six stake superintendents of the Y. M. M. I. A. has two counselors, a stake secretary, and when completely organized at least five other stake board members. To each one of these board members is assigned the chairmanship of a specific committee. Thus in all the Church we have in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement organization in the neighborhood of a thousand stake officers. We have in addition about five officers for each ward, or approximately four thousand ward officers. There are therefore in the Young Men's organization as stake and ward officers approximately five thousand men. 

Since the Young Men's organization is but one of the five auxiliary organizations of the Church, and, further, since the other organizations probably have approximately the same number of officers as has the Y. jM. M. I. A., this means that throughout the Church we have approximately twenty-five thousand officers in these auxiliary organizations. Twenty-five thousand volunteer workers! Where else in all the world can such another volunteer group be found? These are struggling for the good of humanity without any hope of reward, except the satisfaction which comes from living -in accordance with that Christian principle that it is more blessed to give than to receive. The L. D. S. Church is the marvelous work referred to which has come forth among the children of men. 

Let me make it clear that I am not now speaking of the Church organization proper. I am not referring to the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards and the presiding officers of the various quorums of the priesthood. The twenty-five thousand officers I refer to, are serving in our auxiliary organizations, and these are but helps in the government of the Church, they do not constitute the main Church organization. 

MISSIONARY WORK IN THE Y. M. M. I. A. 

But let me refer further to the remarks of our Mutual Improvement superintendents who spoke at our 8 o'clock meeting this morning. Another of the four speakers outlined the plan of work which he and the other volunteer workers of his stake propose to carry out. He reported progress regarding the Y. M. M. I. A. card record. His remarks were somewhat like this : "In our stake the organization for doing missionary work is practically complete. We have prepared a card for all the male members of our ward between the ages of twelve and thirty. If one of these, in any ward of our stake, does not attend our Mutual Improvement meetings, our plan is to have him visited at leasl once each month. These cards are already in the hands of our missionaries. On the hack of the card, which contains the name of the individual visited, the, visitor will record his own name, the datf of his visit and any comments concerning this individual case which may seem necessary." 

Thus we propose in this Young Men's organization, to reach every boy in every ward, however poor, however unfortunate that hoy may he. We expect to extend the helping hand to the boy who, for any reason whatever, may Ik- required to fight a difficult or an unfair fight. Each and every month we propose to "visit the fatherless in their afflictions," and with the help of divine Providence keep all young men in every part of the Church "unspotted from the world." (James 1:2?.) 

Let me explain further what we expect to do with these young men, if the missionaries succeed in bringing them to the meetings of our organization. If you have a son who is careless, we are going to try to make him serious and industrious. If your neighbor has a son wiio is careless, we propose to do the same thing with him also. Wherever we find a boy who is not interested in study, we hope to arouse within him an interest in his school work. Where we find boys who are living in idleness, it is our aim to encourage them to be ambitions and to go to work. If we find a boy who is a spendthrift, we aim to impress upon him lessons of frugality. We^aim to teach young men to stand erect, to step with the elastic step, to practice the teachings of the Scout organization, to be true to God and to country, to help other people at all times, to keep themselves physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight. In short, we are struggling to make these Mutual Improvement members perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. 

LABORS OF GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS 

We have, as members of our General Board, those who have had extensive scientific training. We have among them men who are teachers, men who are experts in psychology. Many of our General Board members are products of the best schools of our country. Unitedly these Hoard Members have prepared a program for young men so broad that we hope to be able with it to reach and touch effectively the life of any man's son, whatever may be the qualifications of that son. 

PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION IN THE M. I. A. 

( hir program is so varied that we expect some portion of it will appeal to something in the life of every boy. And with these numerous activities our plan and hope and expectation is that we shall lie able to give to every boy at least enough religion, enough information concerning the teachings and the love and the example of 

Jesus the Son of God, to fill him with genuine ambition and to keep him walking in paths of virtue. 1 

If a young man is interested in debate, we are providing an opportunity for him to express that impulse. If he is interested in dramatics, here he will find an opportunity to give expression to his natural fondness for playing" the part of another. If, perhaps, he has a natural interest in music, opportunity will be provided in our Mutual Improvement program for him to give expression to this musical urge or impulse. Whatever his aim, his desire, his ambition, we are aiming to provide in our Mutual Improvement organization an opportunity for him to express it. 

We give to our Mutual Improvement members lessons in honesty. We teach them to be true, to be chaste, to be benevolent. We teach them that we believe in doing good to all men at all times. We teach them, in the language of the Doctrine and Covenants, to "Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence." (Doc. and Cov. 4:6,) 

These, the fundamental elements in the gospel of Jesus Christ — these are the doctrines and principles and practices we are aiming to bring into the lives^of the young people of the Church. We desire to .have them, by keeping the commandments, receive as a part of their lives, their very beings, that something, that unexplainable something, that came into the life of Saul of Tarsus. It was a light from heaven, but it touched his life, it touched his soul, it transformed a heart of hate into a heart of love. It transformed Saul of Tarsus into Paul the apostle. It is the aim of our organization in the teachings of this year so to train our young folks that they may know as Job knew when he said: "I know that my Redeemer liveth." (Job. 19:25.) When we are teaching them to live that prayerful life, that life of faith, we are teaching them to practice that righteous living which brings into human hearts that knowledge for which we seek, that knowledge we desire all our young folks to have; namely, a conviction that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is his prophet. 

I shall conclude with the words from the Doctrine and Covenants which one of our superintendents used this morning : 

"O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart,- might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." (Doc. and Cov. 4:2.) The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to read a few verses from the 26th chapter of II Nephi, beginning with the 23rd verse, as follows : 

THE GOSPEL UNIVERSAL 

"For behold, my beloved brethren, T say unto you that the Lord worketh no* in darkness. "He doeth not anything save it he for the benefit of the world; for ht loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation. 

"Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me? Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he saith : Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, without money and without price. 

"Behold, hath he commanded any that they should depart out of the synagogues, or out of the houses of worship ? Behold, I say unto you, Nay. 

"Hath he commanded any that they should, not partake of his salvation? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but Ihe hath given it free for all men; and he hath commanded his people that they should persuade all men to repentance. 

"Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness? Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but all men are privileged the one like unto the ether, and none are forbidden." 

I read now from the 33rd verse: 

"For the Lord doeth that which is good among the children of men; and he doeth nothing save it be plain unto the children of men; and he inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile." 

A BETTER UNDERSTANDING 

It has been my privilege in association with my companions, Brothers Rulpn S. Wells and Rey L. Pratt, during the past year to come to a better understanding of the Lord's feeling towards his sons and daughters, as expressed in this scripture that I have just read to you. As you have heard, we were assigned to go as the first missionaries of the Church to South America. 

FIRST MISSIONARY VISIT IN SOUTH AMERICA 

However, you students of our history will remember that Bother Parley P. Pratt made a visit to the west coast of that country about seventy years ago. He remained for a few months, until his means were exhausted, struggling with the Spanish language. He was not so fortunate as we were, because we had his grandson, Brother Rey L. Pratt, who is a master of the Spanish language. That enabled us to do a work that Brother Parley was unable to do. Then I am also sure that there has been going forward in South America, in these last seventy years, a marvelous change that was necessary to prepare the hearts of the people and the governments for the coming of the gospel message. We knew, however, that it was not going to be easy, but we were willing to go to the ends of the earth, to make any kind of sacrifice, to discharge the great obligation which the Lord has placed upon his Church, to bring to all men the glad news that he has spoken again, and has established his Church in the earth, that all flesh, black and white, bond and free, Jew and Gentile, all may know of these good things which the Lord has done. 

RECENT MISSIONARY WORK IN SOUTH AMERICA 

We took a long journey into that south land — and, by the way, there were some who wondered why we did not go to San Franscisco and sail to South America from that point, but if you will look up the map and draw a line straight south from New,. York City, your line will carry you about two hundred miles west of Valparaiso, on the coast of Chile. So practically all of South America lies east of New York City. We sailed from New York City on the 14th day of November, and after six days and six! nights we reached one of the islands of the West Indies. We felt sure that we were a long distance from home. We might have been in Europe by that time. Then we sailed nine days and nine nights without seeing land, and then found ourselves opposite the eastern point of South America, and not many hundred miles west of the British Isles. Then three days more and we were into the harbor at Rio de Janeiro, off the coast of Brazil. Then five days more and we reached our destination at Buenos Aires, the great ^southern capital, a city of two million two hundred fifty thousand people. I said to some of the brethren that it was a strange experience as we passed out of New York City in a cold winter's wind, to go into the balmy summer climate of South America, where summer there is winter here; to pass under the equator and have the sun move off to the north and arise in the northeast and set in the northwest and the moon to follow likewise; and all the stars we knew to disappear, and a new heaven and a new earth came into view, for it was a different kind of earth from ours, different vegetation, climate, people, and to me a different language, until I felt like one entirely removed from the world I knew. I am grateful, that we had Brother Pratt's assistance in speaking the Spanish; and Brother Wells' assistance in speaking the German, for we had two families of German-speaking people in Buenos Aires who had joined the Church in Germany. With Brother Wells' assistance we succeeded in carrying the work forward among the German-speaking people of that section, and before Brother Wells had to return it was our privilege to take six of them into the waters of baptism, the first converts baptized in South America. Brother Wells' return was a great sorrow to us because of his companionship and his knowledge of the German language, but his illness was such, and it continued to recur, that we felt his life was in danger. He was an exceedingly sick man, and yet Brother Wells would have been glad to have stayed there and laid down his life. It was a great disappointment to us to have him go home, but it was necessary, and he was willing to respond to the suggestion and as cheerfully go as to stay. 

Then Brother Pratt and myself continued our work with the German people as best we could, but it was difficult. I had to tell Brother Pratt in English what to tell them, and he told it in the Spanish to a German girl who could speak a little Spanish. She interpreted it in German to our friends, and the answer came hack in the same grapevine way. But we were successful in holdino- them and in increasing interest among others until our little .roup erew. When Brother Stoof reached us, being a master of the German language, he was able to take up that work and push it forward, so that it is in a very prosperous condition today. There are a number of others who have become interested. 

DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED 

The principal work that Brother Pratt and myself undertook was among the Spanish-speaking people, and I would like you to know that Spanish is the language of South America. While there are here and there small groups of English and small groups of German-speaking people, practically all of them speak Spanish. So that one is as helpless down there without Spanish as he would be in the United States without English. We undertook to secure a hall, |but there were no halls such as we have in this country. Conditions are different. When we did try to rent some of them, we could not secure them because they were recreation halls, and the chief activities were going forward on Sunday night, and they did not .Wish a religious service to disturb them. So for two months we battled with that problem. We tried to rent office quarters to make halls out of them, but were unsuccessful. 

At last we did secure a place and rented all of it, a store and living quarters, and then we began to invite people to come. In the meantime, however, we had gone to our friends who live in the suburbs or outskirts of the city. That was not the easiest work to do, because we traveled two hours on the street car and then walked two miles, not on paved streets, but on lanes, through fields, in mud, in dust, and all character of weather, and then when we did this all we could get to come to our meetings, for nearly two months, were children. 

"a little child shall lead them" .  

There was no prejudice against us, in fact the great majority of the people did not even know there was a United States of North America or anything about it, much less did they know anything about the "Mormon" Church. 'The chief lack of interest was because we were not Catholic. The whole country is Catholic, as you know. Nevertheless we said: "We shall not abandon our effort to reach the people." And we learned anew that "a little child shall lead them." We continued with those children, teaching them to sing, teaching them to pray, to repeat the Lord's prayer, the Articles of Faith, and the Ten Commandments. They carried these prayers and songs into their homes, and then one .parent appeared, and another, and another, and we finally organized a group meeting of adults, and continued to teach the children. The children brought their parents- — and that was true in several  that had opened for us. Then we moved forward into homes of those who had become interested, and to our great joy we saw that the same wonderful response was being manifest in the hearts of the people of that land as elsewhere, and a splendid Spanish woman, came forward and signified her absolute conviction that we had brought the truth. She resisted all kinds of opposition that was arrayed against her, and it was our privilege to bring her into the fold of Christ. I want to bear witness that there is not in the Church anywhere a more devoted, faithful Latter-day Saint than Sister Sifuentes, in the city of Buenos Aires. I am therefore moved to say that I do believe that the Lord is no respecter of persons or of nations, and that all who will receive him and his message shall likewise have equal privileges in his blessed gospel. She became an active and energetic missionary. 

ITALIANS INTERESTED IN THE RESTORED GOSPEL 

Then some Italians became interested. There are two million of them in the Republic of Argentina. When our assistants came, Brother Stoof and his wife, Brother Sharp and Brother Stoddard, splendid workers, we introduced them into those places where we had started meetings, and our largest group increased until we had an average attendance of about sixty adults. We left them with places for meetings every night in the week, except Saturday night, and three places on Sunday. We left a small group converted, for eleven of them signified to us their intention of joining the Church and bore testimony to the truth of the message wei had brought them. When we finally did leave, there were as many tears shed at our departure in Buenos Aires as there had been in Salt Lake City when we left here a year ago. Since leaving that land four splendid Italians, three men and a woman, have joined the Church, and others in addition to the eleven that I have referred to have become interested. 

It was a long, hard fight for us. I have no word of censure for the people. They had prejudices against the religion we were advocating because it was not Catholic. We were foreigners and strangers to them. But I rejoice in saying to you, my brethren and sisters, that God was good to us and he opened the door so that ultimately we had the privilege of laying the foundation of the Church in that land, and from a membership of four adults, when we reached that land, we have left twenty-four Latter-day Saints, with the work started in those three languages.- We met no opposition, as far as the government is concerned, notwithstanding there is a union of church and state in all the So'uth American republics, save Chile. There was a separation of church and state in Chile a year ago. Yet there is religious liberty in all those countries for our missionary work. 

A DIFFICULT MISSIONARY WORK 

I found great difficulty in fully satisfying myself, because of my inability to preach the gospel to them through not knowing their language; however, I learned to read it and converse with the people. T satisfied myself in part, however, by assisting in the splendid work that Brother Pratt was performing, by inviting the people to our meetings, and having him translate into Spanish the testimony I wanted to bear to the people of that land. I had the privilege of visiting twelve thousand five hundred homes, giving them this printed message and inviting the people to our meetings. We held two hundred thirty-four meetings, so that Brother Pratt was very busy preaching to the people. We enjoyed the experience, although we had to do things just like- we did when we started out in the commencement of our missionary work, like we did when we traveled without purse or scrip. It was the most difficult piece of missionary work that I have undertaken, but I thank the Lord that success has come out of it, that a foundation has been laid, and I am convinced that it is possible for the gospel to be carried to all the people of that land. 

VISIT TO THE INDIANS ON THE GREAT ANDES PLATEAU 

It was our privilege, through the permission of the Presidency, to return via the West coast. We were anxious not to go away from South America until we had seen the Indians of that land. So in the Northern part of the Argentina we met them, hundreds of thousands of them. We passed up to the plateau of the great Andes mountains, a plateau five hundred miles long by a hundred and fifty miles wide, at an elevation of twelve thousand feet, inhabited by Indians. We lived for some three weeks with them, slept in their houses, ate at their tables, saw millions of them. There are two million eight 'hundred sixty thousand people in the Republic of Bolivia, nearly two million of them being pure-blood Indians. There are four million six hundred twenty thousand people in Peru, and more than three million and a half of them are pureblood Indians. There are two classes of Indians. One is the halfbreed, a descendant of the Spanish soldier, and the majority of the leaders of South American countries have Indian blood in them, but unfortunately they do not esteem that Indian blood, but are rather more proud of their Spanish blood. Not until the day shall come when they come to an understanding of who they are, and that the Indian blood is of Israel and is of the best blood in the world, will their hearts turn in sympathy and love to the downtrodden and oppressed of their own brothers and sisters, the fullblood Indians. 

CONDITION OF THE SOUTH AMERICAN INDIANS 

I have never seen a more industrious, hard-working lot of people in my life than the millions of Indians we saw in Bolivia and Peru. My heart went out to them in anxious desire, for I saw them as they are in Mexico, in poverty, robbed of their lands and their glorious civilization, a much better civilization than was  by Pizarro. A better civilization than they have in those countries was destroyed ruthlessly, and they were murdered, and their lands taken. They were despoiled and have been trodden down and have remained very largely in a state of semi-slavery until today. With all their toil and labor they ought to be a rich and independent people, if they could only have the returns that come from their labor. But the majority of the returns are taken by the land holders, for fifteen per cent of the men in South America own ninety-five per cent of the land, and these conditions have obtained for many years, until they are in a state of poverty, and yet they are in the majority in many of those countries. But the right of suffrage is only extended to those who can read and write, and the majority of the Indians cannot read or write. Few schools are provided for them to learn to read and write, and they are like a great sleeping giant. Many of them ispeak the Spanish language. So Brother Pratt and I cannot see why the missionary work shall not quickly come unto them. 

THE DAY OF THE INDIANS' REDEMPTION DRAWING NIGH 

It was our privilege to call on the government officials of both Bolivia and Peru, and to explain our mission and desire to! have missionaries go to those lands. We were assured that our missionaries would be welcome, and that there would be no objection on the part of the Government. It is our desire that those precious promises made to their forefathers shall be fulfilled. They shall pass through the same changes that are going forward in Mexico, but they shall come out of their serfdom and bondage into the light of freedom in religious, as well as in political matters, and the day of retribution and their redemption, I am sure, is not far distant. 

SPAIN AND ITALY ENTITLED TO HEAR THE GOSPEL 

I desire to bear testimony to what President Ivins said here this morning. ,1 believe that the beginning of this gospel dispensation, as set forth in one of these revelations, was the commencement of the times of the Gentiles. I believe that that generation which saw the dawn of this gospel dispensation shall not pass away until the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled, and after the days of the Gentiles cometh the day of Israel. I am anxious, therefore, that in the period which yet remains to the Gentile nations to hear the gospel message, we shall send forth the help necessary, not only to those South American countries,, but my soul has been turned towards Spain, since I have been in that South land, and also toward Italy. I do not feel we are justified in the opportunity we have given to either Spain or Italy or France or China or to other nations to hear the gospel; so I am looking forward for the time to come in the very near future when those lands shall be fully given the opportunity. Not many of them may come into the fold, and yet I believe that there is some of' the blood of Israel in Spain and in Italy, and that the people are entitled to the opportunity of hearing- the gospel before the day of judgment shall come. I bear witness to you that the Lord is already beginning the work for the redemption of the house of Israel. 

THE GOSPEL TO DELIVER THE CHILDREN OF FATHER LEHI FROM BONDAGE 

God gave us the Book of Mormon and the chief reason, as set forth in one of the revelations, is that it shall be the means of bringing to the descendants of Father Lehi the knowledge of the Redeemer of the world, and to establish them in the faith of their fathers. I bear witness to you that nothing on earth shall ever bring them out of their thraldom save the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I rejoice, therefore, that the day dawn is breaking, the night is dispelling and the day of their redemption cometh. I have wept over them, as I have seen them dwelling in ignorance and poverty in the midst of the ruins of great and glorious cities their fathers built. Such ruins I have never seen elsewhere of mighty temples and cities, the evidence of their past wonderful civilization; and then, as I looked upon these poor, wretched souls who have reached their state of degredation, of poverty and misery, through sin, transgression and oppression, I have prayed to God to bring to pass their deliverance according to his promises, and I feel sure that that day is at hand. May the Lord put it into the hearts of men and women to continue to respond and carry the gospel message wherever it is wanted, and discharge the mighty responsibility that rests upon this Church before the day of judgment shall come, that the Gentile dispensation, when it comes to a close, will find us having discharged our obligation; then cometh the day of Israel, the day of her redemption in all lands.- I bear witness to you that swiftly moving events are at our very doors. I bear witness that God is crying repentance to the world in the testimonies of thunder, of lightning and tempests, and if they do not repent he will thresh the nations. 

THE TASK AND DUTY OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

There is no safety, so far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned, only by keeping the commandments of God. As I looked at the Church from the distance of eleven thousand miles, I admired what we have done in subduing the desert and making it blossom ike the rose, building our temples, tabernacles, and factories; but rising above them all and more splendid and glorious than all else is the manhood and the womanhood that has been established in the earth by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is the biggest thing we have done, and may God help us to use all we have or may possess as but a means to the glorious end of establishing here a civilization the like of which the world does not know; that they may come from the East and the West,  the North and the South, to learn of our ways and to walk in our paths. It is our task to perfect the lives of these men and women, boys and girls, until they shall be the light of the world, the salt of the earth. God give us the vision to see it, to work' until we shall be successful, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

TABERNACLE CHOIR VISITS CALIFORNIA 

About the first of July members of the choir numbering 250 took an excursion to California^ where they gave a series of fine concerts. The expense incurred was approximately $12,000. All of this amount except $991.25 was paid from the receipts of the concerts given. The balance was paid out of the treasury of the choir, it being their proportion of receipts from concerts given locally prior to that time. 

Credit should be given the authorities and members of the Los Angeles stake for helping to make this trip a success, for they all gave of their time, and were enthusiastic in their efforts to have the people of Los Angeles and surrounding territory hear the choir. 

The choir is worthy of the support of all the people who hear it so often, but when they give a concert many of us do not feel the moral obligation, as well as the small financial obligation, to assist the choir by attending their concerts. 

PETER WHITMER FARM PURCHASED 

President Brigham H. Roberts was authorized to purchase, and succeeded in purchasing, the Peter Whitmer Farm, where the organization of the Church took place. The deal has been closed, and we are now the owners of the building where the Church was legally organized. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Worthy is the Lamb." The closing' prayer was offered by Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve. 

The conference adjourned until Monday, 10 o'clock a. m., October 