Afternoon
05 10 1926


On Tuesday afternoon, October 5, 1926, the concluding session of the ninety-seventh Semi-Annual Conference was held in the Tabernacle. All the seats in the main hall and galleries were comfortably filled. 

President Heber J. Grant presided, and at 2 o'clock announced that the congregation would sing, "Earth with her ten thousand flowers." 

After singing, prayer was offered by Elder Wallace Calder, president of the Uintah stake of Zion. 

The Congregation sang, "Do what is right, the day-dawn is breaking." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

President of the California Mission 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that during the short time I occupy this position I may be sustained by your faith and sympathy and by the blessing and inspiration of the holy Spirit. I feel that it is a very important thing to stand in this pulpit, and claim the attention of so large a number of people. I am very thankful for the opportunity and feel it is a very great honor. 

I am glad to be able to say to this congregation that in the 137 

California mission we are still endeavoring, to the best of our ability, to bring to the attention of the people of- that mission the wonderful work of the Lord. We. continue to bear testimony concerning its restoration and the manner in which it was brought from heaven to earth, and to testify concerning the divine authority which has always been essential for man whenever the Lord has had a message to deliver to the inhabitants of the earth. 

We number in missionaries in California about 140, a little more than 40 of this number being lady missionaries, and the remainder being as a rule young men, 'most of whom were ordained elders in the Church as they received their call to go abroad as representatives of the work of the Lord.  

I have been thinking, during this conference, particularly when Elder Orson F. Whitney was talking to the people, of the long ago in my own missionary experience- I went out forty-five years ago in company with Brother Orson F. Whitney and a few other brethren who were called at the general conference to go to Great Britain and to other sections of the European mission. I have a most distinct recollection of reading, in a little journal that I kept while on that mission, words that had been written during the first few days of my missionary labors. I was sent into the county of Ayre in Scotland and my lot was cast with a coal mining community. Of course, the experience that I had at the beginning of my ministry was something altogether strange and new to me. When I was released to return home, as I was packing up, that little journal that I kept accidentally opened before my eyes, and I read a statement to this effect: "Here I am, far from my home and people. God help me-" Those words told the story. I certainly felt that I was a stranger in a strange land. I wondered whether it would be possible for me to continue in that community as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints for the period of time that usually falls to the lot of a missionary. In those first few days I did not feel that it would be possible, and yet, thanks be to God and to his marvelous providences, and I trust and believe to the help and light and companionship of the holy Spirit, I was not only enabled to remain in the mission field during the allotted time, but I found during that period that wonderful joy which is spoken of by missionaries who have endeavored in their weak and humble manner to expound the doctrines of the gospel, inviting men and women to an investigation of the message revealed by the Lord our God. I have thought of that period during these conference proceedings. I have had the pleasure of meeting with many missionaries who have labored in California during the past few days; and I am happy to say that these missionaries with whom I have met have expressed the feeling unanimously, I think, that they would be very happy indeed if opportunity could be given them, and financial conditions were favorable, to return again and take up their missionary work. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

It gives me pleasure to report to the fathers and mothers who may be in this congregation that so far as the California mission is concerned, we feel that we have been abundantly blessed of our Father in heaven during the past six months. The missionaries of the mission have had better health during that period than during any similar period of my ministry as president. We have had but very little sickness. We have not had any serious illness among the missionaries, and we feel to praise the name of the Lord our God for his blessings unto us. 

It is a satisfaction to be able to report that we are a little stronger in numbers, a little more firmly rooted, throughout the California mission at the present time, than we were six months ago. There are a few more branches in the mission; there are a few more Mutual Improvement organizations; there are a few more Sunday schools; there are a few more Relief Societies; and there are a few more Primary associations in the mission than were there at our last general conference. We feel encouraged in the work that has been entrusted into our hands- I am glad to say that we are a united band of men and women. There is no ill feeling in the ranks of the missionaries; they are all earnest and active and willing to play their part, ready to respond to any demand that is made upon them to go and come as they may be directed by proper authority, and they are giving the very best that is in them to establish the work of God and to spread the message of truth among the people with whom they are brought in contact. They are not mighty men. They are not wonderful or strong men, but they are just the kind of men and women spoken of in the holy scriptures, when the inspired apostle made the declaration : "For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called : But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise." We feel that we are thus calledThe missionaries feel that they need the help of Almighty God, and I think it is a good thing to have that feeling, to realize that they have been called to a labor that requires greater qualifications, greater power than men and women are possessed of naturally. The missionaries have that feeling, and yet it is wonderful the labor they perform, the zeal they manifest, the faith they develop as they labor in striving to preach the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. For they do make the discovery that they are in very deed the servants of God, and we try to impress that upon their minds. I believe devoutly in the doctrine that has been advocated during this conference, that is, that the Lord God of heaven has promised that there will be great things follow the testimony of his servants; that after they have delivered their testimony to the inhabitants of the earth that testimony shall be backed up by the Lord God of heaven, with the vivid lightnings, with the thunders of heaven, with the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, until all things shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them with fear because 

Elder Joseph w. McMurrin 139 

of the things that will come upon the inhabitants of the earth. I believe it, my brethren and sisters, and I try according to my power and ability to impress upon the missionaries that they are in very truth the servants of the Lord our God, and that they have been clothed with authority from on high, that whether men recognize and respect that authority or not, the Lord God is conscious that he has called them to his ministry, and I believe with all my soul that he will magnify them, maintain them in their service, and that he will finally bring to pass all that he has spoken by the mouths of holy prophets in relation to the latter times. 

I hope the men of Israel who are before me feel the responsibility that rests upon them in connection with the delivering of the gospel message to the inhabitants of the earth. For if God has spoken the truth, and we know he speaks only the truth, the world is famishing for the truth and power which brings salvation to the inhabitants of the earth. Men who have received this divine authority by the coming of holy angels, who brought back to mortal men the power and authority that had been lost from the inhabitants of the earth, owe something to the children of men. I hope that this call, which has been made again during this conference for men of experience to go abroad in the preaching of the gospel, will meet with a hearty response, that each man will feel that it means me, and not think it is my neighbor, and that all who hold the Priesthood will be anxious to play their part. 

I feel that I am under obligation to lift up my voice in proclamation of these principles that have been revealed, for in the mercy and providences of God some man found my own parents, and other members of the MjcMurrin family, in far-off Scotland, and through their teachings and testimonies and the help of God they were brought to believe the truth and came to this land; and in this land, the land of Zion, I was given birth. I praise God for that. I want to render to my fellowmen in some degree some such service as has been rendered to my own people. I am under obligation to make proclamation of the gospel, and every one of you is under obligation to play your part. He that is warned shall warn his neighbor, is the commandment of God in the revelations that have been given in our own time- Let us believe the scriptures. "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. And let us not be weary in well doing : for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not." 

When I look into the faces of my companion mission presidents, I feel that it would be presumptuous on my part to take more of this precious time. I glory in -my membership in the Church of Christ. I have proved" to my own full satisfaction that it is the Church of Christ. "My doctrine," said the Redeemer, and that was all the Sons of God could say— "my doctrine is not mine, but his that sent GENERAL CONFERENCE . If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

I have tested that promise and doctrine, and I have had made manifest to me that this man who has been spoken of, Joseph Smith, was raised up by the Lord our God to reintroduce among men the doctrines of the everlasting gospel. It has brought joy unspeakable to my soul. In like manner, in fulfilment of the promise made in the closing declaration of the Book of Mormon, I have had made manifest to me, not through my father, not through any president or bishop, or apostle, but by the power of the Holy Ghost, that the Book of Mormon is the word of God, and I hope every man and woman in this congregation has that same knowledge, that same understanding, that it is a true, wonderful, glorious record of the ancient inhabitants of the land. 

God help us to stand for the truth, and not to be led away by the whims and doctrines of men that would blind us and rob us of our salvation, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. AmenPRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We would like to hear from .many of our brethren. We will ask Brother Richard C. May to be our first speaker, and Brother Elmer F. Taylor to follow him. These are the only brethren presiding over stakes who have not either prayed or spoken in conference since 1919, except those who have been appointed during this year. Following these brethren we would like to hear from Brother J. Wyley Sessions, who has returned from South Africa. Brother O. B. Peterson, who has returned from Tahiti; Brother Mark V. Coombs, from Tonga; Eugene J. Neff, from the Hawaiian Islands, and Russell H. Blood from the French mission. 

ELDER RICHARD C. MAY 

President of the Minidoka Stake 

Brethren and sisters : I wish to extend the love and sympathy and good fellowship of the people of the Minidoka stake to the presidency and all the general authorities and all the people of this Church. This is an experience that I have never before had. I remember many years ago, when just a mere boy, of sitting in a little country meeting house and school house combined on a Sunday when the home missionaries came to the ward. And as those brethren sat up on the stand and in their turn talked to us, I thought to myself, what wonderful looking men. I wonder if that opportunity will ever come to me. And from that time to this present moment I have tried to do my duty in the Church, have tried to help to build up the kingdom of the Lord to the best of my ability, and I thank him from the depths of my heart for the opportunities that have come to me in helping to carry on this work. I thank him that I was born of goodly parents, and I thank him that in the home of my parents I have the first time to hear either of them 141  disparagingly of any of the authorities of this Church, and that teaching has been inculcated into my system until I would be afraid to raise my voice in criticism of any of these, the Lord's anointed. I hope and trust that while I sojourn in the earth I shall be privileged to do the best I can in bringing souls unto Christ and helping to build up his kingdom here in this earth, and I will give to him the praise and the honor and glory, forever and ever. Amen. 

ELDER ELMER F. TAYLOR 

President of the Young Stake, in Colorado and New Mexico 

My brethren and sisters: I have enjoyed this conference, all but one thing, and that is I have had a dread and fear that I might be called to this stand, and up to the present time I have managed to avoid meeting the President of the Church. I wanted to take a back seat, so to speak. But I am not ashamed, my brethren and sisters, to stand up and bear my testimony. I am glad to be here. I have never enjoyed myself before in my life like I have done during the sessions of this great conference. This is my first experience in this pulpit and I have only been in this building about six times in my life. My father drove the second wagon that came into this valley and told me the story of the pioneers, and I have a love for this country, for this state, and when I crossed the line into Utah, I said in my heart, "God bless Utah." That is the way I feel in regard to this part of the country, this part of the Lord's vineyard. But I have been down on the San Juan river almost forty years of my life. We are having a struggle down there, but there is no better land in the United States than we have in that part of the country. We do not need any money, but we need about a thousand more good, faithful Latter-day Saints who are not afraid of work to build up that country. 

I want to say a word or two in regard to the picture that I now see before me, that I have been viewing this afternoon. Not having had a chance before to go before the general authorities of the Church and speak to the twenty-six men who stand at the head of this great organization, I say to all who v are here today, and all who are listening in, that in my judgment, and it is my faith, they are the best men upon the face of the earth. As I said to a friend of mine some time ago, we are not naturally better than the people of the world, but the Church that we are members of, and the kind of work that we are engaged in, are the making of . us, and will make of us the best people upon the earth. I thank the Lord for having the opportunity of having had as guests in my home the men who represent the presidency of the Church, who come down from time to time to visit with us in our conferences. We welcome them there, and all the members of the General Boards. 

I do not desire to take any more of this precious time, but I thank the Lord for the privilege of speaking to you today, and do so in the worthy name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Sessions presided in South Africa for six years, and labored about a year trying to get there. 

ELDER J. WYLEY SESSIONS 

Former President of the South African Mission 

Trembling though I am, laboring with only half a voice, feeling as humble as |I ever have felt in my life, yet my heart is filled with gratitude for the privilege of bringing to you, my brethren and sisters, the greeting of your brethren and sisters from the most distant branch of the Church on this great globe. As I bear my testimony to you, I desire to bear the testimony and represent the saints of that goodly land of South Africa. They have never seen a member of the general authorities of the Church. In our mission we have never been blessed with the presence of one of these men, but time after time I have heard those people in that land arise to their feet and bear witness that they know Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that they know that President Grant is a prophet of God, and I am authorized by them to bring that message to you. 

Brethren and sisters, how we have longed to see you here and to meet with the Saints in these general conferences, but we were too far removed. I want to say to you that fourteen to fifteen thousand miles separated from you was not a great enough distance to separate us from the same good spirit that has prevailed during this conference, and as the general conferences have been held every year about this time, we arranged so that some of the conferences in the mission would be held at the same time as you are holding the general conferences here. I have felt time and time again that the Lord was blessing us with the same spirit that you have here. 

I would like to say one thing to the fathers and mothers who have sent sons to Africa, and those who have them there now, and those perhaps who will have sons go there. South Africa is not the country that was described by Theodore Roosevelt on his hunting expeditions. We saw no jungles; we saw no wild animals; we were not eaten up by cannibals, nor injured by them. The Union of South Africa is a modern, thoroughly up-to-date government. We do not move quite so fast there, and we do not live at quite the same tension you do here, but it is a fine, up-to-date country, and there we have a host of friends. Oh. brethren and sisters, if you could only realize and understand how those people really appreciate your humble boys. If you knew how their hearts swell with gratitude to you, and their prayers go up in your behalf for the sacrifice that you are making to send your sons there, and that it may not be too great a sacrifice for you—if you knew all those things I am sure you would respond more readily than you do. How we need help down there! There are thousands and thousands of 143  people in that land who need the gospel. There are lots of hardships. We often hear of the terrible financial condition of the European countries, and of those in other parts of the world # but it seems to me as I have traveled about in Africa and in Europe that the greatest starvation is for these precious truths that we have right here, which, as President McMurrin said, we are enjoying because somebody's son or somebody's daughter went into the mission field and somebody supported them. 

My brethren and sisters, let us respond to these things, and when your sons are called to South Africa — I know full well the expense is great — let us send them there, let us go without some motor car, or the last model at least, for I have seen so many motor cars that I do not think any of us need to go without them here. But let us go without the last model in order that we may send our sons to South Africa and to the other missions. The Lord has sent a very choice man down to that country to preside now. I know your boys will be protected and cared for, and they will return a blessing to you, and be a blessing to that land. I have heard you pray that the Lord might hasten the day when his purposes shall be consummated, yet here we sit sometimes and we are not helping the Lord in consummating his purposes. 

As I have looked into the faces of the people in the congregations of the Saints in Africa and Europe where I. have been, I have almost felt to pray, Lord, stay the time until we shall have called to us these people who are here standing in darkness, not realizing how completely they need the gospel, not knowing its value and its blessings. And yet there are just as good hearts burning in their bosoms, longing for and needing the gospel, and we stand charged by the Lord God of heaven to deliver that message, and I hope and pray that as long as I live I shall not get away from the choice spirit that attends the missionaries. I want the missionary spirit disseminated through the wards and stakes of Zion, and my humble prayer is that the Lord will fill us all with a desire to deliver this great message to the people who need it so much, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Brother O. B. Peterson spent three and a half years in the Tahitian Mission upon his first mission and presided there for three years on his second mission. 

ELDER O. B. PETERSON 

Former President of the Tahitian Mission 

We have heard the scripture quoted to us this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, to the effect that it is the weak things of the earth that are called. I feel that is particularly applicable to me at this time. To say the least, however, it proves to me that the 1 GENERAL CONFERENCE -heard statement, that opportunity comes but once to every man, is not correct. I remember that my name was called out at our last general conference, but, owing to the fact that I was not properly informed as to my privileges in connection with my work, I stayed on the job and consequently was not present. I felt, however, that I would have another chance; not that I have anything special to say, but I deem it an honor to stand in so renowned a place, for here have stood the prophets and apostles and servants of God in the dispensation of the fulness of times; and to me at least, if there is any difference among them, they are just a little more than any of the prophets and apostles of the Lord in any previous dispensa- ' tion. It is my testimony that they have the same authority, the same priesthood and the same office and calling; that they are inspired by the same spirit; and, in addition to that, they are the ones who are called to lead, counsel and instruct us. The others are just a matter of history. 

My lot as a missionary was cast among the more humble people of our Father's children; but a more loving people, a more lovable people and a more hospitable people you could not find in any other place throughout the world. We often wortder how it is that our young people can leave their homes and loved ones here in the valleys of the mountains and go out into the various parts of the world, to people with habits and customs so absolutely different to those to which they have been accustomed, and to an environment altogether at variance with anything they had known before; compelled to learn languages that seem at first to have no meaning whatsoever; yet, in a remarkably short time, they are able to apply themselves in work; they are able to adapt themselves to the peculiarities of the people; they soon learn the languages, and are able to be really instrumental in the hands of the Lord in spreading the gospel among his children. It is my testimony that the reason for this is the spirit of service that dwells within their hearts — it is the missionary spirit. 

The Tahitian Mission, wherein I had the pleasure of laboring, as has been said, for six and a half years, is somewhat different, I think, from most any other mission of- the Church; but I can say it is just as good as any other mission in the world. Our' missionary work there, to a very large extent, demands that we travel upon the sea in small ships — twenty-five, thirty and fortyton sailing vessels and gasoline schooners. Our mission covers a radius of more than a thousand miles, reaching from the island of Tubuai, which was the first island in the Pacific ocean to receive the gospel in this dispensation, to the Tuamotu archipelago in the north. Our branches are scattered over this thousand miles with a separation of from fifty or sixty miles to four hundred miles,, and we are compelled to travel from one island to another in order to meet with our Saints. Owing to the few missionaries we have and to the absolutely undependable means of travel, we are unable to maintain constant contact with them; and, naturally, they ret145  a little. But t'hey respond readily to the work of the missionaries. 

One of our young men, who just recently returned from there, was laboring on the island of Tubuai. He had been for ten months Avithout any word from home. It had been six months since his folks had heard from him. Upon the arrival of President Alma G. Burton, he was called to headquarters with his companion; but it so happened that the ship on which they were to sail was condemned by the government officials, precluding the taking of any passengers aboard. In order to get away, however, in response to the call of the mission president, they were compelled to resort to strategy; and after the vessel had left the island and gotten about five miles at sea, these two young men got into a native canoe and were paddled five miles through the open sea in order to catch the boat and go to headquarters. That is just an example of some of the things we do in the Tahitian mission in the course of our gospel labors there. But I want to testify, my brethren and sisters, that the words of Nephi, wherein he said that the Lord does not require us to do anything except he provides a way, is manifested repeatedly there, and the protecting hand of the Lord has been over us; and, in spite of the little dangers at times to which we are exposed, we never fear; and,, in spite of the fact that the Tahitian mission was the first island mission opened in this dispensation, we have never had a missionary die in the service either from sickness or accident. 

I should just like to relate a little incident to show the extent to which the missionary spirit plays its part in our work. We had a young man who was of a rather backward disposition and it was very difficult for him to learn the language. For his good, we gave him a transfer to the California mission. He finished his mission there and received an honorable release a year ago this Fall. He paid us a visit on his way home, and last April during our general conference he called on us again. He said to me : "You know I have been back to California since my return home. Upon my arrival home last Fall," he continued, "I was dicontented and dissatisfied. It seemed that I had lost something valuable in my life. It seemed that the people at home were different, the work was different and I could not content myself. Consequently I determined to go back to California, where I had enjoyed myself so much." 

So, he went back to his mission field; he traveled over the same ground which he was wont to travel as a missionary; he met the same people, but he confessed, "I was disappointed, I did not seem to find the same feeling and conditions that I experienced while laboring there as a missionary; and I decided that the reason for it was, that the purpose for which I had gone the first time was for the sake of serving others in behalf of the gospel, and the second trip was for my own pleasure; and I found that it makes a difGENERAL CONFERENCE ." He said, "I determined to go home and apply the same spirit of service, the same missionary spirit, at home that I had applied in the mission field, and I am now contented. I find that the people at home are just as congenial, and friendly, and the work is just as interesting. 'The trouble was I had not applied myself in the spirit of service at home, as I had done in the mission field, and this, I learned, had been the cause of my supreme joy and happiness there." 

I think I have taken my share of the time, my brethren and sisters. I appreciate the privilege of standing here and bearing my testimony, and expressing these few thoughts. I have been buoyed up in my faith during the sessions of this conference; and I pray that the Lord will bless all of us, that we might ever be firm and steadfast, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Brother Mark V. Coombs spent three and a half years in Samoa and six years in Tonga. 

ELDER MARK V. COOMBS 

Former President of the Tongan Mission 

I feel very timid, my brethren and sisters, in mingling my humble testimony with the wonderful testimonies that have been borne before me. For the few moments that I occupy this position, I do ask that my testimony might be prompted by the Spirit of the Lord, that I might be able to say something to you and put before you some of the problems with which we have been confronted in Tonga. 

While Brother Sessions says that South Africa is the most distant of the missions, I believe that Tonga is the most isolated. We think we are mighty lucky if we can get a letter home and a reply to that letter inside of five months, and we never get a letter any more than once a month. When our newspapers reach us they are so stale that the only items we read are the sermons that have been spoken from this stand, or other instructions by the presiding brethren. 

Now Tonga is only a small place. It is a tiny mission, possibly one of the smallest, and you have not heard much of Tonga. But there are some mighty good people there, people whom I have learned to love. The Tongan mission is situated about seven hundred miles eastward of Fiji; that is, about seven thousand miles from here, not "out where the West begins," but where the West ends. The sun rises first in Tonga, in 1922-23 we performed the first baptisms that were performed throughout the world in those years in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We got up in the morning and performed these baptisms in the east, for the sun rises first there. We are seventeen hours ahead of the time in Salt Lake City. 147 

We have about fourteen inhabited islands with a population of about 25,000 people. If missionaries were sent according to our population we would have but few, but due to the scattered condition of the islands we feel that we ought to have between twelve and fourteen missionaries constantly in the field, but we do not get them, and we do not get them because it seems to me there is a certain feeling among the parents in Zion which causes them to discriminate against our island missions, particularly Tahiti, Samoa, and Tonga. They figure that those island missions are so far isolated and that there is no medical attention; sanitary conditions are supposed to be poor, and these dear sons have to make so many sacrifices that they do not want t'hem to go there. They would prefer possibly that they go to Great Britain, to some of our American missions, or to Australia, and possibly, while they are doing missionary work, hunt up a little genealogy. That is all well and good, but it appears to me to be just a little bit selfish. It appears to me that it" should not make much difference where you give your service. The thing is, are you giving the service? t The souls of those Tongan people are just as valuable as the souls of our ancestors who have gone before us, just as precious in the eyes of the Lord as the souls of people who are of a different complexion. *I learned to love those people. I made a few sacrifices, which I do not count as sacrifices, but I count them privileges, and the people made many sacrifices for me. They went without food that I' might eat; they took clothes from their own backs and gave them to me. They have given me their last horse. They have given me the last vegetables from their garden; when they had practically nothing, they saw to it that I and mine had plenty. So because of these close associations I have learned to love those people. And they did not only make those sacrifices for me, but they have made them for every elder who has been in the Tongan mission. 

It was my privilege to be in Tonga when Brother McKay visited us in 1921. At that time there were quarantine regulations existing and it did not appear that he could visit us, but the Saints were back of us, and we exercised our faith and prayers, and with a lot of coaxing on my part, we finally prevailed upon Brother McKay to stop over in Tonga. I went with him as far as Samoa and thoroughly enjoyed my visit there. While Brother McKay was there, mingling with those people, a beautiful spirit prevailed. And then it appeared that the Spirit was bound to call him from there and that he was not going to Tahiti or Tonga, neither he nor Brother Cannon. Finally, in one way or another, he sent Brother Cannon on to New Zealand and he remained with us in Tonga. I believe those few days that Brother McKay was in Tonga were the happiest days of my life. The Saints congregated there, not being able to understand one word he said, but understanding through the Spirit, and I want to assure you that many of our most stalwart converts were made after his visit in Tonga. The influence GENERAL CONFERENCE  sprang up in Tonga after Brother McKay was there is something that I cannot describe. It seemed that after his visit some of our problems began to melt away and we began to find a way to solve them and to deliver our message better to that people 

I had been there but ten months at that time. One of Brother McKay's first remarks to me was, as we walked down the street one day, "Well, Brother Coombs, I see you have not very many friends here," by which I understood he referred to the Europeans. So I set myself to the task right there of making more friends and winning my way into the hearts of the Europeans' in that nation, in order that we might present the gospel to them. We were blessed with some splendid elders. I' have often said that had President Grant given me the choice of all of the elders in Zion, I think I 1 could not have chosen better men than we had at that time, when we had to fight popular opinion in order to be able to prolong the life of the Tongan mission. In 1922, conditions got so warm and persecution so hot there that the government enacted a measure which prohibited the entrance of any more "Mormon" missionaries into Tonga, at least the law read that no more "Mormons" could enter under a penalty of a five hundred dollar fine and possibly imprisonment and deportation at the end of the term of imprisonment. I went to the .Chief Justice and told him that it was not fair, and that it did not agree with their own constitution. He said, "Mr. Coombs, I happen not only to be the Chief Justice, but I am also the attorney. We do not want you 'Mormons' here." I said, "Why don't you want us here ?" "Well," he said, "that is not your business. We don't want you, that is all. You are undesirable citizens." After a little diplomacy and talk, I 1 found out why they did not want us. The one cry at Tonga at the present time is, one church. Tonga, you know, is the smallest government in the world that is not supporting a foreign parliament. They are not interfered with even by England. They were afraid that "Mormon" elders might stir up a spirit of disunion. They wanted every native there to belong to the Free Church or to the Wesleyan Church, and they were going to try to do away with all other religions, and their first gun was aimed at the "Mormons." We worked untiringly for two years, and at the end of that time I had the satisfaction of convincing those people that their viewpoint was wrong. We made numerous calls upon the Chief Justice and also upon the ministers and convinced them that their viewpoint was wrong, and by means of faith and prayer and our works we got them to repeal those measures in 1924. Now we can have all the elders that we can prevail upon the First Presidency and parents to send us in Tonga. And we need them. We need them badly, in fact. The people there need the gospel of Jesus Christ. They have been imposed upon, they have been exploited, and it seems to me the time has come that they should get the gospel in its simplicity and purity, and I count it a privilege to have labored among those people. I love them, and I am proud that I have associated with them. 149 

Not long ago I had a little experience something like the one related by President Peterson, where we had to travel in our little sail boat of only nine tons, and I weathered a three days' hurricane to go to Vavau to conference with Brother Cahoon and his wife. Brother Cahoon is now the mission president down there. We were in sight of land with our sails ripped to pieces, and were buffeted by waves which were twenty or thirty feet high, and we could not make the harbor. The captain of that boat was one of our priesthood, a priest, and a splendid fellow, by the name of Jone Kogaika. I had told him that I had an appointment in Vavau for conference, and I was invited to go in his boat free of charge, and there were many others aboard the boat. During the time that we were buffeted about we were all sick. Our food was exhausted, our water was gone, and we had no means of getting into the harbor because our sails were ripped. I said to the captain, "Jone, let us turn around and go back to Haapai." I said, "Simply turn around and the wind will drive us back to Haapai, and we will get there in five or six hours and there we will be in perfect safety among those protecting reefs." He looked me square in the eye and said: "Didn't you tell me you had an appointment for conference next Sunday at Vavau." "That is what I told you, Jone." He shook his fist and said: "Well, the Lord being my helper, I will get you through." He got us through. We thought we were going down, and we didn't care if we did go down, we were so sick. I had had a wonderful blessing before going out there by President Penrose, and he promised me that I would go in safety on land and on sea. When things got so furious I forgot the blessing for the time being, and said to Jone that we should turn around and go back. But he had the faith I should have shown, and he got us through. 

Now that is only one instance. Another man, Pita Afu, while I was visiting Tonga in 1914, a high chief, or one who should have been a high chief, (he had not yet been appointed a high chief) accepted the gospel, and invited the elders to establish the work in his village. The king of Tonga, hearing about it, became quite incensed, and made a special trip up to Vavau to interview Pita, and said to him, "What is this I hear about you ? Why are you associated with those 'Mormons,' such an unpopular sect ? I' wish you would leave them alone." He took Pita upon a high eminence where he could overlook the beautiful harbor of Vavau and all the lower islands, and pointedvto them and said: "Pita, if you will renounce 'Mormonism,' I will make you a present of all of these islands down here for your inheritance, for your sons who follow after you." Pita looked him square in the eye and said : "With all due respect to your majesty, you have not enough land in all Tonga to induce me to leave the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

Now these are only a few testimonies, only two instances showing the kind of people among whom your sons are laboring. They are blessed and favored when they receive a call to go to that land. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Tonga is not the best mission of the Church, but there is none better. Every elder who returns home contends that his mission is the best, and so it is. If it were not, then that elder was not doing his duty. It was a pleasure to me to get a letter not so long ago from Brother Widtsoe, who had heard one of our missionaries make his report, and he said something like this in referring to this young elder's testimony: "His testimony rang as true and clear as the tone of a silver bell, Brother Coombs. I am sure that the Tongan mission is not only doing its full duty to the Saints there, 'but it is developing to a full degree the elders who are laboring there." And the same holds true of those other islands which are discriminated against by the mothers and fathers. They develop to a full extent the elders who are laboring there. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I know that God lives. I support these brethren whom we have lifted our hands to support, our presiding brethren, in the offices they hold. The gospel is dear to me, and I' am looking forward to the time when I might be favored with another call to go down among the people of those south seas, for I am still quite young — whether t to Tonga, or to Samoa, or anywhere, it matters not, for I love those Lamanitish people. 

;Just one more word about our Tongan mission. Possibly our brethren from New Zealand think the New Zealand school, the Maori Agricultural College is not supported by the other missions. But Tonga is supporting the Maori Agricultural College at Hastings, New Zealand. At the present time I think we have about fourteen or fifteen of our young men down there in New Zealand attending that college. Another thing, the captain of the classes and the class leaders are Tongan boys, and since our Tongan boys have gone there the leaders of that college and the graduates who have graduated with honors have been Tongans every time. So you see the Tongans are a bright people and they have good souls worth saving. 

May God bless you, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

Brother McKay suggested that I tell you how far those boys travel to get to that school. Tonga is only 1800 miles from New Zealand. These boys go down to school at their own expense and earn their own way while they are there and pay their own expenses back. Two of them have recently graduated with honors and they are teaching in our schools in Tonga. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Brother Eugene Neff spent several years in the Hawaiian Islands on his first mission, and presided, as I remember it, for somewhat over three years on his second mission. He doesn't appear to be present. Brother Blood, I believe, is at the University of Utah. 151 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, that the time is short and very precious this afternoon. I rejoice with you in the testimonies and instructions that we have received in this conference, because they are true and are for the welfare of all the people of the Church, and for all mankind. I rejoice in the fact that we are living in the dispensation which has been spoken about frequently in the sessions of this conference — the dispensation of the fulness of times, the last great dispensation of the gospel which the Lord has to give. This dispensation has been looked forward to in the past. The Apostle Paul foretold this time when the Lord should gather together in Christ all things that are in heaven and in the earth. It is the time preparatory to the coming again of the Savior — the Lord Jesus Christ — to reign this time upon the earth in peace and in glory. He came nineteen hundred years ago in humility and sorrow to accomplish the atoning work that was before him to do. 

History repeats itself, we are told, i't appears to me that there is a comparison between the dispensation of the meridian of time and this dispensation, in the sense that as the Savior had to have a forerunner at that time in the person of John the Baptist to prepare the way for his coming, in this dispensation there has come a forerunner; not one who should be able to prepare the way directly for the Savior and to see him upon the earth, but one who should prepare the way in the establishment of this dispensation, that the work might "grow and the purposes of the Lord be accomplished in preparation for his great coming, when he shall come to reign during a thousand years. I rejoice that there has been restored in this dispensation that divine authority which the Prophet Joseph Smith received — that authority which had been lost from the earth for many hundred years. After the dispensation of the meridian of time, with the work which the apostles had carried on, the men and women who had accepted the gospel gradually apostatized from the truth, and the authority was lost, As the Prophet Isaiah declared, "The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant." 

That was the condition which prevailed for centuries during the dark ages; and then came the beginning of the dawn during the renaissance and the reformation. Men began to look forward to a greater time when truth and the fulness of the gospel should come to the earth. I am reminded of a statement made about the year 1600 by a man who was the leader among the Puritans who came to America. It is said that John Robinson, the pastor of the pilgrims, an old man of great vision and piety, who was left behind when the pilgrims sailed for America, charged them when they left Holland, "If God reveal anything to us by any other instrument of his, be as GENERAL CONFERENCE  to receive it as ever we were to receive any truth by his ministry," for he was very confident that the Lord had more truth and light yet to bring forth out of his holy word. 

There were many such people who were looking forward to the time when the fulness of truth should be restored. And so when the gospel came and missionaries were sent out to various parts of the world, there were, such as in England, communities or congregations of people who were prepared to receive the truth in its fulness. I' rejoice in the fact that this divine authority, the Priesthood of the Son of God, has been restored; whereby every man who is prepared and is worthy, who seeks to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel, may have the privilege of receiving this power and of laboring for the welfare of the Church, for the spread of the gospel, for the bringing together of all things in Christ, and for the accomplishment of his purposes. 

I rejoice that we are possessed of this truth with regard to divine authority — which is very different from that which is called priesthood or ministry in the world — that the Lord has given to us opportunity whereby all men, as was the case in the previous dispensation, might be commissioned to labor for the welfare of others. I rejoice in the fact that from the time of the organization of this Church the leaders who have had the responsibility as watchmen upon the towers have declared the words and the will of the Lord and have warned the people, and that warning has been carried from them to others who bear the Priesthood, and through them to others, who have direct watchcare in the wards and branches; and thereby the people have been built up and strengthened and enabled to resist evil and temptation. If all the world would accept these truths, if all the world would accept the warnings with regard to the evils which do and which shall exist, and would accept wisdom and be willing to receive and to follow these instructions through the light that comes to them or that can come to them, the world would be very much better for it, and the time would be ripe muc'h sooner for the coming of the Son of man. 

The Lord can give unto us light only as we will receive it. Only as we open the windows and doors of our houses can the sunlight enter in and cleanse and strengthen and bring life and light to that house and overcome unhealthfulness. And so only as we open the windows and doors of our souls to the holy Spirit can truth enter in and strengthen and develop us and make us more healthy spiritually. This is the message which the authorities of this Church have had and have today to bring to the people everywhere, not only to the Latter-day Saints; primarily, of course, to them, but to all mankind : That if they will resist and overcome evil and temptation, if they will accept and obey this gospel, they shall grow in the knowledge of the truth, they shall develop those qualities that will make them better men and women, they shall increase in the spirit of love for their fellowmen, they shall enjoy true happiness, and be prepared to meet the Lord. 

I pray that the Lord will help every one of us to sense our oppor153  and to listen and render obedience to the instructions that come to us. They are for our welfare, not for the welfare of any other human being, but for us individually. Every commandment of the' Lord is for our development and progress and growth. The Lord will hasten the time when we shall promote and develop the spirit whereby we shall be able to live as of one heart and of one mind. May that time soon come and may we cultivate unity and love and peace and joy, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo, "My Redeemer and my Lord," was sung by Mrs. Joseph Haycock. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, who were voted upon and unanimously sustained, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

 Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawsorr 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot Tames E". Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O- McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and RevelatorsFIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester O- Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor GENERAL CONFERENCE 

TRUSTEE IN TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. WellsCHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson ' John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F- Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H- Rolapp John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President  Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 155 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. SuptMelvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G- Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

THE LABORS OF PRESIDENT JAMES E. TALMAGE 

I wish to say that we hear from time to time very favorable reports regarding the work being accomplished by Brother James E. Talmage as president of the European mission, and also as president of the British mission. He has succeeded in getting many communications into the papers in Great Britain, setting forth the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and he is accomplishing a very remarkable and splendid work while presiding in that far-off land. He has the constant faith and prayers of the Presidency, Apostles and Presiding Patriarch in their weekly meetings in the temple. 

THE SAINTS REQUESTED TO APPLY SCRIPTURE 

I desire to read the words of the Savior, which I would like the Latter-day Saints to apply to the teachings of the servants of the Lord who constitute -the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ, and who are promulgating his teachings and his sayings and calling people to repentance. I feel that these words should find lodgment in the 'hearts of those who have listened to the wonderful testimonies that have been borne : 

"Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not : for it was founded upon a rock. 

"And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house; and it fell : and great was the fall of it." 

A BLESSING FOR PRIESTHOOD AND AUXILIARY WORKERS AND THE SAINTS 

I desire to extend 'my blessing to all the men and the women jwho preside in all the stakes of Zion throughout the Church, in all the missions, in all the wards, in all the quorums of the priesthood and in all the auxiliary organizations. I am convinced beyond the shadow of a doubt that there cannot be found in any part of the world men and women giving so unselfishly of their time, of their talents, and of the best that is in them, for the salvation of the souls of men. I am satisfied that there are no other people who are devoting so much of their time, of their money, of their thoughts, and of their very being for the advancement of God's work at home and abroad, as are the Latter-day Saints. And with all the power that God has given me, I desire to bless the men and the women who are thus giving their time and thought and are setting examples that are worthy of the imitation, not only of those over whom they preside, but of all men. Every man and woman who is laboring for the salvation of the souls of men and keeping the commandments of God is entitled to be blessed, and I pray God that his blessings may come to them. 

I rejoice in the remarkable and splendid testimonies that have been borne, during our conference, under the inspiration and by the light and power of God, and I pray that these testimonies may find lodgment in the hearts of the people, and that they will remember that those who obey the (Lord and keep his commandments are building their house upon a rock, and those who fail to do this are building their house upon the sand. 

May the God of heaven bless us and be and abide with us until we meet again in six months from now in general conference, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemed and Savior. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The .time is iar spent," and the benediction was pronounced by Elder E. Frank Birch, president of the Tintic stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates; accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. Stenographic reports were made in the Tabernacle by Frank W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson, and in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. 

edward h. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. Assembly Hall, Morning Session 42 

Assembly Hall, Afternoon Session 62 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities of the Church, General 153 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 33 

The Gospel Universal, 33 — A Better Understanding, 34 — First Missionary Visit in South America, 34 — Recent Missionary Work in South America, 35 — Difficulties Encountered, 36 — "A Little Child Shall Lead Them," 36 — Italians Interested in the Restored Gospel, 

37 — A Difficult Missionary Work, 37 — Visit to the Indians on the Great Andes Plateau, 38 — Condition of the South American Indians, 

38 — The Day of the Indians' Redemption Drawing Nigh, 39 — Spain and Italy Entitled to Hear the Gospel, 39 — The Gospel to Deliver the Children of Father Lehi From Bondage, 40 — The Task and Duty of the Latter-day Saints, 40. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 151 

Clawson, President Rudger . . .' 83 

Where the Word of the Lord is Found, 83 — A Great Mystery Explained, 83 — No Single Principle of the Gospel will Insure Salvation, 84 — -Works Must Accompany Faith, 84 — What are Some of These Works ? 84 — Repentance, 85— Baptism of the Holy Ghost, 85 — Three Witnesses in Heaven, Three on Earth, 86 — Full Plan of Salvation 

Revealed to the Saints, 86. 

Closing Session 136 

Coombs, Elder Mark V 146 

First Day, Morning Session 1 

First Day, Afternoon Session 21 

General Authorities Present . 1 

General Authorities of the Church 153 

General Officers of the Church . 154 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 154 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Changes in Officers, 2 — New Stakes Organized, 3 — Alma's Cry for Repentance, 3 — The Joy of Missionary Work, 4 — The Worth of Souls, 4 — Men Have Seen Christ in Our Day, 5 — The Command to Preach the Gospel Supreme, 6 — Who Is Fitted to Teach the Gospel? 6 — 'The Word of Wisdom, 7— Promises of God Conditioned on Obedience, 8 — Parents Must Teach Their Children by Example, 8 — Josiah Quincy's Testimony of Joseph Smith, 9 — Joseph Smith's Prophecy of the Migration West, 11 — Government Placed Stamp of Divinity on Prophet's Utterance, 11 — The Great Obligation of the Saints to Declare the Restoration, 11. 

Grant, President Heber J 12 

Concerning Plural Marriage, 12. 

Grant, President Heber J 27 

A Magnificent Sight, 27. ' GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 41 

Tabernacle Choir Visits California, 41 — Peter Whitmer Farm Purchased, 41. 

Grant, President Heber J 100 

Hearing in the Tabernacle, 100- -Monument to the Handcart Companies, 120 — Introducing Elder Richard C. May, 140 — Introducing Elder J. Wyley Sessions, 142 — Introducing Elder O. B. Peterson, 143 — Introducing Elder Mark V. Coombs, 14(5 — Noting Absence of Elders Neff and Blood, ISO. 

Grant, President Heber J ...153 

Presenting General Authorities and Officers, 153. 

Grant, President Heber J. . 155 

The Labors of President James E. Talmage, 155 — The Saints Requested to Apply Scripture, 155 — A Blessing for Priesthood and Auxiliary Workers and the Saints, 156. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 51 

Introducing Elder Soren M. Nielsen, 51. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 59 

Ivins, President Anthony W 13 

Purpose of These General Assemblies, 13 — Features Which Differentiate Our Church From Other Churches, 13 — An Alleged Retrograde Movement in the Church, 13— The Civil Government and the Dominant Church in Mexico, 14 — Relationship Between Church and 

State Must Be Determined, 14 — L. D. S. More Than Others Directly Interested in the Question, 15 — -The Lamanites or Indians of Mexico, 15 — Retribution Has Come to Their Persecutors, 16 — Shall Church or Government Rule, or Each in Its Sphere? 16 — -The British-Israel Movement, 16 — Development in the Investigation, 17 — Symbolism of the British Coat of Arms, 17 — What the Saints Have Tried for Years to Teach the British, 18 — A Study of the Pyramid of Gizeh, 18 — Predictions from the Doctrine and Covenants, 19 — Be Prepared for Coming Great Events, 20 — Difference Between Priestcraft and 

Priesthood, 20. 

Jenson, Elder Andrew 54 

Jones, Elder William 63 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 127 

Impressions and Reflections, 129. Lyman, Elder Richard R 30 

Beauty, Power and Glory of the Church, 30 — Addresses at the Officers' Meeting, Y. M. M. I. A., 30— More Blessed to Give Than to Receive, 30 — Our Volunteer Workers in the Church, 31 — Missionary Wbrk in the Y. M. M. I. A., 31— Labors of General Board Members, 32 — Program of Instruction in the M. I. A., 32. 

May, Elder Richard C 140 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 136 

McKay, Elder David O Ill 

The World Needs Men, 111 — What Is the Crowning Glory of Man? Ill — Four Pictures of Importance and Beauty, 112 — The Greatest Organization in the World For Character-Building,112 — Two Ways in Which Character is Built, 112 — Tobacco a Growing Evil, 113— What Our Homes Should Establish, 114 — Fathers and Elders Should be Worthy of Imitation, 115. 159 

A Great Work Accomplished by the Saints, 21 — Gratitude to God for this Age and Nation, 22 — Reverence for God, 22 — The Struggle for Liberty, 22 — Distinction Between Divine Guidance and Divine Authority, 23 — Divine Authority Conferred by Holy Messengers, 24 — Witnesses of the Bestowal of Divine Authority, 25. 

Eternal Life and Celestial Glory, 87— How to Get Faith, the Moving Cause of Action, 87 — An Appeal Pertaining to Faith and Religion, 88 — Concerning Joseph Smith the Prophet, 88 — Thankful for the Heritage That Has Come to Us, 90 — Joseph Smith's Works Proclaim Him a Prophet of God, 90. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 25 

Thanks and Gratitude, 25. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 121 

Second Day, Morning Session 80 

Second Day, Afternoon Session 101 

Sessions, Elder J. Wyley 142 

Smith, Elder David A 42 

Smith, Elder George Albert 101 

Great Privileges Enjoyed, 101 — Our Pre-Existence, 102 — Purpose of Our Earth Life, 102 — Scripture Study Important, 102 — Care to be Exercised in Every-day Living, 103' — -Duties of Teachers in the Church, 103 — Message of the Church Must be Proclaimed to All, 104 — A Great Obligation is Ours, 104— The Grea^ Need of Faith and Good Works, 105 — Our Duty to Raise a Warning Voice, 106 — Our Service Should Be Faithful, 106. 

Reality of the Mission of Joseph Smith, 107 — Reality of the Book of Mormon, 108 — Testimony of the Kindness and Reality of God, 109— The Reality of the Work of the Patriarchs, 109— Priesthood Should Be Honored, 110 — A Prayer to Bless the Church and its Members, 110. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 115 

God's Marvelous Work, 116 — We Live In a Most Wonderful Age, 116 — Great Modern Inventions and Discoveries, 116 — Inspiration and the Greater Accumulation of Knowledge the Cause, 117 — Has the Race Progressed Intellectually? 118 — Has the Race Made Moral Progress? 118 — Where Much is Given Must is Required, 119. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 27 

Never Despair, 27 — The Testimony of the Gospel in Us Must Come Out, 28— Prejudices Not All Eliminated, 29— A Wealth of Spirituality and Faith, 29 — God Lives and This is His Church, 29. 

(Nielsen, Elder Soren M. . . 

Parks, Elder A. E 

Peterson, Elder O. B. 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 

Randall, Elder M. Howard Richards, Elder George F. Smith, Elder Hyrum G. Taylor, Elder Elmer F 

Third Day, Morning Session 

141 121 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Third Day t Afternoon Session 

Wells, Elder John, 

Wells, Elder Junius F 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 

Whitney, Elder Orson F. . . 

136 

132 

Fifty Years of Service, 91 — The City of William Penn, 91 — The Declaration of Independence, 92 — An Act of Heroism, 93 — Jefferson and Rousseau, 93 — American and European Ideals, 93 — Lincoln and Joseph Smith, 94 — The Mission of America, 94 — Alexander the Great, 95 — Rome's Unconscious Service to Christ, 96 — The Divine Purpose, 96 — Israel and the Gentiles, 97 — The Glorious Future, 97. 

The Beginning of the Work, 80 — The First Vision, a Lesson to All, 80— Truth Defined, 81— All Truth Accepted, 81— Relative Value of Truth, 81— Relative Validity of Truth, 82— Read Section 93 of Doctrine and Covenants, 83. ~*= — — 1 

k WHENCE THIS GOSPEL WE TEACH? 

Read: 

"Restoration of the Gospel" 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth. It treats the Restoration clearly, and places before the people many things that have not been generally considered heretofore. It will be a means of strengthening the faith of the youth of Israel and will impart information that is invaluable. May the spirit of truth accompany the work and rest upon all those who diligently read it with a desire to learn of and profit by the Restoration of the 

Gospel! " Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

PRICE $1-00 POSTPAID 

iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii vimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimii mi minim iiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiii i 

A HELPFUL BOOK IN THESE TIMES OF CONTROVERSY 

Science and Belief in God 

By FREDERICK J. PACK 

A discussion of Certain Phases of Science and Their Bearing Upon Belief in the Supreme Being. 

$2.50 POSTPAID 

HiimiMmmiiiHiiiiiuiimiiiuiiiHiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiinuHiiiimiiiiuiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu 

Articles of Faith 

By JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A consideration of the principal doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

This book will be helpful to all who desire a clear and concrete exposition of the beliefs and attitudes of the "Mormons." 

— — — — — I 

I Discourses of Brigham Young | 

§ This Great Book Should be in Every | 

Home Library b 

o K 

© No Latter-day Saint home library is complete without the unique O 

^ volume, "Discourses of Brigham Young." Thousands still living were X 

k thrilled with the inspired wisdom of the great colonizer. They heard x x the words fall from his lips that were a comfort and a guide to them 

© in their daily living. ^ 

Those same words, now in print, can help and inspire the new ^ 

© generations. The youth should be encouraged to read this great book. S 

^ It will help them to know Brigham Young as they have never known 8 

k him before. Thej- can appraise his doctrine, not by tradition or garbled S 

^ account, but by the perusal of sermons accurately transcribed. ^ 

k "Discourses of Brigham Young" will be sent to any address for b 

k $2.50 postpaid. Special price to members of Priesthood Quorums — $2.00 © 

postpaid. Orders will be filled mail C. O. D. at $2.00 each, if desired. 8 S WHAT DID JOSEPH SMITH KNOW ABOUT SCIENCE? Joseph Smith as Scientist 

By JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

"In the life of every person, who receives a higher education, in or out of schools, there is a time when there seems to be opposition between science and religion; between man-made and God-made knowledge. The struggle for reconciliation between the contending forces is not an easy one. It cuts deep into the soul and usually leaves scars that ache while life endures. There are thousands of young people in the Church today, and hundreds of thousands throughout the world, who are struggling to set themselves right with the God above and the world about them. It is for these young people, primarily, that this book has been written." 

Deseret Book Company 







