Morning
04 10 1926

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

I have enjoyed greatly, my brethren and sisters, the addresses and the music of this conference. My soul has been fed. I always delight to know that I belong to an organization that speaks with authority, and I glory in the fact that those who stand at the head of this great Church exercise the right of their authority. May I add to President Grant's remarks that whenever we sing the hymn, "We thank thee O God for a prophet," we have in mind Joseph Smith, the prophet of the restoration, and also the living prophet whom we sustain and uphold, and who guides us, under God's inspiration, in his day. 

THE BEGINNING OF THE WORK 

Perhaps the most impressive thought that comes to me as I look over these vast congregations of Latter-day Saints and recall all that they represent in social and economic conquest and in rich spiritual living, is that all this has come out of a very simple beginning. A lad, seeking for truth, cried in the darkness for light. Out of that simple, humble beginning, has come this mighty work. In my reading I turn most frequently to the Prophet Joseph Smith's own story of his first vision, and I return invariably refreshed and strengthened, inspired and thrilled, by that simple story. Joseph Smith, not yet fifteen years of age, in the midst of contending religious opinions, set out to find the truth. To God, the .author of truth, he stated his desire and the Father, in his graciousness, in his mercy, gave to the boy that for which he asked. 

THE FIRST VISION A LESSON TO ALL 

It seems to me that this Church has been given no greater lesson — one that should be remembered by the Church by -all people and by every individual. Men cannot live'by untruth or near truth. Spiritual contentment is won only when one has the full truth, or the truth just as fully as it may be available to him. Out of such individual  and search for truth has come this great body of people, men and women, who know for themselves — they 'having gone to God in their search — that this is the truth. In this Church and kingdom we stand Upon individual testimonies of the truth. We depend not upon the prophet, great though he may be, who guides the Church at this time, or upon any other man, but we, having a witness of the spirit, know for ourselves that this is the truth. Out of such training, desire and high knowledge has come a people the like of which has not been known before upon the face of the earth — a kingdom of priests and priestesses such as the prophets of old dreamed about and wrote about. 

TRUTH DEFINED 

In one of the great revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, now known as Section 93, there is a splendid discussion of truth. In that section there is a comprehensive definition of truth. "Truth is knowledge of things as they are and as they were and as they iare to come." 

ALL TRUTH ACCEPTED 

It is a happy claim, and may I say a proud claim on the part of Latter-day Saints, that they accept all truth, no matter whence it comes, or what its nature may be, whether it be scientific, philosophical or religious. If it be the truth, we accept it, and know that there is a place for it in the great plan of truth, known as the gospel of Jesus Christ. We Latter-day Saints welcome the great advances of these latter days. The remarkable conquests in pure and applied science : the telegraph, the telephone, the radio, the airplane, all the marvels of this day, we accept gladly and have no quarrel with them. Whenever the chemist discovers, as a few months ago, an element that had not been known before, we Latter-day Saints welcome that new knowledge, for we recognize that another step toward the ultimate conquest of nature, and of the universe, has been taken by man through the inspiration and good will of our Heavenly Father. When the astronomer tells us that a new star has been found in the high heavens, we are glad that more truth has come to us and therefore greater power. We support those who, in the laboratory or in the field, as earnest and honest searchers after truth, are seeking to unravel the mysteries of this great universe. As a Church we support such endeavors and sustain those who labor in the search of truth, no matter what the truth may be. 

RELATIVE VALUE OF TRUTH 

While Latter-day Saints understand that all truth is from God, and is desirable, and will be ours in time, yet we also know that all truth is not of equal value to humanity. Some knowledge is ,chiefly of physical help. It makes possible houses and roads and automobiles, and it feeds the body, thus making it easier for us to live on this earth. Another type of knowledge feeds the mind. Literature, art, and many other branches of knowledge contribute chiefly to the upbuilding of man's intellect. While we accept all these things, grateful for physical conveniences, glad to have the opportunity of mental development, yet Latter-day Saints understand that the truth of the greatest worth to humanity is that which controls and shapes human actions, that which interprets to us our relationship to God, our Maker, and to our fellowman; that which lays before us the great plan of salvation and explains why I am here, whence I came, where I am going and what I must do to conform to the greater laws of life. Such knowledge becomes the greater truth. Men frequently fail to understand the relative value of truth, and, therefore, set things that minister only to the physical world upon high pedestals, and place low the truth that deals with man's eternal journey, and with his eternal relationship to the greatest Being in the universe. It would not be quite wise or consistent for any one of us, no matter what views he may hold, to say that men of the- type of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, of Moses, Elijah and John the Baptist and of other notables who knew little about the great discoveries of the last hundred years, were not so great in stature before God and before men as we are. They did possess the higher and more valuable knowledge and they were seekers also after the lesser knowledge; and in our day, were they here, they would stand as we do, lovers of all truth, but with a clear understanding, that some truth.? minister to man's greatest and others to his lesser needs. 

RELATIVE VALIDITY OF TRUTH 

Not only do Latter-day Saints distinguish carefully between the greater and the lesser truths, but they also recognize that not all truth has the same validity. We cannot accept all knowledge as being of equal certainty. Some knowledge I know to be absolutely certain, some appears to be true, and some I hope may be true. The man who looks through a microscope into the infinitely small is limited in his search for knowledge by the power of that instrument. He can go no further. The man who looks through a telescope into the starry heavens must guess at the things that hang just beyond the reach of the instrument: and the man who builds a theory out of observed facts builds only a ladder, a scaffolding, by which he hopes to rise into that greater truth for which he seeks. Therefore, Latter-day Saints are careful to examine the validity of the truths set before them. We make the satisfying claim that the truth of greatest validity, that of greatest certainty, is the truth that has come from the mouth of God by revelation to his children in this and in every age through the history of the world. Is the microscope a great instrument for the gaining of knowledge? Is the telescope a great instrument for the obtaining of knowledge? If they are, then man himself, with his immortal spirit, may be able to touch the unseen forces of life, to learn from the spirit of the Almighty, who is the greatest revealer of knowledge. Through the spirit of man God may speak with greater power and with greater conviction than through any man-made instrument. In this Church we  firmly, before all the world, upon the doctrine that that which the Lord has revealed to his children directly is of the highest value and of the greatest validity. Upon revealed truth will be built, as the years go on, the whole structure of truth. 

READ SECTION 93 

I delight to know that I can build in this manner the philosophy of my life; that I can thus accept the gospel of Jesus Christ, the existence of Almighty God, my relationship to him, and his words given to his prophets at various times in the history of mankind; and that beginning with such knowledge I can accept, step by step and fact by fact, all knowledge and all truth as they come through any channel here on earth and in the hereafter. I would suggest to all Latter-day Saints that' they study section 93 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, in which the truth, our eternal quest for it, its meaning, and the fundamental nature of the truths of heaven, are beautifully set forth. 

I am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I thank God for the possession of it. I pray God to be with us and bless us, to be able to search out truth continually, to live it, to accept it, to make it a part of our lives, to grow in it!daily, and yet to understand in our search clearly and reasonably the limitations placed upon us so that we may. not be carried away by those who do not understand the full truth, and, having made a wrong beginning, may lead us to an incorrect end. 

God bless us and be with us continually, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

It is not expected, brethren and sisters, that any new doctrine or revelation will be brought to the people at this time. 

WHERE THE WORD OF THE LORD IS FOUND 

The word of the Lord is to be found in reasonably full measure in the standard works of the Church — in the Bible, in the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. Any man or woman who can master these sacred books, so to speak, will be fully informed as to the purposes of the Lord. 

When further scripture, or revelation, is needed for the guidance of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it will be given by the Lord through the President of the Church who is the prophet of God. 

A GREAT MYSTERY EXPLAINED 

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, to all who believe, to the Jews first and also to the Greek. The doctrines of the gospel are set forth in the scriptures in simple language, and in great plainness; but, strange to say, the natural man cannot comprehend them, for the apostle tells us in I Corinthians, 2: "But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God; for they are foolishness unto him : neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned." 

"For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God-" And thus does the apostle explain a great mystery. How beautiful this explanation is, how simple, how direct — that the things of man are to be comprehended by the spirit of man, that the things of God are only discerned by the Spirit of God. 

NO SINGLE PRINCIPLE OF THE GOSPEL WILL INSURE SALVATION 

In the gospel there are many doctrines, all of which are necessary to a plan of salvation. If any one of the doctrines is separated from the others — for they are all closely connected and are to be taken as a guide — that doctrine will come short of insuring salvation, it will lose its power. Take for instance the principle of faith. It seems to be the moving principle of action in almost all things. The Apostle Paul says of it in Hebrews 11 : 

"Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear." * * * 

"By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land : which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned. 

"By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days. * * * 

"And what shall I more say?" the apostle observed,, "for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets: Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence cf fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens." 

WORKS MUST ACCOMPANY FAITH 

You will see by this principle of faith that it is a doctrine of mighty power, but if it is separated from the gospel principles and taken as a single guide it will be lacking as a means of salvation- James said : 

"Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith and I have works : shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works." 

Faith without works is dead, being alone. 

WHAT ARE SOME OF THESE WORKS? 

So it would seem that works must accompany this mighty principle of faith. What works are there which are related to it and essential to salvation? One of them is repentance. It is said that without faith it is impossible to please God, and I think we may say also that without repentance it would be impossible to please him. He is a holy being, and if we expect to come into his presence we must become like him. 

John, the Baptist, cried repentance in the wilderness. Jesus preached the doctrine of repentance. It was the burden of his mission, and so it is the burden of our mission. 

REPENTANCE 

There is another very important principle that follows repentance, and involves the question of works. That principle is baptism. Peter, on the day of pentecost, warned the people regarding this important matter. They were pricked in their hearts. They wanted to know what to do. He said : "Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of your sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." Thus it became necessary that the repentant believer should receive this vital ordinance of baptism. But the ordinance itself is not sufficient if administered with water only. Baptism is dual in its nature. It has fwo very important phases. This was brought out with great clearness by the Savior who, in conversation with Nicodemus, said : 

"Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." And then further he said : 

"Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God-" 

So that baptism represents a very important work and is closely associated with faith and repentance. 

BAPTISM OF THE HOLY GHOST 

The other mighty companion principle that was emphasized by the Savior, and is so widely neglected in the world today, is the baptism of the Holy Ghost. How beautiful, how important, how imperative it is! I fancy I hear somebody say: "Baptism of the Spirit? What does that mean? We have not been taught such a principle. It is not in our church; we have not seen it in any of the other churches. What do you mean by baptism of the Spirit?" Well, Jesus said to his apostles, as he breathed upon them : "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." That was the baptism of the Spirit, which is sometimes referred to as baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost. When the aposles laid their hands upon converts and blessed them and said unto them, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," they did actually receive this divine Spirit, the Spirit of truth which was to be to them a special gift from heaven, to enable them to comprehend the word of God, to discern things of a spiritual nature, to bring to their minds the remembrance of things past, things present, and to show them things to come- What did John, the apostle, say in respect to this matter? He said : (I John 5 :7-8.) 

"For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost : and these three are one. 

"And there are three that bear witness in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood : and these three agree in one." THREE WITNESSES IN HEAVEN, THREE ON EARTH 

Three great and important witnesses in heaven and three upon the earth. This doctrine is put forth in a little greater clearness in the Pearl of Great Price, which shows that the ordinance of baptism is a profound doctrine of the gospel, and is essential to salvation. Let me read a few words to you, my brethren and sisters : 

"And the Lord spake unto Adam, saying: Inasmuch as thy children are conceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, sin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the good. 

"And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are agents unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment. 

"Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent." 

The doctrine of repentance is here greatly emphasized : 

"Or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. 

"Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children, saying : 

"That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory." 

Thus these three witnesses are mentioned with emphasis — the Spirit and the water and the blood. 

"For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified; 

"Therefore it is given to abide in you; the record of heaven; the Comforter; the peaceable things of immortal glory; the truth of all things; that which quickeneth all things, which maketh alive all things; that which knoweth all things, and hath all power according to wisdom, mercy, truth, justice, and judgment." 

FULL PLAN OF SALVATION REVEALED TO THE SAINTS 

Thus we have in the gospel of Jesus Christ these important doctrines which, in connection with many other doctrines, constitute a complete and full plan of salvation; and this plan has been delivered to the Latter-day Saints- We have rendered obedience to these saving principles, we have accepted them in our lives and have shown our faith by our works. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren. and sisters of the Church strengthen you in faith and prepare you for all things that may come to pass in the providences of the Lord, I humbly. pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

I think I may say without question that all men are or ought to be candidates for the blessing of eternal life and celestial glory, seeking to know what is necessary to be done in order to obtain this boon and blessing, and then doing all in their power to accomplish that end. 

ETERNAL LIFE AND CELESTIAL GLORY 

The gospel teaches us what is the meaning of eternal life and celestial glory and how it may be obtained. My understanding of it is that in order to obtain eternal life and celestial glory, we must receive all the ordinances of the gospel, keep all the laws and commandments of God and be willing to consecrate to his service our lives, our time, our talents, and our substance, as far as may be required for the building up of the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth, and the establishment of righteousness, looking to the salvation of the souls of men and women. 

HOW TO GET FAITH, THE MOVING CAUSE OF ACTION 

To meet this obligation we must have great faith, for faith is the moving Cause of all action. It is the first principle of revealed religion and the foundation of all righteousness. It is a gift from God. How are we then to obtain this blessing, for faith is indeed a blessing from God to those who enjoy it? We must try to live in his favor, and when we are living righteous lives, according to our conception of what is right, being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and conscientious, the Lord will help us to that blessing as to all other blessings, for all blessings cometh from God. The Savior said "to search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." The scriptures of the Old and New Testament and also modern scripture, the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price, all testify, not only of the Son, but of the Father and the gospel plan. We ought to search the scripture. I believe it is a great weakness of the membership of this Church that we do not search the scriptures more than we do, because I am sure if we would do so we would have more faith, and the requirements made upon us by the gospel would be easier for us to comply with. The Lord has said also to his servants that faith cometh by hearing the word, and so we preach and so the scriptures teach, "how beautiful are the. feet of them that bringeth glad tidings and publisheth peace." The assistance of the Lord and the gift of faith cometh from him, ,by the inspiration of his holy Spirit, to those who are thus seeking honestly for truth and light. We must have faith in order to meet the requirements of the gospel necessary for obtaining eternal life. So I speak as do my brethren, that the Latter-day Saints and all who hear may be led to an investigation, to the obtaining of faith, to the engagirlg in good works, to the meeting of all of the requirements of the gospel that they may obtain that boon and blessing of eternal life and celestial glory. 

AN APPEAL PERTAINING TO FAITH AND RELIGION 

Now I desire, my brethren and sisters, to make an appeal to you, as the appeal is made to me, in regard to these matters, pertaining to our faith and religious life. The young people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have adopted as their slogan for the ensuing year : "We stand for an individual testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith." The story that Joseph tells of his experience when he was a boy fourteen years of age appeals to different people in different ways. Some who are more credulous, perhaps, than others, and whose minds are not biased, who are not prejudiced by things which have been said against Joseph Smith, against this people and against this work, receive more readily the testimony of Jesus and evidences of the truth of this work. Others will not give a serious thought that they might understand these things. 

CONCERNING JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET 

I want to refer to something that appeals to me, and I think it should appeal to all of us concerning the story of the boy Joseph Smith. We are told in the scripture that know.n unto God are all things, even the end from the beginning; and also we are told that the Lord doeth nothing but he revealeth his secrets to his servants the prophets. The scriptures contain the things of God as he has revealed them to his prophets. The scriptures declare an apostasy to take place in the Church, and they also declare a restoration, when all things that have been spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began would be restored. There could be no restoration had there not been an apostasy. Historians tell us very minutely of how an apostasy did take place. The thing that men and women of the world, religionists, ought to have been looking forward to is a restoration of the gospel, which was to be in the last days. It was to be a gospel dispensation of the fulness of times. 

In connection with these statements of the scripture, I have in mind what the Lord revealed to his servant Abraham. He showed unto Abraham certain intelligences, spirits of men, and told Abraham that they were some of his noble ones whom he had chosen to be his rulers, and said he : "Thou, Abraham, art one of them. Thou wast chosen before thou wast born." Now the kind of ruling that Abraham did is the kind of ruling the Lord had in mind, servants of the Lord and servants of the people, and it is most natural to my mind, that the Lord, looking forward to the establishment of his Church, and the restoration of the everlasting gospel in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, in preparation for the second  glorious coming of our Lord, would reserve one of the greatest and noblest of these noble ones whom he showed to Abraham, to head his work, to be his mouthpiece, to be his prophet, to restore the gospel, to establish his Church, and to do all things, that are necessary in this the dispensation, at least in the starting of this great work. And it seems reasonable, too, my brethren and sisters, in the light of the scriptures that he should choose a boy fourteen years of age for this work, for we read in the scripture : "Ye see' your calling brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called; but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and base things of the world and things whic! are despised hath God chosen : yea, and things which are not, tc bring to naught the things that are. That no flesh shall glory in his presence." To me it seems most consistent, the time being ripe and the Lord desired to restore the gospel, that he should raisi up one of those noble spirits, take him in young boyhood, educate him and prepare him for the mighty work that he had to accomplish. So I believe that the life's work of Joseph Smith will prove this to be true. The Lord did take him in hand, and from the time Joseph had his first vision of the Father and the Son, every step taken was in the narrow way, forward, and he never had to recede from a position he had taken or a principle he had taught. Besides, inasmuch as he had this mighty work to do of standing at the head of this dispensation, it was right and proper that he should have a correct conception of God the eternal Father and of his Son, Jesus Christ, and of the Holy Ghost, for the faith of all intelligent beings is centered in God. In order to have a perfect faith such as will lead one to endure all that is necessary for him to endure in this life, and especially when called to so high a calling, he must have a correct conception of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ. And this he could not obtain from the religious creeds; for example, in the great Church of England of which my grandparents on my mother's side and other ancestors for generations were members, and were brought up in that faith. The first article of that religion reads : 

"There is one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts or passions; of infinite wisdom, power and goodness, the Maker and Preserver of all things visible and invisible, and in the unity of this Godhead there are three personages of one substance, power and eternity, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost." Three personages, one substance, nobody. What kind of a being would answer that description? That is the kind of ai God our parents and our grandparents were taught to believe in and to worship. It is a marvel, when Joseph Smith came forth with this story of his vision and the declaration that the Father and the Son were separate individuals, glorified, immortal beings, and exalted, stating that they had appeared to him and had told him that these religionists had gone astray, and that he was going to restore his true gospel, that our parents accepted the story and believed in it? The scriptures are replete with evidence that God is as Joseph Smith declared that he appeared unto him. Not only that, but men who arc not tied down by the creeds of the world have been frank in their admissions and conclusions, endorsing the scripture, which is an endorsement of the declaration of Joseph Smith. For instance, here is Henry Ward Beecher, one of the greatest preachers that the world has known outside of the true Church of Christ. He said : 

"I am compelled to say that I must form an ideal of God through his Son Jesus Christ. Christ is indispensable to me. My nature needs to fashion the thought of God, though I know him to be a Spirit, into something that shall nearly or remotely represent that which I know. I hold before my eyes a glorious form, therefore; but after all the glory, whatever may be the nimbus and the effluence round about it, it is to me a glorified form of a glorified man; and I therefore fashion to myself out of the spirit that which has to me, as it were, a divine presence and a divine being; namely, a divine man." 

THANKFUL FOR THE HERITAGE THAT HAS COME TO US 

Are we not thankful for this heritage that has come to us, we who have been born in the Church and have been taught the doctrine of the gospel of Deity, and without prejudice we have been able to receive the doctrines taught by Joseph Smith, for not only did he teach us of the personality of the Father and of the Sbn, but the Lord revealed to him also the personality of the Holy Ghost, the other personage of the Trinity, that personage whose spirit may dwell in our hearts if we are prepared to receive him, and thus we become the temples of God, which we should keep most holy. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S WORKS PROCLAIM HIM A PROPHET OF GOD 

Now I see my time is about gone; therefore, I will bring my remarks to a close by saying this, that the works of Joseph Smith, including the restoration of the gospel, the establishment of the Church and kingdom of God, all in fulfilment of the predictions of the Prophet, and the correcting of false doctrines and teachings, in fact all his works declare him a prophet of God by the rule which the Savior laid down, that we should know them by their fruits, and also by the logic used by the Apostle Paul to the Romans, speaking of the Deity, even his eternal power and Godhead are understood by the things which he made. Joseph Smith by his accomplishments is known to be a prophet of God, and I do know hirn to be such, and this work to be the work of God. I bear this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE 

There is nothing that I enjoy more, in the way of public gatherings, than the General Conferences of the Church. The present occasion has for me a special, personal interest, in that it marks a distinct epoch in my life. Fifty years ago this very month, at the General Conference in October, 1876, I was called upon my first mission, to preach and teach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I have been preaching and teaching it ever since, both by tongue and pen. 

THE CITY OF WILLIAM PENN 

My field of labor, during the fore part of that mission, was the state of Pennsylvania, and at the city of Philadelphia a World's Fair was in progress, similar to that which is now being held there. It was the Centennial Exposition. The United States was a hundred years old, and the city of its birth was celebrating the event in befitting style. 

It was about four o'clock on the morning of a bleak November day when I landed in the City of Brotherly Love. I had sat up all night on the train from Chicago, not having sense enough to hire a sleeping berth — nor dollars enough, either — and as a result I felt somewhat "rocky." I had no sooner alighted upon the platform than a dapper voung fellow stepped up to me and said : "Where would you like to go?" 

"To the North Pennsylvania Depot," was my reply — that being the point where I was to take a train for the northern part of the state. T had no desire to visit the Fair, not being in a sight-seeing mood, but only intent upon reaching my destination as soon as possible. 

"Jump into my hack," said the young fellow, with the air of the spider to the fly, "and I'll take you where you want to go." 

"How much will it cost?" I inquired. 

"Three dollars." 

"Three dollars for taking me from one depot to another!" 

"It's several miles from here," he explained. 

"Where is the street car?" 

"Oh, there's no street car running at this hour." 

At this juncture another fellow came forward, and with a look of "brotherly love" on his countenance repeated the question put to me by his "pal" : "Where did you say you would like to go ?" 

"To the North Pennsylvania Depot." 

"Better go with the young man," he philanthropically (or Philadelphically) advised. 

Still I hesitated, and was then offered a two-thirds discount. 

But just at that moment I saw a policeman standing a few rods away, and remembering a word of counsel given me before leaving home, to the effect that I was not to trust every Tom, Dick and Harry who might offer to serve me, but apply for information to someone in uniform, I pushed past the two fellows who were bent upon fleecing me, and approaching the officer inquired: 

"Where is the street car to the North Pennsylvania Depot?" 

"Right around the corner, sir," said he. And sure enough, there it was. T got aboard, paid one dime, and saved two dollars and ninety cents by remembering and acting upon that word of wise counsel. Such was my introduction to the City of William Penn. 

It is something of a coincidence, interesting to me if to no one else, that as I enter upon another half century of service — all of which I do not expect to spend in the United States, nor in any other place this side of the Spirit World — another great Exposition, the Sesquicentennial, is in full blast at the famous old town. 

THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE 

One hundred and fifty years ago, on July 4, 1776, the representatives of the Thirteen United American colonies, which up to that time had acknowledged allegiance to Great Britain, met in Philadelphia for the purpose of declaring those colonies free and independent. They put forth the immortal document known and revered as the Declaration of Independence, the preface to the Constitution of the United States, which the Lord has declared in our day to have been established "by the hands of wise men" whom He "raised up unto this very purpose." The signers of the Declaration were fifty-six in number, and some of the sentiments to which they subscribed their names are as follow : 

"We hold these truths to be self-evident — that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of people to alter or polish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." 

"The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object, the establishment of an absolute tyranny over these States. To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid world." 

Then, after enumerating those acts of usurpation and tyranny, the Declaration closes thus: 

"We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in General Congress assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the name and by the authority of the good people of these colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States; that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved. * * * And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor." 

AN ACT OF HEROISM 

These men were not Latter-day Saints — but they deserved to be. They did not bear the Priesthood, nor did they have the fulness of the gospel, with the gifts and powers of the Holy Ghost. They were not members of the Church of Christ— they had no opportunity to be, for it was not then upon the earth. Yet there was something within them that made them willing to imperil their lives, not for personal profit, not for self-aggrandizement, but for freedom and justice and the rights of man. 

Their act was heroic, thrilling. Even to read about it almost brings the tears to one's eyes. One of those men, after signing his name and laying down the pen, said: "Now we must hang together, or we shall all hang separately." And this was no exaggeration. Had they failed, they would have been executed as traitors and rebels. It was their success that saved them, and God gave them that success. 

JEFFERSON AND ROUSSEAU 

Thomas Jefferson was the author of the Declaration, though some of its phrases were current in that day — common property. Jefferson, heaven-inspired, breathed into them the breath of life and made them live forever. It was a glorious achievement. 

"All men are created equal." This phrase is Rousseau's — he whose pen kindled the fierce fires of the French Revolution. It does not mean, of course, that all men are equal in intelligence and capacity, any more than they are equal in stature or in weight. But all have equal rights to life, to liberty, to the pursuit of happiness, and are entitled to equal opportunities for possession and promotion. 

That is America's doctrine, and it is God's doctrine, too — yet to be emphasized when Zion's children, the pure-in-heart, become equal in temporal as in spiritual things, and are of one heart and mind, "every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." 

AMERICAN AND EUROPEAN IDEALS 

"Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." That also is God's doctrine — the doctrine of common consent, exemplified at every Church, stake or ward conference, where the names of the presiding authorities are regularly placed before the people, to see whether they will sustain them as their leaders and teachers. This they manifest by giving or withholding their consent. 

Compare this doctrine with the notion once prevalent in European as in Oriental countries, that the king or hereditary ruler of a nation was the owner of that nation, the proprietor not only of the land, but of the people living upon it. They all belonged to him and he might dispose of them as he saw fit, not being accountable to any human power for his actions. When a reigning princess married the monarch of another realm, all her dominions and all her subjects went with her as part of the bridal dowry. 

Such was the case when the Netherlands, largely Protestant in religion, passed into the possession of the Catholic king of Spain, who forthwith undertook to convert his new subjects by force, using for that purpose his pillaging and slaughtering armies. The Stuart kings governed England as if it were their personal property, and the controversy that arose brought forth a Hampden and a Cromwell, and cost King Charles the First his head. He had "lost his head" a little while before. The German Kaiser habitually referred to his people as "my Prussians," and even in democratic England the king, according to the custom of centuries, still speaks officially of "my armies," "my navies," "my government." 

A wonderful and startling change was wrought when men arose upon these Western shores who dared to say and maintain: We, the people, are the true sovereigns. We choose our rulers, and they are our servants, not our masters, and are accountable to us for the manner in which, they govern the commonwealth and administer the laws enacted by our representatives for the general welfare. 

LINCOLN AND JOSEPH SMITH 

That is the American idea, "government of the people, by the people, for the people," as Lincoln expressed it in his famous Gettysburg speech. 

And nothing proves more conclusively that Joseph Smith, God's, prophet, was a real and true American, than his reply to one who inquired of him how he managed to govern a people made up of so many different nationalities, with all their varied languages, customs and traditions. Said the Prophet: "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." 

The United States is a Republic, in which the people are recognized as the one source of power. The Church of Christ is a Theo-Democracy, in which God speaks and the people say *' Amen." It is the Church of God and his people— the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

THE MISSION OF AMERICA 

Were I to say that the founders of this Nation builded better than they knew, few if any would question the statement. But if, in addition to that, I should voice my conviction that this great Government was  purposely to favor the coming forth of the Church of Christ in this dispensation — the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times — many would deem my declaration presumptuous and even preposterous. Great movements are generally so regarded in the beginning. 

It' was "presumptuous" in Columbus to pit himself against the learned ignorance of his age, and proclaim the earth round, when publir opinion held it to be square and flat or shaped like a cheese. But his "presumption" led to the discovery of the Western Hemisphere and the founding of the mightiest nation of modern times. It was "presumptuous" for the American colonies to declare their independence and array themselves against the militant might of the British Empire. But diey succeeded, and their "presumption" was swallowed up in victory, amid the thunders of the world's applause. In like manner it may look presumptuous for a little handful of people, numbering only half a million all told, to claim that a nation originally of three millions and now of one hundred and ten millions, was founded for the express purpose of furthering their God-given mission of preparing the way before Messiah's second advent. But when the Kingdom of Heaven prevails, and Christ is reigning in person over a glorified planet, such a claim will not be considered presumptuous, preposterous, nor at all out of the way. 

All great builders build better than they know. Some realize in part, but others not at all, that they are instruments of Deity, used for carving out his sublime and beneficent purposes. 

ALEXANDER THE GREAT 

Passing by the patriarchs, the prophets and the apostles of ancient times — all of whom helped to prepare the way for this last and greatest of the gospel dispensations; and dismissing with a word such characters as Nebuchadnezzar and Cyrus — the former referred to in sacred writ as the Lord's "servant," and the latter as his "anointed" — let us take as an example Alexander the Great. 

When I was a child I was taught to sum up this great man's career by saying: "He conquered the world, but could not conquer himself, and died a drunkard at the early age of thirty-two." But, I have since learned that Alexander did something more, which is not often referred to — I don't know why", since it is quite as important as a dissertation on the wine cup and the evils of intemperance. Alexander's conquests carried the Greek language as far as the borders of India, and that is the language into which the New Testament was afterwards translated. Thus the Macedonian conqueror paved the way, not consciously, but as an instrument of Providence, for the subsequent promulgation of the gospel. While building for himself an empire that was destined to perish with his passing, he helped to lay the foundations of the Kingdom that shall stand forever. 

Dean Farrar, in his Life and Work of St. Paul, says : "The immense field covered by the conquests of Alexander gave to the civilized world a unity of language, without which it would have been, humanly sneaking, impossible for the earliest preachers to have made known the good tidings in every land which they traversed." 

McCabe the historian dilates upon the same fact as follows: "Alexander was no vulgar conqueror, and his title of Great does not rest simply upon his conquests. * :;: :|: Wherever he went he left the Greek language and some portion of Greek culture, as a priceless legacy to the countries through which he passed. This universal spread of the Greek tongue was all powerful in drawing the nations of the old world into a closed and more intimate contact with one another. Greek became the language of commerce as well as of the court. At a later period the Hebrew Scriptures, translated into Greek, were made accessible to the whole world, and the way was thus paved for the mission of him of whom these Scriptures testified," 

"God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform." 

rome's unconscious service to christ 

Dean Farrar again: "The rise of the Roman Empire created a political unity which reflected in every direction the doctrines of the new faith. * * * The gospel emanated from the capital of Judea; it was preached in the tongue of Athens; it was diffused through the empire of Rome; the feet of its earliest missionaries traversed the solid structure of undeviating roads by which the Roman legionaries — 'those massive hammers of the whole earth' — had made straight in the desert a highway for our God. Semite and Aryan had been unconscious instruments in the hands of God for the spread of a religion which, in its first beginnings, both alike detested and despised." 

THE DIVINE PURPOSE 

In due time came Columbus, impelled by the Spirit of the Lord to cross the mighty waters surging between European and American shores. To what end? To prove the earth round, and reach India by sailing west? Yes, that was Ms motive. But the "Divinity that shapes our ends, rough hew them as we will," had a higher purpose in view, to which the comparatively small objective of the Genoese explorer was but tributary. 

The unveiling of a hidden hemisphere, the discovery of the Land of Zion, the predestined theatre of wonderful events in the last days, events connected with the winding up of the Lord's work upon this planet — the Land where the New Jerusalem is to rise, unto which Christ will come as King of kings, to usher in the reign of peace and right. This was God's purpose, accomplished through Columbus. 

The lovers of liberty who followed in his wake and were actuated by the same Spirit, as a further preparation for the great Latter-day 

Development founded upon this North American continent a nation, the mightiest on earth, under whose protecting aegis, the constitutional guarantee of religious freedom, the Church of God came forth, to be nurtured unto the complete fulfilment of its destiny. 

ISRAEL AND THE GENTILES 

Did the American patriots who framed and signed the Declaration, who established the Constitution and laid the foundations of this mighty commonwealth, realize that they were bringing to pass the prediction's of American prophets and the words of Jesus Christ concerning the Gentiles upon this land ? No; for the record of those divine utterances was yet slumbering in the earth, awaiting the set time for coming forth. Nor do the Gentile nations of today realize that with thenships and railroads and other means of transportation and communication, they are helping to gather scattered Israel in fulfilment of ancient prophecy : "They shall fly upon the shoulders of the Phillistines toward the West." 

THE GLORIOUS FUTURE 

Columbus built better than he knew. Wyclif fe, Luther, the reformers, explorers and conquerors all, as well as the founders of this Nation, did likewise. And even the Latter-day Saints, with all their knowledge of divine plans and purposes, revealed from heaven, to enable them to execute another phase of God's "marvelous work and wonder," have no adequate conception of its future greatness and glory. 

Nor is it necessary that we should have, at this time. Well for us if we diligently discharge the duty of the present hour, and patiently bide the time of Him whose omnipotent and unerring hand is guiding the Cause of Christ to its glorious consummation. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this conference of the Church, and to be associated again with , my brethren and sisters, and with my family, after our absence for nearly a year in South America. To me this has been indeed a wonderful conference gathering. I have been very much interested, and my faith and testimony have been strengthened in the instructions and teachings that have come to us from those who have spoken. 

I have been led to reflect that we are indeed a distinctive and a wonderful people, and that there is nothing like our organization and our institution anywhere else in all the world, so far as I have been able to come in contact with things in the world. 

Our trip into South America brought to my attention many, many things that were new to me. It seemed that we were in another world, and I observed the practices and the customs of the peoples of the countries where we went with a desire to learn and to see things from their viewpoint. We came in contact with people who believed differently religiously. I will say in regard to them that I encountered a sincerity that is very commendable, upon their part, in the faith that they have in God, as they understand him, and in their religion, or their gospel, as it is taught to them, and as they have believed in it, and their fathers before them for many years. But I will say that after this review I came back with the conviction stronger than ever in my mind that we are a people apart from the world, and although I have seen much that is good and much that is commendable in the religions and in the practices of the people of the world, I had in my heart a spirit of thankfulness which I cannot express, that my lot has been cast with a people who know that we have the truth of the everlasting gospel restored to us, that there is no uncertainty in our minds, that we can go forward with confidence and work out our salvation in our Father's kingdom, knowing that we are on the right track. 

It has been to me a source of joy, my brethren and sisters, to bear my testimony of the restoration of the gospel to the people of South America. As I listened to Elder Ballard's report of our trip, my mind was led to reflect upon the saying of the Savior, wherein he said : "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not." 1 have had joy that is unspeakable in associating with little children in these foreign nations, and my heart has gone out to them. We asked them if they belonged to any church and invariably they say : "Yes." I have asked them, "What do you believe? What are your teachings? Do you pray?" And brethren and sisters, that which is commonplace with our children, taught to us from infancy, is lacking in the lives of these other children. I wish that each one here could see the faces of those little foreign children light up when we carry over to them the things that seem most common to us. When we taught them how to pray, when we taught them how to sing, when we rehearsed to them the stories of the Savior, and the great love he had for mankind, and the great works that he did among the children of men, we found their eyes wide open and their mouths agape, light in their countenances and joy manifesting itself from the depths of their souls, for the truths we were able to teach them. And they have said : "We have never known these things." It is remarkable to have the opportunity of carrying them to our Father's children who have been left in spiritual darkness through the systems in which they believe. Then, too, the children are not all small as pertaining to the affairs of the kingdom of our Father in heaven. The adults are children. W,e find them as such, and it has been a joy to me, my brethren and sisters, to be able to assist in teaching these adult children of our Father in heaven the truths they confess to us have brought the greatest joy that they have felt in their lives. I recall the people that Elder Ballard referred to yesterday, when they first came to our gathering, two Italian men came first, out of curiosity, I think. They had been in the United 

States a little while, many years ago, and they learned that we Americans were holding services in their vicinity. They came to our meetings, but they knew nothing about our religion. They knew nothing about the Bible- They wished to get the scriptures, and we obtained them foi these men. After attending our meetings for some time, and hearing us try to teach the children to pray in Sunday school, one of the men came to me and said : "Can you get me a prayer book, so that I can pray, too?" I explained to him, as best I could, that we do not pray out of books, but just like a child would ask its father for what it wants, we ask our heavenly Father for the things that we alone know that we need. "Well," he said, "I have been a member of a church all my life, but I have never been taught to pray that way. I must confess to you that I don't know how to begin. Won't you men do me the favor to come to my house some night when I am home from work and teach me and my family how to pray ?" It was one of the greatest opportunities that has ever come to me in my life, my brethren and sisters. I went with him, and we knelt around his family altar, s with his wife and children and with the other man whose family was left back in Italy, and who is struggling hard to get means to bring them over there. We were able to teach them how to pray, how to ask a blessing upon the food, and to thank God for those commonplace blessings that we always thank him for, and think very little about tht! great blessing that we have in knowing how to do those things. 

I wish you could see how that man's faith grew. I wish that you could realize and visualize as we did, who were there, how things seemed to open up and unfold to him and his companions in that home. Before we left there, he said : "I am willing to forsake all you say is wrong, for I have an evidence and a testimony that has come to me that you have brought the truth into this land of South America." 

"Well," I said, "prepare yourself, quit your tobacco, and do a number of other things, and when the proper time comes these elders that are left here will admit you into the Church of Jesus Christ oi Latter-day Saints, through the door of baptism." Just before leaving El Paso I had a letter from Elder Sharp, who labored with me in Mjexico City, and who is now in South America, stating that those two men, a boy fourteen years of age, and the wife of one of the men, had come into the Church through baptism, and he said to me : "Brothei Pratt, I never have seen so much joy shine in the faces of men and women in all the wide world as there is in the lives of those people since they have joined the Church. This dear brother said to me: 'I would rather lose all I have, and give my life, than to lose faith in the gospel that has been brought to us in this land by you missionaries'.' "Suffer little children to come unto me," the Savior said, and we as a people who have his authority have a very great responsibility, and an obligation to carry to the many millions of our Father's children in the world the tidings of which they are ignorant. 

I agree with Brother Ballard that my conception of our Father's GENERAL CONFERENCE  has been enhanced and widened, in my contact with Latin people. I was prejudiced against them in a degree. My contact with them, in association with the Lamanite people in Mexico, made me so. They were the conquerors of the people. They had brought them down to where they are. I confess that I had a prejudice against them, but that prejudice has all been removed, and I feel happy that I can include them among our Father's children who are heirs to salvation, through the gospel that he has restored through Joseph Smith. And as our last speaker said, I am willing to agree that even the conquest of Mexico and the conquest of Guatemala and Central America and Peru, and the rest of South America, at the hands of those ruthless Spaniards who brought so much misery, and who have brought so much suffering in the wake of that conquest might, after all, be overruled for good, for at least it has prepared a way through which we can reach those people by having given to them a common language, the Spanish language, where before innumerable tribal languages existed that would have been almost  impossible for us to acquire in order to preach the gospel to those people. I am grateful to the Lord for the participation that I have had in opening up this new mission. I am desirous to continue to serve in any capacity where I may be called to labor. 

I leave with you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and I know, as well as I know anything in all this wide world, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that he was raised up to restore and to establish this great gospel in this day, age and dispensation in which we live, I know that if I live faithful and true to the teachings of this gospel, I will work out for myself a salvation and an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven. I know that this is true for you and for my family, and for me, and for all whom I love. I know that if it is preached to the people of the world who know it not, and they accept it, it will result in the same to them, for this gospel is the power of God unto salvation unto all who believe it; and those who believe it will obey it. The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and help us all to serve him to the end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

After the meeting this morning I was informed that hardly any of the audience heard what Brother Widtsoe said. Yesterday we had a very large machine here to emphasize what we were saying, and the one we have today lis not so good, so ,far as the sound is concerned. It was suggested that if I move this machine in front of me you could hear much better. Did my voice sound louder the last minute? (Answer from voices in the audience: Yes, yes.) 

We will ask the speakers to face the machine and maybe that will help. Somebody sent word that they were not hearing Brother Clawson. He then raised his voice and we all heard him, so I understand. The choir and congregation sang, "O say what is truth ?" The closing prayer was offered by Elder George E. Browning, of the Weber stake. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


