Second Overflow
03 10 1926


ELDER WILLIAM JONES 

President of the Moapa Stake 

If I can but control my fluttering heart, I shall be pleased, rrrv brethren and sisters, to respond for a few moments to this call made on me by the President of the Church. In doing so, I desire that the blessings of the Lord shall be with me to direct what I shall say, for 1 realize that of myself I am not capable of saying anything that will be profitable to you who have assembled this afternoon to be instructed upon the word of the Lord. Therefore I pray that the blessings of the Lord shall be with each of us, that our time here will not have been spent in vain. 

I was thrilled, beyond my words to express, with the meeting of this morning, by the spirit that was manifest, by the things that were uttered by the President of the Church, and by President Ivins, and also with the things we listened to this morning in the officers' meeting of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, and I am grateful that I have had this opportunity of assembling and listening to these valuable thoughts. I hope I shall get fresh inspiration from them, and from the meetings to follow in this conference, so that, as I return to the stake over which I preside, I may be able to carry back to the people the spirit of this great gathering and the valuable things imparted, and to be imparted, by the servants of the Lord called upon to speak to the Latter-day Saints. 

I thank the Lord, above all else, that I have a testimony concerning this great latter-day work. I hope and trust that this testimony the Lord has given to me will be an abiding one, that during the rest of my life I shall be able to retain it in my soul and make it a part of my very being. As I enjoy this blessing, my brethren and sisters, I desire that this same blessing may be upon you and upon every Latter-day Saint who has gone down into the waters of baptism, and had hands laid upon his head for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and who has been given a testimony concerning this great latter-day .work. I hope and pray that each one who has entered into covenants with his Maker may have the Holy Ghost to abide with them. 

I was impressed very much this morning in listening tO' what was said, and the words of the Savior came to me and have been upon m) mind since then. If you will bear with me for a moment, I would like to read some of his words, as recorded in the 14th chapter of St. John, beginning at the 14th verse : 

"If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it. "If ye love me, keep my commandments. 

"And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever; 

"Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. 

"I will not leave you comfortless : I will come to you. "Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also. * * * 

"lie that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me : and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." 

The very fact that we have gathered ourselves together in this conference is an indication to me that we love the Lord and that we are exemplifying in our lives the words of the Redeemer of the world wherein he says, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." , The people in this conference have gathered from all parts of the Church, some of them coming hundreds of miles, paying their own expenses on the railroads and in the hotels, and all because of their love for the Redeemer of the world and the work that he has established in the dispensation in which we live. We are sending missionaries into the nations, and to every part of the known world, with the message of the restored gospel, and they go out, as you are. aware, bearing their own expenses, meeting the scoffs and the scorns of the people of the world and many of them enduring the hardships because of the love they have for the gospel which has been made a part of their lives. Where else can you find such fove manifest in all the world as is shown by the Latter-day Saints, willing" upon every occasion (it matters not what the sacrifice might be) to go where they are sent, to' bear this message of glad tidings of great joy to people who do not know as we know, that the Redeemer of the world liveth? 

I rejoice in the fact that we have identified ourselves with an organization that has for its object the love of humanity. Members of this great organization realize the responsibility of carrying this great message to the nations, regardless of cost, regardless of their time and means, and even the sacrifice of their own lifes, if it becomes necessary. It is because of this love that our parents and our grandparents accepted the gospel in their native lands, and emigrated from the various parts of the world to this intermountain country, the place that the Lord spoke of through his servants as the dwelling place of latter-day Israel. 

I thank God that I was born of parents who had the love of God in their hearts, that when the gospel came to them they accepted it in the circumstances that it found them. They were willing to make sacrifice, willing to leave all that they had and journey westward to this land surrounded by these lofty peaks that we see on every hand. Many are the trials and hardships that our grandparents endured. My grandparents on my mother's side accepted the gospel in Sweden. They suffered much persecution prior to and during their journey here. They had but very little means to migrate to this western land. They had to stop upon various occasions and earn money, that they might continue their journey, and upon one occasion, when they were earning money in order that they might proceed upon their journey, it was necessary that they leave some of their children with friends. The friends with whom they left the children became attached to them, and when they had  sufficient money to take them on a little farther, they went to gather their children. Some of the people were unwilling to give them up, and it was necessary for them to go into court in order to get them. They did so, and the court gave them their children, but after the court had decided in their favor and they went on their way, the people that were after some of their children waylaid them upon the road and took from them one boy, and from that day until the day of their death, thev never had the privilege of again beholding the face of that son. That is just one instance, my dear friends, of the many trials and hardships that they had to endure because of the love in their souls of the gospel. It enabled them to journey thousands of miles to this western country and establish their children here. Upon their foundation we can build, in the enjoyment of the blessings of the Lord. I rejoice with you that we are surrounded with the comforts that the Lord has blessed us with, that we have plenty to subsist upon, to make ourselves comfortable and happy, and that, above all else, we still retain in our hearts that same love manifest by our fathers and mothers who accepted the gospel in the land of their birth. This knowledge and this love came to them through earnest prayer and through seeking after the word of the Lord. r They were honest in heart, they desired to serve God and keep his commandments, and when the servants of the Lord found them, they recognized the voice of the true shepherd and embraced the truth, but it was because of earnest prayer and desire upon their part to know the will of the Lord, and to keep his commandments. The Lord has told us in the scripture that I have read to you that he will manifest himself to us. I bear witness to you that the Lord does manifest himself to the Latter-day Saints. He may not do it by personal contact in each individual case, but, through the promptings of the Holy Ghost, he manifests himself to the Latter-day Saints from time to time as needed, that they may be kept in the path of truth and righteousness. I know beyond any doubt that if we study the Spirit of truth, the Holy Ghost, and put ourselves in condition to detect its promptings, that it will continue to manifest itself to us. But I want to say to you that it requires study. We must conduct ourselves ' in a way and manner that when the Lord speaks to us we may recognize his voice and carry out the instructions given to us as individuals. The Prophet Moroni, you know, gives the keynote, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, Moroni 10. The Lord says, speaking through Moroni : 

"Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, frcm the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are net true : and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he wilf manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

I bear record to you that our fathers and mothers, when the gospel came to them, asked, as Moroni here gives us to understand, in His name, and when they asked, they received knowledge concerning the doctrines, as to whether ttoey were of men or of God.  The injunction given by the Savior, the Redeemer of the world, is that you ask in his name and you shall' know whether the doctrine is of man or whether they come from our heavenly Father. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us as individuals, as members of this great organization and as elders of Israel, that each one shall perform 5 his part well, that we shall realize the responsibilities we owe one to another, and especially the responsibility that we owe to our heavenly Father in bearing our part, in helping to preach the gospel and do the work at home and abroad, for the salvation of the living as well as flie dead. I bear record that there is no joy, no pleasure, no happiness to be enjoyed in all the world, outside of the service of the Redeemer of the world. It matters not how much money men may have to spend in getting happiness in this world, there is no real joy outside of his service. I bear you this as my testimony, my brethren and sisters, in all humility, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS 

Assistant Church Historian 

It is an unexpected pleasure accorded me to be sent over from the Tabernacle to speak before this congregation, taking the place of someone else who was expected to come. I shall not detain you for more than a few minutes; but, while I am before you, I desire to bear my testimony : the testimony that we are endeavoring to establish in the hearts of the young people of Zion. The slogan of the Mutual Improvement Associations for the current year, runs somewhat like this, "We stand for a testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith." We cannot be effective missionaries, promulgating the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, unless we have a testimony of the divine calling of Joseph Smith, the prophet. We cannot have a testimony of his divine calling unless we have also a testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of mankind. 

The arguments which establish faith in the divinity of our Lord and Savior apply particularly to the establishment of faith in the divine calling of Joseph Smith; for Joseph Smith was raised up of God, and he received his commission through the personal ministry of the Father and the Son to bear witness that they live and are interested in the affairs of men. He had nothing to give the world except what they commanded him. His visions, visitations of angels and revelations were all directed by, and in the name of, the Lord to give to mankind anew the doctrines which Christ taught in the meridian of time with the ordinances and principles, organizations and governments necessary  the dispensation of the fulness of times to the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth; never to be taken from the earth, never to be given to another people; but to remain here triumphant over every obstacle and foe, over all other governments and institutions of men. Associated thus as the testimony of the divinity of Christ is with the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith, how invaluable, my brethren and sisters, it is to us. What distinction a testimony of the truth of Joseph's mission gives us, and what joy, in going about in the midst of our fellow creatures upon the face of the earth, even among those professing Christianity, to say nothing of those of the heathen world! 

We are called upon, because of the testimony that we do receive concerning Joseph Smith's mission, to be instructors, to be leaders. We cannot be otherwise. I will illustrate it. Take_ our young men called to go as missionaries to the various nations of the earth. Usually the injunction put upon them, in the blessings they receive when they are set apart, is to get the spirit of their mission — the spirit of their mission! I remember President Brigham Young said to me when he laid his hands upon my head, "Get the spirit of your mission." My father's only instruction was, "Get the spirit of your mission; do not know too much, but believe all you can." I did not know at the time what that sentence meant, but I was not long in my field of labor before I discovered it. There came upon me the spirit of my mission. Now, what was that? It was the exercise of the gift of the Holy Ghost conferred upon me when I was a child. It was the exercise of the authority to minister in the name of Jesus Christ, given me when I was ordained an elder. I found within three weeks after engaging in my mission that I was veritably, in effectiveness I will say mildly, an authorized representative of the Savior of this world; having the right to speak in his name, having the right to call upon my fellow creatures to repent; promising them that if they would do so they would receive forgiveness of their sins; showing them the way and proving it. 

Does not all that constitute leadership among men? What would not the ministers of the world give for so potent a power, so actual an authority? It cannot come and it has not come and does not, in this world, in this time, in this generation, in this age of the world, except through the ministry of Joseph Smith, whom God called, and to whom the Father appeared, to whom the Son spoke and delivered that message of life and salvation to all the children of God that dwell upon the face of the whole earth. Joseph Smith knew that he had that vision; he could not deny it. A minister tried to get him to; his supposed friends, his associates, his relatives, and others tried to dissuade him from the assertion that he had seen such a vision, had received such an authority, had obtained such power; but he knew whereof he spoke, and in the integrity of his heart he maintained his testimony and he maintained it throughout his life to the day of his death. He sealed that testimony with the blood of a martyr for the truth, not less, but for God and the truth, for the fact that God is and had spoken to him, and had delivered through him a message to all of his children. 

My brethren and sisters, I would not speak* thus if I were not able to bear witness that V have received such a testimony. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, not alone because of the spirit, I will say, of my mission, which confirmed that testimony and that knowledge, and indeed awakened my soul to its reality and to know the life of Joseph Smith — I have studied it. 

I remember one day in England, President George A. Smith, first counselor to President Brigham Young, . was upon his return journey home after having visited Europe and Asia, the Holy Land, and he sent for me to come and stay with him at the little hotel in London, and to be his companion and guide for about ten days, during which time we visited a great many places of note, of historical interest and value. I knew them pretty well, for I had been there for more than a year. We also visited a great many notable people. We were taken by noblemen of England to their homes. We were entertained at their tables. We were taken into the House of Lords and House of Commons and the Law Courts. We were shown by several men of renown courtesies and attentions that were in exchange for courtesies and attention they had received, perhaps, as travelers going across the continent and stopping for a few days in Salt Lake City. 

It was most delightful for me, an education to accompany President George A. Smith, who was a historian and who knew history. We would go into St. Paul's Cathedral, for instance, and stand before statues of generals, men of letters, and men of renown of one kind and another, and he would tell me little personal incidents in their lives. My accompanying him was one of the most valuable educational incidents in my life. But I have not time to dwell upon that, but upon this : Before he left London to come home he said to me, "Junius, I want to see if it is possible to find the home of my ancestors; the place that they went from in going to America. They went to America about the year 1635. They settled in Topsfield, Essex county, Massachusetts, and that is the only clue I have as to where they might have gone from in England. Can you find Topsfield, Essex county, England?" "Well," said I, "I have been all over Essex county, because my field of labor was there, but I do not recall Topsfield." So I got a geography and searched but there is no Topsfield in all England spelled as it is in Massachusetts. There is a place in Essex county named Toppesfield, and I presume it would be pronounced Topsfield. He said, "That is near enough." So we set out, took a train to a station, not knowing we could have gone nearer; that was seventeen miles away from that little country village upon the Colne river, in Essex. Then we hired a trap and rode across country for seventeen miles, a beautiful drive. We came to the little village of Toppesfield, and it was nightfall, and we went into the inn there to stay over night,  "Green Man Inn." Before we retired we ordered supper. Brother George A. could not wait for supper nor wait for morning, but thought we should try and see if we could not confirm the suspicion that we were on the sacred ground that was trodden by his ancestors. And so we went into the churchyard, and I got down on my knees before headstones and traced out the inscriptions with my finger. Presently I came upon some Smiths, upon some Thomas Smiths, Samuel Smiths, the same names that were among the Smiths, and one generation ahead of those that were found in Topsfield, Essex county, Massachusetts. Brother George A. Smith said, "We have struck the right lead. Let us go and get some supper." And so we went back to the little inn and had a very delicious supper of country things — some fresh eggs, and home-cured ham, and some lettuce, and pepper grass, I remember, and some other things. The reason I mentioned those is because of something witty that Brother George A. said. In the course of the supper, after eating quite heartily, he said, "Junius, pass the forage" — referring to the green stuff. 

After supper, we went up into an upper bed room. It was under a thatched roof with a dormer window. There was a little old fashioned bedstead, and there we knelt down by the side of the bed and Brother George A. Smith poured out his heart in prayer and in thanksgiving to the Almighty. George A. Smith knew that the gospel was restored to the earth. George A. Smith knew that God had appeared to Joseph, his kinsman, and had revealed the everlasting gospel. He knew that Joseph Smith had been true to his testimony. He poured out his heart and soul in prayer, and in that prayer he thanked God for the opportunity he had had of going abroad, of traveling over Europe and meeting the peoples of the different nations, of going to the Holy Land, and of traversing spots that were made sacred to us because the Savior of the world had trodden those same paths and places. He had seen all that. Then he came to this humble little village in Essex and said, "And above all, O Lord, I thank thee that I am permitted to tread the lanes that were trodden by my ancestors, that I am permitted to receive here information that will open the doors for those of my kindred that have gone before, and may do a work for them that will effect their salvation eternally, according to the gospel revealed through thy servant, Joseph." I could almost repeat his prayer; I never before listened to such a prayer. I never before felt that I was so near, so close to the Almighty. I will say, yes, I never before felt the nearness of the Savior of the world as I felt it while we knelt in that room and Brother George A. Smith poured out his soul in thanksgiving and praise to God. 

Well now, from that time I have studied and followed the history of the Smiths. I have written a good deal upon it. I have had the privilege of doing some things to help to commemorate and hold up in honor his name before mankind — the name of Joseph Smith, unto whom the angel of God, Moroni, standing before him said, "I am a messenger sent from the presence of God to you," as he called him by name, "and there is a work for you to do, and your name shall be spoken for good and for evil among all people, and nations and kindreds and tongues. It shall be had for good and for evil among all nations." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I will clinch my personal testimony. I have a right to. I know through traveling very extensively in the world, pretty well all over Europe, having crossed the Atlantic Ocean ten times, and pretty well all over America, for I have been in every state but two, and among this people called "Mormons." You know, young men and young women — who were young when I was — you know whether I have borne my testimony. It is this: I have discovered that the world has spoken the name of Joseph Smith for evil; they have traduced his name; they have wickedly attempted to break down and destroy the influence of his mission; they have lied about his kindred, about his ancestors, about his family, about their lives. I went all through that in Vermont and in New York. I have said time and again to people there, "Why, Joseph Smith and his family were just like you and your families," and proved it to them. "Go to the records, in building your churches, your schools, and in holding every office that anybody else held. They had the respect of their neighbors. They were industrious, they were upright, they were an honorable family, and here their descendants are, holding up their names in honor. And we, Latter-day Saints, a million of us, have held up Joseph Smith's name in honor, that his name might be spoken for good." 

This is my testimony to you, as I have said to many people, while standing on the hearthstone of the cottage where he was born, where his mother washed and dressed him as a babe. Over the mantle-piece there is hung his portrait by the side of his mother's, at the other side his brother Hyrum's, and under Joseph Smith's painted portrait, framed in a little gold frame, are the printed words which I have just quoted to you, from the lips of Moroni, saying that his name should be spoken for good and evil. I have said to hundreds, and those who have succeeded me in the management of that memorial in Vermont have said to thousands since, "Read that now; you of the world, unbelievers in 'Mormonism,' have been speaking the name of Joseph Smith for evil; we Latter-day Saints have built this monument and this memorial to show our love, our admiration and our testimony and bearing our witness for good, that his name might be spoken for good. So, between you and us we have fulfilled the words of the angel of God, and proved Joseph Smith, who quoted them and gave them to the world, a prophet of God." 

May the Lord bless us all with a testimony that shall abide in our souls, a light to our paths, a guide to our,, footsteps. There is nothing so precious as this; there is no truth so certain as this; there is no institution, there is no purpose of Almighty God, against whom none can prevail, so certain as the triumph of this work known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Amen. 

ELDER A. E. PARKS 

President of the Gunnison Stake 

My brethren and sisters: I do not suppose that I shall again have the same peculiar feeling that I had when my name was announced in the conference this morning, as a speaker for this afternoon's session. It was a feeling of great fear, and yet into my heart came a desire to perform the mission that the president of the Church had called me to perform. I came into this building with the same fear — a fear of you and a fear of myself, but as I heard you sing that wonderful song, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight," the fear of you left me, because I knew that I should have the privilege of talking to men and women who had in their hearts a testimony of the gospel, and that when the spirit of that testimony was upon them, who had time and again borne testimony to the fact that they knew God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the son of the living God, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and that notwithstanding their many weaknesses, God had blessed them. I knew that I would have the privilege of talking to men and women who, in their hours of trial, had called into their homes the bishop of their ward, the president of their stake, who had been with them, who had laid hands upon the heads of their loved ones and to their loved ones had come health and strength, and into their hearts had come the peace of the gospel, and my fear of you had [left me entirely, though for myself it still remains, that I might not have the ability, the power to make the contact with the Spirit of our Father in heaven that might leave a message with you today. May I not ask that the few moments I stand before you that you offer a silent prayer in my behalf, that God may give me the power to say something that you may carry home, that will make you a little better, make you a little happier, that will give us a little more power that we may perform the mission to which God has called us, and also that he will give to you an understanding heart, that what I say may find lodgment therein? 

I know, brethren and sisters, beyond the shadow of doubt, that there is in this gospel of Jesus Christ a power beyond the power of men, that will take men and women of mediocre ability and raise them up and magnify them so that they may perform a wonderful service to which they have been called by God, so that they may perform the service of representing our Father in heaven upon this earth, so that they may come to the people and convey to them, under the authority of God, the power of the Priesthood, that they may be changed in their minds, so that the Spirit of God may actuate them, may impel them forward to do the thing that God would have them do. 

I think there is one principle of the gospel that is more important, probably, than all else, and it is that of which I wanted to speak this afternoon. It is this principle announced by our Savior, through Joseph Smith, that we should be one, and if we are not one, we are not his. The question has often come to me, "How may we be one?" It has come to you, too, I know. Some of our brethren and sisters think that it is to carry out their own particular ideas, their own views, and a few have gotten together and tried to carry them out. I do not believe that it is true. I believe that when the Lord said we should be one, he meant that we should be one with those who preside over us, be one with the prophet of God. Is not that true? The Lord has said some marvelous and wonderful things for the blessing of those who would be in harmony with those whom he calls to leadership. In the matter of priesthood, he says, in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

. "For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which T have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God. 

"And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him." 

How could that be possible, that all the Father hath should be given unto them? ,And to make it sure. 

"This is according to the oath and covenants, which belongeth to the priesthood, * * * which he cannct break, neither can it be moved. * *" 

And I have often wondered how it could be, how I could be one with God, how we could be one with God. And a testimony of it came to me. We shall never have the authority of God; he will always preside. . We brethren who have received the Priesthood have received authority to act in the name of God, and to the extent of that authority we may act, and any act we perform in righteousness under that authority is a binding act and God will recognize it. But there needs to come something else into our lives, and that is, if we would be one with God, if we would have the power of God, we must exercise that Priesthood, must magnify it by our lives, by our clean living, and by our service. 

It is a wonderful testimony borne to you by Brother Junius F. Wells, who received the spirit of his calling and was the means in the hands of God of establishing our wonderful Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has said that the time would come that those who would not receive the servants of the Lord, nor hear the words of the prophets and apostles, and the servants of the Lord, should be cut, off from among the people. The prophet Mormon bore that testimony but he said some other marvelous things. There is one marvelous promise, with which I am going to close, after warning you, if I may, against those who would come into your lives and sow the seeds of discord and put a bar between you and the men whom God has called to lead this 

Church; between you and the bishop of your ward, or the ward teachers, or the president of the stake, or the president of the Church. I would warn you that those men and women who would do this are not actuated with the spirit of God but by the spirit of evil. I will read to you what the Lord says in regard to that in the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them. 

"But those who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves. 

"And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage and death — 

"Wo unto them; because they have offended my little ones they shall be severed from the ordinances of mine house. 

"Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be despised by those that flattered them." 

Let me read again : 

"But those who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves." 

Do not .permit it. As you love your lives, your salvation, the salvation of your boys and girls, brethren and sisters, never let a word be said in your house or hearing against the constituted servants of the Lord, because I tell you, when they go out of the way, the Lord himself will remove them, that his people will not be deceived. But there is one thing, brethren and sisters, that you can do, and it will make a tie between yourselves and our Father in heaven, between your children and our>Father in heaven that can never be broken — they may drift one way or another, but ultimately they will come back and receive the blessings of the gospel — and that is the thing that the Lord has revealed in the 21st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which he said: 

"Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shalt give heed unto all his [speaking of the president of the Church] words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

"For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." 

Here is the most wonderful promise, one which would make this gospel an absolutely vital force in your lives : 

"For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory." 

I want to leave with you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I do know beyond the shadow of a doubt that God does operate through these men whom he has called to lead in Israel. You may go to your bishop with any problem, and if you will act on his advice given you as you go prayerfully to receive it, you may know it is the word of God to you. You may go to the president of the stake and president of the Church in their proper order, and receive that same blessing. T do know that President Heber J. Grant is the prophet of God, and iactuated by the power of God, and the counsel he gives us in these conferences is the word of God, the living scripture to us, and if we obey it, we and our families may return to the presence of God and receive those blessings that are ours. May this be the lot of all of us, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A male quartette, consisting of Leland I. Acomb, C. C. Martin, Leon G. Smith, W. S. Holdaway, sang, '.The last chord." 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I desire to endorse all that has been said concerning the divinity of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who came in the meridian of time and at the close of his earthly mission died that we might live; also all that has been said concerning the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith whose spirit was reserved to come upon the earth in the latter days to establish the gospel of Jesus Christ again, with all its powers and keys and blessings. It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to know that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely appointed and ordained for the great work which he performed in his brief ministry in these latter days. No Latter-day Saint should be satisfied until these testimonies burn within him. 

It is the mission of this Church to declare to the world these two great truths. The Christian world toda}' is greatly concerned with the problem of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Son of God, and this problem arises from the lack of testimony concerning these two great personages. Confusion and dissension will be with the churches of the earth until they conform to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. The members of these churches will have to exercise faith in the Redeemer as the Son of God and sincerely repent of their sins; then go down into the waters of baptism for the remission of these sins, and receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by those who have authority to do so. Then by prayer, faithfulness, obedience, humility and meekness they may obtain a testimony of Jesus Christ and Joseph Smith, knowing that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world and that through the Prophet Joseph the gospel was restored to the earth. 

The work of the Lord is moving rapidly. More missionaries are in the field than ever before. Mature men are sparing time to go into the mission field again for a period of about six months, and they have carried the message of the gospel to old acquaintances as well as new. It is hoped that from year to year the number of missionaries who are carrying the gospel message to the inhabitants of the earth will increase. 

Another temple is almost finished, being located in Mesa, Arizona. Five temples are now in daily operation, and this new one will, no doubt, be ready early in the coming year. It has been built  the donations and gifts of the Latter-day Saints and from the tithes. It is a wonderful building, everything being of the latest in temple architecture. Thousands of men and women are waiting to enter that House of the Lord to do ordinance work for the living and the dead. 

Elder Junius F. Wells mentioned the old landmarks of the Church, the Memorial Farm in Vermont, the Hill Cumorah in New York, and other places. The Church has recently acquired the farm of Father Peter Whitmer in Fayette, Seneca county, New York, consisting of about one hundred and twenty acres of land. It was on this farm that the Church was organized on the sixth day of April, 1830. Some may say, Why purchase this property? I am satisfied that the day will come when these historic places will be visited by tourists and Latter-day Saints in great numbers, who will stand in reverence in such hallowed spots. On this farm, and probably in the very house on it, the first Sacrament was administered by the Prophet, after those present had gone through the formality of organizing the Church in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 

The late President Seymour B. Young spent years of his life in trying to gather sufficient funds to erect on the Temple Block here in Salt Lake City a. memorial to those who came across the plains with hand-carts, people who came mainly from England, Scotland and Scandinavia. With these companies were a few wagons, carrying some of the people's heavy belongings, and also carrying food. The remainder of their effects was placed in handcarts, which were pulled for a thousand miles or more across the plains, where the only road was the trail made by the wagons that had gone before. A beautiful monument in memory of these brave people is now cast in enduring bronze and is placed in the front entrance to the Bureau of Information. Do not go home until you have looked at it, thought about it, and seen how the artist has depicted the sufferings of the Latter-day Saints, showing the pathos of it, showing the indomitable spirit that brought these people across the plains. 

One of the great Christian churches has held a celebration in the United States, during which special stress was given to the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Because of statements found in the Bible, this Church declares in its doctrines that when the wafer or bread and the wine are blessed they are actually transformed into the. body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. Such instances as this show 'how important it is that the Latter-day Saint", should have prophets and apostles who may receive the word of the Lord in this day and properly interpret the instructions given in former days. 

The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is one of the most solemn services that the Latter-day Saints hold. In these latter days,- the first Sacrament was administered in the home of Father Whitmer, as stated before, according to instructions contained in section 20 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. This Sacrament was instituted by Jesus Christ on the eve of his crucifixion. 

Shortly before his death he had raised Lazarus from the dead. It had become known in all the region round about that he had done this, and thousands of people who were gathering for the Passover heard of it. His enemies, the Pharisees, chief priests and scribes, were afraid of his popularity. He visited the temple and the voice of the Father was heard acknowledging him to be his Son. The following day he visited the temple again and drove out the money changers,, and that was the last time he entered that sacred building. He resided with his friends in Bethany, where a feast was held at the home of Lazarus. The day following, Wednesday, he gave his disciples private and final instructions in some secluded place on the Mount of Olives. On 'Thursday he asked his disciples to prepare for the feast, and no doubt that remarkable ceremony was carried out in the style customary to the Galileans, for all the disciples of Jesus were Galileans, with the exception of Judas Iscariot. The supper being over, he took off his outer garments, girded himself with a towel, and washed the feet of his, disciples. Peter objected, but when his Master told him that if he did not do this he would have no part or lot with him, the impulsive man said, "Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head." After that, he gave his disciples some advice and encouragement and uttered that (wonderful prayer contained in the 17th chapter of John. And then he brake bread and blessed it and gave it to his disciples, saying, Take, eat, this is my body; as oft as ye meet do this in remembrance of me. Then, after this had been partaken of by those present in the room, he blessed the wine and said, Drink, for this is my blood which is shed. No doubt the disciples partook of this solemnly and remembered his injunction that as oft as they should meet they should do this in remembrance of his sufferings and death. 

He left no ritual, he did not say how the religious ordinances of the new Christian Church, composed of his followers and believers, should be carried out. It is presumed that he expected they would carry out the old Jewish services, but in addition to this He said, in effect : As oft as ye meet, partake of the emblems of my: body and blood in the shape of bread and wine, and do this in remembrance of me. Evidently he gave to his disciples the true form of prayer which he desired them to repeat when blessing the bread and the wine, and that same prayer has been given to the Latterday Saints and is contained in section 20 of the book of  Doctrine and Covenants. 

No Latter-day Saint can keep alive in his heart the testimony of Jesus Christ and live the gospel unless he partakes of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper frequently, with clean hands and a pure heart, remembering the purpose of this Sacrament is to remind us of the death and sufferings of our Lord and Master until he  again. We Latter-day Saints should go to our meetingplaces regularly and in the most solemn manner center our thoughts upon the great sacrifice made by our Lord and Savior; and we should not partake pf the bread and the water unthinkingly or carelessly. This partaking of the Sacrament should be done on the Lord's day, for on that day the Lord has said we should go to his house and partake of his Sacrament. 

May the Lord bless us that we may sense our responsibilities and privileges as Latter-day Saints, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

My brethren and sisters: The great inspiring idea of this conference to me has been the admonition of Christ : "Rise up and be God's child." God created man in his own image, and the divine within man teaches him the truth and value of character and righteousness based upon a supreme faith in the Father of us all. The Latter-day Saints hold sacredly to the fundamental teachings of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In all their history they have believed that Christ is the sure guide to the way of life. This was true of the brave souls who crossed the plains in the very early days and made their way to Zion here in the tops of the mountains. 

The handcart immigrants mentioned by the previous speaker suffered untold hardships, not for the purpose of obtaining wealth and power, but fundamentally for the glorification of God and bringing to pass his divine purposes. May I just add a thought or two more concerning the handcart pioneers. Like their other brethren and sisters who came to Utah in the days of the old trail by ox-team and on foot, they did a great deed; and the result of their work stands ineffaceable and beyond forgetfulness. They had strong characters and unyielding courage. They came to work out their destiny. Religious freedom was one of their motives, and they possessed a very fine and lofty courage, and are to be reverently admired by all the people of this state. They put above all things the possessions of the mind and the heart. When they achieved their purpose, through much tribulation and suffering, they opened their doors to the honest in heart, and told them to enter. In the law of progress, these pioneers stand forth as _ exemplars of certain great principles, which never can grow old. They set character first; and reverenced intellectual and religious achievement. 

President Brigham Young saw this wilderness country in radiant vision, and the unconquered soil was a symbol of spiritual regeneration. And what did those pioneers of yesterday, and the Saints of today stand for? It is the gospel of Christ Jesus which speaks to us with so much power that it cannot be mistaken. It is a revelation of the meaning and responsibility of life. It involves great and illuminating ideas and truths that if mankind will work for them, the security of the race in peace and understanding will be assured. If we take a general view of Christ's teachings we will find that they emphasized the truth of the Kingdom of God and its coming; that he taught the Fatherhood of God and the infinite value of the human soul, and .that out of his teachings grow the higher righteousness and the commandment of love. Louder and more confident voices proclaim these truths today, because in the infinite goodness and mercy of God his divine Priesthood has been restored, and man has again been made free to find eternal life. 

It is religion, the love of God and neighbor, which, gives life radiancy; and in this divine feeling we realize better the meaning and aim of life. The knowledge of the meaning of God's Kingdom grows steadily and silently in the heart of the man who grows in faith and allows his soul to be illumined by the spirit of Christ our Lord. This Kingdom of the Master can be understood only from within. While the Kingdom of heaven is to come to us, it will be understood only by our spiritual natures. Every doctrine that he taught was a message of the Kingdom. 

God placed a value on the human soul, and taught that it is capable of endless spiritual and intellectual development. The Glory of God is intelligence; so intelligence is the glory of man. This glory is the Spirit of truth, which "leads man into all truth." The soul is man perfected, and a man perfected is one who knows not only truth, but is "a man of the truth." 

What a divine duty the gospel of Christ imposes upon you and me; the duty to develop our spirits and intellects to the highest degree and to their infinite possibilities. Then there is the higher righteousness and the commandment of love. When Jesus was asked what the great commandment is, he replied : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind * * * and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." This is a sphere of ethical thought that is peculiarly expressive of the gospel of Christ. It is in this sense that Jesus combined religion and morality. The higher morality depends upon the conception of Christ's teachings, and the developing of the simple faith in God. No system of ethics has ever bettered this system of the Master, and the pure Christian virtues are the most secure force today to heal the sins and ills of the world. The world cannot be far from religious feeling. Religion is a natural outgrowth in man. When man began to think and feel and wonder, he had longings to find out the infinite. So he naturally came to God, and God blessed him with divine power. "Wherever there is man, there is religion." My friends, we cannot be much until we have touched the infinite religion of spirits. Step by step we must rise to the demand of religion, and set before us the aesthetic ideals of Christ, our Lord, and abide by his thought that the love of God is the abhorrence of evil. Jesus had a great loving world purpose. There 7 ( J  be true victory in life until every activity of man — economic, political, social, ethical, and intellectual — be influenced by the divine purpose of Christ, our Lord. That is victory. 

I must not speak longer. May God help us to see the greater laws of righteousness; may he strengthen our testimonies from day to day. May we lift up our thoughts to him, and know that life and light come as we approach God. It was a mighty sage who wrote : "God ever works with him who works with God." The religion of Christ has a personal appeal to us all. "Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts : and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy on him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon." Amen. 

The choir sang, "God is our refuge and strength." The benediction was pronounced by Elder Orson Allen of the Ensign stake. 

SECOND DAY 


