Morning
09 10 1898


BXiDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Benefits of Conference — Instruction of the youth — Family Influence— Force of example— Testimony to the Gospel. 

My brethren and sisters, I have enjoyed the opportunity of meeting with you in this Conference and in seeing the spirit that is manifest on the part of the Saints from all parts of the country where they are located, in striving to be represented here upon this occasion. Gatherings such as we have twice a year, bringing us from all parts of the land, enable us to renew our old acquaintanceship, and form new friendships, look into each other's faces, and drink in of the spirit that pervades each district of country from which we come. If we utilize properly the talents that our Father in heaven has given us, all on their return to their homes and neighborhoods will carry with them a spirit of improvement, and a determination, so far as practicable, to awaken in their district the determination to more fully meet the obligations and requirements of the faith that we have espoused. 

We can only judge fairly by comparison; and by these associations that are offered us the opportunity for that comparison is opened up unto us — gathering new thoughts and ideas, and comparing conditions as they exist with ourselves, and as they exist, and are seen and felt in the companionship and spirit of other sections' of our country. We can go forth renewed in spirit, aroused in our determination to see that the sec from which we come are fully up to the standard, as presented in other sections of the country, and in the expression of sentiment given to us as we shall meet former acquaintances, and of the hopes and fears 'that we ourselves entertain, and that are manifest in the expressions of others whom we love and with whom we probably mingled in former days. 

The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are informed by the sacred scriptures, is "the power of God unto salvation." There are none of us that can question this statement made in former times, who have received the impress of that spirit upon which some of the brethren have spoken during the former sessions of this conference. It, without doubt, meant fully the adoption of rules, the acceptance of principles, the establishment of a standard, that should guide and govern our lives, or the lives of former day Saints while they were sojourning upon the earth, and that preparation necessary to prepare us for the conditions that exist beyond the veil. Therefore, when we consider the basis of the f aith that we have espoused, and that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is indeed the power of God unto salvation, each one of us can look into our oiwn souls; we know the temptations and trials and besetments of our own lives; we have a full understanding of our own weaknesses! and under that faith which the Lord has given us in the acceptance of His holy Gospel, we start in to so fully and thoroughly educate ourselves in the understanding of the same, that whenever we comply with each condition, fulfill each and every obligation, there is registered in our own souls, by the spirit of our Father the word of approval; and 'whenever, perchance, in the performance of our part, and the discharge of the various duties and obligations 'that rest upon us, we fall below the fulfillment of the sacred duties that we have promised to obey, there is within us the feeling of dissatisfaction, of uncertainty, and of doubt. 

Therefore, my brothers and sisters, those 'that have received of the impress of the heavenly gift, who have been partakers of that Gospel which is to be the power of God unto salvation to every one that shall obey and fulfill its requirements, the opportunities presented in our gathering- together upon these occasions, in marking the way of oui advancement by comparison with others, actuated by like hope, established in like determination, and pressing forward to the accomplishment of the same purposes.renew within us that determination, and increase the spirit and feeling to do and be indeed the children of the Father who sent us here. There is but little doubt that there are many people who, standing in our organization as members of the Church of Christ, are not fully converted to our principles; there are quite a number, as all of us know who are conversant with the actual conditions that exist among the people everywhere, who are in that frame of mind that they have accepted of the faith, because their parents accepted it. There are some who have been impressed with the idea that the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints conform to the doctrines of the Scripture, and conforming to them, they acepted of them upon this basis, without the particular effort, or necessary effort to secure foi themselves 'the witness of the spirit of that Gospel. They rejoice in the evidences that are manifest upon some occasions in discussions or debates wherein the Scriptures are utilized as an argument in connection with our fellow men to the destruction and overthrow of views that they may have entertained; but there are those who receive from the divine source the witness of that spirit which brings conviction to every fibre of the human being; that writes upon the heart; that fixea 'itself upon the brain; that establishes itself in such a form that no matter what the circumstances or conditions are in life it is written there not to be effaced; and no matter where the individuals might be, or what the circumstances were, their witness for the truth would be given in humility relying upon the mercies and goodness of their Heavenly Father. 

We are acquitting ourselves as a people very nobly in the efforts that we are making in scattering the seeds of the Gospel among the nations of the earth. Our brothers, our fathers, our sons, are performing their duties in this respect .with heroic courage and fortitude; -but when we look into the internal concerns of our country and s>tate and see the needs and necessities of hosts of oui young men especially (when I use the word hosts, I use it in the sense that there are many) who are moral, upright, earnest, and devoted, so far as that is concerned to the regular duties and responsibilities of life, but whose minds have net been touched with the sacred fire, whose hearts have gone out in the various directions in the accomplishment of their walks in life, so far as the temporal duties of life are concerned, and who have been led to think perchance father and mother, carried away in their enthusiasm for the faith that they have espoused, are not altogether in that condition or frame of mind that would impress them with that which seems so dear to father and mother, we realize that every effort made in the direction of the improvement and establishment in their minds of a proper understanding of the Gospel is a duty we owe to them. I realize that in our anxiety sometimes as parents in these matters, the constant following of our sons, the constant effort to impress them with the same religious fire that has been aroused in our breasts, may in some instances be overdone, as remarked to me upon one occasion by an eminent man in our nation who classes himself as an infidel. "I became infidel," he remarked, "to the faith of my fathers for the reason of the strict anxiety upon the part gf father and mother to impress me with their faith." While this should not be an excuse on the part of men for disregarding the wishes of moral fathers and mothers, who sought to impress upon the minds of their children the sacred obligation they owed to their Father in heaven, there may be in some few instances cause for complaint on the part of thoughtless boys and thoughtless girls in connection with this matter. It seems to me that the proper application of our home governmen!, the seeking to secure the aid and assistance of the boys and the girls in the discharge of the duties of that home, in their taking part in family prayer, in their assisting in the saying of grace at the table, in their being kindly and gently pled with, in striv-. ing to awaken in their minds that sacred reverence or love for the Supreme Being, would bridge most of the chasms that are found in the way ot the development of legitimate and proper faith in the minds of some of the thoughtless ones. 

I am a believer in the thought that the sons and daughters of the Latterday Saints are not recreant to their faith, or to the faith of their fathers. I recognize the fact in my own experience, as I note the conditions that arise in many lives, that while there is a thoughtless period that attends every boy and every girl, when 'they pass a certain stage in their history, their hearts turn to their home and to the influences of that home, and to the efforts that were made to impress them in that home with a sacred regard for the name of their Heavenly Father, and for the sacred laws that He has given. And inasmuch as we fulfill the requirements placed upon us to teach our sons and daughters the principles of that Gospel, that power of God unto salvation; have sought to establish within them honesty; have sought to fix upon their minds that justice and mercy and propriety and wisdom should govern them as the seeds are sown; as their minds are guarded; as their hearts are cultivated; as they are uplifted in their being by the uprightness and consistency and prudence of the examples of their fathers and mothers, one by one they will find themselves taking their place in the ranks of that religion that God has called to aid in carrying forth the truths of the Gospel which He has given to us in our day. 

I desire, my brethren and sisters that you will consider these matters; that there shall be adopted in the regulations of every home that wisdom and prudence that should characterize the Bishop of a ward, the Teachers of blocks, the High Priests, Seventies and Elders, and all that class of men who  been made partakers of the heavenly gift, that the spirit of truth, striking our own souls and vibrating therein, shall make its way among the children of men; that all who may enter our home circle or our neighborhood circle, shall feel and see that our hearts are in attune to the principles of right, mercy, and justice and the principles of propriety in everything that tends to turn and make man and wo* man more noble and true. 

In connection with my brethren, I desire to bear my testimony to the truth Of the Gospel, and the sacredness of that mission given of God in the introduction of this work, and to the uprightness and honesty and determination that exist on the part of those you have sustained as guides in connection with this work, and to the spirit of love engendered in their breasts for the work of God and the extension of the principles of the Gospel on the lines of justice and right so far as it is possible for man with his weaknesses to walk in harmony with the wishes of our Father in heaven. I bear you my witness that this is indeed the Gospel of Christ; that it will be indeed a power of God unto salvation to every man and every woman that shall adopt its rules and walk in the way marked out by the revealed will of our Father in the day and age in which we live. That God may bless you all, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER F. M. LTMAN. 

Organization of the Church in harmony with the will of God— Man is that he might be savedFavorable time? for the Saints— Man's obligations to his Maker first — Young people should marry— Time snould be economized for righteousness. 

It affords me much pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you on this important occasion — the day on Which is to be 'consummated the beginning of a new administration in the Church under President Lorenzo Snow and his brethren. This great body of people gathered from all directions give evidence that the work of the Lord is still alive in the earth; that this Church is growing, gaining strength and poweii spreading .abroad in the earth, 'accomplishing the design of our Heavenly Father. Our children and those whp are brought into the Church, from abroad add strength to this great work, and the Lord will fulfill His purposes. His favor and blessing are over the people, and they are being established; the stakes of Zion are increasing, the wards, the quorums, the associations and the missions are increasing in the earth, and we are the witnesses that the gifts and graces of theGospel attend upon the ministry of the Lord's servants. The will of the Lord is made known to the people, and they are not long left in doubt, or to wonder or surmise; for we have attained that degree of humility, union and faith that insures to all Israel the mind of the Lord in regard to His purposes. It is manifest in our present experience how readily all Israel has discovered and learned from the Lord His mind in regard to the Presidency of the Church, and the steps that are necessary to be taken in order that the organization of the Church may be complete and perfect; for as long as the Church is under the necessity of moving without the chief presiding quorum —the three High Priests designated by the Father and sustained by the people — the organization is not complete.; and in order that the Church may have all the blessings ,the gifts and graces, the inspiration and favor of God, it is quite desirable that every department of this Church should be in complete organization. I say that in this movement that we have witnessed, and that we witness today, is an evidence that the Church is advancing, that the people are becoming schooled and better tried and proven in the doctrines and discipline of the Church.. The Lord has spoken to His Prophets and Apostles, and has announced His will; and today the world shall see that Israel is a united people, that they see eye to eye, and in your hearts, my brethren and sisters, as well as in ours, shall be the evidence, positive and unquestionable, that the mind and will of God has been spoken from the heavens. Let every Latter-day Saint in hie and her own heart ask the Father that he or she may really feel and know, by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, that the organization of this Church is in harmony with the mind and will of the 



Father; and those who> thus seek the will of God shall know it in their hearts and souls. 

The work is advancing; it is growing apace and spreading quietly in the earth; the Gospel is being preachod; the people gathered and established; the resources and facilities of Zion are developing on every hand, and we are becoming a very remarkable people. The Lord will magnify and sustain His people; He will correct them, reprove them, restrain them, and inspire them. He will inspire every man who bears responsibility in this Church. Every man presiding in missions abroad every man laboring abroad and lifting his voice to the world, calling upon all men to repent and- turn unto the Lord, will be sustained by the power of God; and those who preside at home, in the organizations of Priesthood, in the stakes, in the wards, in the associations and organizations of our bretnren and sisters, will all be blessed and sustained. We will learn valuable lessons at times, no doubt, by the things we suffer, and sometimes possibly by the mistakes we make. But the Lord knows our hearts, our conduct, and our thoughts, and He will purge us *aid prove us, and will save us to the uttermost, if We will but be saved. It is the design of the Father that all His children should be Saved. Men were not created to be damned; but they were created to be saved. Men have come to the earth and obtained their bodies that they might be saved, that they may be enlarged and developed, and that they m'ay walk in the footsteps of our Elder Brother, Jesus, to salvation. In Him we should discover the very example of purity, of humility and of obedience to God that should be followed by each of us. It will be necessary, if we would be the heirs of God and joint heirs with the Son, rhlat as He had but the will of God, so must we also have the will of God. Our wills must be subject to the will of the Father; that What the Father wills in regard to us, We should will — it Should be our will; for He only wills good to us, lif e, prosperity, peace and salvation, in time and in eternity. We can well afford to exchange our wills for the will of God — or, rather, that our wills should be as the will of God; that we should adopt the will of God as our will. '"Not my will, Father, but thine be done." For the will of God is superior xo our will. He knows what will be good for us; He knows what is good for us. He knows what will preserve us and will save us from the power of Satan, from the grasp of that personage who would drag us down into the same condition that he is in. The Lord knows exactly what is best for us; and what our Elder Brother has accomplished and attained to — we also are the sons of God, the junior brethren and the sisters of our Lord Jesus Christ, and He designs that we should come up as He came up, and accomplish what He has accomplished, and be worthy of the favor .and blessing of our Heavenly Father in time and in eternity, and this can only be obtained by serving the Lord, as He serves our Heavenly Father. 

Then, my brethren and sisters, it is very important that we should learn to live unitedly, to be humble, to be faithful in the discharge of the duties that devolve upon us, and to fulfill the requirements of our Heavenly Father. Now we are entering upon times and conditions that are to be favorable to the Church, and favorable to everybody else. Good times are coming upon the people — prosperous times. As we have been so. abundantly blessed this year, so may we be blessed the coming year, and so on for the future. And when the blessings of the Lord are so abundantly bestowed upon us, we ought to make good use of them. We ought to listen to the counsel of wisdom, and to profit by our past experience, to refrain from contracting obligations that we are unable to meet. The Latter-day Saints should begin now, if they have not already, to meet all their obligations. I believe with the favorable conditions that are opening up to us and to the people of the world, that we ought to learn to meet our obligations; free ourselves from mortgages entirely. The Lord will open the way if we will make good use of the blessings that He has bestowed upon us, that we may meet all our obligations.. But remember the Lord first! I am frequently approached by brethren to know what they shall do. "If I pay my tithing, I  other obligations and embarrassments that weigh me down. Shall I, under these circumstances, pay my obligations to the Lord?" I say, Yes. First of all a man should meet his obligations to his Maker -He who has furnished us the earth upon which we live, .and all the wealth thereof. We ought to remember our obligations to Him; for we are in this work for eternal salvation and exaltation, eternal life, and to become the heirs of God, through our faithfulness, that whatever of wealth the Lord possesses we shall be His heirs, and joint heirs with the Son, Who has received from the Father all things and all power in heaven and on earth. If we would be sharers in this, we must remember first our obligations to the Lord; for they are older than the obligations to any man. Pay the obligations in the order of their seniority —as they are due. First meet all our obligations to the Lord properly, and then tell the Father that we want to be conscientious and honest with everybody else— with our brothers and our sisters as we are with Him, Now is the time that we manifest our faith in the Lord, and prove Him; and I want to bear record that no man has ever failed to. find the promises of the Lord reliable. No man has ever paid his tithing properly but what has been abundantly blessed. I want to say, too, that no man has ever paid his just obligation* to his brother but what he has been abundantly blessed. There is a compensation that always comes in answer io the performance of every right and proper duty between man and his Maker, between man and his brother; for I say that a man will not be honest with his Maker if he be not honest with his brother. Be honest with the Lord and then honest with the brethren. Be honest with the world, and conscientious with them in all our obligations and covenants; for they are our brethren— unbaptized, so far as that is concerned, but they are our brethren, the sons and the daughters of God, and our conduct, our dealings, contracts and business obligations with them should be most conscientious, honest and upright. If so, then they will see that we are conscientious and honest in our dealings with our father in heaven. They  have confidence in us, and will believe our professions. Then, I say, brethren and sisters, remember the Lord in these time's. Let us go forward and discharge the duties tha't devolve upon us. It is a splendid time now to pay our debts. 

It is a splendid time now, also, for the young people to enter into marriage. Young men and young women who are twenty years of age and upwards should see to it. Parents: 'should advise and counsel with them, that they should enter into marriage. The Latter-day Saints are a people that believe in the principle of marriage. They believe it is one of the most sacred commandments and requirementsi of the Lord that men and women should marry, and should multiply and replenish the earth, and fill it with the son's and daughters of God, training and leading them in the ways of righteousness by their example and by their instructions. Let me exhort you, my brethren and sisters, Bishops, Presidents, leading men, mothers in Israel see to it that your sons and daughters and those under your care are thoroughly taught in regard to this principle. We are not a people with one idea only; not alone the Word of Wisdom, not alone the law of tithing; but the law of marriage, the law of honesty, of virtue, of charity and of uprightness among the people and between each other. We believe in all these doctrines, and we believe that if a man would be saved and exalted in the celestial kingdom of God he must do all that it is possible for man to do. All the requirements of the Lord must be accomplished if we would attain to all that is to be obtained in the celestial kingdom of our Father. And every Latter-day Saint has started out for that— the obtaining of eternal life, and the greatest degree of glory that can be obtained in the celestial kingdom. Then to obtain this I say that the full and perfect law of the Father must be observed. We are to be rewarded fof our works. We must earn what we obtain. We have our sins upon us and we cannot atone for them ourselves; they have been atoned for by the Son of God. But we must repent of them, which we can do. Every man can rePent who will; for the spirit of repent, a gift of God, waits upon the children of men, as does the light of day, as does air, heat and cold, and all these conditions that attend closely upon the movements of mankind. So does th<» spirit of faith, of humility, of righteousness and virtue always attend upon the people. These two spirits are anxious that we should entertain them. Why will we not? R is according to the will of man that he turns against the truth and closes his heart against it. The truth may be here abundantly on every hand, and we can close our hearts against it. Let us not do this, my brethren a,nd sisters. It is only a little season that we live here. This probation of ours is very brief. I discover this when I find that in a little time I shall be an old man, ready to pass away; and my brethren the same. Now I have passed half a hundred, and when men get to that age they become old men, and xt te* that their race to the end is very rapid; they get old in a very short time; years and periods become brief. Now we want to be prepared, and remember that it is only a little span. Ninety years, such as President Woodruff ived", will be looked upon, when he passes beyond and looks back over his career of the past in mortality, as just a brief, brief span. It would seem as though we could almost hold our breath that long, to get over without doing anything that is wrong. Let us shun evil. Let us seek to know the mind and will of the Lord, obtain the Holy Ghost and enjoy it all the day long, and the Lord will lead us gently home. Oh! whaJt joy and happiness there is when we are serving God with full purpose of heart all the time, when sin ceases to afflict us, when temptations and trials are kept far from us. The path is straight, it is narrow, but it is easy and most pleasant. Let us try and walk it, and be faithful in the discharge of every duty. 

I want to testify to you in regard to this work. It is the work of our Father who dwells in heaven. It is the work established by Him, and not by man. When I hear the brethren say, as was testified to here by Brother John Henry Smith, that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, I say to myself, Why tne Christian world acknowledge that. But the question in the Christian world Is, where is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that is the power of God unto salvation? - I would testify to afll this 'great assembly here — brothers, sisters, friends, strangers — that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ which is the power of God unto salvation was restored in its ancient power and purity through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We possess it today. We have the Priesthood of God, which is His authority and power. It is in the . earth, and with all our imperfections, weaknesses and follies, yet hath the Lord maintained us, and He will do if we are fairly faithful. The more faithful we are the* more will we witness the power of God and the more readily will everything be accomplished that comes along which needs the attention, of the Lord and of His servants; the more readily and perfectly will every gap be filled, and you will find the Church of God will move so regularly and smoothly along that there will never be a ripple. We may have a rough road to travel over, as we have had in the past; we may have difficulties and trials, and the world may be measurably arrayed against us, and try to destroy us or do us harm, feeling all the time, no doubt, in their hearts that they are doing the greatest possible good and are anxious for our salvation; but I want to say to you that our Father who dwells in heaven — that Father whom Jesus taught His disciples to pray to, "Our Father, which art in heaven" — that same great Parent overlooks these affairs, and is guiding and controlling the destinies of this people, as He is the destinies of all other people; and with this people abides today that Gospel which is the power of God unto 1 salvation, and it will endure and accomplish what the Lord has designed it shall accomplish — the salvation of the children of men, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG. Instructions should embrace temporal as well as spiritual subjects— Some duties of officers of the Church and of parents — Avoid evil speaking and contention— Periodicity of times of plenty and scarcity. Husband the products of the earth. 

I would like your attention, my brethren and sisters, for the few moments  I may stand before you, for I believe it is difficult to make all of this vast congregation hear the words of the speaker. Some very good things have been said in testimony and otherwise which have been lost to a portion of the congregation; but I believe if we were quiet throughout this building that it would not be very difficult to hear an ordinary voice in every part of it. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly during the meetings that have been held here and have listened with attention to the remarks of my brethren. Great things have been said; great ideas have been advanced; great principles have been dwelt upon, for our brethren have spoken of those things that pertain to eternal life. I have felt to say in my heart: if we have not the Gospel, the Lord have mercy upon us, for our fellow-men will not have mercy, the world will not have mercy upon this people; but if, as we testify, we have the Gospel of the Son of God, who can prevail against us? Not the world, nor the adversary of our souls, if we live in harmony with the revelations of God that He has given unto us. I know that we have the Gospel of the Son of God. I do not know that I will be saved in His celestial kingdom, but I know that He has revealed to me all that is necessary, in the past and the present, and will reveal unto me, personally, and by the instructions of my brethren, all that is necessary to guide me in the future, that I may return back into His presence. I know this to be so; that it is the truth; and my desire for you is like the desire I have for myself, to again meet with you in the presence of our eoramoo Father in. His celestial kingdom. 

If people expect that we, who are here in these stands, are to confine ourselves to- the spiritual necessities of the kingdom of God, they are somewhat mistaken. We have to deal with that which is before us, the every day life which we live in the localities where our homes and interests are situated. We can come here and feel well for a short time, but if we lay aside the spirit we obtain at these conferences, and which we will find in our meetings at home if we attend them— if we lay that spirit aside, the course of life will seem too  for us. I never saw a time in my life, in my experience, when it was more necessary to be humble in prayer, in public, in private, and in family worship than at 'the present time. I never saw a time in the history of this Church, so far as my knowledge extends, wben we were more tempted to omit these commandments of the Lord; something intervenes, something prevents the husband and the wife from gathering their families, their children, in their household and observing this duty. O, I haven't time to pray this morning. The temptation is great to omit it. I . testify unto this congregation that if you will go to your homes throughout the length and breadth of the land and will humbly seek your Father in prayer and in supplication, in private and in public, as your duty may call and the spirit direct, that you will grow and increase and life will become a ten-fold pleasure to you. I testify to you that you will create a sentiment and a feeling in the hearts 'of your sons and daughters that you will marvel at, and rejoice to see the reformation that will take place in all the households of the Latter-day Saints who observe this simple duty. Try it. Let every man and every woman go from this Conference with a determination to observe these requirement's which God has made of them. We go into the Stakes and visit the people a great deal, and we find much that needs talking about. In some Stakes that I have visited in the past— I will say in the last year — I find occasionally that the President of the Stake has lost his grip to some extent, lost 'his influence, and that there are opposing forces arrayed against him among his brethren, and sisters-— that tie his hands, to a great extent. Why these people have a power. One of the brethren said that when he faced the people before him, who are in the image of our God and our Savior, it made him tremble. These people have a force and a power. If you are not in sympathy with me when I stand here to teach you, then I have no influence. You have this power in your wards, in your societies and in your associations. 

In visiting some of the wards I have had the pleasure of visiting the Relief Societies, and I asked one person in re to the visits of the Bishop to their meetings. "Why," the president said to me, "the Bishop never visits us; he never attends our meetings." Here is a neglect on the part of the Bishop in something that is very essential, and they should repent of this, and every meeting that is held, every interest of that ward, should be his especial care, and make it his duty to supervise it as far as need be, and be in perfect harmony with them and have them in perfect harmony with him in all their labors. I go again to the Sabbath school, and on one occasion I said to the presiding officer: "Who are those little boys on those back benches?" "Why," he said to me in a whisper, "those are our hoodlums. We work with them as best we can. You see that brother is a mild tempered man. He sits right there by those little fellows trying to keep them in order; and we use every effort and all the persuasion that we are capable of to get them to observe order, but I tell you, Brother Young, with all they get from here, their parents are indifferent as to what their children do. Parents neglect their children and they run hither and thither all the week long and when they come into the Sabbath school it is almost useless to try to keep them quiet and orderly for the little fellows have been neglected and disorderly the whole week." Fathers and mothers do not second the efforts of these excellent, disinterested teachers who go Sabbath after Sabbath to their Sunday schools, and seek to inform their children's minds that they may grow up useful men and women in the Church of Christ. There is a neglect in this department throughout the length and breadth of the land. Will the people of this Conference go from here and take up these subjects and say in their hearts: With the help of God we wtfll aid the Sabbath schools, for they cannot do it all? The president of a Sltake cannot do everything; the Bishop cannot do everything; but we are all neglectful in some things, and here are evils that must be corrected. 

I And in some localities that there is a disregard of the principle of tithing as well. Who is forced to pay tithing? Nobody; the principle upon which some of the brethren work with whom I am acquainted is, they say in their hearts, and they have said it to me: "I want to bind the Lord. He has promised; I want to fulfill my part of that promise that it may be verified to me." They are punctual and they strive to discharge that obligation. If we do it not, we have no promise, but we have a promise if we fulfill it, and though we may do it imperfectly but with a good and honest heart and if we are striving to do our duty in this respect, God ds bound to fulfill His part. He always does it, as was testified of here by the brethren who have spoken this morning. God always ful  fills His pant. Now, brethren, try it. If you come here and listen to the words of inspiration from our Presidency, from our brethren, the leading men, they fall upon, stony ground if you do not heed them. You must not do this. Go from here with the determination that with the help of God you will fulfill yoiur obligations. 

There is another thing that I find a great evil among some of the people, and that is moral cowardice. A brother offends, and they have not the moral courage to go to him and say: "You have offended me; let us 1 make it right, brother, so that we can live in harmony." Brethren, and sisters, make up your minds to take the Doctrine and Covenants and study what God says upon this subject; when you go to your homes., read it; and with the help of God keep enmity and jealousy out of your hearts. God has commanded it and He demands it at our handsi — that we have no such feelings. He demands it this day, because they are evils in our midst. Let me have the moral courage, and instead of saying as I have heard men. say: "I will get even with him," let me go to the man if I have got anything to say to him and say it in as mild a spirit as I can command under the inspiration of the Spirit, of God, and say to him: "Let us heal these differences." That brings peace, that brings love and joy, and the love of God will increase in the midst of the people. 

"We are too apt to make a man an offender for a word. If God was to make you and I an offender for a word, we never would rise above the existence  have here; we never could see anything better than we have here; but He would have you to never sit in judgment upon your fellowmen. Let God judge, whose right it is to judge. Who knows what his providences are? If I am injured, or tempted, or should have to meet sorrow or sickness or death, if I have lived according to the light that He has given me, am I not safe in every particular? O, yes. God will overrule; but don't let me sit in judgment upon my fellow man; let God judge; and let me say in my heart, However constrained my circumstances may be, I acknowledge the hand of God in everything. 

Now, beware of the leaven of the Gentiles, I suppose this is too plain talk for this time of year, under the circumstances. What do I mean by it? I mean by that that you have received a knowledge of the Holy One, and the leaven of the Gentiles is to leaven that knowledge that you have received from God Himself until it is entirely obscured. 

Now, there is a great harvest; the earth groans with her harvest. Looking backward need I cite you to the past few year's experience that we have had, need I say to you that the day was when your cattle was worth nothing? The man that owned the most cattle was among the poorest in Zion. Today we are beginning to talk of cattle kings. There was no demand for them; no demand for grain today; but a little while ago, there was no demand for property in Salt Lake and throughout the State. Bye and bye, men were aroused and went in a sense crazy. These men are not all dead, and they are liable to go crazy again. Plenty will follow a dearth, and dearth will follow plenty. We are thriving i'n every particular, in every manner, in wealth, material wealth that is useful, that builds us up, that feeds and clothes us, that gives us homes and habitations, beautiful orchards, gardens, farmsall that we desire. We are wonderfully blessed in material wealth here. Brethren do you not suppose that there will come a time when these, all these things will be changed? Why I know  such action will come. I do not know when, but mark it, whenever there Is a flush, ^t seems to me that the opposite follows. It is so in the rains that fall upon the earth; when we have deep snows in the mountains and plenty of water here, in a little time this plentiful supply is followed by a drougth. It seems to me that it comes in streaks. 

Well, now, this is so in our lives. God will temper these things to the good of His people. When the earth yields in abundance is the time to take care of it. When you have plenty of grain, plenty of wealth and the abundance of the earth is given to you, I say to you» go from this Conference and take care of it. Brother George Goddard said yesterday a thing that was written upon my mind and has been ever since I saw the fields north and South: Seeing the enormous quantity of the products of the earth, I felt in my heart that a scarcity may follow this plenty. I do pray that the Saints, above all men, will take care of the bounties that the Lord has given them. 

There is a great deal that comes to my mind in relation to this matter, but I haven't time to talk about it, and I do not think it would be profitable to do it here, but I can touch upon the points that I had in my mind and that come to me standing here, for the Latter-day Saints to be mindful of. 

One of the great things for us to do is to be mindful of our children, our sons and daughters. Now some of you who live in the country permit your daughters to come to this city to get work. They come here to work for a livelihood, to get themselves clothing and to help their families, and for other reasons. Our girls want to appear as well as anybody. They are certainly as good looking as any other class of young ladies I have met in my travels on the earth, and they want to show their good looks and be a little fashionable. We cannot help that; I do not know that they can. But there is a great difference between this and permitting them to be surrounded by circumstances through which they might be led astray. If it is necessary  them to go out to work, try to see that they get a situation where they at least will be respected, and return to you as they left you, with their virtue not destroyed, but willing to come into the family circle, and the family circle willing to receive them. 

I rejoice with you. God bless you, and let us one and all go from this Conference .with the determination that we will live as God would have us live, that we may attain unto the great blessing of eternal life. 

May God be with us in our homes and in our habitations throughout the length and breadth of the land, and strengthen us in the cause of truth, for I believe in my heart that the Latterday Saints are the only people that are striving intelligently to be saved in the celestial kingdom of our God. Amen. 

The Huntington choir sang the anthem : 

The song of the Redeemer. Benediction by Elder B. H. Roberts. 
