Afternoon
08 10 1898




PRESIDENT F. D. RICHARDS. 

Self-support— President Woodruff's last addresses — Organizing the First Presidency— The Prophet gave the keys to the Twelve— Hour of God's judgm ent — Wars are necessary. 

In comtemplating the duty immediately before me, I earnestly desire a lib. eral measure of the Holy Spirit to assist and strengthen me, to enlighten me, and to enable 'me to speak unto your edification. I have been very happy in listening to the instructions that have been given us. I realize that these occasions are designed for our great benefit, as spiritual feasts, to refresh us with the words of life, the spirit of faith, the consolation for our trials and temptations, and the enrichment in the spirit of the Gospel by which to further progress in the way of life. 

Much of the instruction that we have had pertains to matters of our selfsupport and our sustenance, which is not only timely and appropriate, but very important, because we need continually an enlargement, an extension of our opportunities; and there are many young people among us who do not sense the importance of assuming the responsibilities of life and settling down into a position in society, of taking to themselves the character of a head of a family, and of establishing themselves among the Saints of Zion. It should be realized by all people that the comforts of life which we have, whether we get them directly or indirectly, come out of the ground to us; not only our food, but our raiment, from our hats to our boots, and from our feathers to the finest wear we put on. Then even the gold and silver and all precious jewels come forth out of the earth. They who till the ground and bring forth out of it the necessaries, the blessings and the comforts ot life, by so much 'improve and increase the general happiness and good of all. There are no portions of the human family that are so independent and comfortable in the ways of life generally as those that are on a farm which they can attend to wisely and profitably, and obtain from it the necessaries of life. If we could realize and understand this more perfectly, and think of it more seriously and considerately, it would be better for a great many of our young, ambitious men and women, wno now are seeking for positions in life to escape labor and toil. While they are establishing associations and fixing up measures to cultivate their physical energies and develop their muscles, the general labor that is to be done in the cultivation of the soil, the producing of all that is necessary for living, both in the held for men and in the house and dairy for women, would furnish 'all the physical culture that they need; and this properly as and used would save considerable expense in that certain direction. 

Now it has got to that, as has been hinted to us., that if any. large enterprise is undertaken, whether it be a private or a public one, there is a seek, in'g directly for something or other in the shape of a bonus. If men come among us with capital to do us any good, to put up some machinery or anything of that kind, they first lay claim to some bonus. Whereas, in the beginning of this work, everybody was expected to take care of himself and do something to help build up the Church, the thing is getting very fast turned round the other way, and people now, if t'hey have been unfortunate in the "boom" or through their own carelessness, are expecting the Church to turn in and support them. We have got the thing headed around the wrong way in that respect. We ought to continue the plan and sentiment of sustaining ourselves and of having something to help build up the Church, as in the beginning. This sentiment, if continued and carried out, will grow and extend until our unoccupied lands will be occupied and cultivated, and these valleys will be filled up, and our settlements extend to Canada in the north, to Mexico in the south, and back to Missouri in the east. 

I have rejoiced in these instructions given us for our profit. I feel now like speaking to you some of my own personal reflections, in a different strain. The last time we heard our venerable and beloved President Woodruff speak to us here, how delightfully he did address us, as if he might not have been more than forty-five years of age! He gave us a good long talk— long enough for a common sermon, and it was interesting, instructive and emphatic. It would be good for those who did not hear it, to get and read it occasionally. His last teachings all seemed to be given with a view on his part that it might be possibly the last that he would say to us. While hearing him speak in that excellent, free and enlivening manner, I could not help but think, "Is it possible that this will be the last time we shall hear him?" Well, President Woodruff has departed from us in our  relation, and has gone to join the holy throng — the Prophet Joseph, the Patriarch Hyrum, and twelve otfifteen of the Apostles that have died and gone during his lifetime and ours. It is only a few years ago that President Snow and I were ordained down here in the Old Fort. We have lived to see the members of nearly a whole quorum depart hence, and we are left behind, though we are following them up as fast as time will move us on. 

Now, there are certain peculiar notions that people sometimes have. Once in a while there is one who thinks we were in a hurry to get the authorities of the Church filled up, almost before it was decent and proper in their estimation. I want to say a little about that. There is no standard of human invention, no precedent among mankind, that can determine how long or how short that period shall be. But the Lord has determined a rule for it. Back in the days when the Prophet Joseph was slain, and the Church was left without him here upon the earth, the whole people mourned — mourned as we have never known how to mourn since. I want to tell you Saints, that felt you mourned when President Young died, when President Taylor died, or now that President Woodruff has departed from us, it is no such mourning as was felt through all Nauvoo and among all the Saints when the Prophet and Patriarch were slain. It just seemed as if everything around us, even the animals, the trees and the habitations, were clothed in mourning. We felt his absence, because he was to us instead of God. He directed us in everything, taught us in all the great principles that pertain to our salvation and exaltation throughout all this mortal existence and clear into the eternities. Anybody that has the spirit of revelation, and who will read the last revelations that he gave us, cannot help but wonder and admire, and comprehend something of the great mind and capacity of soul that he had acquired during his short experience, in the Gospel, of twenty-four years here in the flesh. 

Now, when he w r as taken away, it was the first great and terrible experience in that line, and there was no rule left when the Church organization  be perfected. Let me cite you to a few facts in connection with this. When that event occurred, the Apostles were all away throughout the United States, on missions, except John Taylor and Willard Richards. They were in prison with the Prophet Joseph. President Taylor was shot nearly to pieces, so that he had like to have died, according to all human appearance. Willard just lost a drop of blood from one of his ears; a ball whistled so near that it broke his skin and let a drop of blood mingle with the others. The Prophet Brigham was in Boston, with Apostle Woodruff. It was a sad 'and sorrowful time. Immediately -the Prophet Joseph was slain, one man and anotlier, and another, who had been taught by him to comprehend some great principles of the Gospel, came to feel so important that one^ man said, since Joseph was dead there was no man living to whom he owed allegiance. He therefore, in the greatness of his self-importance, gathered up his family with a few others and went away to Texas. Lyman Wight was this man, whose cognomen among the Twelve was, "the wild ram of the mountain." By and by one of his sons returned to us.. Another man, Alpheus Cutler, in the greatness of his experience and self-sufficiency, took his family and some friends and went to a northern state, making a camp of his own, ready to build up a city, a people, a nation, and become a prophet. George Miller, one of the presiding Bishops, also started with a -few and went off among the Poncha Indians. Another one, James J. Strang, who thought he had the thing fixed so it had come to stay, went off with a few to Beaver Island, in Lake Michigan, and carried on his operations for a while, till by and by one of his followers sickened of him and assassinated him. This is the way these great men, who tho'ught they were somebody, have gone in the 'Strength of their own endowments, feeling themselves as great as Joseph the Prophet. How was it, when the Prophet Brigham came back to Nauvoo, that he realized that the powers of the Priesthood and the keys thereof had come down upon him? He went and stood in his place. Sidney Rigdon wanted to become a "guardian" to the Church, to guide and lead them till he should see Joseph again. And thus, one after another, these different influences wrought. About this time, too, to fill up the cup and make it run over and 'to accomplish the wickedness of the world, a mob got around and forced the Twelve, when 'they got back to Nauvoo, to enter into an agreement with them that 'they and the people would get up and leave the country. This they did. They made their arrangements, and, as quick as we could finish the Temple and get the blessings of the Lord upon us, the Saints started out into the wilderness to find a country as far from civilization as they could. 

The Prophet Joseph had a feeling or a premonition of what might be, and we find it on the record of his history that he felt forebodings that he might not stay to see that Temple completed. He took the Twelve aside — those who were faithful — and he gave them their endowments in 'a holy place, in a new building that he consecrated for that purpose. He placed upon them the keys, 'authority and powers which the Lord and the angels had conferred upon him. You recollect that John the Baptist came and ordained Joseph and Oliver to the Aaroruc Priesthood. Peter, James and John came and ordained him and Oliver unto the Melchisedek Priesthood — the holy Apostleship. In the Temple at Kirtland, Moses, Elias and Elijah appeared and conferred upon him the keys of the gathering of Israel, of the Gospel of Abraham, and of the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to their fathers. Joseph called the brethren aside and placed all these keys, powers and blessings, that he had received, upon them. You have heard President Woodruff testify of this, and of the great work and marvelous power thereof. Well, these things bestowed upon the brethren caused some men to become headstrong, and in view of what they knew they thought they could build up the Church unto God, build up the kingdom of God, and stand at the head of it themselves. 

While this was going on, the powers of the Priesthood rested down upon the Twelve Apostles, and President Young  took pains to have a majority of them within reach, where he could arrange for any decision that he found it necessary to make. He had a great vison, in which Joseph said to us through him, "Get the Holy Spirit, and keep it." That is u. great injunction that is upon us all. If we want to go where these men are, we must get the Holy Spirit and walk in the light of it. After he and the Pioneers had been out here and had found this place fori us to come to live in, and then went back to the Mississippi river, in Winter Quarters, the Spirit of the Lord, the revelation of the Lord, came upon him. It was about two years and a half, on that occasion, that the Church had been without a First Presidency, till the Lord made manifest to them, in Winter Quarters, about December, 1847, that the organization s'hould be completed. There being no good place for it, they picked out men and set them to work to build a tabernacle in Kanesville, for the conference. At that conference the First Presidency was accepted, and, according to the dictation of the revelation, they, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards, were upheld by the unanimous consent and vote and prayers of God's people. Thus the first great calamity to the Church was remedied, and the fulness of the Priesthood Was again restored. 

In 1849 the Presidency and the brethren got together down in the old fort here, and there was a series of conferences and councils held, where four of the brethren were ordained unto the Apostleship, to fill the vacancies made by those who had been promoted to the First Presidency, and of this number were Brothers Charles C. Rich, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow and myself. For ten years and a half I was the youngest member of the quorum, and when I look back it seems marvelous to me that I have lived to see, in about fifty years, nearly a whole quorum of Apostles pass away to the other world. They have gone to labor with the Prophet Joseph, and they cannot feel lonesome. I cannot help but think how happy President Woodruff must be in getting into their society, and rejoicing and glorifying God in the great work there  preparing for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

When it came to pass that President Brigham Young departed from us, then there was another period when the Presidency of the Church came upon the Twelve. During this period it devolved upon President John Taylor, the President of the Twelve Apostles, and this continued for a while. At that time it was so that a number of the brethren of the Twelve were but young men, not of long experience, and we had to have a little time to get acquainted with each other, and we had to labor to accomplish the things that were required. During this time some entertained ideas of one kind, some of another. It was thought that some should be brought to the Presidency who were not entitled to it, and we had to take a little time to learn and inquire into the mind of the Lord on these matters. By and by, when we had come to a proper state of feeling, to an entire unanimity, .and when the Lord saw fit, He made it manifest unto the Twelve that the First Presidency should again be organized. Whereupon President John Taylor was called to be President of the Church, and Apostles Geo. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith were called to be his counselors. 

Now, I want 'to say to you that the only rule there is about constructing the First Presidency is this: When the quorum of the Twelve Apostles are of one heart and of one mind, and they attain to that faith that the Lord will make manifest His will, then is the time when the Presidency are appointed. There is no other precedent established, only to obtain the fellowship, the union and the faith of the council to prevail with the Lord to make manifest these things unto them. 

So again, when President Taylor died, we were left in a similar condition, and the Twelve held the direction of affairs. By and by, when it came the proper time, when we felt the Spirit of the Lord burning in all our hearts, wnen the word of the Lord came to President Woodruff, then another Presidency was constructed. It was done by the same rule — all were agreed and united, and prevailed with the Lord to make manifest His will about it. 

My brethren and sisters, there are some truths greater than other truths. As the Lord said to Abraham, where you see one truth greater than another, then you may know there is another truth greater than that. The great truth that regulates us in all these matters is the truth of being united. The Lord has told us in the revelations that except 'we are one we are not His. That is a great, capital truth; and If you will carry it with you into your wards and into your Stakes, as also into your families, you will find a great, capital blessing with it everywhere. 

When President Woodruff was taken from us, how were we? Why, we had nobody that wanted to go off to California, to Canada, to Mexico, or to the Sandwich Islands even, to set up a church of his own; but we were all here — the two counselors that remained and the Twelve Apostles, fourteen in all. When we were thus together, I want to say to you that under those circumstances and a^ that time there were no opposing, contending influences. There was nobody wanted to go away and set up a kingdom. But we were united. And I want to testify that a great measure of this blessing of unity, fellowship and love has come down upon us, and through us to the people, by the untiring zeal, energy and devotion of President Lorenzo Snow. While he was President of the Twelve Apostles he labored diligently unto this end; and I have never seen a time, nor have you ever seen a time, in this dispensation, when there was a more cordial, solid unanimity in the Presidency and Apostles of the Church than there is to-day. 

When we, as the Apostles, accepted the responsibility to preside, President Cannon took his seat in the Council of the Twelve, where he occupied it before he left it as a counselor to President Woodruff. President Jos. F. Smith did the same. The * Twelve Apostles assumed the presidency of the Church, although it was but for a short time — from September 2nd to September 13th. On the latter day we were together, and in contemplating the interests of the Church, temporal and eternal, we remembered the words of President Woodruff while he was with us, that he did not think the Church should be long without its full organization, and it began to burn in our hearts. One after another felt as If a First Presidencyought to be organized, if the word of the Lord were so; and directly the word of the Lord was given to us that the time had come to organize, and so we organized. President Lorenzo iSnow and his counselors were presented, and ac-; cepted by the brethren in council, as the First Presidency of the Church. We were all united on it, our hearts were warm in it, the fire of. the Lord burned in every bosom, and we could not keep still for the joy we had in this thing. 

Now, that is the only rule there is in regard to filling or keeping open the vacancy of the First Presidency of the Church. It is when the brethren are united in the love and power of the Holy Priesthood. When the word of the Lord comes to us, 'it tells us what to do, when to do, and how to do. So that no one need feel that we have waited too short a time 'after President Woodruff's departure to make it both decent and proper to fill the vacancy. When the Lord speaks, then is the time! When His mind is made manifest, we should honor and accept it, and carry it out to the uttermost. I rejoice in that the Lord is so ready to make manifest to us; that we did not have to wait two years and a half, nor a year and a half, for Him to give it to us. 

President Woodruff was full of teaching concerning the last instructions of the Prophet Joseph to the Apostles, and the blessings he put upon them. Brother Woodruff was the last one of that distinguished Council of the Twelve which the Prophet Joseph administered to personally; not in the Temple (it was before the Temple was completed), but in a retired place, where only a very few knew of It. It was necessary that they should have this blessing, so that if Joseph should be taken away it might be instituted and carried on in the Temple, when the Temple was completed. Oh, blessed be the name of the Lord, for that he caused it to be brought about in this way! And blessed be His holy name, too, that he caused us to be roused up out of our homes and sent out into  mountains before that war of the Rebellion came upon us. Oh, how we hated to go! But how true the Lord made His word to come out when He said, "My people shall be willing in the day of my power." He knew how to make us willing, although it took mobs to come upon us and kill our brethren, the Prophets. 

Brethren, this great work is upon us. The Lord has given us some singular features connected with it. One of them is this: He has said by the mouth of the angel that the hour of His judgment is come. The 'Savior, in looking down into our time, as recorded in the 24th chap, of Matthew, told the brethren that in the last days not only should false Christs and false Prophets appear and try to lead away many, but He told them that in these times there should be wars and rumors of wars, and great distress among all nations; and so great should be the trouble and distress that it should be only a vexation to understand the report thereof Now then, what do we see? We have already lived to see wars in our day. They are a necessary concomitant to this latter-day work. They cannot be avoided. They are a necessary part of the latter-day program. Let me draw your minds a little to some of the circumstances, and see if it is not so. I look upon it as part of the great philosophy of the last days' dispensation, that the wars of our times are just aa necessary in the fulfilling of the word and the work of the Lord as are any others of His gracious promises made to us. It was necessary to have this liberal government that His Church might be established upon this land. He could not have done it in any ot the monarchies of the old world. Why was it that there was a dissatisfied element called non-conformists? It was so with them, between the reformers and the Catholics, that they could not stay and be comfortable, and they had to go off to Holland, to get a retreat where they could survive, worship God and entertain the faith they believed in. Directly, when Columbus had discovered this country and it came the proper time, these same nonconformists, afterwards called Puritans, came over to America as fast as tihey could — they who were not tied up to papacy nor to the Church of England, but who felt a desire for more liberty to worship God, came over here, and they became the thirteen little colonies away down on the Atlantic coast. What was the result of it? They had to have a war, declare their independence, and become a people to themselves before they could obtain that liberty to worship thait was required before the Lord sent His revelations among- them. War was actually necessary to bring- step by step the liberty the human family has. 

We get along a little further, and the Prophet Joseph was among us. The Saints were driven from New York state to Kirtland, from Kirtland to Missouri, and then from city to city. The first mission of the Twelve Apostles was to New England. A few people receive it. The leading men of the Church— the Prophet Joseph, and Hyrum, Brigham and Heber — were from the Eastern states. Buit how was it in the South? When we sent our Elders into the Southern States they persecuted them. Elders Wilford Woodruff David W. Patten and Jedediah M. Grant succeeded in getting a few from those states; among the rest, Brother A. O. Smoot, late president of the Utah Stake. But no considerable work was ever done in the 'Southern States until after the war of the rebellion. That came and destroyed about a million souls, and that destruction produced liberty to the sl'aves. After that the Gospel could go, and it is having free course until there are many scores of our Elders there, and in some of these states our people have meeting houses, branches, societies and schools. The work is being established and taking root among the people. You see,' the war was necessary to bring that about. Of course, we never could have got into the Southern States if something had not happened to break off the bonds of the African, so that slavery might be abolished. 

So we may look all along the experience of the Latter-day Saints. Let me take you across into the old country. When I was over there in 1895,presiding in Europe, the work was going on in Great Britain, Scandinavia and Switzerland. A voice came over from Dres and wanted to know what was this doctrine they heard of. We adopted measures to send it over to them. How did we do it? Here is Brother Maeser, known to all Israel, the first fruits, I may say, of the German confederacy. We went over there and in the dead hour of the night baptized eight souls in the river Elbe. But they could not stay a great while before they were driven away. Brother 'Maeser, after a little, was put in charge of a policeman, who took him across the province and delivered him to another, and he was taken from one place to another until he came over to me at Liverpool. At those times we could do very little, almost nothing. Brothers Orson Spencer and Jacob Houtz were appointed to go there and see if they could start a mission. They went, and on every application to preach in the confederacy they were given notice that they had so many hours to get out; so they had to leave. Again, Apostle Orson Pratt and Brother William W. Riter were sent over to Austria, to see if perhaps over there some better opportunity might be found; but they labored without being able to establish a church. The work did not seem to take hold, and they came back without accomplishing a great deal in the way of establishing a church in that country. But latterly what has been the fact? Why, when that war arose between France and Germany, over Alsace and Lorraine, it had the effect of loosening up the bonds. Quietly and gradually our brethren are now preaching the Gospel among that people, and the work of God is progressing, though sometimes the brethren are banished. Only a little while ago President Snow's son was banished from, a province. When they were banished they did as the Savior said — being driven from one place they fled to another. 

Thus the work of the Lord is going on. These wars have to occur to loosen up the bonds of the governments that are so tight and strong against religious liberty. I set it down as a fixed principle that these wars are going to be as necessary to the progress of liberty in this dispensation as are the labors of our Elders. We have got to accept these things. And if our sons have to go away in the wars, we must arm 'them with the power of God, with the power of faith; our prayers^ must go after them; and by and by these sons will rise up to be mighty men of Zion; when that time comes that man will say, "Let us not go up against Zion, for the inhabitants thereof are terrible." They will go to other places, where the prey is easier to acquire. . So then we need not be worried. Mothers, do not be troubled about your sons who are away in the war. The Lord's eyes are over them; the holy anointing is upon them. Most of them, perhaps all, have the Priesthood, and they will call upon the Lord, and He will deliver them, make them mighty, give them distinction, and they will come as the sons of Brother Brigham have come — to places of prominence, and by and by 'they may have to lead the armies of Israel. These things are a part of the business. 

"We want no cowards in our band, Who will our colors fly; 

We call for valiant-hearted men, Who're not afraid to die. 

They that are not afraid to die are the ones 'that are likeliest to live. The Lord has said, "'He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it," even life everlasting - . 

I rejoice in the great work of the Lord. I know it is true. I found that out a long time ago. I only wish I could do more to further it and to help promote the cause. I strive to live my religion, and I feel thankful for the degree of confidence and love which you show to me from time to time, as well as to all of my brethren. I pray you, my dear brethren and sisters, be you strengthened in this Conference by all the counsels you get. Let every man who is the head of a family realize that he wants to labor for the benefit ol every soul the Lord has given him to come forth out of his loins, that he may be able to have by and by a righteous seed, a numerous seed in the earth, and partakers of those blessings that were sealed upon the fathers anciently, and have since been sealed upon us, their children. I pray the Lord to bless you, to bless us all, with health of body, strength of mind, and a spirit to prefer. Zion and her interests above all things. In ancient times, when 

Zion's interests were concentrated on the hill of Jerusalem, David said: 

"If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning. 

"If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy." 

Let us then make it our study to love Zion above all things, and seek to live to bring her interests to pass. I pray the Lord to bless all the interests ol Zion, and help us to live to honor Him, to love to do His will as long as He likes to have us tarry in the flesh, that when we go it may be well with us, as we believe it to be well with these our brethren who have gone before us. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Necessity for Faith and Courage — Example of Nephi — Church officers should be exemplars— The Church perpetuated— Prophecies fulfilled— Personal testimonies. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the privilege once more of assembling with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference, and I earnestly desire that the time I may occupy this afternoon may be for our mutual benefit; that the Lord will inspire my inind, that I may be prompted to say something that will strengthen our faith and renew our determination to press forward valiantly in the discharge of the duties and the obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never had any other desire in standing before the Latter-day Saints than that I might be able to say something for their good and for my own good, and that would be calculated to increase that determination that ought to animate each and every Latter-day Saint, to "seek first the kingdom of God." 

I realize that we all have our weaknesses, and that we do and say many things that are not pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father; but if we desire above all other things upon this earth to know the mind and will of God, and if we desire the strength of character, after we shall learn the  and will of our Heavenly Father, to carry it out in our lives, I do know that God will help us, and that as we grow in years and in knowledge and in understanding that we will grow also in the power and the ability to accomplish His will. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the teachings of this conference. When President Cannon was preaching of the faith needed by the Latter-day Saints, there came to my mind that scripture which was quoted here yesterday by Brother Cowley, from the Prophet Nephi, that faithful man, and I felt in my heart that when it came my time to speak to the Latter-day Saints, I should quote that passage to them, and urge upon them to gain the same faith that Nephi of old had; and I rejoice in the testimony that was borne here by Brother Cowley when he quoted that passage to us in our meeting. 

I feel that there is an abundance of room for the Latter-day Saints to cultivate that faith. I feel that we should learn never to become discouraged. I endorse with all my heart the remarks of Brother Joseph F. Smith, that we should never become discouraged, but that we should always be full of faith, full of determination to labor for the onward advancement of the kingdom of God upon the earth. I rejoice myself that the Lord has blessed me with a hopeful disposition; rejoice in the fact that it requires a great deal to discourage me in any of the things nf this life. In the battle of life I am not easily discouraged. I believe in the saying: "Tf there is ever a time for a man to be ambitious, it is not when ambition is easy, but when it is hard." Then is the time for us to labor, and m the same sentence from which I am quoting are these words: "Fight in the dark; if you are down, die hard and you will not die at all." 

I believe there are many Latter-day Saints who in sickness give up; they surrender to the power of the adversary; and I believe that there are many sleeping in their graves who might have lived to labor for the onward advancement of God's kingdom,  they had been determined to live, determined that they would not die, unless in the providence of God they had finished their labor here on the earth. I believe there is something in the will power that God has given to us. I believe when we determine within our hearts that by and with the blessings of God our Heavenly Father we will accomplish a certain labor, God gives the ability to accomplish that labor; but when we lay down, when we become discouraged, when we look at the top of the mountain and say it is impossible to climb to the summit, while we never make an effort it will never be accomplished. 

Nephi said to his father that he would go and do the things which the Lord commanded, and when his brethren failed to get the plates and they came back discouraged, ' he was not discouraged, but said unto his brethren: "Let us go up again unto Jerusalem; let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of God, for the Lord is mightier than' all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea or even his tens of thousands." And after they had tried again and were discouraged, he tried once more. He said to his brethren: "As the Lord lives and as we live we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished that which the Lord has commanded us." Now we as Latter-day Saints should remember that Nephi succeeded; we should remember that in the face of obstacles he secured the plates containing the precious words of God; that he secured the record which was beyond price; that was invaluable to his desceendants, and without which it would have been difficult for many of them to have found the straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal. 

if there is one character more than another in the Book of Mormon that I have admired and whose example I have felt to emulate, that character has been Nephi of old; never discouraged, never disheartened, always ready, always determined to labor to the best of his ability for the accomplishment of the purposes of God. I say to the Latter-day Saints that we should have an ideal in life; that we should have an objcet we wish to reach, and that object should be that to the full extent of our ability, to the full extent of the power that God has given us, physical, intellectual, and spiritual, we will accomplish His purposes here on the earth. We should have an ambition that no man shall do more for the onward advancement of God's kingdom than we. As laborers in the different Stakes of Zion, standing as presidents of Stakes or as counselors to a president of a Stake, no man should allow any other member of that Stake to be a more honest tithe payer than he is. I say no man should preside over a Stake unless he is absolutely honest with God in paying his tithing. Why? . Because he cannot conscientiously urge upon other people to be strictly honest. If we have been careless in this particular in the past, let us be careless no more. I say no man presiding over a Stake of Zion or over a ward should fail to pay his tithes, or should fail to observe the Word of Wisdom. Why? Because he is unable to stand up before a body of people and teach them by the demonstration of the spirit of God that they ought to obey these commandments from the Lord. This is our duty — to place ourselves in a position whereby when we stand up to teach the people, we can teach them by the inspiration of the spirit of God as it shall descend upon us; but if we are not observing the commandments of God, we can not with power, and with force, and with strength urge upon other people that they obey the commandments that we ourselves are failing to obey. 

We have heard here today from the lips of the President of the Quorum of the Apostles, that the First Presidency of the Church at the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith could not be organized. Why? Because men holding the Apostleship were not true to their covenants to God. That was why they were led away from that straight and narrow path. They failed to follow their file leader who stood at the head of the quorum of the Apostles. 

They failed to follow that man upon whom the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fell. 

There are those that know not God. There are those that think the Latterday Saints are a mistaken people, that they are deluded and that they have no faith in the supernatural; but I say here today that I know the mantle of Joseph Smith fell upon the Prophet Brigham Young. I know it, and I am willing to meet the testimony that I bear. How do I know it? I know it because of my mother, a more honest woman than whom never lived, a more devoted Latter-day Saint can not be found; because she and scores of others have told me that they saw the Prophet Brigham Young when he spoke with the voice of Joseph Smith; when he looked like the prophet Joseph; and I know that these people are honest; and in addition to this I know by the inspiration of God to me that Brigham Young was a Prophet of God. I know that those that lost the spirit of God, that failed to follow the Prophet Brigham Young, have come to naught. There are none who were led away from the Church but those who failed, to follow their file leader. Brigham Young was the only file leader that amounted to anything; and the Church of God under the leadership of God, using the Prophet Brigham Young as an instrument in His hands, has grown and increased and spread abroad in the land, and has filled these mountains. We are here today what the Prophet Joseph said we should be, "a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." I will read to you the exact language of that prophecy uttered by Joseph Smith with reference to the Latter-day Saints coming to these mountains. "I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction, and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains; many would apostatize; others would be put to death by our persecutors, or lose their lives in consequence of exposure and disease, but more would live to go and assist in making settlements and building cities and see the Saints become a  people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." Now I have read this in your hearing, and I desire particularly to call the attention of all Israel to this prophecy, and to the fact that it has been fulfilled. I have done this recently in several of the Stakes of Zion. I have done it because there is a question, and an active labor now being" carried out among the Latterday Saints by what is known as the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but as Brother Richards, I think it was, said, there is no such .thing, as the Church was never disorganized. But I desire to call your attention to this one prophecy. The Prophet of God proclaimed that the Saints should be driven to the Rocky Mountains; that they should become in the Rocky Mountains a great and mighty, people, and we are the Saints and the "Josephites" are not in it. So, if the prophecy was uttered by a Prophet of God, and if it has been fulfilled, and if we are the Sainlts, then the Josephites will have to reject the chief corner stone upon which their religion rests, which is that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. 

Now there is another thing- — the Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed that the Saints should be driven from city to city, from county to county, from state to state, and finally driven out of the confines of the United States, all of which was fulfilled. What else? He said the time would come when not only a city, when not only a county, when not only a state, would array themselves against this handful of people called Mormons, but it should come to pass that the whole United States should array themselves against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Was this prophecy fulfilled? Yes, to the very letter. Driven here from our homes in the states to Mexican soil, the United States sent its army against us, not a state militia, but the army of the United States of America against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but not against the Josephites. Please remember that. This remarkable prophecy must fall to the ground if the 

Josephites are in it to the least bit of a small particle of a degree. But as if to doubly emphasize the words of the Prophet Joseph, the United States government confiscated all of the property, both real and personal, belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. They finally discovered their mistake and gave it back to us, for which we are truly grateful, but we would like them to give back the expense that it cost to manage it while they had it. I have picked up a newspaper and read in bold headlines, "The United States of America versus the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and I have laid down the paper and said, "Thanks be to God that the United States of America has put upon the prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith the stamp of divinity." And I say once more, thanks be to the United States that they have put the quietus on the claims of the Josephite church, because the United States have never arrayed themselves against the Josephites. The Prophet Joseph told us that our name should be cast out for evil all over the world. Why, the Josephites are beloved; nobody casts their name out as evil. Another prophecy that was handled very nicely in the Improvement Era, and to which I am really indebted for the idea coming into my head: The assistant editor took up the question of an interview with the Prophet Joseph by the late Stephen A. Douglass, When this Stephen A. Douglass was an obscure attorney he met with the Prophet Joseph and they conversed about the affairs of the offices of the government, and in that interview Joseph told this obscure attorney, "The day will come, Mr. Douglass, when you will aspire to be President of the United States, and I say to you, if you shall ever raise your hand against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you shall be defeated in your ambition, and you shall never reach the presidential, chair." Years rolled on, and this obscure man became noted in Illinois; he became a member of the legislature, he entered the halls of Congress; and he finally aspired to the presidential chair; and thinking that he could gain some slight political advantage by opposing the Latter-day Saints, he did it. The "Deseret Evening News" then took up his opposition, quoted to him what the Prophet of God said — that he should be defeated, told him that he had sealed his own doom. He was defeated. One more nail, my friends, in the coffin of our Josephite friends; because it was not the Josephites that Stephen A. Douglass raised his voice against, but it was the Church of Christ that Joseph Smith, as the instrument in the hands of God, had established upon the earth, and the keys which he had bestowed upon the ApOstles. In opposing that work, Stephen A. Douglass sealed his doom when he aspired to the presidential chair. 

These things should appeal to the minds of all young men and young ladies of Israel. We should realize that we have the Church of Christ. We should realize that the power of the Priesthood of God rests upon the men that lead this Church. Why, you take men that come from all over the world, and they are surprised at the great mind, as they term it, that Brigham Young possessed, at the wonderful statesman he was. I recognize the great mind of Brigham Young; I recognize the great man that he was, but I say to you that it was God speaking through and directing Brigham Young that made him the great man that he was. The servants of God are the most humble men that I have ever been associated with in my life. They take no credit to themselves; they realize that they are dependent upon God alone, and that without inspiration of His spirit they are as naught. They not only realize, but they know, that God lives and that He directs them. . Do I know that Lorenzo Snow is a Prophet of God? Yes, I do. Do I know that Wilford Woodruff was a Prophet of God? Yes, I do. Do I know that John Taylor and Brigham Young were Prophets of God? Yes, I do. I know it as well as I know when I take hold of the poles of an electric battery, and they turn on the current, that I have been shocked. Do I khow  the gifts and graces of the Gospei abound among the Latter-day Saints? I do. Do I stand here today a living monument, a living witness, that God has raised me from a bed of affliction, where I was given up and told that I had to die? Yes, I do. Do I know that God gave me the witness of the Holy Spirit that I should live and not die? Yes, I do. I say to the Latterday Saints that I know by the revelations of the spirit of God to me that He lives, that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; and I pray God that we may all so live that this knowledge may be our guiding star, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

Promises of God— Restoration of the PriesthoodSaints a pure people- Consistency of prayerSaints must be just— Confidence in the President. 

I doubt very much if it is possible for us to appreciate the blessings that we enjoy as a people. It may be that those who have been gathered from the nations of the earth appreciate the Gospel, appreciate the light and truth that is vouchsafed unto us, individually, who serve God and keep His commandments. I know that my soul is filled with thanksgiving to Almighty God for the privilege I have of being a member of the Church of Christ. Why it should be so persistently called the "Mormon Church" is a curiosity. The Lord has given unto us a promise that is verysweet to us, and that is, that if we will love Him and keep His commandments we shall prosper in the land. He has also given unto us the hope of a glorious resurrection. We do not doubt the resurrection; we do not doubt the ability of God to raise us from the dead, for He promised the house of Israel, through Ezekiel, that He would bring them out of. their graves, ana put them in the lands of their possessions, and that they should kncnw that He wa» God. 

Let me refer you to the revelation that was given 'concerning the using of wine for the Sacrament. You will find it in the 27th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which says: 

3. Wherefore a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine, neither strong drink of your enemies : 

4. Wherefore, you shall partake of none, except it is made new among you; yea, in my Father's kingdom which shall be built upon the earth. 

5. Behold, this is wisdom in me; wherefore marvel not, for the hour cometh that I will drink of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth, and with Moroni, whom I have sent among you to reveal the Book of Mormon containing the fulness of my everlasting Gosipel", to whom I have committed the keys of the record of the stick of Ephraim: 

6. And also with Ellas, to whom I have committed the keys of bringing to pass the restoration of all' things spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since the world began, concerning the last days: 

7. And also John, the son of Zacharias, which Zacharias he (Elias) visited and gave promise that he should have a son and his name should be John, and he should be filled with the spirit of Elias; 

8. Which John I have sent unto you my servants Joseph 'Smith Jr., and Oliver Cowdery, to ordain you unto this Priesthood, which you have received that you might be called and ordained even as Aaron: 

9. And also Elijah unto whom I have committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse: 

10. And also with Joseph and Jacob and Isaac, and Abraham, your fathers', by whom the promises remain; 

11. And also with Michael, or Adam, the father of all, the prince of all, the ancient of days. 

12. And also with Pater, and James, and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be Apostles and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry, and of the same things which I revealed unto them: 

13. Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the Oospel for the last times,  for the fulness of times in the which I will gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven and which are on earth: 

14. And also with all those whom my Father hath given me ouit of the world: 

15. Wherefore, lift up your hearts and rejoice, and gird up your loins, and take upon you my whole armor, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all ye may be able to stand. 

16. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the Gospel of peace which I have sent mine angels to commit unto you. 

17. Taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; 

18. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of my spirit which I will pour out upon you, and my word which I reveal unto you and be agreed as touching all things whatsoever ye ask of me, and be faithful until I come, and ye shall be caught up, that where I am ye shall be also. Amen. 

We have the testimony of the Lord as to His having established HisChurch upon earth, having restored to the earth the Melchisedek Priesthood and Apostleship, and given unto man poweron the earth to preach His Gospel and to administer in the ordinances of His house, and we are His witnesses. I can also bear witness to the truth of the expression of President Joseph F. Smith this morning with regard to men, besides the general authorities, being anxious concerning this work. I know that men are anxious concerning this work, those that are living their religion, living the principles of righteousness. I know the Latter-day Saints are not guilty of whoredoms and abominations, and fornications and adultery; it would be impossible for the Latter-day Saints to be guilty of anything of the \ kind, for a Saint is a man who is sanctified, who has accepted the principles of redemption, whom God has redeemed from death. A Saint is a man or a woman that worships the living and true God in the name of Jesus Christ, who acknowledges His hand in all things, who has repented of sins and gone forth into the waters of baptism and been immersed in the likeness of the burial of Christ and His resurrection, and who has received the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ, and who has received the gift of the Holy Ghost, and who has the fellowship of the Holy Ghost. Well, now it would be impossible for them to be adulterers, fornicators— just impossible. I want you to distinctly understand that the kingdom of God is like a man that went and sowed wheat and his enemy came and sowed tares, >and we have the wheat and tares growing up with the wheat, and the wheat gets the character of the tares; but it is not so; it is the pure in heart that love God; it is the pure in heart that love the principles of the Gospel; it is the pure in heart that are faithful in the testimony of Jesus, and in the saying and doing of His will and the keeping of His commandments; they love righteousness and hate iniquity; and every man that hath the hope of a glorious resurrection, that hath the hope of the Lord Jesus Christ; that hath the hope of His kingdom to come, purifieth himself, even as God is pure; and they seek to become perfect; they strive to be honest and upright and full of integrity; they strive to keep the commandments of God for their own dear sakes in order that they may please God . If they do not do that, what (worth are they? The ancient prophets were anxious that they should get this testimony that they pleased God. My anxiety is common with the Latter-day Saints; we are in our humble way striving to serve God and keep His commandments, l came out of the world for this, That is why, perchance, I appreciate it so much, to think that my Father should draw me into His fold; that He should give me the privilege of the schooling and experience that I have had since the year 1852. i "We had a powerful testimony at the organization of the Presidency. We did not meet together with any such f eeling or idea in our hearts, that the Presidency should then be organized, but our Father in heaven by the power of His Spirit demonstrated unto us individually that it was His will; we knew it; we had the testimony. When I embraced this Gospel President 

Young was presiding, and I have had my experience under Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodrvff, and Lorenzo Snow. I know that tnese men are men of God. I know that they were pure in heart, and that they are pure in heart. I know that their disposition is the love of righteousness. They have endeavored, like the rest of us, to glorify God in their good works, and to seek to establish His righteousness. That is what we are striving in our humble way to do. 

I know that the Lord hears and answers prayers. I know the infidels ridicule the idea of prayer— the idea of asking a blessing on the food. I think it is very consistent for the man that reverences God and acknowledges His hano: in all things, who realizes that the Lord provides, and who understands this in his experience, to say: "Our Father, which art in heaven we thank Thee for this food, and pray Thee to bless it to the healing and nourishing of our bodies, and let Thy Spirit be in our hearts, and guide and direct us as Thy children, in the name of Jesus. Amen." What is there curious about that? Is it curious that a man should have that faith and confidence in God? And then knowing his own weaknesses and his own inability, that he should plead before the Lord in the name of Jesus Christ for the fellowship of His Spirit, for His protecting care, for His divine light, and more, for the testimony that we know that God lives, and that we know that Jesus is the Christ; that He has established His Churcn on the earth; that we have been the happy recipients ' of its blessings? "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, for herein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith." There is no happiness in this world that is superior to the happiness of the man or woman that loves God and keeps His commandments. 

And again, we ought to be just; we want to have a part in the resurrection of the just. There are two resurrections, the resurrection of the just and the resurrection of the unjust, and individually we will have a part in one of these resurrections. Now we want to be just for our own sakes; we want  be honest, to be upright and to pay our just debts, so that we may owe no man anything. We want to be just in all of our actions to all men and to treat all men right whether they see as we do or not — it does not make any difference, they are our brethren. There was a time when we did not see, nor understand, and we don't know what may be in the future for them. Paul was a persecutor of the Saints, and the Lord Jesus Christ called unto Him, "Why persecutest thou me?" Persecuting the Lord Jeans? Why, yes, when they persecute the Latter-day Saints they persecute the Lord Jesus, for we are His. We do not represent ourselves, we represent Him. We plead with the people in Christ's stead to bo fully reconciled to God. These are our pleadings all the time. 

I am thankful for the privilege of bearing my testimony at this Conference; and when we say I know that this work is of the Lord, we mean, I know that God has established His Church upon the earth with Apostles, and Prophets, and Evangelists, and Teachers, and Pastors, and for the work of the ministry and for the edifying of the body of Christ. I know it. I knew it a good many years ago, and I have a living testimony of this lact, and so have you, so have you my beloved brethren and sisters. I walked down with a young man on the sidewalk, and in conversing with him coming to meeting, his testimony and conversation carried me back to the time when I was of his age— just as devoted as I knew how to be; fond of being in the Sunday school; fond of being in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement assoailaitiioins, and I'm the quorums of 'the Priesthood; und of being faithful in tithes and offerings, and in sustaining the Priesthood; striving to iteep clean from the blood and sins of this generation; and this reminded me of the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith. He remembers that when he held no authority in this Church he  just as devoted to the cause of truth as he knew how to be. It seems that it is natural for some men to serve God and keep His commandments; they have that disposition, and they love righteousness. I say that the Latter-day Saints are a righteous people. This is my testimony. I am laboring with them all the time and have been for a number of years, as I have said, and for most of the time have been more or less engaged in the ministry. I feel thankful to God my eternal Father beyond expression for the testimony that He has given to me, for the schooling and experience vouchsafed unto me, and I pray God that His blessings may be continued unto those holding His authority. 

I have all the confidence in the world in President Lorenzo Snow. Why? Simply because for a number of years I have been under his schooling in connection with my brethren of the Twelve. We know his worth; we know that it has been a great benefit and blessing unto us; we know it in our experience, and our hearts go out to him with all the affection possible, for "we know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren;" we do, and we sustain them by our faith and prayers because we love them. 

My beloved fellow-laborers, God bless you, and give us faith and power that we may be true in our integrity, that we may never flinch, that we may be enabled to remain and endure to the end, that when we have flniished our probation on earth, we may enter into that glorious rest that is promised unto all those that love God and keep His commandments, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Come, come, ye Saints, nor toll nor labor fear. 

Benediction by Elder Joseph E. Taylor. 
