20
Morning
07 04 1912
Elder Charles A. Callis. 
3
71-73

None

None

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I shall be very grateful unto you if you will give me an interest in your faith and prayers. I desire, in my remarks, to be in harmony with the spirit that has characterized and dictated the remarks of the brethren who have preceded me. I feel in my heart that we should be a thankful people. One great writer said, "Oh, Lord, that lends me life, lend me a heart replete with thankfulness." The Apostle Paul, speaking to the Corinthian Saints said, "For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that we through His poverty might be rich." The same great truth is expressed in the Book of Mormon, wherein it is said that the Creator suffered Himself to become subject unto men in the flesh, and died for all men, so that men might become subject unto Him. This is the Lord's way of doing these things. Consider the history of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, the history of Nephi of old, the history of Joseph Smith the prophet of God — the lives, the experiences through which these men passed, demonstrate the truth of Paul's declaration that through much tribulation we enter into the Kingdom of God. The leaders of this Church have been persecuted; they have been vilified; the Church itself has been traduced; its doctrines have been misrepresented; it has passed through much tribulation. But it is stronger today than it was yesterday. It will be stronger tomorrow than it is today. It will continue to grow in power, in strength, and in glory until all mankind shall be subject, not unto man, but unto the glory, the majesty, and the righteousness of God. We do not seek earthly dominion, but we do seek, we do hunger, we do yearn, for the souls of men, that they might be saved through Jesus Christ, and find that freedom, that liberty, that blessing, that comes through obedience to the commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ.  
  
The preaching of the Gospel, as remarked by Brother Whitney, yesterday, is done in the spirit of testimony. I know that the sectarian world has sneered at what they were pleased to call our "uneducated ministry;" but I do not read in the Scripture, or in the Word of God that has been revealed to us in this day, that men are to be converted purely and solely by eloquence; but I understand that men are to be brought to God, as Zechariah said, "Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord." The Gospel, which is to be preached by testimony, should be attended, Jesus said, by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and when men speak under this power their words go to the hearts of the children of men; and thus are men brought unto God. There is a great movement in the world today called "The men and religion forward movement." Men are beginning to realize that the pastors of the churches are unequal to the occasion of converting the people, and they are seeking to enlist the men, the laymen of the churches, in carrying the Gospel to the world. In this they are but following the example this Church has set. For, be it known to all men, that this Church does not follow; it leads. It is the Church of Christ; it is the ensample, the standard, and it is bringing men into the path marked by our Lord. It is showing the correct manner, the most effective manner of preaching the Gospel. Take our young men that go into the world. They hold the Holy Priesthood. They learn to do by doing. They have an interest in this work. They believe in God; they are ministers of Jesus Christ; and, armed with this power, they go forth and are interested in the work; and they accomplish a marvelous work and a wonder, by the blessings of Almighty God.  
  
Oh, my brethren and sisters, look upon the condition of the world with respect to religious beliefs. What a splendid testimony it affords that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God. Look at the doctrines that are rapidly passing away. Joseph Smith declared that he would break down superstition — not by an army, not by might, but by preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Great men have risen who have posed as infidels, and they have sought to break down Christianity, without giving anything as good in its place. But Joseph Smith did not do this; he sought to break down superstition, and succeeded by giving to men, in place of their erroneous beliefs, the pure Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and the superstition which has tyrannized over men — the false doctrine that there is no hope beyond the grave, the false doctrine that infants are consigned to eternal punishment because they are not baptized — I say such superstition is passing away from the minds of men; and it is due to the Gospel revealed by the Almighty to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Doctrines to which the world has been dead for ages have come to light, through the preaching of this Gospel, and men are accepting them. Where did Joseph Smith get his power? From God, and God alone. He came with a message from God upon his lips, and the grandeur of this work, its glory, its increasing power proclaim with a voice that is being heard by all mankind that the martyr, Joseph Smith, because of the greatness of this work, is mightier in death than he was in life. For the work is greater than men and will continue to grow and prosper. The poet said:  
  
"The dead have been awakened — Shall I sleep?  
  
The world's at war with tyrants — Shall I crouch?  
 
The harvest's ripe; and I pause to reap; I slumber not. A thorn is in my couch.  
  
Each day a trumpet soundeth in my ear,  
  
Its echo in my heart." 
 
 Upon the tablets of the hearts of the Latter-day Saints may there be written the glorious declaration of the Lord Jesus — "I must be about my Father's business," is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
