23
Overflow
07 04 1912
Elder John L. Herrick. 
53
76-78

None

None


(President of Western States Mission.) 

I heard a lady say as I came into this building, in answer to a question, "Were you not able to get a seat?" "O yes, I had a good seat, but I am coming over here to hear a speaker that I know." I do not know whom she referred to, though I do not think it was myself, for I do not know the lady; but I trust that we all came here today with the full purpose of heart of hearing the word of the Lord regardless through whom it comes. Much has been said, during this conference, tending to remind us of the obligations that we owe to the Church, that we owe to ourselves and to our neighbors. I would like to read a few verses of a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith regarding this thought, from section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants:  
  
"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the head of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion and of her stakes which are organized, and their children shall be baptized for the the remission of their sins when eight years old and receive the laying on of hands; and they shall also teach their children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also remember their labors, inasmuch as they are called to labor, in all faithfulness, for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord."  
  
There are three kinds of responsibility: first, parental, then collective, and then individual. This revelation from God teaches, commands in fact, that parents should have a regard for the careful teaching and training of their children. This training and this work, the influence of it, should commence even before the birth of the child, in order to have the most beneficial effect. We all know that it is a law that cannot be refuted, that if a child is properly taught in its youth when it becomes old it will not go astray. It is true that we all know of some individual cases where, perhaps, children have had the best of training, and yet have fallen away from the truth; but if we shall heed this commandment to Israel, we will rid ourselves as parents of the responsibility that God places upon us in bringing children into the world, a responsibility that cannot be evaded. And then, too, it should extend not only to our children, to our family or families, but to our neighbors, for we do owe something to them. The example that we give not only to our nearest neighbor but to him who is afar off, if he chances to be here, stands for good or evil for this great Church. As our influence and our acts, if they be righteous, redound to the credit and to the glory of our Church, so do those things which are not pleasing in the sight of God, which are wrong, cast discredit and dishonor upon our Church.  
  
The individual responsibility comes after the child is accountable, and only then, and we should endeavor to teach them the principles that have been made known by revelation, by word of mouth, to Israel, by the leaders of this Church in this conference, that they should keep inviolate the instructions that are given from time to time, be pure and chaste, be honorable and honest and fair in all things. In this connection, we should give careful thought, it seems to me, to a regard for doing whatever we are called upon to do. "The inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, [and we are certainly all appointed] in all faithfulness," and that means whatever may be the calling, whether it be a deacon or a high priest, we should fulfill that obligation to the best of the ability that God gives us.  
  
I call to mind a legend of the great man, the great warrior, who had conquered nations and who had it in his heart to conquer the world, and he inquired wanting to know whom he should serve in order to serve the greatest thing there was in the world, because he had conquered nearly all. "Why," it was said to him, "there are more people following Satan than any one else, and therefore you should serve him. So he began and served Satan, with the same determination and purpose as he had conquered nations. But there seemed to be something lacking. He did not get the consolation that he thought he would, and finally he inquired again, and he got this reply: "Serve Jesus Christ, for it is His teachings that will bring mankind and raise them from their sin, and elevate them in the world, and save them in eternity." And he began to serve, or he would serve Jesus. And when he inquired what he was to do, he was told that beside a river, on the opposite shore, an altar had been erected where those who would come to Christ could go and pray, and it should be his duty to carry all such on his back through the waters when they applied to him. "Know you who I am?" said he. "I am Alpha, that has conquered nations, and should I be called upon to do such menial service?" "Yes, if thou wishest to serve thy master, thou must do this thing." And he began and he carried many, many across the rocks, cutting his feet on the sharp stones. The work was hard, but he was strong in body and mind, and he kept it up; year after year did he do this service, and he became old, and was unable to proceed, as he thought, to go any farther, to carry any more across. Finally a voice came one day, "Alpha, I want to pray." He paid no heed, because he thought he was unable to assist. "Alpha, I want to go and pray;" and he looked, and beheld a child, and he determined to make the last effort, and he did. He took the child in his arms and started into the water; the swift current almost took him down, but he struggled until he gained the opposite shore and placed that child on the altar, and through exhaustion following his effort he was almost ready to give up the ghost, when he heard this commendation: "He who doeth these things to the least of mine hath done it unto me." And he died.  
  
Regardless of what duty comes to us, my brethren and sisters, let us seize upon the opportunity and do our full duty to our Church, to ourselves, to our neighbors and to the world. Then will God's blessing be with us to crown our efforts with success, and may we have the satisfaction to have that plaudit, "well-done," that we can get in no other way.  
  
I bear you witness today that God's work is established in the earth, no more to be taken away, that this people whom we call Latter-day Saints are those who are destined to fill the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. May God add His blessings to us, that we may be faithful in performing the duties that devolve upon us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
