24
Overflow
07 04 1912
Elder Joseph E. Robinson
79
78-83

None

None 

(President of California Mission.) 

It is indeed gratifying, my brethren and sisters, to meet with those who agree in faith and in doctrine. Frequently in the world, we meet with those who have diversified views, who teach different "principles of salvation," or who teach none at all. Recently I had the privilege of addressing a club whose members say they believe in neither God, Christ, hell nor the devil, and yet this body of men and women employ and honor a chaplain. It struck me as peculiar, and had I not been acquainted with some of their tenets I should have wondered at their appointment: but even they contended for this fact, that there is some power, some subtle influence in prayer and pouring out the soul of man to the Universe, as they call it. It brings a surcease from disappointment and pain, makes hope glow anew from the ashes of despair, and, with faith, man may again face the problems of life and follow them to successful fruition, all through the strength of prayer. While addressing this audience I had occasion to speak of the Lord Jesus Christ, my theme being particularly the immortality of the soul and the hope of the resurrection, aye, its very assurance.  
  
At the close of my address there was half an hour given for questions and for adverse opinions and criticisms, and this chaplain arose and said unto me: "Elder, you have mentioned the name of Jesus Christ; I would like to know if there is any evidence in history, whatsoever, that would prove that such a man ever lived." That may sound strange to you my brethren and sisters, who have come together here to pay homage to Jesus, the Christ, to revere His name, and to worship Him as one of those who have made it possible for this earth to be, for our lives and for our eternal progression. My answer to this man (knowing full well that he would not accept the testimony of the eight witnesses in the New Testament nor the testimony of the so-called early Fathers of the church) was something like this: At the time of His advent and birth, according to the testimony of Tacitus and Suetonius, two pagan historians, the whole east was in a ferment of expectation, for tradition and precept and sacrifices from time immemorial had testified that there should be a king born to the Jews; a son and a child should be given them, upon whose shoulders should rest the government, and He should be the Prince of Peace, and should be worshiped as the Lord God Almighty Himself; and that, at the time of His advent, wise men of the east, others than those three spoken of in the scriptures, gave token of the fact that the time had arrived. And after and during His ministry, there arose men contemporaneous with Him who bore testimony of the fact that he did live and minister to the souls of men. Josephus, a Jew — and the Jews were prejudiced against Him, full of bitter prejudice at the time he wrote — mentions Him in his writings. He even said of Him; "If it be lawful to call such a creature a man, to speak of Him as man," testifying that He had lived among the Jews and ministered unto them as a prophet. Again Pliny, the younger, spoke of Him and His ministry, with Publius Lentulus, procurator of Judea, for just as consuls report to the home government anything of moment and interest to the home country, so did this procurator report to Caesar and the Roman senate, and reported that one Jesus Christ, a Nazarite, was living amongst the Jews at that time, who he said, "is accepted of the Gentiles as a true prophet, but by His disciples and followers as the very son of God." And this man Lentulus described the Master, using these words:  
 
"His hair is the color of a filbert when fully ripe, plain to his ear, whence downward it is more of Orient color, curling, waving on his shoulders; in the middle of his head is a seam, parting His hair after the manner of the Nazarites. His forehead is plain and delicate; the face without spot or wrinkle, beautiful with a comely red; his nose and mouth are exactly formed; his beard is the color of his hair and thick, not of any length but forked. In reproving he is terrible, admonishing courteous, in speaking very modest and wise; in proportion of body, well shaped. None have seen him laugh. Many have seen him weep. A man of surpassing beauty, excelling the children of men."  
  
So the testimony of these three in particular can be cited aside from the tradition of the ancient church and from the testimony of the apostles and disciples, bearing witness that Christ did live and reign among the sons of men, or at least minister among the sons of men, in such graciousness that secured Him in the affections of His followers, and made Him even beloved and revered by those not of His own nationality; for the Centurion who came to Him, saying that he had a son afflicted in his house and begged of the Master to say but one word and he should be healed, said unto Him, when the Master said "I will go unto him at once," "I am not worthy that you should enter my house; I am a captain in Caesar's household, and I say to this man, do thou this, or do thou that, and it is done; and if thou wilt but say the word, I know that my son will be healed." And the scriptures record the fact that Christ marvelled, for no such faith had He known, no not in all Israel; and He spoke the word and the boy was healed from that hour forth. So it shows, this example, the regard in which He was held by this man not of His own household, not of the nation of Israel.  
  
Today all Christendom is singing anthems of praise, praise and hosannas, as we do here today, because the Christ lives; and this day, to Christendom, means the day of His resurrection from the tomb, joy coming into the hearts of all men who believe in Him, because in Him they know they have a Redeemer from the tomb, and Savior from death and hell. We might, if our imagination were but keen enough, recall this glad Easter morning, at its first inception, when, after His hurried burial in a stranger's grave (for His death had not been anticipated and His tomb was not prepared, and so the tender women and His friends laid Him away in the grave of Joseph of Arimathea, until they could further care for Him and provide for Him a last resting place as they thought.) It was their Sabbath day. and it was forbidden by the law of the Jews that His body should remain longer upon the cross. It was taken down, and as I have said, hurriedly buried. And then, because of the conduct of Pontius Pilate, that none should come unto it for a certain time, the tomb being sealed by the seal of Caesar of Rome, none were permitted to come to pay Him homage or respect until that period had passed set by the law; and as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene early to the tomb before it was yet light, bearing bandages and myrrh and spices to further prepare His body for its final burial. When she came to the sepulchre weeping, the stone had been turned aside, the seals broken, the soldiers dispersed, and as she looked in to the sepulchre she beheld an angel, who declared unto her, "He is not here, He is risen." In her great grief she did not understand all that this message meant and would have conveyed had she known what we know of the resurrection. Sadly she turned away, in hope still that she might find His resting place. A personage approached down the path. Without lifting her tear dimmed eyes, thinking it was only the sexton or the gardener so early abroad, she said: "Where have they laid Him?" He spoke to her in a voice that made her fond heart thrill with joy untold, because she recognized the voice of her Redeemer and Lord, when He cried unto her "Mary!" and she lifted her eyes, and when she would have embraced Him He said: "Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren and say unto them. I ascend unto my Father and your Father and to my God and your God." And with winged feet she flew along the roadway to carry this glad message to the faithful hearts who had been bowed down in such distress and grief, because their Lord and Master, their leader, had been crucified.  
  
Then for a time He walked the earth with them, and taught them, meeting them upon the holy day a week later, and still another week later, inviting them, upon His first visit, because they were afrighted and thought they saw His spirit, to handle Him, to observe the wounds in His hands and in His feet and side, and see that He was not a spirit; and He asked them if they had any meat there, and they gave Him a fish and a honey comb, and He ate of it to convince them that it was really and truly their Savior or their Master with whom they had labored and with whom they had suffered. A week later He comes to them when they have met to praise Him again, to bear testimony of this glad Easter morning when He arose from the dead. But one who was doubting, one who had not been present, one who had heard only their testimonies, one who believed only in what he could see and handle, material-minded and hard-headed after the manner of most men, he said, "Why, you have seen His spirit, but the dead live not again; the body of man cannot rise from the tomb. Lazarus was brought back to life, and so with the daughter of Jairus, but the dead who are laid away as He has been do not live again." And as he contended with them in this fashion against their knowledge, the Master, even in His glorious resurrected manhood and immortalized state, stood before them, and He said, Come hither, thou doubting one; thrust thy hand into my side and feel the prints of the nails in my hands, and handle me and see that a spirit hath not flesh and bone as ye see me have. And Thomas fell and worshiped, exclaiming, "My Lord and my God!" The Savior mildly rebuked him in these words: Thomas thou hast believed because thou hast seen. Blessed are they who believe without seeing, who believe upon the testimony of these my brethren. Therein showing the key, the touch-stone of virtue and faith, for we are to walk by faith.  
  
And so "Blessed today is he who cometh in the name of the Lord." Blessed and praised be the Lord, as was sung. "Hosanna unto Him who bringeth salvation." Blessed indeed is he who believes, having never seen, and into whose heart has entered the peace of Christ which surpasseth the understanding of the souls of men, that peace which gives them an assurance of things as they were, as they are, as they are to be — truth, the "sum of existence." In the mind of that man or that woman there is no doubt, no misgiving, no fear, no apprehension of the future, if they but keep the faith, that God will give to His flock the kingdom, that the Christ will reign over them, and that when He comes "they shall be like Him," for so said John the beloved. In this assurance the grave is robbed of its victory, and death of its sting, all swallowed up in the assurance of eternal life and immortality.  
  
We cannot ourselves circumscribe the powers of man. When we see an infant upon its mother's knee, we know that, all things being propitious, it shall grow to manhood's estate, to enjoy the full powers and capabilities thereof, and that so long as, undimmed by years and unhurt and unbroken by disease or accicident, he will learn to show and perform great things. We do not know to what heights he may arise in his special field, unless we may see it in prophetic vision; but we know that what man has done man may and can do. But, cut short from his progress and achievement by death, then when you contemplate eternal life and immortality, who can circumscribe the possibilities of man, who can say how far lie may go, or how short he may fall? The great pagan philosopher, Socrates, said that "this is the whole, end and aim of man, to be like God, and he who follows Him shall become like Him." So the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this age, has added to this truth by the assertion that "As man is God once was, and that as He is man may become," because He is our Father, and like begets like, and inherent within us are the attributes of divinity that shall lead us into perfection, which Christ intended His Saints to attain unto. John says: "When the Master shall come into whose hands He hath given all power, both in heaven and earth, who trampled death and hell under His feet, and solved the secret of the grave, we shall be like Him, if we love His appearing and keep His commandments." O. the blessedness of such a thought! How full of inspiration! What an incentive to try for correct living! What a power is given us to bear under and forebear, when we know our real destiny, if we but keep the faith, if we but believe in Him and do His will, if we but keep ourselves unspotted from the world; and not only for us but for all the sons of our Father who will come unto Him, both those who are alive and those who are dead, for the Master whose body lay in the tomb "went and preached to the spirits in prison," and one can imagine when he reads the words of David, pronounced outside the gates of hell, "Lift up your heads, ye gates, and be lifted up, ye everlasting doors; the king of glory shall come in." And again, how all hell sat up with astonishment at the end, breaking in upon their solitude from without, when they had been "gathered together as prisoners in a pit" since the death of the first man cast out from Eden; how, when the time came and the doors were opened and the Master stood before them, Isaiah would arise and say: "Did I not tell you that after many days we should be visited, and the sun of righteousness should arise with healing in his wings, and give gifts to men, and lead captivity captive and the prisoners from the prison house." And David, the king and poet, would say: "Having testified unto you, O Israel, that He would not leave my soul in hell nor would He suffer the Holy One to see corruption." Then might Isaiah say: "Did I not prophesy unto Israel, Thy dead shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust, for their dew is as the dew of the earth, and the earth shall cast out its dead, some as Daniel said, to everlasting shame and contempt, because they are filthy still; some to shine in the firmament as the stars forever, because they have constrained men to acts of righteousness."  
  
Let us, my brethren and sisters, be among those who "fight the good fight," who "keep the faith," who "constrain men to acts of righteousness," that we with the love of the Lord shall shine in the firmament as stars forever. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 