28
Second Overflow
07 04 1912
Elder John F. Tolton. 
65
94-97

None

None

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

It may be somewhat surprising to the stranger within our gates that, during the proceedings of our conference this day, there have not been more references made to the occasion which the world recognizes as one of the greatest events in the whole year that of Easter Sunday, commemorating as it does, in their minds, and in their forms and manner of worship, the rising of our Lord and Redeemer from the grave. We recognize as a people the importance of that great event. We recognize it as one of the essential principles in the redemption of the human family, for without the resurrection from the grave there would be no salvation for the sons and daughters of men. We do believe that the great event celebrated on this occasion should overshadow others, for we recognize in it, as I said, one of the essential principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. To our minds it adds testimony and truth to the divinity of this work; and we believe that all men should ever bear in mind, not only on this one occasion of the year, but every day of the year, the life and divine mission of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for He came into the world and gave His life that men might live.  
  
We believe in the divinity of Christ. We believe that He was ordained to come forth in the meridian of time, to establish His work in the world, that men might understand the great plan of salvation which His life represented to them. We believe that in the establishment of His church He gave unto the world a set of principles that are not only calculated and intended to make better men and women in this life, but also to prepare us for the great life that lies beyond the veil. If we consider but one instance or one principle in the great catalogue that has been given unto us, we are not doing justice unto those other principles which are essential for the salvation of the human family. This day is being recognized, as I stated, by all Christendom, and all the sermons, perhaps, of the Christian world that are being delivered from the pulpit today, are based upon that one great and divine truth, that Christ is risen from the grave, that He has burst the bands of death, and that He has brought to man immortality and eternal life if we will live according to the gospel which He established in the world.  
  
I believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is one failing that some of the Latter-day Saints manifest, that is lack of Sufficient interest in gaining a perfect understanding of all the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that many are becoming lax, in a manner, with regard to our duties, with regard to understanding the great principles of eternal life; "for this is life eternal, that we may know thee, the only true and living God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent," Without that knowledge we cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. So in this world of enlightenment, in this age of the world when men are following the lines of least resistance, many are seeking after the pleasures of this world and forgetting the responsibilities that rest upon them as the servants and handmaidens of God.  
  
We are given a mission in life, and that is to understand the purposes for which we were created, what our earthly mission is, and what is the destiny of man. We cannot understand these things without first seeking for light and truth, without studying the scriptures that have been given unto us for our edification and information. In the early rise of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave unto his people, and unto the Elders of the Church, some of the cardinal principles by which they were to be governed in seeking for light, and knowledge, and intelligence. We have been accused by the world of being an exclusive and ignorant people, of being a people who inclined to not reach out into the revelations of science and thought according to modern age and usage. The fact is, if we would follow the instructions that have been given unto us by the Prophet Joseph Smith, there is no people in the world who should be broader minded, or be better prepared to understand the conditions and purposes for which mankind have been created, and placed upon the earth, than the Latter-day Saints. Let us read one declaration and see if that bears a spirit of exclusion. The Prophet Joseph gave unto this people this exhortation:  
  
"That you shall teach one another the doctrine of the Kingdom; teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land, and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms."  
  
Now, if we attempt to follow out this injunction, and prepare ourselves as Elders in Israel, as ministers of the gospel, as teachers of righteousness, as followers of the meek and lowly Jesus, there is a vast deal of labor in which we may engage, wherein we may secure our vindication and the conversion of the world. Are we doing that, my brethren and sisters? Are we following those injunctions that have been given unto us by our prophet?  
  
If we examine the character of amusements and entertainments that are being presented to us today, I fear that we will find we are falling short in the performance of our duties in this respect. There is a wonderful change that has taken place during the last decade, or so, in the character of the amusements that are being provided for us in the various communities in which we reside. The day of the legitimate drama has almost become obsolete, and in its stead has sprung up the numerous moving picture shows and vaudeville. Many of our people, citizens of this and other states are wont to waste their time and means in frivolous amusements. Much of our time might be better occupied in studying the history of nations, the wars and the perplexities, and the different subjects expressed in the injunction that I have read to you, rather than following the frivolous pursuits that many of our people are now indulging in. Pursuit of pleasure accomplishes nothing that is desirable, those who indulge therein show that they are at least mentally inactive or mentally lazy. I am afraid many are not studying the scriptures as we ought, not studying history, and not informing ourselves upon the great plan of salvation that God has revealed for the salvation of His children. We should be faithful and energetic in our lives remembering that we are not living for ourselves alone, but that we should be working also for the betterment and the conversion of the world to works of righteousness. If we are God's people, as we claim that we are, then we are like a light set upon a hill that cannot be hid; the world is looking at us, and we should honor and magnify our calling. We should teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, not only by precept but also by example.  
  
I pray the Lord to bless us, to strengthen us in our work, give us a living testimony of its truth, that we may not only bear record on this one day in the year, that Jesus Christ has risen, but bear that testimony each of the 365 days of the year, that our lives may be examples of righteousness, and that our skirts may be clear from the blood of this generation, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
