29
Second Overflow
07 04 1912
Elder Samuel O. Bennion.
2
97-101

None

None

(President of the Central States Mission)

I trust my brethren and sisters, the few moments that I occupy this position that I may be influenced by the Spirit of the Lord, that our time spent here may be of mutual benefit, that we may enjoy the privilege we have of meeting together.  
  
I have listened with interest to the remarks of my brethren all during this conference. Out in the Central States, one of the worst winters that has ever been known in that country has just closed. From Dec. 25th until two weeks ago we have had snow almost over the entire country, with the exception of the far south. In Independence, Mo., snow fell 26 inches deep two weeks ago this morning; it fell in a little more than twenty hours. These conditions have handicapped the missionary work in that section of the country to some extent. The people are suffering greatly. The southeastern portion of Missouri was, and I suppose it is now, under three feet of water, overflow from the Mississippi. The entire south land along that great river, unless something takes place in a few days to prevent, will be under water everywhere. The levees close to Memphis, Tenn., have given way. People are fleeing to the high ground.  
  
My thoughts at the time I visited in that section, concerning the conditions that exist there, along lines of industrial affairs were like these: How beautiful it would be if people living in this country understood the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and would migrate to a land where there is no danger of overflow, where they would not be tried and tempted with starvation. I tell you, in the homes of these people there are thousands that are not many meals ahead. Commercial clubs and other associations are gathering the people upon higher land, little knolls, and carrying them from there to places of safety. The Lord has greatly blessed the "Mormon" people. When He gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith revelation to lead this people to the Valleys of the Mountains, He understood exactly the conditions that would exist and the events that would happen, during the time that the members of His Church would be working in order to prepare a people to receive Him. Joseph Smith's prophecies are being fulfilled. He said that the people would have to come to Zion for safety, and this is taking place. Men are leaving their homes for some cause or another, and lots of them are coming to this western country, because of the spring flood that is sweeping all through that country. People here do not understand what deep water is, really know nothing about it. When a stream of water as large as the Mississippi river bursts its banks it carries everything before it, covering ten or fifteen miles of land, in some places 15 feet deep, Men, women and children have to leave everything that they have on earth, including their homes, perhaps forever, for when they return they may find them to have been swept away and the face of the country changed or removed entirely.  
  
As I contemplate these things, I wonder if we realize and understand the blessings that we enjoy here in this part of the country. The Saints have been given special privileges, revelations, and commandments that enable us to overcome evils that prevail elsewhere; and that we may live according to the light of truth the Lord has placed Prophets, Seers and Revelators among us. He has placed officers in the church for the benefit of our children and for our benefit, that we might better observe the law and walk in the ways of the Lord. The Lord gave unto Moses commandments, and told him to teach the Israelites that that which the Lord had revealed was for them and for their children forever and ever, that they might observe the law. We send out missionaries in great numbers, and give much time and attention to the establishment of the purposes of the Almighty in the earth, both at home and abroad, but show me a man or a woman who has ever taken an active part in the "Mormon" church, for the establishment of the principles of righteousness, that has ever been the loser, either at home or abroad. I tell you the man who labors either in his ward, in his stake, or in the missionary field, enjoys the spirit and the power of the Lord that is not known among the children of men at all, they do not know what it is, they cannot comprehend the sweet spirit and influence that accompanies the Elder of Israel.  
  
During the past winter some Elders in the Central States, who had faith that they could preach the gospel entirely without money, have lived out among the people in the severe Winter weather. When it was 20 degrees below zero, we told our boys to come into some town, and take care of themselves. I know some Elders who had faith enough to deliver the message of glad tidings and great joy, during this past winter labored all the time out in the country districts, and have not used any money, and have been taken care of all the time. We had two Elders away out in Western Kansas, who had been sent out there by the conference president to visit some people who had written for the Elders to come to them, and the trains were blockaded and had not been moving for a week, and these boys went on sometimes as far in two days as a passenger train would run in one. It was a very remarkable thing. They were out in the country absolutely without friends, so far as they knew, but the Lord took care of them. I don't know of any people in the world who have greater evidences of God's favor given to them than have the Latter-day Saint Elders, either at home or abroad. I want to refer you to the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord has made a promise therein that is very wonderful, and that applies to any man who is called to carry the testimony of this Gospel into any land or clime, and under any circumstances, if he will do his duty as- a servant of the living Lord. He says:  
  
"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come; and whoso receiveth you there will I be also, for I will go before your face, I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my spirit shall be in your hearts and mine angels round about you to bear you up. Whoso receiveth you receiveth me, and the same shall feed you and clothe you and give you money, and he who feeds you or clothes you or gives you money shall in nowise lose his reward."  
  
Again:  
  
"Any man who will go and preach this Gospel of the kingdom and fail not to continue faithful in all things shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb nor joint, and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed; and they shall not go hungry neither athirst."  
  
Now, the Father and the Son, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and he has testified to us and to the world that he saw two heavenly personages, and the one addressing the other, said: "This is my Beloved Son, hear Him." He testified this unto men who lived in his day. Men living in this day have heard these men testify that they heard the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He has recorded his statements, and the Lord has given us this book of commandments for your good and for mine. When the call comes to go into the ward or abroad, no matter where, (to use a modern expression) "it is up" to that individual to receive the call, to prove whether he believes the word of the Lord or not, whether he is sincere or otherwise.  
  
I repeat, the "Mormon" people are the most blest of any people under the sun. This land of ours produces beautiful crops in abundance, that are not surpassed in the world. The valleys of the Nile are not any richer, if they are as rich as these valleys of the mountains. The Lord took His people out from Missouri, and He took them over the Mississippi and westward to this country, for a purpose, that He might establish them here, that they might grow in numbers and increase in faith until He could accomplish through them His work of redeeming the souls of men from their fallen state. He sends forth men, at home and abroad, to bear testimony of Him, and declare the message of repentance and remission of sins. He gave unto Hyrum Smith this commandment, that he should teach nothing but repentance unto this generation, and I tell you that the longer I live the more need I see for that doctrine to be preached. The Lord loves His children, men and women, in all the world. He organized the earth, and placed us here, and sent His Son, who did rise from the dead, that He might be Lord of the living and of the dead, and established through Him the laws and ordinances by obedience to which we might return unto the Maker, by which we might govern our lives, and prepare ourselves for eternal life.  
  
The commandment and law contained in the 18th chapter of Matthew gives us to understand that there is more rejoicing in heaven over the return of one sinner than over ninety and nine righteous. He spoke it in a parable so that we might understand it more easily. He said, I love mercy and not sacrifice, I came into the world not to call the righteous but the sinners to repentance. As long as there is one son or daughter of His, one man who will listen unto His Gospel there will be His servants to preach it, for He loves His children more than any man can conceive. There will be no happiness in earth or heaven, among men or angels, without the redemption of the whole human family, and men can be redeemed only through becoming acquainted with what the Lord has for us to do, as made known in His Gospel. He said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that no man can be saved in ignorance, and that that person who receives more knowledge and intelligence than another in this world would have that much the advantage in the world to come. All men will stand before God to be judged of the deeds done in the body. No man can escape the judgment of Almighty God, and that His judgment may be just, He has sent His Gospel that every living creature and every one who is in the spirit world, may receive the Gospel if they desire it, that they might learn for themselves and intelligently select either to their exaltation or their condemnation. We are told that some are resurrected unto life and some are resurrected unto condemnation, according to their works. The Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know them; a.good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt tree good fruit."  
  
I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that the longer this work continues in the earth the stronger it grows. Our boys and girls at home, who may be a little careless, some may say, are worth taking care of; they have been located in this blessed land, and they are precious in the sight of God. I do not think that things happen by chance, or come by chance. I believe that the spirits of our children were ordained to come forth in this day and age of the world; that it was understood by our Father in heaven, and their "times and their habitation," according to the Apostle Paul, was "aforetime appointed." None of us come here by chance. These boys and girls who grow up here in this atmosphere, in this glorious land, are worth caring for. The principle of charity must and shall be exercised among our people until we shall be able to govern and control in righteousness. It is doubtful if any man would go astray if he knew in his own heart absolutely that it would result in his damnation, that it would destroy his soul. Men are influenced by environment, and by others of stronger will power, and often he himself is undoubtedly too easily led; but the Lord is not willing, so Peter says, that any should perish, but that all should come unto Him, for, He said, "God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation he that feareth Him and worketh righteousness is accepted of Him."  
  
I bear testimony that I know that God does live, and that Jesus is the Christ, and that the work of God is established here in the earth; and I know those men who stand at the head of this Church are God's noblemen. They were "aforetime appointed" among the great spirits that the Lord saw, according to Abraham, gathered together, when He said, "These I will make my rulers and my leaders." And I tell you they work. I saw an example of that in what Brother Grant did last fall, when he rode nearly across the continent to make one little speech, but an important one, that took him about an hour only. He left a field of labor where he was needed, and rode a long tiresome journey to fulfill another appointment whereunto he had been called. By their works these brethren keep you and me in line, and help us to grow better, and establish faith among the children of men. You should pray in your hearts that they may be sustained by the Spirit of the Lord. Men and women in a ward should pray for their Bishop, that he may have power, that he might have revelation given unto him for their benefit and the benefit of the ward, that all may enjoy the spirit of the Gospel as Latter-day Saints. Pray also for the president of the stake. Pray for the Church, and for the work of the missions in the world, that those who sit in darkness and unbelief may be led to the knowledge of the truth. Pray that we may leave nothing undone that would assist in bringing about the redemption of mankind, and particularly that nothing may be done on our part that would hinder them from receiving the Gospel. Elders rejoice to know that you are praying for them. Some of them, when they go out unlearned and unaccustomed to meeting men, are inspired by your faith in your pleading to Almighty God. I pray that they may be brave fearless and strong, men of wisdom and of power, that they may feel the authority of their office and calling to the glorification of the Church, and be blessed of God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 