37
Afternoon
07 04 1912
Elder Ben E. Rich. 
54
129-132

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

"The angel said that my name should be had for good or for evil throughout all the nations of the earth." These were the words which fell from the lips of a young boy, a little over three-quarters of a century ago, in the northern portion of the State of New York; and they brought a sneer and a laugh from those who heard of the words. At that time this western civilization was unknown. I see before me today a sea of faces of individuals who, I doubt very much, could have been gathered together in these valleys of the Rocky Mountains had it not been for the message that that young man had to deliver to the world. No doubt, there are many nations represented here before me today, people whose fathers and mothers prayed for many years, before they gathered to this land, that God would open the way that they might say successfully, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, where we can learn more of His ways and walk in His paths."  
  
Seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, God had a prophet upon this earth to whom He opened a vision of the future, and He saw the valleys of the Rocky Mountains. He saw the time when the mountain of the house of God would be established in the tops of these mountains, and that house would be the inspiration that would gather people from all nations under the sun. When that dispensation was opened, through the visions given and through the inspiration bestowed upon the young man, in the State of New York, it was the beginning of the restoration of all things spoken of by all the holy prophets since the world began.  
  
During the sessions of this conference, the inspiration of the different speakers has been to bear testimony to the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, and the great missionary work that is going on throughout the length and breadth of this earth. The scene before us strengthens the testimony of President Smith, as he gave it to us at the opening of this conference, concerning the increased strength of this work, arid the falsity of the accusation made by enemies that Mormonism was in a weakened condition or on the wane. There is no weakening manifest when a body of people as numerically small as the Latter-day Saints, through the faith they have in the everlasting Gospel, and in the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, maintain in the nations of the earth, at their own expense — I mean the expense borne by the fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers, and wives of the missionaries themselves — an army of missionaries two thousand strong, and are not afraid to send them out among all the churches of the world, with no fear that they may possibly find a religion more true than that which God Almighty has given to our fathers and to us.  
  
All kinds of weapons have been used against this Church, but God has so arranged matters that every attack, every such weapon has and will contribute to the advancement instead of the destruction of this work. It cannot be destroyed. Its mission is to fill this earth with the righteousness of God, to bring about the celestialization of the earth itself, and to save mankind in the Celestial kingdom of God. From the day of its organization, taking all of the revelations that God Almighty gave to the boy prophet, from that day until now it has been unlike the other churches of the world, it has never seen the necessity of revising its creed. Among those who have made attacks against this work, of recent days, are men who are looked upon as among the most eloquent and deeply learned of men, as well as weapons used in the hands of the most ignorant. Not long ago, a very eloquent, learned bishop of the Episcopal church, in speaking before an audience in New York City, by way of easing the fear of the people that "Mormonism" would amount to something, and as an argument that it would not, stated that there was not a scholar among the Latter-day Saints. (I believe that he did give Elder B. H. Roberts the credit of knowing a little bit; but he said that very easy indeed.) I don't know what that individual would have done, or would have said, if he had lived when Christ Himself dwelt in mortality, and as He went along His way saw the illiterate fishermen drawing in their nets and had witnessed the Master call His ministry, saying to Peter "Come, I will make, you a fisher after men." If the good bishop is here today, I would not have him think for a moment that I say this by way of a reflection upon his great wisdom. I only make mention of it that he might perceive how little Christ knew about how to call men to the ministry. The Almighty has always taken the simple things of the earth to confound the wisdom of the mighty. The principal education He requires is the education of humility, of meekness, of faith, and of purity, with these qualifications wisdom will follow. These are the materials the Almighty can handle. And some of these ministers who are so much concerned about this thing, how much better would be their position, if they are really anxious for the salvation of our souls, if they would ask for the privilege of occupying this pulpit, and from the word of God try to show the Latter-day Saints that faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is an obnoxious doctrine, that repentance from sin is not true, that baptism by immersion for the remission of sins is not a doctrine of Christ, that the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands was not taught by the ancients; these are principles ,of Mormonism. You do not hear from their lips arguments against our faith, but tirades of abuse against our good, humble, and great leader, and others who have been leaders in this Church.  
  
Brother Talmage quoted the words of Christ to Peter, "Whom do men say that I am?" And after Peter had named the different characters who had lived upon the earth whom men said that He might possibly be, and when Christ had asked him directly "whom sayest thou that I am?" which brought forth the answer, "Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God," then said Jesus, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father which is in heaven; and I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock" — this knowledge that came to Peter that Jesus was the Christ, the means whereby He received this information — "upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The Catholic world says that it was built upon Peter; the "Mormon" Church says it was built upon that principle that conveyed to Peter the knowledge, the truth that Jesus was the Christ. This Church is built upon that foundation of revelation from God, and we have the promise from our Father that it shall stand forever, nevermore to be thrown down or given to another people. I tell you that it cannot be broken to pieces.  
  
The difference between this and all other faiths is that one man in this Church has just as much right to know that God lives, to know that Jesus is the Christ, to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as any other man. It is built upon that testimony; and that is the reason we are so strong. To the stranger who may be present, I will say that if this question should be placed to this congregation, How many know for themselves, just as well as the President of the Church here knows, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, — oh what a testimony would be presented to that stranger; at least nine-tenths of the congregation would respond that God Almighty had revealed to them the truthfulness of this Gospel, and that they do not rest upon the testimony of any other. That is where my testimony is planted. I know for myself that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that this is not the work of man. I know that we are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when God has promised that a people shall be prepared for the reception of His Son, when He comes to the earth to reign in glory. This is my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 
 