38
Afternoon
07 04 1912
Elder Brigham G. Thacher. 
82
132-134

None

None

(Late President of Holland Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is certainly a pleasure to me to have this privilege of bearing my testimony to so many Latter-day Saints. I trust, the short time I stand before you, that I may be dictated by the Spirit of God. I desire your faith and prayers that I may say nothing contrary to the doctrines of Christ. I realize and sense fully the words of the Apostle Paul when he said, "Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other Gospel unto you, than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed."  
  
I have been very much instructed by the remarks of those who have spoken today. I have been built, up in my faith in the Gospel of Christ. I know that this is the Church of Christ. I realize that Jesus came upon the earth, that He lived, and that He preached repentance unto the children of men.  
 
Today, hundreds of thousands of Christians are celebrating the anniversary of His resurrection from the dead, but many thousands of them do not believe in a literal resurrection of mankind. Though they are celebrating His resurrection, yet they do not understand that mankind will be raised from the dead with bodies of flesh and bones. Christ told us that He was an example for us in all things; and while these professed Christians claim to believe in Jesus Christ, yet they deny that mankind will again stand upon the earth, in bodies of flesh and bones as tangible as that which we now possess. "If the dead rise not all, then why are ye baptized for the dead," said the Apostle Paul. You know that the tenor and burden of testimony of the apostles of old, after the death of Christ, was that He was raised from the dead; that, after He had preached to the spirits in prison. His spirit and body were again reunited, and He appeared unto Mary and unto the apostles, also that He appeared unto a multitude of others, and taught the disciples that they should go among the nations of the world and preach repentance, and belief in God and in the Son of God, Jesus Christ. 
  
We, as Latter-day Saints, have been gathered out from the four quarters of the world. We have accepted the message that Jesus Christ has again spoken from the heavens, that the Gospel is restored, and again the authority of the holy Priesthood is bestowed upon mankind. This authority is here in our midst. We have come here, gathered from the nations of the world, and now I ask you, my brethren and sisters, is it worth while living in accordance with this Gospel, this Gospel which is said to be the power of God unto salvation? Now that we have been baptized, now that we have received the gift of the Holy Ghost, is it worth while keeping the commandments of God? Too many of our young men and young women, and even some older ones, are becoming indifferent to this Gospel message. I have been told that at meetings held in one of the eastern cities, against this people, erstwhile members of this Church are attending those meetings every Sunday evening. They have become cold to the Gospel, and are seeking the bread of life from a place where no such bread can be had. Oh, my brethren and sisters, I would that I had the voice of an angel to cry unto you the necessity of living the Gospel according to the doctrines therein taught unto us. This Gospel is the power of God unto salvation, if we will live it. It is given to help us to reach the celestial kingdom of God. Shall we throw away this means of salvation, and fall short of that high place which God in His tender mercy has provided for us if we will obey His commandments? I tell you that the reason some of our young men and young women are indifferent to the Gospel is because they have not obtained a knowledge of it. Fathers and mothers, teach your young people in your homes, teach them to acquire a knowledge of the Gospel, teach them that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God, and that the Apostles and those who are in authority in the Church are men of God, holding the keys of this dispensation. If you will instill knowledge into their hearts, while they are young, they will not go astray as they grow up.  
  
The Gospel in the Netherlands is progressing. There are many thousands of honest souls in that land; and while there is much prejudice among that people, because of the slanders traducing the chraracter of this people, it is difficult to bring a knowledge of the Gospel to them. Yet they are generally charitable, and will listen unto you. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that there is a great future for that mission. There are thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands there who will yet receive the Gospel. Never have I found a people in any land or nation, or among any people, apparently so well prepared to receive the Gospel as Hollanders are, or so willing to listen to the message of repentance and salvation. I want to say to these fathers and mothers who have sons in that mission, that there is no better place on the earth where they can labor. Every opportunity is given to them to develop in a knowledge of the Gospel, and to work and progress in ability to proclaim it. I say unto you that there are many who will be raised up to befriend your sons who are doing missionary work there. Encourage your boys to work energetically, and they will see fruits of their labors. The present president of that mission, Bishop Eardley, is a man of God, and he is a man with whom you can trust your young men. I look for the work in that land to grow even faster than it has grown in the past.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I feel well in the Gospel. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I know that Joseph F. Smith also is a prophet of God. I have known him, I have seen his work, and I know whereof I speak. I know that these men who are called to be Apostles, and Seventies, and High Priests, in this work, are men of God, and that they will lead you in truth and righteousness into the celestial kingdom of God, if you will give heed to their counsel.  
  
I pray God to bless you and bless this work, that it may grow, and that the day may speedily come when rigteousness will reign supreme upon the earth; and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
