40
Afternoon
07 04 1912
Auditors' Report. 
36
138-139

None

Joseph F. .Smith, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose, Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ cf Latter-day Saints: 

Dear Brethren — We, the auditing committee of the Church, beg leave to report that we have examined the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, the Presiding Bishop's Office, as well as other institutions of the Church, for the year 1911, and are pleased to report that we have found the books and accounts methodically and accurately kept according to the most approved style of modern book-keeping. It is also our pleasure to say: That in our opinion the revenues of the Church were expended for the 139  that are strictly legitimate, and along the lines that are for the welfare of the whole community. Respectfully, 

W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft. 

President Smith then made the following comment : 

And this is but a very brief report, of their full report, which covers thirty-two pages of data and commentation in relation to their researches into the financial affairs of the Church; and in every respect this simple report is corroborative of their report in detail. 

Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose, Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:  
  
Dear Brethren — We, the auditing committee of the Church, beg leave to report that we have examined the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, the Presiding Bishop's Office, as well as other institutions of the Church, for the year 1911, and are pleased to report that we have found the books and accounts methodically and accurately kept according to the most approved style of modern book-keeping. It is also our pleasure to say: That in our opinion the revenues of the Church were expended for the purposes that are strictly legitimate, and along the lines that are for the welfare of the whole community. Respectfully,  
  
W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft. 
 
President Smith then made the following comment:  
  
And this is but a very brief report, of their full report, which covers thirty-two pages of data and commentation in relation to their researches into the financial affairs of the Church; and in every respect this simple report is corroborative of their report in detail. 
 
It was announced that the daily recitals on the great organ, to which the public is admitted free, will be resumed on 22nd Inst.  
  
The anthem, "Heavenly Father, we would worship," composed by  
  
Prof. Joseph J. Daynes, was sung by the choir, Sisters Margaret Summerhays, and Esther Davis rendered the solo parts.  
  
Benediction was prononunced by Elder James Duckworth.  
  
Conference adjourned for six months.  
  
Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, on the 5th and 7th, and Prof. John J. McCellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon.  
  
The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister,  
  
Clerk of Conference.
