Outdoor
09 10 1910

Thousands of people gathered on the Temple grounds, unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly Hall, and an outdoor meeting was held for their benefit, near the Bureau of Information building. Elder Benjamin Goddard presided, and Elder Melvin J. Ballard led the singing; Wanda Czapiensky and Agnes Clive accompanied on the organ. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; Ye nations, now look up. 

It waves to all the world. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Samuel H. Allen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "America." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD 

It must be a great satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints to observe the attendance at this conference, and the earnest desire of the members of the Church to obtain admission into our dedicated buildings. We rejoice, however, in the good weather that enables us to meet here in GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"God's own temple" to worship Him and to receive such instructions as He may inspire His servants to give. 

We are pleased to be here. We rejoice in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the opportunity we have of bearing our testimony unto its truth. I presume the majority present are members of the Church, and you rejoice in the organization thereof, that God has given us, in these days, "apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers," to lead us unto a knowledge of Him, to bring us unto a "unity of the faith." 

We rejoice in meeting so many who have come from distant stakes of Zion. These presidents of missions who are here undoubtedly think of the thousands of elders now abroad, who are not privileged to meet with us. I trust that your hearts are going out to God in prayer that He will bless His missionary servants and handmaidens, who are carrying the warning message to the people of every clime. 

You have joined in singing our national anthem, but I venture to say that none of you have sung it more fervently nor with more loyal spirit than our elders, who are now in the nations of the earth, sing it from time to time. I refer particularly to the second verse, and draw your attention to it, because we may at times sing it with our lips without reflecting upon the sentiment contained in the song. I take the liberty, therefore, of drawing attention to the verse named, which I think, reflects the thoughts, sentiments, and devotion to fatherland of our missionary representatives especially. 

"My native country thee, Land of the noble free, Thy name I love. 

I love thy rocks and rills, Thy woods and templed hills, My heart with rapture thrills. Like that above." I trust we shall remember the absent ones, and that you who are present will enjoy in very deed the spirit of this meeting. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this privilege of standing before you this afternoon, and I trust that during the few moments I occupy this position, I may be blessed of the Lord, that what I say will be for our mutual benefit and good. 

I am absolutely converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, for I know, as did Paul, that it is "the power of God unto salvation." As I look today through these trees, across the grounds, I cannot help but think of the statements made by Christ the Lord when Ho. said, "Judge a tree by its fruit, for a good tree cannot bring forth corrupt fruit; neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit," and "By their fruit ye shall know them." 

As we were singing the hymns, in the opening exercises of our outdoor meeting, my thoughts were drifting back over the history of this Church, and back into the mission field. I thought of the great modern Moses, Brigham Young, who led this people into the valleys of the mountains. Many that knew Brigham Young are undoubtedly on the grounds today, who heard him speak under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, who remember the impress his remarks have made upon them all the days of their lives. 1 have read his sermons, and have listened to men who have heard him, and, when I see this vast congregation, I cannot help but cite the world to these valleys of the mountains, to this people, and ask if such a people as the Latter-day Saints could be the wicked people that our enemies represent them to be? 

I am proud, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of laboring in the ministry of our Savior. If there is one man under the sun that I can, through my ministry, reach, that will go down into the waters of baptism and become a convert to the principles and doctrines of the Church of Christ, Yielding obedience to the call of the authority Jesus has conferred, I shall be well repaid. 

I know that in the country outside of the valleys of the mountains, wherever I travel. I find men and women, who in their hearts are sincere, who have a desire to serve the Lord; and just as soon as that blind prejudice can be removed, which has been so strongly established in the hearts of men by the enemies of God, just as soon will many be converted and go down into the waters of baptism. An honest man or honest woman cannot study the principles of Christ's gospel, as taught by the Mormon people, without it having some effect upon them. It will act as oil upon the waters, and will lead them into a condition whereby they will forsake their sins, turn unto the Lord, and acknowledge Him and His power to save; for all men desire to be saved in the kingdom of our God. Just as soon as honest hearted people become acquainted with the straight and narrow way they go in thereat, bv hundreds and thousands. 

The Mormon people are making friends in the earth everywhere. It is a mistake for our enemies to do as they are doing, thinking that they are going to lead away from the path of rectitude the men and women in this country who dare to do right, and who love the truth. The reports that are sent out by enemies, concerning the Mormon people in these valleys of the mountains, are causing more investigations than anything they have ever done yet, for thinking people are investigating these reports. There was a time, perhaps, when all people might be easily misled concerning the Mormon people; but that day is past, for honorable men and women in the earth will investigate and see for themselves what the real status is of the great people out in this western land, that have builded such commonwealths as the world has scarcely ever known, and which commands the respect of informed men and women everywhere. 

"And by their fruits," the Savior said, "ye shall know them," and by the fruits of the labor of the Mormon people, their establishment of the Gospel of Jesus Christ throughout this world, will people be led to yield obedience to the principles that give them the power to excel in temporal and spiritual things. Not only in the stakes of Zion is this the case, but everywhere where this gospel goes. You will find in every little hamlet or village — where a Latter-day Saint is, that he begins to make friends around him by teaching his neighbor what he believes is right. As the missionaries go through the country establishing colonies and branches of the Church, they introduce the various auxiliary organizations as they are established in the Church here GENERAL CONFERENCE.  home, which also teaches the converts organization and order. 

Down in the Central States Mission we have a great many branches of the Church, some of them quite large, and we have introduced among them our different auxiliary organizations, that they may thus harmonize with us at home. 

Brigham Young established in this country a great school system, which has commanded the respect of everyone that has investigated it, and this system is taught wherever the Mormon people go. We have elders who are teaching school in the Central States Mission. They are teaching day school as well a assisting in the branch work; and many of" the saints are asking that a night or two a week be set apart that they might attend a night school, and thus become acquainted with the educational plans of the Mormon people. We are endeavoring to do this everywhere. One writer has said that the greatest prison is that of inefficiency. Teach efficiency, and you release the captives. I say to you that men and women everywhere delight in principles of education and right. They love liberty just as much in any part of the world, wherever this gospel goes, .as we do here; because it carries with it liberty and loyalty, honor to God and to the nation in which they reside. 

Over in the State of Texas we have a colonv of six hundred people, perhaps more, and in that colony we have a day school, taught by our missionaries from this city, whc have been called to go there, giving their time and attention toward the uplifting of manhood. We believe that when a man goes down in the waters of baptism he has the right to receive all that the Church has  him, all that God has revealed for men to receive. We believe that it is right for each and every one of us to receive these privileges if we live faithful and true to our covenants, consequently the principle of establishing schools has prevailed wherever the Mormon Church has gained converts. The teachers wh > were called to this particular labor in Texas happen to be lady missionaries. They have, perhaps, one hundred and fifty pupils divided among three of them. They nave a Sabbath School numbering over t wo hundred and fifty pupils. One night weekly they teach forty officers and teachers of that Sabbath School how to instruct the members of that school, thus giving them training; and they are doing many other things toward the benefit and uplifting of these people. 

I say unto you, my brothers and sisters, that there never was a time in the world when the people were receiving Mormonism better than at the present. Our ciders are received almost everywhere with open arms. The eyes of the nations are upon the Mormons, and when people investigate the principles of our Church, the principles of right, liberty, love, and justice which we teach, they hasten their desire to find out more. Consequently, 1 say, none of us need have any fear as to the outcome of this work. The elders that have been sent forth into the missionary fields of this Church are bringing souls to God every day; honest hearted men and women, children of the same God, are yielding obedience to the principles that were taught by Christ the Lord and revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

There was a time in the history of this Church when people scoffed 105  you mentioned the name of Joseph Smith in the streets, or in public places of any kind, but that day is past. I am a witness of it, and know that when the name of Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, is now preached or mentioned upon the streets or in halls of cities, hamlets, or villages, people listen to what we have to say concerning him with interest. We have established a history that is going to be proclaimed forever and ever, for God Himself will not recall what He has spoken. The history that has been made by the actual experience of the Mormon Church will be established in the earth. When people know that we love liberty, honor, truth and justice, and that, above all people in the world, we are loyal to each other, to this nation, and to God, vacancies will be caused in the synagogues and churches, and other places occupied by men who claim to have the authority to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, for truth will prevail. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the authority accompanying it, comes unto us by revelation, and it comes in no other way. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that the gospel is true. I know this : that God the Father and His Son appeared unto the Prophet Jose] ill Smith, over in the western portion of the State of New York, in that grove, I know this just as well as I know that I am standing here. That testimony can never be taken from me, because it has been gained by actual experience, it is a knowledge which comes through faith and work, and through fidelity to the cause of God on this earth. 

I ask the Lord to bless us in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER C. W. SORENSON. 

(Of North Sanpete Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters: one of the very strong testimonies, in my opinion, of the work in which we are engaged, is this large concourse of people, who assemble here at least twice every year. It is an astnishing fact that twice a year, the converts of Mormonism come from Mexico on the south, from Canada on the north, from the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts. From thousands of miles distant the people assemble from year to year semi-annua!lv to hear the word of God as it is dispensed from the headquarters of the Mormon Church. Where in all the world can you find a spectacle like it? 

I want to ask what is it that moves upon the children of men to bring them thus together. By what power, by what affinities, are they thus attracted; by what power are they made to meet the sacrifices which it takes, not only in time, but in means, to gather in such large numbers upon such occasions? 

We heard yesterday from one of the speakers in the Tabernacle that some one had said that we were very lath, in fact afraid, to stand up by the side of the scriptures, that we were afraid to have our ideas and doctrines investigated in the light of the revelations of God, as contained in Holy Writ, particularly in the Bible. I say to you, as an elder in Israel, and I do not need to tell it to those of us who have embraced the truth and have knowledge of it, but, should there be any here who are not converted to the doctrines of Mormonism— I want to say to you that nothing is farther from the truth than that. I GENERAL CONFERENCE.  there is nothing- that I like better, that pleases me more, than the privilege of lining up the principles of Mormonism with the Holy Scriptures, the Bible. There is nothing I like better than to demonstrate the truth of the principles enunciated by our Prophet in the light of the revelations contained in the Word of God. I bear testimony to you today that Mormonism, as it was enunciated by the Prophet, and as it has been taught from that day to this, as it is proclaimed bv us throughout the length and the breadth of the world today, is nothing more, is nothing less, than the doctrines laid down in the Word of God; is nothing more nor less than the preaching and teachings of the prophets of all ages since the world began. I repeat, it is an especial pleasure to any missionary to compare the doctrines of Mormonism. so called, with the doctrines taught in the Bible. 

It is conceded that we have one of the most wonderful organizations in the world. It has been said that it is second only to the German army, and while we are pleased with that comparison, we are willing to go them one better, and say, not even the German army can compare with the organization of our Church. It is organized by and under the direction of Almighty God, and it is perfect in all its ramifications. If there is a defect, or fault, I bear testimony that it is not because of a faulty organization, but because of faults in the men or women occupying offices in the organization. I emphatically declare unto you, therefore, that Mormonism is what the Bible teaches. I declare unto you that the Church, commonly known as the Mormon Church, is none other than the 

Church of God, in complete harmony with that system instituted and organized by the Savior of the world. 

But even these things are not all that has brought this vast concourse of people together. There is something else. We explain to the world the doctrines of Mormonism; we show to the world the wonderful organization of the Church, but this other element, the most vital content of this system, we cannot explain to them, although we know it. Every man that has been imbued with the Spirit of God understands it. He cannot give it to another — that is, he cannot give to another that feeling and those emotions that come to himself who knows it. He alone understands it and feels it. What is it? It is the spirit that permeates this work. It is but natural that this work, being the work of God, should be imbued with the Spirit of God. It is but natural that it should be permeated by that Spirit. The Spirit of God is given to every penitent sinner when he has received baptism at the hands of those having authority. The Spirit thus bestowed upon him, bv the authority of God, becomes to him an assurance and testimony, and living fire within him, by which he knows, understands and feels that this is the kingdom of God. We cannot give that to the investigator. He can receive it only as God is pleased to give it to him, and God is pleased to give it only to those who, in penitence and humility, bow before him and receive and obey His word. 

I want to call your attention to the operations of that Spirit. You may feel it, but it is like the Savior said: "The wind bloweth : but whither it cometh we know not. 107  whither it goeth." The influence is there, the feeling is there, the emotions are there;and every man or woman who honestly obeys the Gospel of the Lord Jesus receives that Spirit, and that testimony. 

That to me is the strongest testimony of this work. When all other things fail, when doubt and misgivings arise concerning this man or that man, there need never be a failure of the testimony of the Spirit of Truth, if the person is living so he is worthy of it. Men may judge the system, men may judge the doctrine, but none can judge the truth except he who is under the influence of the Spirit of Truth, and whose soul has been mellowed by its wonderful power. It is the same spirit that has moved upon the divine teachers, sages and prophets of all ages. 

I often think of that man Columbus. When he was westward bound across the mighty deep, when his men were dissatisfied, and mutinied and decided to cast him overboard unless he would listen to them and turn back, with death staring him in the face, with angry and determined men threatening him — I wonder that he could continue to plead with them for more time. Imagine how he felt on the third day, when the time was lapsing, when before him was apparently nothing but disappointment or a watery grave. Did he falter? Did he show timidity, or a laxity of faith in the object of his research? Not for one moment! Now I want to ask you, my friends, my brethren and sisters, what was it that moved upon him? Undoubtedly it was the Spirit of God. Somehow, he knew that success would yet perch upon his banner. Somehow, he under that his efforts would terminate in success. Could he prove or demonstrate that feeling? No. but he could feel it, and I say to you, that even as he felt and understood his success before it was achieved, so do we know that this is the work of God. The same spirit that urged him on in the face of adversity and a watery grave, the same is that which actuates our boys when they go out in the mission field and come in contact with men of wisdom and learning and understanding. They are inspired with something within, and they are undaunted, courageous, and unfearing. 

This feeling that brings yon up from Arizona and Mexico on the south, and Canada on the north, from the Atlantic States, from all over the world, is the Spirit that moves upon the hearts of men and women in every nation under the whole heaven, where this gospel is preached, to turn their thoughts to this city on the sixth day of April and on the sixth day of October, and anticipate with deep concern and profound anxiety the utterances made from these pulpits upon these occasions. I say it is the Spirit of God moving upon them, and it is moving upon you. 

Brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony to you. I understand a part of this doctrine, and as I understand it, I believe that it is true : I may say I know that it is true. I am not ashamed of it, because I know it to be the power of God unto salvation. 

May God grant that we may be faithful and true to this cause, that we may not be unworthy of it, and that our Father in heaven may never have cause to be ashamed of us, either individually or collectively. GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the prayer of your humble servant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Prof. William C. Clive rendered a violin solo, "Berceuse." 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, in listening to the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith at the beginning of our conference, I was impressed with the strength of the same; and my mind went back over his life. I thought of how the Lord had prepared him to do the work that he lias done during his life-time, and the labors that he is now doing and how he had been prepared to bear the powerful testimony that he gave to the Latter-day Saints concerning Christ, and the gospel that has been established in the earth. 

T was reminded of Joseph who was sold into Egypt as a bov, how lie was isolated from his parents, and how he grew up in a foreign land, and yet God prepared him to save His people. Following my thought of Joseph who was sold into Egvpt, I remembered the lonely life of John the Baptist, and how God prepared him for his life work. Our Heavenly Father gave his mother a witness of the mission that he would perform in the earth, and no doubt, as other mothers teach their sons, this mother taught her son the mission that he would have to perform. 

Following John the Baptist. T remembered the life of Christ and the fore-knowledge of his mother. Earlv in life Testis declared to His mother, and to the world, that He "must be about His Father's business." While we have little knowl of His life after that until He began His great ministry in the earth, there is no doubt that on many occasions He had revealed to Him, in harmony with His mother's teachings, that He was indeed the Son of God. which prepared Him to know what He was about when He went to John the Baptist and asked for baptism, and to know the mission that He had to perform in the earth. Being thus early prepared. He was strengthened for the great labors devolving upon Him in doing His Father's will. 

As in days of old. our Father took Joseph Smith, as a bov and prepared him for his life's mission. T have often told the people what a wonderful thing it was for Joseph Smith to believe in the things he taught to the world. How wonderful it would be to the voting men in the world if they believed, as Joseph Smith did. that the heavens had been opened and that God had spoken to them. Instead of spending their lives from fourteen to eighteen in foolish play, it would settle them in their life's mission. The Prophet Joseph Smith was so settled when, from the age of fourteen to eighteen the weight of his mission rested upon him, and he prayed. "< ), Father, I can stand this no longer." In answer to that prayer, an angel came with additional light, with more evidence concerning the great work he was to perform. Although everv additional thing that our Father imparted to him increased the responsibilitv. he was prepared for his life's labor. 

It has given me a great deal of joy, to visit the noted places in Church history. When I visited the home of the Prophet Toseph Smith and took into account that he was a humble boy, who had never prayed in public in his life, I felt that I could sympathize with him, as he went seeking a secluded place where he could talk to his Father alone. In listening to many ministers at a revival he was convinced in his heart that some of the churches were wrong, and desired in his soul to know which one was right. He sought a place that he might ask his Father in heaven concerning these things. Leaving the house, he crossed the road and passed through the barn down to the little meadow and across the creek into the wood, three hundred yards from the house. In the seclusion of that grove he knelt down and supplicated his God to know which of all the churches was right. Answering the humble petition, our Father in heaven manifested Himself unto him, together with His Son, Jesus Christ, and thus the last dispensation of the gospel was ushered in. I have wished that hundreds of the young men in Zion at the early age of fourteen years, could have some such experience come into their lives to settle them in their mission in the earth. It has been my privilege to labor with a thousand young men in the Northern States Mission. They are good, clean, honest boys, but they have not in their lives a conviction so settled and a purpose so fixed as had the Prophet Joseph Smith. If they had half the faith that Joseph Smith possessed at fourteen years of age, they would be greater and more powerful missionaries than they are today. Yet, after they have been there a while, and undergo a few trials and some persecutions, be turned away without a bed and hungry, they find that God is their only friend, and a portion of  spirit that filled the Prophet Joseph Smith comes upon these elders. Before two years are over, they, too, are powerful in their ministrations under the influence of the Spirit of God, in their declaration to the world that our Father has established His Church and kingdom in the earth. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, as a boy of fourteen, knew beyond question or doubt that God lives, and that Jesus Christ was the Son of God, for the Father made it known unto him in his youth and it continued with him all the days of his life. 

We often hear that God established this latter-day work through the boy-Prophet Joseph Smith. He was a boy in years, but not a boy in experience. Our Father in heaven took Joseph Smith as a boy and gave him the greatest lesson that has been given to man since Jesus Christ was upon the earth. It so impressed his life, and weighed so much upon his mind, that he declared, "I can stand the power and influence of this lesson no longer." Continuing his education God sent angels to him, and year by year schooled him until he was about twenty-four years of age. He then brought him out of that school a post-graduate, as it were, in the knowledge of God and the things of God. He had little knowledge concerning the affairs of men in the earth, and in order to fill the great mission to which he had been called he had to follow the commands of God. 

So Joseph Smith, taught of God, prepared of our Father, learned of Him, established this work, no longer a boy but a man, and a Prophet in . his knowledge of the things of God. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

As before remarked, I have often wished that our sons and daughters, the young men and young women of Zion could have a similar impress in their lives, so that, instead of wasting much of their time in frivolity, they could feel a portion of the responsibility that Joseph Smith felt. We have a mission in the earth and ought to be well prepared to deliver to men this message that our Father has committed unto us. It is our mission to preach Christ and Him crucified. It is our mission to proclaim to the world that the heavens have been opened and the gospel message delivered anew to mankind for their salvation. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the life of Joseph Smith and how God prepared him for his great mission in the world. He prepared in a similar manner Joseph of old. He prepared John the Baptist, He gave to His only begotten Son the knowledge of who He was, and reared Him under that influence to be the Redeemer of the world. He prepared Joseph Smith also, to perform a great mission in these last days, prepared him as an instrument to establish the Church and kingdom of our Father. As Latter-day Saints we rejoice in the great truths that God has given to us through the humble boy Joseph Smith. We feel that they have come from our Father. In mingling together in general conference we build up our faith in God and go home congratulating each other that we are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

True, my brethren and sisters, we are called upon, as other peoples have been, to make sacrifice for this great work. We call it a sacrifice,  I wonder if any of us begrudge the labors we have done, if any of us would recall the time and means we have expended in declaring to the world this message of glad tidings. I would not. I feel that I have been paid many times over for the time and all the means that I have expended in preaching to the world this glorious message. I love the world and the men and women in it who love truth and righteousness. There are thousands of them, and when their eyes are opened and they understand, as we understand, they will be just as eager as we to do the will of the Father. Sometimes I wonder if they, with their education and learning, should embrace the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, if the young men of Zion would not lose their place, while those now outside become teachers of the people of Zion. I sometimes feel that the young men and young women of Zion have too easy a life. Mother and father have killed the snakes, grubbed the brush, dug the ditches, and now we are basking in the sunshine, and enjoying the luxuries that they have prepared for us, instead of bumping against the hard things of the world and preparing ourselves for our life's mission, as they prepared themselves. 

Joseph who was sold into Egypt felt his isolation and loneliness, no doubt John the Baptist felt his isolation; and the Savior of the world, as he stood among those wise men, at twelve years of age, felt howlonely He was. I am sure after He had His great temptation and the angels of our Father came and administered to Him, He felt comforted in His great loneliness. I am sure the Prophet Joseph Smith felt greatly relieved when he took Ill  three witnesses into the woods and there had the privilege of sharing with them the great burden that he had been carrying alone. Again, in the manifestations in Kirtland Temple, I am sure his heart rejoiced when he was able to share a portion of the burden that had been resting upon him for years. Lincoln, and Washington, and other great men in this world have felt the responsibility of their life's mission, and at times experienced loneliness, but it prepared them to do the great work they each have done in life. 

Now, I am reminded of our present President of the Church, how, as a boy, he crossed these plains with a widowed mother; how, as a boy, he was under the benign influence of that saddened though strong hearted mother, a mother who assumed in full the responsbilitv she owed to her children. As a bov he must have felt sometimes that all things were against him; yet he cheerfully responded when sent to the Sandwich Islands on a mission at the tender age of fifteen, to declare the truths that had left him without a father's care. I feel sure that the hard experiences he had in early life helped to mould his character, therefore it is no wonder he speaks to us today in power and declares, with a testimony that goes to the heart of every man and woman honest in soul, that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. 

As I have said, my brethren and sisters, our Father has prepared men in their youth, throughout all the world, to do the great work they accomplished in after years. Take Samuel the Prophet, King David, and hundreds of others that our Father has used; He has prepared them early in life, and told  what their mission would be. Now, the young men and voung women of the Latter-day Saints, through the teaching of their mothers and fathers, ought to know what their life's mission is, and prepare in seriousness, early in life to carry to the world the great message, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that His gospel has been established in the last days for the salvation of the children of men. If we, as His chosen people in this day, as His favored people, with this glorious testimony, do not do the work that rests upon us, our Father will raise up sons and daughters who will do it in an acceptable manner before Him! 

I believe the Latter-day Saints, as a whole, realize their great mission, and are preparing themselves and their children to do this work; but, although the missionaries that come to us in the Northern States are good young men, I find that many of them have had life too easy, they have not felt responsibility enough at home. Few of them have preached much, if any at home. Few of them have done enough in family worship in their homes. I think that we should add a little more responsibility to our sons and daughters, and give them just a little more practical religion in the tender years of their life. We ought to put our arms around them and impress upon them like Mary did upon her son, His life's mission; like Elizabeth impressed upon her son, the mission he was to perform, and like the mother of the Prophet Joseph F. Smith impressed upon her son what his life's mission was. He has been schooled with the prophets from tender boyhood, and no wonder his testimony thrills the Latter-day Saints. We GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to heed his counsel, and walk uprightly as he does. We ought to follow the commandments the Lord gives through him, and bless God for his example, his character, and his testimony to us that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. 

May our Father help us, and prepare us for the great mission to declare to the world, that God our Father lives, that Jesus Christ is His Son, and that He has established His work in the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard sang the favorite missionary hymn, "I will go where you want me to go." 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

( President of Western States Mission.) 

"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that they who believe on Him might not perish, but have everlasting life." 

One of the testimonies that I have gained in the church is that we are prepared to sacrifice all ties for the good of God's work. When God gave His only begotten Son it seems that He has demanded, not only since that time but in all ages and dispensations when the gospel has been upon the earth, that those who love Him must be ready to die as He has done, if necessary — sacrifice that which is near and dear to them. In olden times, you will recall, Abraham was called upon to offer up his son. In that time it seemed some outward sacrifice was demanded. People had to burn sacrifice, they had to burn beasts and fowls. But in the meridian of time, when the Savior came and when He re mankind by giving His life,, the divine command for that kind of sacrifice was fulfilled, they were no longer demanded. However, the kind of sacrifice that we have to> give is none the less important. 

When the Savior came and the rich man asked him what he should do that he might inherit eternal life, he was told some of the commandments that had been given before. But he said, "All these have I kept from my youth up." Then Jesus said to him, "Sell that thou hast and give to the poor and come and follow me." That was the sacrifice demanded of him, but he could not make that sacrifice, he could not livethat life. That was the principle that was taught during the time the Savior was upon the earth, and when He dispensed blessings that have come to us — to every one that came within His radius. 

In this day, when the Prophet Joseph Smith was made the instrument to bring forth this latter-day work, he began to make sacrifice from the moment that the vision was opened up to him, and in every move he made and everything he did, not only in his life but in the lives of his people sacrifice was demanded. You may recall that in the year 1835. when Zion's Camp was called together, after they had been out into the West, those men who had been called forth to give their lives, if need be, for this work, they were assembled for the great purpose of choosing the twelve apostles in the church, the first twelve apostles and also the first seventy, upon whom devolved the responsibility of spreading the gospel to the world. And when they were met together, the Prophet said to them, "Some of you are angry with me because I would not 113  you fight when you wanted to. God did not want us to fight, but He wanted us to live our lives as He had directed. It is His will that those who are chosen to be the first twelve apostles to the world and the first quorum of seventy should be chosen from Zion's Camp, from among the men who had been ready to give sacrifice, even such as Abraham of old." That is how these men were chosen — by revelation; they had to be men of that character, men who were ready, not only to give their own lives but the lives of those who were near and dear to them. A man's own life is not dear to him sometimes, if it comes to a question of those he loves. My life would not be much to me, if I could give it for one of my children. When men have been ready to sacrifice all that they had in the world, that is the kind of men God has required since the beginning to take charge of His work. And so men have gone forth, leaving their wives and their families, even in destitute circumstances. What for? To go and preach the gospel to those who were in darkness. So today, my brethren and sisters, you parents who are here today, you young men who have been in the mission field and you who are candidates to go, we have it in our hearts to do the same bidding, to go and do Christ's service, to preach His word, to do His will and follow the direction of those who are placed over us in this church. We cannot know, we cannot appreciate, the blessings that shall come to us, unless we taste some of the bitterness of life. We cannot know how to appreciate the sweet unless the bitter comes into our lives. So it is with us in everything we do. 

The lines of a poet come to my mind, which exemplify the position of the Latter-day Saints. We have to suffer in order to be blessed, and when we realize this one thing, it is a wonderful consolation for us in our lives. 

"All wondering and eager-eyed, 

Within her portico, I made my plea of Hostess Life, 

One morning long ago. 'Pray, show me this great house of thine, 

Xor close a single door, 

For many rooms and curious things And treasures great and small. 

Within this spacious mansion lie. And I would see them all.' 

Then Hostess Life turned silently Her searching gaze on me, 

And with no word she reached her hand, 

And offered up the key. 

It opened first the Door of Hope. 

And long I lingered there, Until I soied the Room of Dreams, 

Just higher by a stair, And then a door, whereon the word 

'Hapoiness' was writ, But when I tried the little key, 

I could not make it fit. 

It unlocked the door of 'Pleasure's Room,' 

Where ev'rything seemed so bright, But after I had stayed a while, 

It somehow lost its light; And wandering down the little hall, 

I came upon a room Marked 'Duty,' and entered it 

To find myself in gloom. 

Along its shadowy walls I groned 

My weary way about, And found that from dull Duty's Room 

The door of toil led out. It led out into another room, 

Whereon a crimson stain, Marked sullenly against the dark. 

The words, 'The Room of Pain.' 

But oh! the light, the light, the light! 

That spilled down from above! And upward wound the stairs of Fairh, 

Right to the Tower of Love. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

And when I came forth from that place, 

I tried the little key, And lo! the Door of Happiness 

Swung open wide and free." 

And so with you, my friends, you who are ready to sacrifice and send your sons and daughters into the world to preach the gospel you may rest assured, my brethren and sisters, that when the time of reckoning shall come that the Lord shall count you among His worthy children. He shall account your sons and daughters blessed and when you shall leave this earth, and shall join together with each other in the family circle, God shall call you blessed, because you have seen fit to worship Him in spirit and in truth while you have been upon the earth. 

My testimony to you is that this work is true, that God's directing hand is over it, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and that everything that has been done since the inception of this work has been guided and directed by a supreme hand, a hand that shall continue to guide and direct this work so long as the world shall last. May God bless us all I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet. 

To guide us in these latter days; Wc thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder F. R. Lyman. 


