Afternoon
06 10 1910

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Redeemer of Israel, our only delight, 

On whom for a blessing we call, Our shadow by day, and our pillar by night. 

Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all! 

Prayer was offered by Elder Rev L. Pratt. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform; He plants His footsteps in the sea, 

And rides upon the storm. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

I am sure we were all very much delighted, this morning, to have with us the president of our Church, to listen to the strong testimony that he bore and to the good instructions we received from the presidency of the Church. I rejoice in seeing so many faithful Latter-day Saints present here this afternoon, many that I have had the opportunity of meeting in the various stakes of Zion. I rejoice in the attendance of these my brethren, the presidents of the various stakes of Zion.  so many bishops and workers in various capacities in the Church. I know of their labors and their devotion; I know of the time they are spending, the efforts they are devoting to the growth and upbuilding of the Church in the various stakes and wards and fields where they are laboring. 

We have ample evidence of the divinity of this latter-day work. Our attention is sometimes called to the weight of testimony that exists in the world in behalf of Christianity, and it is asserted that the evidence itself is sufficient to convince men of the divinity of Christianity aside from the matter of faith or the whispering to them of the still small voice. The same may be said of the evidence in support of the divinity of Mormonism. The Lord was very careful in laying the foundation for the coming forth of Mormonism, to have the testimony so clear and explicit that the understanding and reason of men might be appealed to. In addition to the appeals to faith, it was a part of the program that three men should be selected and called as special witnesses to the divinity of the Book of Mormon and its divine translation. That was thought of, centuries before the book was translated, and, of course, care was exercised by the Father in the selection of men who would be true to that testimony, men who would never falter, men who would not betray the trust that was reposed in them by the Father, of bearing the great honor of being witnesses of the divine translation of the Book of Mormon. They were true to that trust. Men examining, from the outside, the evidences upon which Mormonism rests, are convinced more and more of the fact that these men were sin. There was no motive for falsehood upon their part. There was not the hope of financial reward, or anything of that sort, that would induce them to state that which was false. The very fact that each of the three was not able to live according to the strict discipline of the Church, and the Prophet disciplined them the same as he would other members of the Church, is an evidence to all mankind that there was no collusion or corrupt connivance between the Prophet and these witnesses to the divine translation of the Book of Mormon. The fact that two of them came back into the Church, sued humbly to again become members of the Church, is an evidence that they were convinced to the last that the work was of God. The other witness who did not come back into the Church was, nevertheless, as strong in his testimony, as printed in the Book of Mormon, to the day of his death, as he ever was. One of our elders visited David Whitmer a few years before his death, and put in verse the substance of an interview with him. The lines were' afterwards read to David Whitmer, and he agreed that it was a correct statement of the interview. That part of the verses bearing upon his testimony printed in the Book of Mormon, is as follows. When asked if it was true that he had seen a heavenly messenger who showed him the sacred record upon plates of gold, 

"He lifted ur> his voice, and thus replied : 

My written statement I have ne'er denied; 

I saw the angel, and I heard his voice, And wond'rous things, that made my heart rejoice. 

"This interview was sought with earnest prayer, The Prophet and three witnesses were there; 

But Martin, conscience-struck, declined to stay, 

And wandered off alone, to watch and pray. 

"I do not know the angel's rank, or name, 

Who on this great and glorious mission came; 

I know that he was clothed with oower and might, 

And was surrounded with effulgent light. 

"No tongue can tell the glory and the power 

That was revealed to us in that blest hour; 

The plates of brass and gold the angel took, 

And olaced before us like an open book. 

"We saw the fine engravings on them, too, 

And heard the voice declare the book is true; 

No power on earth could from our 

minds efface The glorious visions of this trystingplace. 

"We've done, as then commanded we 

should do. And testified the 'Mormon Book' is true; 

And was translated by the power given 

The Prophet Joseph by the God of Heaven. 

"Thousands of people have been here to see 

The 'copy' Oliver has left with me; The characters, moreover, Martin took Professor Anthon — words of sacred book. 

"Some visit me who Mormonism hate. Some ranking low, and some of high estate; 

I tell them all, as now I say to vou, The Book of Mormon is of God, and true. 

"In yonder room I have nreserved with care 

The printer's copy, and the words so rare, 

The very words from Nephi's sacred book, 

That Martin to Professor Anthon took. 

"If this be not the truth, there is no truth, 

And I have been mistaken from mv youth; 

If I'm mistaken, you may know from thence 

That there's no God, no law, no life, no sense. 

"I know there is a God — I've heard 

His voice, And in His power and truth do still 

rejoice; 

Though fools may ridicule and laugh todav 

They yet shall know the truth of what I say. 

"I've suffered persecution at the hands 

Of hireling preachers, and their Christian bands; 

I've braved their hatred and have them withstood. 

While thirsting: for the youthful Prophet's blood. 

"They came, four hundred strong, with 

visage bold, And said. 'Deny this story you have 

told; 

And by our sacred honor, we'll engage 

To save you from the mob's infuriate rage.' 

"A mighty power came on me, and I s^ake 

In words that made the guilty mobbers quake; And trembling seized the surging 

crowd, and fear, But left unharmed, I felt that God was 

near."* 

The other witnesses, like David, remained true to the last. One of them, before re-joining the Church, in bearing a very strong testimony to the words he had first given, sai.d that by the help of God it should be his dying testimony; and, strangely 

*An interview with David Whitmer, in August. 1883, by James H. Hart, of Bloomington, Idaho. , the same elder who heard him make that declaration was present at his deathbed, and the last distinguishable words that he uttered were in confirmation and support of the testimony as printed on the fly leaf of the Book of Mormon. 

And with the eight, also, who testified that they saw the plates, handled them, and lifted them; although three of them sidestepped and were not able to endure the hardships that bore upon the followers of the Church at that time, nor to live according to the strict requirements and discipline of the Church, yet those three of the eight witnesses never denied the testimony that they gave. 

Men are inclined to say that these were subjective experiences — these so-called miracles; but that cannot be true; that is not true. If the angel spoke to the Prophet Joseph of golden plates, there were the golden plates in confirmation of the information received, demonstrating beyond all question that it was not a mere matter of the mental condition or the subjective state of mind of the prophet. 

Men realizing that there is no ground for questioning the sincerity of these witnesses, are inclined now to concede their sincerity, but to question the accuracy of their observation. That position is as weak as to question the sincerity of the witnesses. It is a possibility for one individual to have a delusion of a single sense. That is within the experience of, perhaps, most of us, the possibility of having deluded, temporarily, a particular sense, particularly the sense of sight. Many of us may have had the experience of looking out over an alkali plain and having it appear to us to be a lake of water; or of seeing small shrubs  a distance which under the operation of a mirage, appear to be tall trees; just as shrubs growing at or near the northern part of the Great Salt Lake appeared to Colonel John C. Fremont and his explorers to be trees. But when we have the sense of sight verified by the sense of touch, or the sense of hearing, then we may know of a surety whether or not there has been any delusion of the sense of sight. It would be a very singular thing for two men, or more, to have the sense of hearing, or the sense of touch, or any other sense deluded in exactly the same way at the same time. It is unthinkable to suppose that the three witnesses had a delusion of the sense of sight and of the sense of hearing at the same time, exactly in the same way; or that the three witnesses had their senses impaired so that they experienced a delusion not only of the sense of sight but of the sense of touch also — because they handled the plates. They saw the fine engravings upon the golden plates, and observed the curious workmanship, the ancient appearance of the plates; and, in addition to that, they tested the matter with the physical sense by "hefting" the plates, as they expressed it. So that when we have all those various senses of the witnesses conjoin in bearing to them the same percepts, we cannot reasonably explain away their testimony by supposing that it was a delusion upon their part. 

The modern theory of psychologists who attempt an explanation of Mormonism, is based very largely upon the sincerity of the prophet, Joseph Smith, and the sincerity of the witnesses, but that they were deluded. But, Mormonism cannot be explained away on the ground of some psychological misinterpretation or delusion. The gospel is impregnable against scrutiny from a psychological standpoint, as well as from any other standpoint that we may view it from. I think there was a purpose in having those various senses appealed to, just as I think there was a purpose in the manifestation of our Lord and Savior to His disciples, after His resurrection. You will remember that He was not content to give them a mere view, a mere vision of His person, but that they might be assured, and that the children of men to the latest generations might be assured that it was no delusion of the sense of sight, that those disciples witnessed in the appearance of the Savior to them, He said, "Handle me, and see." They were asked to thrust their hands in His side, and feel the prints of the nails in His hands and in His feet, to know that it was a bodily presence, and not a mere apparition, or a mere vision, as the atheist has tried to claim, and, perhaps, would have successfully maintained with a good many persons, had it not been for the additional evidence that was presented by the sense of touch. 

Neither can objection be made to these circumstances that are testified to, on the ground of the miraculous. Of course, the atheist states the question in such a form that there can scarcely be proof of such a thing as a miracle. He says : "There must be a uniform experience against every miraculous event, otherwise the event would not merit the appellation." He thus places the miraculous outside of experience, so that the moment you establish the fact of the existence of the so-called miraculous, it then enters the realm of that which is based upon testimony or experience. There  this weakness to be noted in the strength of what is supposed to be according to uniform experience, and that is that it rests upon negative testimony, very largely, while a miracle, so-called — that which is miraculous to us — when properly supported by testimony, has the weight of affirmative proof. Where a fact is properly verified, athough not within the realm of that which ordinarily occurs, yet if it is properly attested by the affirmative proof it is entitled to great weight as against the negative statements of those who have not been privileged to witness anv such manifestations. 

The poet Tennyson, tells us that "faith and un faith can ne'er be equal powers," that "un faith in aught is lack of faith in all." The extent to which that may be true I shall not discuss, except to point out the application of it to lack of faith in these fundamentals that were discussed by President Smith this morning; for if we have unfaith in the existence of God, that in itself is far-reaching and amounts to lack of faith in all. This is true, also, to a very large extent, in reference to the foundation principles upon which Mormonism rests. A want of faith in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the divine establishment of Mormonism, and the prophetic mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, would be all-pervading in its consequences, so far as belief in Mormonism is concerned. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the fact that in the establishment of Mormonism, so-called, and the enunciation of its principles, reason is appealed to, as well as faith. Some one has asserted that "faith is a higher faculty than reason." I rejoice in the fact that our gospel appeals not only to faith but also to  reason. That is true of the doctrines given us in this book that came to us in such a marvelous manner, the Book of Mormon. The principles announced there are reasonable, and are based on reason, and the same is true in reference to the glorious doctrines contained in that other product of nineteenth century inspiration, the Doctrine and Covenants. I do not feel to enter upon a discussion of that field, of the beauties of the principles contained and announced in those books, of the way in which they are supported by the writings of the philosophers, nor of the way in which they appeal to our reason. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and enable us to realize, deep down in our heart of hearts, the truths of Mormonism, its divine founding, that it is God's work, that He has guided it in the past and will continue to guide it in the future. May we be faithful and true to the trusts reposed in us, and do our part in helping to establish this great work in the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MUHRIN. 

( Of First Council of Seventy.) 

I attended a fast meeting last Sunday afternoon, my brethren and sisters, and immediately after the bishop of the ward had made the announcement that the time would be given to the people of the ward, one of the sisters instantly arose to her feet. She made the statement that she had frequently sat through the entire time of a testimony meeting, in uneasiness and anxiety, with the feeling that she ought to bear  testimony, but frequently she had sat and listened and suffered until the opportunity had passed by. The sister to whom I refer expressed the feeling that by taking advantage of the opportunity of speaking at the very commencement she would be able to sit in peace, and enjoy the balance of the meeting. My brethren and sisters, it was very much of a surprise to me to be called upon to address this great gathering this afternoon. I have the satisfaction, however, of feeling somewhat as the sister I have referred to; that is, that through my turn to speak coming so early in the services, I will be able to enjoy more completely all the balance of the meetings, as there will be no reason for me having any further feeling of anxiety as to the part I am to play in the conference. I frequently have a very great deal of anxiety in regard to this responsibility, and often hear other brethren express similar thoughts relative to this duty. Yesterday I heard a prominent brother say he would prefer going anywhere, to any of the stake conferences, even where long, hard journeys had to be made rather than stand up in this great building, in a general, conference, and undertake to instruct the people. 

When a man occupies this position, he certainly feels that he is dependent upon the help and inspiration of the Lord, it is out of the question for any man, of his own ability, to speak words that will be for the encouragement and the edification of the great number who gather together upon these occasions. Men also know, notwithstanding their weaknesses, that by the blessing, and help, and inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, they frequently discharge the duty of speaking publicly to the satisfaction and blessing of those who come under the sound of their voices. I trust that as we have been blest in the teachings that have already been delivered in our hearing, that we shall continue to have the blessings of the Lord in all that may be said to us in the balance of our conference meetings. 

I rejoice very greatly in the fervent testimonies that were borne this morning by the president of the Church and his counselors. We all have reason to feel encouraged, when we discover that the presiding authority, the men upon whom the very greatest responsibility rests, have a perfect assurance that the work to which we have set our hands, as a people, is the work of the living God, that it has not been established by the will or wisdom of mortal man, but that it has come into existence by the decree of our Father in heaven. Assurances, through the gift, and power, and inspiration of the Holy Spirit, have come into their souls concerning the truth of Mormonism. I suppose that in the heart of each of you who heard .these testimonies, this morning, there was a feeling that a like testimony and revelation concerning the truth had been given to you. I am very happy in my feelings, my brethren and sisters, because of this same knowledge, a knowledge that has been given by the power of God. This understanding can not come by the teaching of parents, or bishops, or other authorities alone, although all such precious teachings may have tended to help bring many of us to an understanding of the truth. When one has a convincing testimony of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ,  comes by the power of God, and not by the teachings of men, however precious those teachings may have been. 

We heard a little, this morning, from President Lund, in relation to the work of some of the auxiliary organizations in the Church, and we all know, as members of the church, that very great attention has always been given to the education of the young people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. It is common to hear from those who are not of us, and sometimes, to hear from sources that should and do know better, that we are a people who love ignorance. Our enemies say that the leaders of the Church do not desire the young people to be educated in common  with the young people of the nation. The story of Mormonism, in relation to education, when it is written, will be a very wonderful story, for the story of Mormonism is a story of education. It commenced in the very beginning, with an education of the highest character. God, our Father in heaven, chose from among the great hosts of men who were upon the earth, a simple youth to introduce the great work of the latter days. In order that he might be qualified for the accomplishment of this great responsibility, he was taken through a course of training and education by heavenly beings, and he was trained also by the revelations of the Lord, God of Heaven to him. By the intelligence that was thus communicated to him by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the very commencement, he was made to comprehend and understand that the glory of God is intelligence and that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." That has been  story of Mormonism, from the days of Joseph Smith up to the present time. 

I doubt whether any other people can be found, upon the face of the whole earth, who in addition to paying their taxes, in common with the rest of the citizens, do as much per capita as the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the education of the youth of the people. I am of the opinion that there is more given, from the tithings of the people, for the education of the rising generation than is given to any other one item in the development of the work of the Church. My understanding is that hundreds of thousands of dollars are contributed annually, by the Trustee-in-Trust, to keep up the great Church school system that has been inaugurated throughout the various stakes in Zion. There are a great number of schools that have been planted, by the direction of the presiding authorities. Splendid buildings have been erected by the free will offerings of the people and by the assistance of the Church funds. Hundreds of thousands of dollars — possibly it may run into a million or more — have been given by the people for the erection of buildings wherein their children can be instructed in the wisdom and learning of the world and where they can be instructed also, in the learning that pertains to the kingdom of God. 

In traveling among the people, in visiting the various stake conferences, it has been my privilege, frequently, to meet with the young people who are studying in these various Church academies. I have been very greatly impressed with the evidences of the spirit of inspiration, the spirit of the Lord  is manifest in the students and in the men and women who are engaged in this work, in our various Church schools. I am glad that the people appreciate, to a very great extent, the wonderful advantages that are given wherever church schools have been established, and that as a general thing these schools are well attended. They ought to be attended to their fullest capacity. It ought to be the cry of every one of these organizations that they are crowded to the very doors. This would be the condition if the people, the fathers and the mothers of the young folks, properly appreciated the great blessings that come to the youth of Israel in being trained in the things of God. While the children obtain this precious religious instruction in the Church schools they obtain every other educational advantage that can be had in any of the high schools of the state. We should not forget that this religious education is desirable and profitable above all other education. It is a serious thing, indeed, to have an education in the secular things of the world, and be ignorant concerning the will of God our Creator, and feel that we do not owe any allegiance to the Father that has created us, and has planted within us the wonderful power and intelligence that has so distinguished the human family. I say to all the fathers, and to all the mothers in Israel, take advantage of the Church school system, that has been established, that your sons and daughters may be educated to believe in the precious things that have been revealed. In these schools your children are under gospel influences not alone for the half hour or more that may be given to special religious instruction, but they are under the spirit and inspiration of the Lord, in these blessed institutions, from the moment they enter the building in the morning until they leave in the afternoon. Hard indeed will be the heart of the boy or girl who can be brought under such influences, day after day, and not have their hearts touched and be eventually brought to believe in the doctrines of the Church, as they have been revealed in the age in which we are living. 

In connection with this subject, there has been anxiety on the part of the presiding authorities to know how all the hosts of children within the borders of Zion might be benefited by this system of education. You know when we hear the statistics of the Sunday School organizations, we discover that there are over 100,000 children, enrolled in the Sunday Schools of the Church, but there are only about ten thousand of this hundred thousand or more that have the advantages that are to be obtained in Church schools. There has been and is now, anxiety on the part of the presiding authorities to know how the other ninety thousand might be benefited. As a result of that anxiety, and of their prayers to our Father in heaven, the inspiration of the Lord of heaven came upon His servants, and they were directed to introduce into the Church what is known as the Religion Class organization. The very purpose and object of the Religion Class organization is to bring to every town and to every hamlet throughout the entire Church the advantages and benefits that it has been demonstrated flow so abundantly from the religious instructions that are imparted in our Church schools. Yet, we occasionally learn, in listening to reports that are made  the various stakes, that there are men, sometimes those who occupy positions of honor in the midst of the people, who do not seem to give that hearty welcome and that whole-souled support to this organization to which it is entitled. 

It ought to be known to all the people that the Religion Class organization has come into existence in a legitimate manner. It has had birth under the direction of the presiding authorities of the Church, the Presidency and the Twelve, and in our general conference, year after year, if you will take note, we lift up our hands supporting the general authorities of the Religion Class organization, President Anthon H. Lund standing as the general superintendent, with Elder Rudger Clawson and Elder Hyrum M. Smith of the council of the twelve, as his assistants. We thus give evidence, by our vote in general conference, that we recognize the worth of this organization, and that it has a place and a right in the midst of the people. It ought to be known to every president, and to every bishop, in Zion, to every father and mother, and to every man and woman who labors for the upbuilding of Zion, that there cannot be a properly and fully organized ward in any of the stakes of Zion where there is not a Religion Class organization. It has come by divine appointment. It is for the blessing and preservation and education of the youth of the Latterday Saints. The ideal to which the general board, and the authorities in the Religion Classes are laboring, is to bring to the children instruction in religion every day that they attend the public schools. It is not their desire to bring this religious instruction into the school, or in  way interfere with the rights arid privileges of children of parents who are not of us — for every church organization should have the liberty to teach to the children belonging to parents of such organization, those principles that they believe necessary to their proper education in religious and moral truth. And that is our right, no matter who may oppose it. It is not only our right, but it is a responsibility that rests upon us as men exercising authority, to take advantage of the opportunities that abound, and bring to the children not only one day in the week but two days, or more days, as it may be possible, according to our circumstances, a Religion Class instruction. When our children graduate from the public schools in secular learning they should be ready to graduate also in religious learning. As a result of proper attention to Religion Class work, faith in God would be established in our children, and they would love the truth as it has been revealed, and grow up to manhood and womanhood, honoring God, honoring the authority of His Priesthood, recognizing the fact that there are men called, in the age in which we live, to bear the authority of God. 

If our children learn to respect this authority and to have proper reverence for the men who hold the holy priesthood, they will be honorable men and women and will bring joy and peace and happiness to our hearts. When we discover that our sons or daughters think or speak lightly of the authority that God has conferred upon man, we have reason to feel very anxious indeed, for we may know that they are straying away from the light that has been revealed; and that light, as we  been told, is the power of God unto salvation. 

I rejoice in the truth and in the knowledge that has come to my soul concerning this work. It is my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that it has been planted by the living God. It is the work spoken of by the holy prophets. God has remembered the promises made to the prophets, and He has set His hand to accomplish His strange and wonderful work in the midst of the nations. The story of Mormonism, from its inception up to the present moment, proves that the God of heaven has planted it, that the God of heaven has sustained it, and the God of heaven will sustain it, forever and forever. That is His promise and his promises, praise be to His holy name, never fail. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Brother David Reese sang a tenor solo, entitled, "The Almighty." 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

( Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, this is a very exalted position for me to be placed in, and I consider it a great honor to stand before so large an audience of Latter-day Saints. I hope I shall be able to make you hear, as my voice warms up, and I trust, under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be inspired to say something that will be of benefit to you and to myself. 

I testify to the goodness of our Heavenly Father in thus permitting to be with us the presidency of the Church, and especially our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith. He informed you this morning, so I will take the liberty of thanking the Lord on that account, that though his spirit was willing, his flesh was somewhat weak. I rejoice that, notwithstanding this, he is with us today and his voice has again rang out in the hearing of the Latter-day Saints, testifying of the divinity of the great work that he and his brethren are engaged in. I believe with all my heart, yea I know that he testified of a verity and truth, that he did not know of having ever betrayed a trust or broken a pledge to his fellow-men. I testify that I believe every word of his testimony, for I have been acquainted with him since he was a very young boy. My acquaintance has never lapsed since that time, that is, there is no time during that interim in which I have not been familiar with his daily walk and conversation. I rejoice' also, in the testimonies given by the other members of the presidency of the Church. I think the prospects are assuring, for the Latter-day Saints today. For the blessings of the Lord that are poured out upon the people without measure, I rejoice exceedingly. 

I had the pleasure of being in Arizona, a very few weeks ago, in the Saint John Stake and in the Saint Joseph Stake of that great country. I think I had not visited the saints in that district for nearly ten years. I found that I was with old friends and acquaintances as of yore, and they welcomed me, with my fellow laborer, Elder George F. Richards. They gave every attention to us and to our exhortations that we could ask for. I am pleased with the progress they are making for Arizona is a great country, and sometime, I trust, in the near future, it will be one of our sister . They are entitled to statehood, in my opinion, as much as any other community in this great nation. While there we had the pleasure of dedicating a new schoolhouse, or a new addition to the Latter-day Saints' Academy, and I must acknowledge that the institution is a credit to the people who live in that land. It is a very fashionable institution, in the way that all the people desire to send their children there for educational purposes. I think it is strictly a Mormon institution, as it is called, yet there are many people not of our faith who endorse the methods of education there adopted, to that degree that they send their children to the academy. 

A few days ago, I had the pleasure of going to the National Irrigation Congress in Colorado, in the city of Pueblo. The traveler, in getting off at the depot of that city, is not favorably impressed with the appearance of the town, for there is nothing to be seen from the depot platform, with the exception of that building and a hotel or two nearby, not first class, however, but common hostelries or inns, and a few saloons. But, as you go up the street, east, and turn north, you come to the city itself, and it is a very beautiful little city, let me assure you, of about fifty thousand inhabitants. They have a park established, and in it are growing beautiful shade trees of almost every class and kind, as well as flowers and grass plentifully. In the midst of that was the building, in which we held our congress, called the Mineral Pavilion. I assure you that between eight and ten hundred delegates assembled in that building, who were earnest and able exponents and educators in the mat of irrigation, and the redemption of the arid soils of the west. 

Ex-Governor Adams read quite a lengthy paper, and in the very beginning he referred to the settlement of Utah by Brigham Young and his band of pioneers, with fervor and with a very excellent spirit, and with excellent remarks in regard to that great pioneer and the saints being entitled to credit as the first exemplars in irrigation, of all this great western country in these latter times. He stated that nothing had been introduced in this form prior to the time of the pioneers, when they began this irrigation system in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, just below this temple block, a few squares away. 

During the same time, probably, that the water was running on to the first furrows planted with seed of grain and potatoes, President Young came up to this part of the flat, and standing upon this ground said, "Here we will build the temple of our God." The inspiration of that hour has come down through the years, and to that degree has it been felt that, as some have said, the Latter-day Saints are admirable because they are not only a praying people, a God-fearing people in their way, but they are a working people who believe in combining their faith with their works. Hence, today, we not only call attention to the promise made by Brigham Young, but we see the result in the temple as it stands in all its excellence and beauty for the admiration of the human family, and, more especially, for the admiration of those who believe in the ordinances of the Lord's house. 

My brethren and sisters, I realize that the work of the Lord is progressive; hence we establish these  schools of which you have heard today, where the Latter-day Saint children are educated not only in a system of general education for the business of daily life, accumulation for the comfort of home, family and friends, but they are educated also in the fear of the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord giveth them understanding, as they have unfolded to them the plan of life and salvation, in a direct and proper manner, taking for study the text books of the Church, in a series of order and progression. When they are graduated from the scientific department, the business department, and the literary department, they have, with that general education, a knowledge of the gospel, grounded into their hearts and souls, as an understanding that will remain with them while life lasts. Hence, they leave the Church schools with a testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ burning in their bosoms. 

% I heard Brother McMurrin's allusions to the Religion class. I am reminded of that class by a saying of old Father Jacob, when he laid his hands upon the head of the boy Joseph; he said, "The archers have shot at you with their arrows, but your bow has abode in strength." So it is with our Religion class. Some have criticised it severely, and reckoned it, I believe, from their expressions of more or less disrespect, a non-essential in the Church. Let me tell you it is just as essential as is the Sunday School, or the Mutual Improvement, or any other auxiliary organization. I was about to say it is of primary importance for our young children — and I will say that. It is of primary importance that our little children begin their religious education when they can easily learn the principles of the gospel, in connection with the secular learning and schools. I am reminded now of a very pretty story in regard to a religion class school, and I will tell it to you. I think I have told it in other congregations. A little boy and a little girl, going to the district school, were invited by some kindly person interested in their welfare — for they were of Latter-day Saint parentage — to attend the Religion class exercises on Friday or Saturday afternoon. They went to the school, and became constant attendants. One evening the little boy and girl sat at the table where their father was reading, and their mother was plying her needle for the benefit of the household. All at once, the little boy leaned across the table and whispered to his mother : "Mamma, ask papa if we may have family prayers, tonight- If he says yes, I would like to pray for the family." The mother turned to the father, who was reading his pamper, and said : "Willie would like to have family prayers with us tonight." "Well," the father replied in a careless tone, "I don't care. If Bill wants to pray, let him pray." So, with this almost grudging consent the little boy knelt down. He pulled his little sister's frock, and she knelt down beside him. Before he began his prayer, he looked up at his mother beseechingly and pulled her apron, as much as to say, "Come with us;" and she knelt down with the children, and the little boy prayed. The next night, the same privilege was asked again, and the little girl led in prayer. This continued for several evenings, and finally the mother was asked to pray. She did pray; for, although family prayers had been a forgotten pleasure and blessing in that house, yet she was easily reminded by the faith of her little children what a blessing it Was to have family prayers renewed. So the mother prayed. The next night came around, and the father sat seemingly indifferent, reading his paper as usual, but when prayer-time approached, just before going to bed, the father looked up suddenly from his paper, threw it down upon the table, and said to the mother : "Ask W illie" — he didn't say "Bill" this time, but he said, "Ask Willie when it will be my turn to pray." You see the bars went down absolutely, the bars that had been placed so securely by the power of the adversary, through neglect by the head of the house; but all bars were down now, and from that time that family became a praving and devout family. 

My brethren and sisters, there is no organization in the Church of ( hrist that is unnecessary. The Lord does not give unnecessary revelations. He does not require work fii in His children that is unnecessary, but He requires of them to accept His laws, to accept and to receive His commandments, and in good and honest hearts, with full purpose, carry out those commandments and keep those laws. Those are the requirements. 

I must say that while I have been away from home, for the last few weeks, to those places I have mentioned, and I have mingled with many people, many men of strong opinions and fervent desires, in the way of accumulating and benefiting themselves, and their neighbor after, I have heard nothing but praise for our people. We have been commended among these men of education, men that have opinions of their own in regard to developing 2 r <  country and its great needs and interests, meeting the same in an effectual and scientific manner, in the redemption of arid soils, the planting of trees, and the growing of grain and fruits to the fullest extent, to make our new West, if possible, superior to the great East in its productions for the benefit of the' human family and of the race occupying these great United States. I have not heard any of them speak disrespectfully of the" Latter-day Saints since I have been away; but all have had a good word for Utah and her laboring people who are with them, helping to redeem the great West and are solving the problems of bringing these arid soils into cultivation, where homes by the thousands can be planted for the people of the overcrowded cities of the East and their posterity. 

My brethren and sisters, Joseph Smith was a true Prophet of God. Brigham Young had the same inspiration, and when the mantle of leadership fell upon him, he like the Prophet Joseph, pointed to the West for a refuge, for a home for the Latter-day Saints; hence our gathering to these mountains. It is according to the revelations of the Lord both by ancient and modern prophets, that we are here today in fulfillment of those great prophecies. I say to you that the organization of the Church is as near complete as it ever has been, and in better and more prosperous condition than I have ever known it to be, and I have been acquainted with the organizations of the Church for a great many years. I want to say, today, that I have in my heart the most sincere and deepest regard and veneration for our leaders, and for  elders, apostles, and presidents who devote their time and service to finding out and applying the best means and methods for educating the youth of Israel and bringing them up to a standard that shall be envied by all the nations of the earth. You mothers are not only mothers of children, in the ordinary sense of the word, but you are becoming the mothers of heroes, mothers of those who will be great in the sight of the Lord and in the sight of the people of the world. Our children are being educated not only for the benefit of themselves and their families after them, but they are being educated to carry the gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth, to preach the Lord Jesus Christ, crucified for the sins of the world, that He might be their Redeemer in very deed, and teaching the people the truths of the gospel as revealed through the proohet Joseph Smith, and proclaimed' bv those who have followed him in the presidency of the Church. 

My brethren and sisters, mav the Lord bless you forever. May vour coming to conference be a bles'sing to you and to your children and to your families whom you have left at home. May His blessing be upon you while you are here, and, when you return, that no evil or accident may happen to any of you, but that you may go in peace to your homes, near-by or distant, carrying with you the spirit of testimony, that has been so prevalent in this conference. May the blessing and favor of the Lord attend you and your children, and your families everywhere, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

( Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We have listened to a number of very strong testimonies that have been given to us during this conference, of the divine mission of Mormonism, and the divine mission of those men whom the Lord raised up to establish this great work in the earth, and through whom the everlasting gospel has been restored to the children of men. I feel sure that the Latter-day Saints who have been favored with hearing these testimonies feel to reioice, this day, in the knowledge that those who testified have spoken the truth. There are many thousands of Latter-day Saints who can bear witness to the same thing. There are many more connected with the Church who. probably, feel they have not yet received a sufficient personal testimony for themselves, and yet I believe that within them there is a spirit that bears witness to the truth of this great work. I do not remember when the first testimony of this truth came to me. It seems to me that I have always known Mormonism to be the truth. T can recall, when I was but a small boy, probably a short time after my baptism at about the age of eight when the Spirit almost lifted me from my feet I felt so happy and light of heart and I felt that God was with me that He lived, and gave joy to my soul. T have often thought of this little experience which happened upon the south bank of City Creek, as I was coming home from school. So vivid and so plain was this manifestation that I have never been able to forget it; it has always been a pleasant memory to me, and one might well think, what was it  gave me such extreme joy? As I have become familiar with the manifestations of the Spirit, in my subsequent life, I have recognized it was the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. I believe that the young men and young women of Zion have this testimony, and many of them do not even know it or recognize it as a testimony. Sometimes you will hear them say that they have not vet received a testimony. I believe that if they would consult their own hearts, look into their own souls, they would recognize that the witness of the spirit has been with them many times. 

How may we come to the knowledge of the truth? This is a question that has deeply interested me. How may men and women in the world come to a knowledge of the truth, and find out whether or not this is the work of God ? How may the young people of Zion, who imagine sometimes that they have not yet received this testimony, how may they come to a knowledge of the truth ? The Lord has marked out the path and the way by which we can receive this testimony, that we may obtain a witness for ourselves. Under the revelations that have been given to the children of men we can find many items that will lead us on, and cultivate faith. We may find a great many things recorded in the scriptures and in the modern revelations that have been given to this people, that will awaken faith in the hearts of the children of men. We may find by logic and by reason the excellency of those principles that have been revealed in the day and age in which we live. We may come, through our reasoning faculties, to a great degree of knowledge and understanding. We may find many things to corroborate the truth as it  come to us. We may have witnesses that the Lord has raised up — concerning- whom Brother Hart gave us an account here this afternoon — to come and bear witness to that which the Lord has revealed to them. But, I wish to call attention to this fact, that no man or woman can know the truth until God shall reveal it to him or her. No man can know the things of God, but the Spirit of God can bear witness of their truth; and it is absolutely essential to every one who would know that this is indeed the work of God, beyond all question, that he shall obtain first the Spirit of God. i\s this Spirit will not and does not dwell in an unclean tabernacle, it follows that we must cleanse and purify our hearts by sincere faith in God, and repentance from sin. Every soul that will adopt this method and seek to obtain forgiveness of sin, from Him who alone can remit our sins, through the holy waters of baptism, he shall come to a knowledge of the truth. If, perchance, after these initial ordinances of the gospel have been complied with, you find yourself still lacking in knowledge and understanding, and in a testimony, do not blame in any degree the ordinances themselves or the truth of those principles, but look deep into your own souls, into your own hearts, and you will find the reason there and nowhere else. 

Latter-day Saints should be ambitious to grow in knowledge of the truth; and if we shall know, even better than we do today, all that we need do is to be better than we are today, to be purer in our thoughts, to be holier in our lives, and our knowledge will increase in proportion. The testimony of the truth is the witness of the Spirit, and as  power of the Spirit grows within us it bears witness to those things that belong to God and to His work. We will not come to this knowledge through the philosophy of men. through the testimony of others, no matter how much we may be aided and assisted in" this manner. Men can not come to the knowledge of the truth in any other way than through the cleansing process of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If I may quote the words of the Savior :  "This doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." If men and women could come to the knowledge of the truth, the knowledge of God — whom to know is eternal life — without repentance of sin, without turning away from evil, without this cleansing process, what would be the result? Why, men would obtain that eternal life in their sins, and the next world would be no better than this. Repentance from sin is the gospel that we have received. This is the gospel of repentance, and it needs daily practice in order that we may perfect ourselves, going on to that perfection which will bring us to the complete knowledge of God. 

I bear witness that this is the truth, that Mormonism, which has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, is only another name for the everlasting gospel, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the only plan that ever was devised, that ever was revealed to man, that has within it the power of God to save the souls of men. May we yield obedience to its principles, practice virtue daily, and grow in the knowledge of God. May we overcome the weaknesses of the flesh, resist evil in all of its forms, and stand for truth. That we may do so, and thereby grow in the knowledge of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The Latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Angus M. Cannon. 


