Morning
09 04 1939

The fifth session of the Conference convened at 10 o'clock Sunday morning, April 9. 

A large concourse of people crowded into the Tabernacle far in advance of the time to commence this meeting, every seat and available space in the large auditorium and galleries, and in the doorways, being occupied by those who had come from the various sections of the Church. The large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was also crowded to capacity, and hundreds of people congregated on the Tabernacle grounds, where, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they listened to the Conference proceedings in the Tabernacle. 

The music for this session was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, director. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the Choir and congregation would join in singing the hymn, "We Thank Thee, 

God, for a Prophet." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Clarence E. Smith, President of the Bear River Stake. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My attention has been called several times during this conference to the prophetic utterance of the Prophet Daniel where he said, speaking of our day : "Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." I never think of the words of Daniel that I do not have a vision of conditions according to the prophecy of Paul : "Ever learning and never able to come to a knowledge of the truth." 

KNOWLEDGE ALONE WILL NOT SAVE 

We have heard much at this conference in -relation to our duties in seeking wisdom from the best books, and faith. Much has been said in relation to our modem education, and I wish to say a few words in addition to what has already been said. We have been told repeatedly that the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The glory of God is intelligence." And we have also been informed that he said : "A man cannot be saved in ignorance." But the Lord said much more, and 

1 often wonder why, in making these quotations, we do not finish what he said. 

It is true that the glory of God is intelligence, but the Lord also added: "Or in other words, light and truth." Then he added this: "Light and truth f orsaketh that evil one." 

There never was a time I suppose in the history of the world when so much knowledge was in the possession of men. Surely knowledge has been increased, but at the same time the doctrine taught in this prophetic 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 101 

saying by Paul is true, men are ever learning but apparently never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. We have been informed that it has been said that our present system of education has taken man apart; it has done more, it has made a brute of him, and given him a brute ancestor, instead of placing him on the platform as a son of God, the offspring of God, where he properly belongs. 

Dr. Frank C. Whitmore, a teacher at the Pennsylvania State College said : "Probably the biggest difficulty with mankind at the present time is that our knowledge has increased so much faster than our wisdom." 

The Prophet did say that a man cannot be saved in ignorance, but in ignorance of what ? He said that a man could not be saved in ignorance of the saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Not many of the great and the mighty, those who form and control the thoughts of the people of today, are going to find salvation in the kingdom of God. Why? Because they have not found the way; they are not walking in the light of truth. They may have knowledge, but they lack intelligence. Intelligence is the light of truth, and we are jnformed that he who has intelligence or the light of truth will forsake that evil one. A man who has intelligence will worship God and repent of his sins; he will seek to know the will of God and follow it. 

REVELATION NEEDED 

Now I am going to read to you what the Prophet says in addition to the quotation which we have heard : 

As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved, and while our hearts are filled with evil, and we are studying evil, there is no room in our hearts for good, or studying good. Is not God good? Then you be good; if he is faithful, then you be faithful. Add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge, and seek for every good thing. The Church must be cleansed, and I proclaim against all iniquity. A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth. Hence it needs REVELATION to assist us, and give us knowledge OF THE THINGS OF GOD. 

Again : 

If you wish to go where God is you must be like God, or possess the principles which God possesses, for if we are not drawing towards God in principle, we are going from him and drawing towards the devil. 

Add to your faith knowledge. The principle of knowledge is the principle of salvation. This principle can be comprehended by the faithful and diligent, and every one that does not obtain knowledge SUFFICIENT TO BE SAVED will be condemned. The PRINCIPLE OF SALVATION is given us through THE KNOWLEDGE OF JESUS CHRIST. 

Now I understand that knowledge is very important, but there is a great fund of knowledge in the possession of men that will not save them in the kingdom of God. What they have got to learn is the fundamental things of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They have got to learn to 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

have faith in God. They must learn to obey him. They have got to learn his commandments, his ordinances and keep them, and unless they do, all their learning and all their knowledge will be of little benefit to them. 

PURE INTELLIGENCE BRINGS OBEDIENCE 

President Joseph F. Smith has said : 

Christ inherited his intelligence from his Father. There is a difference between knowledge and pure intelligence. Satan possesses knowledge, far more than we have, but he has not intelligence or he would render obedience to the principles of truth and right. I know men who have knowledge, who perhaps understand the principles of the Gospel as well as you do, who are brilliant, but who lack the essential qualification of pure intelligence. They will not accept and render obedience thereto. Pure intelligence comprises not only knowledge, but also the power to properly apply that knowledge. 

EDUCATION REACHES INTO ETERNITY 

On the subject of education President Joseph F. Smith also said : 

The knowledge of truth, combined with proper regard for it and its faithful observance, constitutes true education. The mere stuffing of the mind with knowledge of facts is not education. The mind must not only possess a knowledge of truth, but the soul must revere it, cherish it, love it as a priceless gem; and this human life must be guided and shaped by it in order to fulfil its destiny. The mind should not only be charged with intelligence, but the soul should be filled with admiration and desire for true intelligence which comes from a knowledge of the truth. Educate yourself not only for time but also for eternity. The latter of the two is the most important. 

I quote the following from President Brigham Young : 

Every man and woman that has talent and hides it will be called a slothful servant. Improve every day upon the capital you have. In proportion as we are capacitated to receive, so it is our duty to do. I shall not cease learning while I live, nor when I arrive in the spirit world; but there shall learn with greater facility. And when I again regain my body, I shall learn a thousand times more in a thousand times less time, and then I do not mean to cease learning. 

Now I say it boldly, all the knowledge that a man can gain in this world or beyond this world, independent of the Spirit of God, the inspiration of the Almighty, will not lead him to a fulness, and in defense of that I am going to read to you from section ninety-three of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace. 

And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn; 

And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the Firstborn. 

Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth; And truth i# knowledge of things as they are, as they were, and as they are to come; 

And whatsoever is more than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning. 

The Spirit of truth is from God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying : He received a fulness of truth, even of all truth; 

And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. 

So with all our boasting, with all our understanding, with all the knowledge that we possess, let me say that this great knowledge that has been poured out upon man, and all that is truth has come from God, but with it all unless we humble ourselves and put ourselves in harmony with his truth and seek for the light which comes through the Spirit of truth, which is Jesus Christ, we will never gain a fulness of knowledge. 

I realize that it must eventually come to pass in the case of those who gain the exaltation and become sons of God, that they must in the eternities reach the time when they will know all things. They must know mathematics; they must know all the principles of science; they must be prepared in all things, by learning, by study, by faith, to comprehend these principles of eternal truth, even as our Father in heaven comprehends them, and unless men will put themselves in harmony with him and his Spirit and seek the light which comes through that Spirit they never will reach the goal of perfection in these things. It is, however, knowledge of the principles of the Gospel that will save men in the Kingdom of God. 

Now I shall read another passage of scripture from the Doctrine and Covenants, in conclusion: 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

TEACHERS SHOULD SEEK THE SPIRIT OF GOD 

Oh, if we could only remember that — our teachers in our schools, in our Sunday schools, in our priesthood quorums, and everywhere else — if we would understand that all that is taught which does not edify is not of God, and if we would seek to teach by the Spirit of God, how much better off we would be. 

That which is of God is light; he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

But if we are going to reach that perfect day then we must continue in God, and we cannot find that perfect day, the. perfect light of truth, independent of God. May we seek that light I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11 o'clock, as a part of the proceedings of this session of the Conference, the following program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 9 Third Day 

Organ, and broadcast nationwide by radio, through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting Company's network, this broadcast originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City : 

"The Lord Now Victorious" (Mascagni) Choir 

"Our Risen Lord" (Harvey Gaul) Choir 

"The Lost Chord" (Sullivan) Organ 

"Christ is Risen" (Stephens) - Choir 

(Duet by Ruth Jensen Clawson and Dea Mitchell) 

"Come, Come, Ye Saints" (Arrangement by Asper) Organ 

"Alleluia" (David U. Jones) Choir 

The Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and Organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

As part of the proceedings of the Conference there was presented, immediately following the Tabernacle and Organ Broadcast, Columbia Broadcasting Company's Church of the Air program as follows: 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation joined in singing the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High." 

Selection by Male Choir, "The Pilgrim's Song" (Tschaikowsky) . 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Brethren and sisters of this great throng and of the air, — children all of one supreme God : today is the traditional day of the resurrectionbirth of our Lord and Master, our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten of the Father, the Messiah that was to come, the Lamb of God, the First-fruits of the Resurrection, the Redeemer of the world. We may not forget this day, nor its significance for us. 

Heralded centuries before his birth as the "Prince of Peace" (Isaiah 9:6), heavenly angels announced his coming, saying: 

Glory to God in the highest,' and on earth peace, good will toward men. (Luke 2 :14.) 

RIGHTEOUSNESS AT WAR WITH SIN 

Modern man sometimes vainly thinks that Jesus' mission was to wipe out war; and scoffers have cried that since war still curses the earth, Christ's mission has failed and Christianity is a blight. 

Yet Christ himself sent forth his Twelve, saying : 

Think not that I am come to send peace on earth : I came not to send peace, but a sword. (Matt. 10:34.) 

Christ did proclaim a peace — the peace of everlasting righteousness, which is the eternal and mortal enemy of sin. Between righteousness and 105 , in whatever form, there can only be unceasing war, whether in one man, among the people, or between nations in armed conflict. This war is the sword of Christ; whatever its form this war cannot end until sin is crushed and Christ brings all flesh under his dominion. Righteousness is peace wherever it abides; sin in itself is war wherever it is found. 

Sin and spiritual and mortal death came to the world through the fall of Adam; these were overcome by the atonement of Christ. As Paul declared it : 

For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. (I Cor. 15:22.) 

Christ's mission perfect and complete 

The mission of Christ, planned before the foundations of the earth were laid, was to conquer death and bring the resurrection to each and every of God's children born to the earth. This mission Christ made perfect and complete. To fill this mission he needed no help from man, and no man can take from or add to it, no matter what man has done or may do. So Christ's mission has not failed; it cannot fail. It is the perfect service finished, for it is the service of Deity himself. 

What today's world must have, if humanity is to go on climbing upward, is men — those wearing the cloth as well as the laity — who know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ; men who, having this knowledge, have also the intellectual honesty not only to admit but to proclaim it; and men who have further the moral courage and sterling character to live the righteous lives this knowledge demands. And this knowledge must be a living, burning knowledge of God and Christ. The world will never thrive, if indeed it can live, on abstruse ideals or an ethical code. 

Furthermore, to you men of all beliefs, truth is saying: The righteous life is not for the other man only; do not hug this delusion to your soul. It will destroy you. The righteous life is for you and each of you also. 

RESPONSIBILITIES ATTENDING HOMEMAKING 

The chief place in which this knowledge and this righteousness, this peace of Christ shall be bred and nurtured, is the home, and yet throughout the world the modern way of apostasy, of idolatry, and of paganism, is threatening the home — the very bulwark of civilization itself. 

Everybody knows that home is not the four walls that keep out the cold, the wind, and the storm, nor the rooms therein that add comfort to the indwellers. These are merely the house under which the home is roofed. The home must have a husband and wife, with all the virtues that the Christian generations have given them; and to this husband and wife there must be born children. Dogs and cats on the hearth, and blooded horses and cows in the barn, are not children and do not make a home. There must be a father and mother and sons and daughters of God in the home. "Multiply and replenish the earth," was God's command and is the law of all creation. 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

Among Latter-day Saints, children have a peculiar place and relation : They are the fleshly tabernacled spirits whose intelligences are co-eternal with God. Not following the rebellion of Lucifer, these spirits kept their "first estate" in heaven. They have come to this earth to receive the mortal bodies given them by us fathers and mothers, and to live their "second estate." If these children live rightly here, observing the principles of the Gospel and the commandments of the Lord, they will keep their "second estate," and will not only be resurrected, as will all mortals, but they will also be exalted and "have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." And this glory is the glory of intelligence, which is the glory of God. They shall have also the glory of eternal progression. This righteous family of father, mother, and children, with their loving relationships, will endure throughout the eternities to the glory and blessing of its members. 

NATIONAL STABILITY DEPENDS UPON TRUE HOMES 

Out of this purposeful, divine relationship of parent and child, comes a dual duty and love. 

To the child God said at the great day of law-giving at Sinai : 

Honor thy father and thy mother : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. (Ex. 20:12.) 

This command is not spiritual only, it is not religious only, it is also political. It declares that in the nation which shall live, children must honor, that is, must hearken to and obey, their parents. This means there must be in the land the true home, and that without this home, so signifies the command, the nation will perish. 

Christ himself, as a child of twelve in the Temple, though knowing his divine mission, its meaning, and its source, followed homeward his anxious, sorrowing, and mildly reproving mother, saying only : 

How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business? (Luke 2:49.) 

FILIAL OBEDIENCE ENJOINED 

Out of the wisdom of the past we have to the children these words : 

Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. (Prov. 23:22.) 

A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him. (Prov. 17:25.) 

A wise son maketh a glad father : but a foolish man despiseth his mother. (Prov. 15:20.) 

My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother : 

Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck. When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee : and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. 

For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life. (Prov. 6:20-23.) PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 107 

Children, obey your parents in the Lord : for this is right. Honor thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with promise; 

That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. (Eph. 6:1-3.) 

To the wayward child, there comes the poignant wisdom of the immortal poet: 

How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is 

To have a thankless child. {King Lear, Shakespeare.) 

One of the things Christ told the rich young man inquiring as to what he should do to inherit eternal life, was to "honor thy father and mother." (Mark 10:19.) This duty so divinely imposed, carries with it to the child the obligation lovingly to care for the parent in poverty, in sickness, and in death. 

CHARGE TO PARENTS 

To the parent there are equal duties. The same wisdom of the past says: 

Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. (Prov. 22:6.) 

And again : 

Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying. (Prov. 19:18.) 

To you parents it must be said : This precious spirit of God is here with you, because you willed it so. Your act, not his, brought him to you. He did not ask you to bring him to you. When you beckoned him into the flesh, you became responsible for him. 

You can do no act to thrust aside or, lay off from your shoulders that responsibility. That spirit, dear to God, is in your keeping. No other person can take your place. Our Eternal Father will hold every father and every mother to a strict accountability for the custody and guardianship of every spirit they bring into the world. 

REVELATIONS CITE PARENTAL LAXNESS 

The Lord in our own day has said that the "sin is upon the heads of the parents" that teach their children "not to understand the doctrines of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands.'" 

For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. 

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

***** 

Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them. (Doc. and Cov. 68:26, 28, 31, 32.) 

A little later the Lord spoke again : 

But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth. (Doc. and Cov. 93:40.) 

To Frederick G. Williams he said : 

You have continued under this condemnation; 

You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. 

And now a commandment I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. 

Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house. 

"And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun., you have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord; 

Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place. 

My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop of my Church, hath 

need to be chastened, and set in order his family, and see that they are 

more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always or they shall be removed out of their place. (Doc. and Cov. 93:41-50.) 

Paul speaking to the Ephesians, said : 

And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath; but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. (Eph. 6:4.) 

To the Colossians he said : 

Fathers, provoke not your "children to anger, lest they be discouraged. (Col. 3:21.) 

CHILDREN TO BE TAUGHT GOSPEL PRINCIPLES 

Thus it is not now the doctrine of the Church, and it never has been, that children should be allowed to grow up to a maturity when they may choose their religious beliefs for themselves, before any attempt is made to teach them the principles of the Gospel of Christ, and the paths of righteousness. The Lord never intended that children should spiritually grow up neglected and cast adrift to care for themselves any more than he intended that the newborrr.babe should be thrown out into the street to live or die as chance might decree, or to wait until maturity to determine whether he should seek learning or remain in ignorance. 

On the contrary, the Lord has made clear in his revelations that, from earliest infancy, children must be taught in the principles of the Gospel and in the doctrines of the Church, else "the sin be upon the heads of the parents." "A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame." (Prov. 29:15), said the ancient proverb. The Savior teaching his disciples, said: If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? 

Of if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? (Luke 11:11, 12.) 

Anyone who teaches, encourages, or spreads this doctrine of neglect, no matter who he is or what his position, will not be held guiltless before the Lord. 

This monstrous doctrine is founded either in a disbelief in all religion, or in a belief that all religion is for the immature and weak-minded, for the morons of society, or else that all religions, pagan, Christian, idolatrous, are equally good, all lead to the same goal, and no choice is to be made amongst them — all of which ideas are contrary to the revealed will of God, as his words all testify. 

CHARACTER TO BE BUILT IN THE HOME 

I repeat again, the prime, indeed the sole, responsibility for starting the child along the right way, rests upon the parents. This responsibility is the inescapable result of bringing children into the world. It cannot go unheeded, nor can it be cast off, or shifted to another. It is a responsibility that comes by divine decree. 

Parents may not assume that their work can be done by the schools; and the schools shall not try to usurp the place of the parents nor to relieve them of their obligations. Each has its own place in building the upright, patriot citizen and the righteous man of God. So with the summer camps, with sports and other diversions — these, rightly conducted, may be helps to the building of youth character, but they are not homes and cannot be. If it be said that they are better than some homes, it may be answered then shame upon such homes; they are not the homes which God has declared children should have. 

GREED FOR GAIN DESTROYING CHRISTIAN STANDARDS 

So also of the mere amusements of the hour — the theater, the concert hall, the movie, and even the radio in the home itself. Too often these are too much guided by the mere greed for gain; all too frequently they pander to them of low morals and to the weakest in mentality; too often they lack in simple decency and deserved shame. But when not going to these extremes, when in morals and ethics their works are not beyond the pale, yet in their ordinary offerings they too often depict a standard of life and conduct which is un-Christian. A Christian life is not built around cocktail lounges, exotic night cabarets, luxurious hotel lobbies, princely dwellings of idleness, and an ease and luxury that the imperial palace has rarely known. Yet the youth are coming to think that these are the norms of our life, and that if they do not get them, something is wrong with parents or society. The world has never had a people that were all millionaires; it never will have. The sooner we know this the better it will be for the world. 

We parents may not trust the training of our children to any or all of these. If we shall do so and our children shall sin, then so surely as the Lord has said it, "the sins be upon the heads" of us, the parents, 

110 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

PROPER TEACHING A SHIELD IN TEMPTATION 

Children should be home at night, every night, and not away from home; our youth should be home most nights, too, and the occasional night when they are away, they should be carefully protected by us parents, or someone for us, from evil in all its forms and guises. 

We parents must never forget and must ever remember that whenever our children leave the home and its purlieus, for whatever reason it may be, whether it be for amusement, for learning, for matters of livelihood, or for the activities of religion and religious training, they have for the moment passed beyond our immediate protection and control; they are away from our personal guidance and restraint; we may not then with our own hands and love and care minister to their need however grave the need may be. We may send our prayers with them; we may know that the righteousness we may have instilled into their hearts will be to them as a shield; we may, if we have done our full duty, know that the spirit of God will be with them, to guard and protect them. But we must also know that as they move out there alone without us, Evil will be there too, for so it has always been, and will be till bound; and remember, the choicer the spirit, the more insistent are Evil's wiles and temptations to lead them to destruction. 

HOME FUNDAMENTAL TO CIVIC AND RELIGIOUS LIFE 

Again I say, not out of the school, nor the concert hall, nor the theater, not out of the stadium, nor the movie, nor the radio, not even out of the church itself by itself, nor out of all of them together, shall come the mutual respect for the rights of others, the restraining of will and selfishness, the due obedience to proper authority, the forbearance, the devotion to duty, the poorness of spirit, the repentance for sin, the meekness, the hunger and thirst for righteousness, the mercy, the pureness of heart, the peacemaking, the honesty, the sterling integrity, the charity, the love, the reverence, that shall make the citizenry of free nations and the subjects of the kingdom of heaven. 

All these must come mostly from the home; they will fully come from nowhere else. To be certain and sure of their effect, they must be engendered in the forefathers of those who would enjoy them. This duty we parents of today owe to our posterity. Thus we must, as the Lord said through his prophet of old, "turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." (Mai. 4:6.) 

God grant we may in this nation, and in the world, rebuild, fortify, and keep forever safe, the true Christian home. 

(End of the Church of the Air broadcast.) At the conclusion of the Church of the Air broadcast, at the request of President Heber J. Grant the congregation arose and joined with the Choir in singing the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel," 111 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

THE NEED OF THE WORLD FOR TEACHINGS OF THE SAVIOR 

Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified; he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him." (Mark 16:6.) 

Thus wrote Mark concerning the greatest event in the history of mankind. Throughout the Christian world today the resurrection of Jesus Christ is being celebrated. Perhaps never before was there a greater occasion or need for the world to consider and to apply the teachings of the Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

Declarations recently made by one or two rulers of nations indicate the unrest, political upheavals, the tendency to barbarism, in which "might makes right." These things are in direct opposition to the life and teachings of him whose resurrection from the grave is being celebrated today. 

One man recently said : "We must arm. The watchword is this : More cannons, more ships, more airplanes, at whatever cost, with whatever means, even if it should mean wiping out all that is called civil life." 

"When one is strong one is dear to one's friends, and feared by one's enemies. Since prehistoric times the shout has come down on the wave of centuries and the series of generations, 'Woe to the weak'." 

Only twenty-five years ago such mad doctrine cost the lives of nine million men. Commenting upon that holocaust a recent writer says : "Why in the name of reason and sweet mercy, had this iniquitous bedlam come to pass ?" And then he answers : "The question is not new, yet it struck at me with fresh relentless force, and across my mind flashed the endless explanation advanced by human ingenuity, the talk of economic stress, of boom and slump, of unemployment and the rest; of the rise and fall of nations; the need for colonies; the survival of the fittest; the whole bag of tricks. How fatuous, how futile they all seemed! For it was clear, acutely clear. There was only one reason, one basic explanation : MAN HAD FORGOTTEN GOD! Millions now living were blind and deaf^ dead indeed to the knowledge of their Creator. For countless human souls that name was nothing but a myth. For others, an inherited tradition to which lip service must be paid. For others a convenient path. For others bland hypocrisy." 

And so I say today the line is sharply drawn between the teachings of Christ to love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind, and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself, and the proclamations and practices of autocrats, who with radical disrespect for men, and the human ideals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity, "relegate to the limbo of old superstitions, God, the soul, and moral law." 

To all who accept Christ as the Risen Lord, there can be no question 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

as to the error of the doctrine that "Might makes Right," that all who are weak must yield to those who are strong, or that any man possessing either political or financial power has the right to use human beings as mere things or chattels to be disposed of as any other pieces of property. 

Christ's apostles witnesses of the resurrection 

So let us ask ourselves, and ask sincerely, is it a fact that the crucified Jesus did appear after his death as a resurrected being ? Accept this as an actuality and you have at least presumptive evidence of the truth of his teachings regarding the sacredness of the individual as a child of God. 

That the literal resurrection from the grave was a reality to the disciples, who knew Christ intimately, is a certainty. In their minds there was absolutely no doubt. They were witnesses of the fact. They knew because their eyes beheld, their ears heard, their hands felt the corporeal presence of the risen Redeemer. Of the value and significance of such nearness and intimacy Beverly Nichols, author of "The Fool Hath Said," writes : 

The authors of the epistles were within hailing distance, historically, of Christ; at any rate, when their ideas, which they afterwards transmitted to paper, were formed, the winds had hardly had time to efface the sacred print of his steps in the sands over which he walked. The rain had hardly had time to wash away, with its callous tears, the blood from the rotting wood of the deserted cross. 

Yet these men knew — I can't go on using the word 'believe' which is far too vapid and colorless — that God had descended to earth in the shape of a certain man, that this man had met an obscene and clownish death, and that the grotesque mode of his dying had redeemed mankind from sin. They knew, moreover, that he had risen from the dead on the third day and ascended into heaven. 

Nearness to the event gives increased value to the evidence given by the apostles. A deeper value of their testimony lies in the fact that with Jesus' death the Apostles were stricken with discouragement and gloom. For two and a half years they had been upheld and inspired by Christ's presence. But now he was gone. They were left alone, and they seemed confused and helpless. Only John stood by the cross. Not with timidity, not with feelings of doubt, and gloom, and discouragement, is a skeptical world made to believe. Such wavering, despairing minds as the Apostles possessed on the day of the crucifixion could never have stirred people to accept an unpopular belief, and to die martyrs to the cause. 

"What was it that suddenly changed these disciples to confident, fearless, heroic preachers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? It was the revelation that Christ had risen from the grave. His promises had been kept, his Messianic mission fulfilled." 

On this point Spurgeon says : "On the evidence of these unprejudiced, unexpectant, incredulous witnesses, faith in the resurrection has its impregnable foundation, 113 

I urge the youth of the Church, students particularly, carefully to consider the testimony of these eye witnesses, whose honesty is not questioned even by skeptical criticism. 

mark's testimony 

The first of these to record his testimony is the one from whom I quoted in the text — Mark — who undoubtedly was in the presence of the Savior when Mark was a boy in his teens. We have no evidence that Mark joined the Church while the Savior was on the earth. Undoubtedly the Savior was in Mark's home. Mark was probably the youth who rushed into the garden of Gethsemane and warned Jesus that the soldiers were coming. At any rate we are justified in assuming that he was acquainted with the Master. 

Mark does not himself recount any appearance of the risen Lord; but he testifies that the angel at the tomb announced the resurrection, and promised that the Lord would meet his disciples. From Mark we hear the glorious proclamation of the first empty tomb in all the world. For the first time in the history of man the words "Here lies" were supplanted by the divine message "He is risen." No one can doubt that Mark was not convinced in his soul of the reality of the empty tomb. To him the resurrection was not questionable — it was real; and the appearance of his Lord and Master among men was a fact established in his mind beyond the shadow of a doubt. To the proclaiming of this truth he devoted his life, and if tradition can be relied upon, he sealed his testimony with his blood. 

Another who records the testimony of eye witnesses was Luke, a Gentile, or, as some think, a proselyte of Antioch in Syria, where he followed the profession of physician. (Col. 4:14.) Even some of his most severe modern critics have placed him in the first rank of an historian, and his personal contact with early apostles makes his statements of inestimable value. 

What he wrote was the result of personal inquiry and investigation, and was drawn from all available sources. Particularly he interviewed and recorded the declarations of those "who from the beginning were eyes witnesses and ministers of the Word." He avers that he "accurately traced all things from the very first," so that he might "write them in order." This means that Luke obtained the testimony of these "eye witnesses" directly from themselves and not from previous narratives. 

According to all trustworthy testimony, we have the Gospel of Luke as it came from his hand. In chapter 24, Luke testifies to the divine message : 

Why seek ye the living- among the dead ? He is not here, but is risen. 

With equal assurance as to their accuracy we can accept his statements and witness in regard to Peter's and Paul's and other apostles' testimony regarding the resurrection. "To whom also Christ showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

tfeem forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom ©f God.'" Who can doubt Luke's absolute confidence in the reality of the resurrection ? 

It is true that neither Mark nor Luke testifies to having personally .'seen the risen Lord, and therefore, some urge that their recorded testimonies cannot be taken as first hand evidence. That they do not so testify, and yet were convinced that others did see Him, shows how incontrovertible was the evidence among the apostles and other disciples that the resurrection was a reality. 

Paul's testimony 

Fortunately, however, there is a document which does give the personal testimony of an eye witness to an appearance of Jesus after Ihis death and burial. This personal witness also corroborates the testimony not only of the two men whom I have quoted but of others also. I refer to Saul, a Jew of Tarsus, educated at the feet of Gamaliel, a strict Pharisee, and before his conversion a bitter persecutor of all who believed in Jesus of Nazareth as having risen from the dead. 

And now in the oldest authentic document in existence relating or testifying to the resurrection of Christ, we find Paul saying this to the Corinthians : 

For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures; and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the Twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James; then of all the apostles. And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the Apostles, that am not meet to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. 

In addition to the ancient apostles we have the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith who gives in an unequivocal description the following stirring testimony in relation to his first vision : 

There was a light, and in that light I saw two personages standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other : "This is my beloved Son, hear him." 

Later, as President Grant quoted in his opening address of this Conference, the Prophet gives added evidence as follows : 

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father. 

***** 

That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; * * * that through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him. 115 

LATTER-DAY SAINT BELIEF 

Thus the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands with Peter, with Paul, and with James, and with all the other apostles in accepting the resurrection not only as being literally true but as the consummation of Christ's divine mission on earth. Other great religious leaders among the nations of the world since history began have taught virtue and temperance, self-mastery and service, obedience to righteousness and duty; some have taught a belief in one supreme ruler and in a hereafter, but only Christ broke the seal of the grave and revealed death as the door to immortality and eternal life. 

If Christ lived after death, so shall men, each one taking the place in the next world for which he is best fitted. Since love is as eternal as life, the message of the resurrection is the most comforting, the most glamorous ever given to man; for when death takes a loved one from us, we can look with assurance into the open grave and say, "He is not here," and "He will rise again." 

Resurrection and Spring are happily associated, not that there is anything in nature exactly analogous to the resurrection, but there is so much which suggests an AWAKENING thought. Like the stillness of death Old Winter has held all vegetable life in his grasp, but as Spring approaches the tender life-giving power of heat and light compels him to relinquish his grip, and what seems to have been dead comes forth in newness of life, refreshed, invigorated, strengthened after a peaceful sleep. 

So it is with man. What we call death Jesus referred to as sleep. "Lazarus sleeps," he said to his disciples. "The damsel sleepeth," were his comforting words to the bereaved and sorrowing parents of a little girl. Indeed, to the Savior of the world there is no such thing as death — only life — eternal life. Truly he could say, "I am the Resurrection and the Life. He that believeth in me though he were dead, yet shall he live." 

With this assurance, obedience to eternal law should be a joy, not a burden, for life is joy, life is love. It is disobedience that brings death. Obedience to Christ and his laws brings life. May each recurring Easter emphasize this truth, and fill our souls with the divine assurance that Christ is truly risen, and through him man's immortality secured, and may the day soon dawn upon the world when the manifestations of brute force and false ideals that might makes right be supplanted by the charitable, peace-loving spirit of the Risen Lord! I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Inflammatus," (Margaret Stewart Hewlett, soloist). 

Elder Scott B. Brown, President of the Weiser Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. GENERAL CONEERENCE 


