Afternoon
06 04 1939


President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency, presided at the second session of the Conference, which convened promptly at 2 o'clock p. m., Thursday. President Heber J. Grant was absent, on account of suffering from a cold. 

The music for this session was furnished by the Singing Mothers, under the direction of Wade N. Stephens. 

The Singing Mothers and the congregation sang the hymn "High on the Mountain Top." 

Elder Claudius Hirschi, President of the Zion Park Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Singing Mothers sang the hymn "For the Strength of the Hills." GENERAL CONFERENCE ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Since April 6 of this year, 1939, is Thursday, and since our Annual Conference begins on that day, it occurs to me that a brief review of the great events which, according to the generally accepted calendar, occurred 1909 years ago on the same days this Conference is to be held, may be of interest. 

DATES OF IMPORTANT EVENTS 

Thursday, April 6, A. D. 30 

Preparation for the passover. Thursday Evening, April 6, A. D. 30 

The passover meal. Contention among the twelve. 

Jesus washes the disciples' feet. 

The traitor made known. Judas withdraws. 

The Lord's supper instituted. 

Peter's fall foretold. 

Jesus comforts his disciples. 

The vine and the branches. (I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit; for without me ye can do nothing. John 15:5.) 

Mutual love. The disciples hated by the world. 

(These things I command you, that ye love one another. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. John 15:17-19.) 

Persecution foretold. Further promise of the Holy Spirit. 

Prayer in the name of Christ. 

(Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. John 16:23.) 

Christ's last prayer with his disciples. Thursday Midnight, April 6, A. D. 30 

The agony in the garden of Gethsemane. 

Jesus betrayed and made prisoner. Friday, 1-5 a. m., April 7, A. D. 30 

Jesus before Annas and Caiaphas. Peter's denial. 

Jesus before Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin. 

The Sanhedrin lead Jesus away to Pilate. Friday, 5-6 a. m., April 7, A. D. 30 

Jesus before Herod. Friday, 6-9 a. m., April 7,A.D.30 

Pilate seeks to release Jesus. Barabbas demanded. 

Barabbas released. Jesus delivered up to death. 

Pilate again seeks to release Jesus. Friday, April 7, A. D. 30 

Judas repents and hangs himself. 

Friday, 6-9 a. m., April 7, A. D. 30 

On the way to Golgotha. Friday, 9-12 noon, April 7, A. D. 30 

The crucifixion. Friday, 12-3 p. m., April 7, A. D. 30 

Mocked on the cross. 

The penitent thief. 

The mother of Jesus at the cross. 

Darkness prevails. Christ expires on the cross. 

The vail of the temple rent, and tombs opened. Friday, 3-6 p. m., April 7, A. D. 30 

The side pierced. 

Taken down from the cross, and laid in the tomb. Saturday, April 8, A. D. 30 

The guard at the sepulchre. Sunday Morning, April 9, A. D. 30 

Morning of the resurrection. Women visit the tomb. 

Vision of angels in the tomb. Sunday Forenoon, April 9, A. D. 30 

The women return to the city. Jesus meets them. 

Our Lord is seen by Mary Magdalene at the tomb. 

Report of the guard. Sunday Afternoon, April 9, A. D. 30 

Jesus appears to two disciples on the way to Emmaus. Sunday Evening, April 9, A. D. 30 

Jesus appears in the midst of the apostles, Thomas being absent. 

Jesus appears in the midst of the apostles, Thomas being present. During April and May, A. D. 30 

Jesus appears to seven apostles at the sea of Tiberias. 

Jesus meets the apostles and above five hundred disciples on a mountain in Galilee. Thursday, May 18, A. D. 30, forty-one days after the crucifixion, 

Our Lord appears to James, and then to all the apostles. 

The ascension of our Lord. 

ANSWERS TO PRAYER CITED 

I desire now to make a few remarks on the subject of prayer. We have already been urged today to read the scriptures. Isaiah says : 

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him while he is near. (Isa. 55 :6.) 

Jesus himself says: 

Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you : For everyone that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. (Matt. 7 :7-8) 

Our forefathers came to this country in search of religious freedom, religious tolerance, and real liberty. In our national anthem we sing: First Day 

Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just, And this be our motto, In God is our trust. 

That is the motto of the country "over which flies the only flag in all the world that has never known defeat," to quote Lloyd George. And again we sing : 

And we members of the Church of Jesus Christ believe that the only king this our country shall ever know is Jesus, the Son of God. 

It is said that in our country today some of our leaders in business, many who are called empire builders, actually ridicule religion. A wise and thoughtful American has said : 

These very men are indebted for all that they possess to the family prayers which were once held daily in the homes of their fathers. (Babson) 

Many of our great Americans, you will recall, have been prayerful men. Franklin said : 

I have lived a long, long time, and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this fundamental truth, that God governs in the aifairs of men. 

He approached the unselfishness of the divine when in his prayerful appeal he said : 

For my friends, and for their prosperity, and for the fewness of my enemies, Father, I thank thee. 

Great is the respect and great the admiration we have for George Washington as he went upon his knees in those trying days at Valley Forge and appealed to our Heavenly Father that his powerful hand might be stretched forth to bring success to the armies of our colonies in their struggle for liberty. 

Lincoln, during those days in which our country was torn with war, set apart the 30th of April, 1863, as a day of fasting and a day of prayer, and as he did so he said : 

We have received the choicest blessings of heaven; we have been preserved in peace and prosperity these many years; we have grown in numbers, strength, wealth and power as no other nation has ever grown. But, 

he added: 

The great difficulty with our nation is, we have forgotten God. 

I am wondering if that condition prevails today. He says further: 

And we have vainly imagined in the deceitfulness of our hearts that this unusual outstanding success that has come to our country has been due to some superior wisdom or virtue of our own. 

Then he appeals to the people of the United States to assemble in their 

Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light; Protect us by thy might, ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

 places of worship, to call their families together around their own hearthstones, and to appeal to our Heavenly Father with a hope that the united appeal of the people will transform what was then our war-torn country into its former condition of happiness and peace. A great American has written: 

Daily we assembled in Independence Hall when we were struggling for independence, and daily we offered appeals to Divine Providence for his guidance and for his help, and our prayers were heard and they were graciously answered. 

I am just wondering if we the people of the United States have forgotten our powerful Friend. 

AN APPEAL FOR FAMILY PRAYERS 

A survey was made by the United States government in 1930 and revealed among other things that only one in eight of white Americanborn children in the seventh, eighth and ninth grades of the schools of the United States participate in family prayers. While many more than this attend church, the survey also showed that in the cities only thirty per cent, and in the country only thirty-eight per cent of the people ask a blessing on their food at meal times. 

The record of conditions in our own Church of course is far better than this, but I am wondering in how many of our homes we fail to participate in family prayers, — in how many of our homes we do not express our gratitude and thankfulness for the food we have to eat. And fearing that perhaps we too may also be forgetting our Father in heaven, that powerful Friend that gave support to our forefathers, the struggling colonies in America, to gain their independence, that powerful Friend who can always hear and who led our fathers in their matchless march across the desert and directed them in their struggles to establish here in the tops of these mighty mountains the "mountain of the Lord's House," — I say it is because I fear that we may be forgetting this our powerful Friend that I am making this appeal to you who are here assembled and to you who are listening in and to the people of the Church generally, to participate in family prayers. And I appeal not only for participation in family prayers, but for participation in secret prayers, and for participation in that sacred hour of worship known as our sacrament meetings. On these occasions it seems to me there is perhaps an opportunity to come into a closer communion with our Heavenly Father than at any other time. 

If we assemble in our sacrament meetings and there with eyes closed, heads bowed and hearts filled with a prayerful spirit, we appeal humbly and earnestly to our Heavenly Father for our shortcomings to be overlooked, for our sins to be forgiven; if there we appeal for strength and power to carry out our renewed resolutions, then we shall have awakened in our souls that faith which is the grain of mustard seed which makes nothing impossible. 

Prayer, whether in the family, in secret, or as a part of our sacrament or other religious service, is something more than words; it is a condition 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

of the soul. It is an expression of affection for f ellowmen; it is a something that emphasizes that great principle, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." The Savior reached perfection in unselfishness when upon the cross he prayed, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do." (Luke 23:34.) 

Surely we can never forget that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established again upon the earth as the result of the prayer of faith uttered by a boy, age fourteen, after he had read in the Holy Book and believed the words, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." (James 1:5.) Had this divine message made a less profound impression upon the mind of that boy and if he had not had faith enough to appeal for light and guidance, I am wondering how and when and under what condition the Church of the Master might then have been restored to the earth. 

If it was necessary for the Savior to offer his prayers daily, if it was necessary for him, being divine, to appeal with such earnestness and such regularity to our Heavenly Father, if it was necessary for the Prophet Joseph Smith to make prayerful appeals so frequently and so earnestly to our Heavenly Father, how much more is it necessary for us to do this! 

JOSEPH SMITH'S PRAYER IN LIBERTY JAIL 

President Grant read this morning a part of section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants. To give you some idea of the earnestness with which the Prophet made his appeals I am going to read the first part of that same section 121 — a prayer of the Prophet : 

O God, where art thou ? * * How long shalt thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries? 

Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them? 

O Lord God Almighty, maker of heaven, earth, and seas, and of all things that in them are, * * stretch forth thy powerful hand; let thine eye pierce; * * let thy hiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward us. * * 

Remember thy suffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever. 

No revelation was ever thrust upon the Prophet. These came only as a result of solemn, earnest, prayerful appeals for help and guidance. He says the Lord responded to his supplications. Revelations were received in answer to the Prophet's supplications and inquiries. Words to this effect are found in the preliminary statements in the Doctrine and Covenants to practically all the revelations which were given to the Prophet. Only faith and faithfulness and earnest, devoted appeals brought the light and guidance and inspiration of heaven in the form of revelations. 

I repeat, if it was necessary for the Savior himself and for the Proph to make these earnest and frequent appeals to our Heavenly Father, how much more is it necessary for us to do so. 

QUOTATIONS FROM A YOUNG MAN'S LETTER 

To give you something of the spirit of one of our Latter-day Saint homes, I have here a quotation from a young man reared in one of our Latter-day Saint families. I wonder if he describes the condition that prevails in our homes today: 

Daily, he says, we had our family prayers. In father's absence mother was in charge, and she would either lead in prayer or call on one of us children to do so. However, when father was present he always did the praying, and what beautiful, what wonderful prayers they were! It seemed to me that he always talked to Divinity in the same familiar manner and matterof-fact way as if he were conversing with a friendly comrade who sat before him as he kneeled. In my later years as I have been cognizant of the hatred, the strife, the bitter jealousy and turmoil in the hearts of men, the desire or willingness of many to take unfair advantage of their neighbors, and the absence of the spirit of brotherly love and kindly charity in so many places in the world, I have many times thought that if every home in the land could hear such prayers daily by the head of the family as my parents used to utter in great humility and earnest sincerity and in kindly confidence and cordial good will, expressing genuine devotion and brotherly anxiety for the welfare of mankind, then the reign of love and peace and good will upon the earth, the great difficulties between man and man, and nation and nation, would quickly vanish and the threatening clouds of war and trouble would disappear. (Dr. M. C. Merrill) 

ADMONITION TO SEEK THE LORD 

I will conclude as I began, with the words of Isaiah : 

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him while he is near. 

And those impressive words of the Savior also, 

Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you : For everyone that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 

May we be faithful; may we be devoted to our Heavenly Father; may we remember our daily prayers, and our secret prayers; may we join in the prayers offered in our places of worship, that the work of the Lord may go on with more rapidity and speed. And I humbly pray that our appeals may be made in faith believing, that our prayers may ascend to the throne of grace, that they, united with the prayerful appeals of all good people, may help to bring that peace on earth and good will to men which is to follow conversion to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. GENERAL CONFERENCE ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

What is man that Thou art mindful of him, and the son of man, that Thou didst visit him? 

For Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels and hast crowned him with glory and honor. 

Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of Thy hands; Thou hast put all things under his foot : 

man's PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE 

Such is the tribute of the psalmist to the dignity, the nobility, the power, and the station of man in the universe. 

How came man to this glorious place of distinction and majesty among all God's creations ? The answer is in the delineation of his origin and history. Man, with Christ, was "also in the beginning with the Father." In his first estate, that is, before he came to this earth, his spirit was the literal child of God. "Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee," declared the Lord to the Prophet Jeremiah. And in his second estate, which is mortality, "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female, created he them." "And the Lord God created man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living soul." Thus the eternal spirit of man became housed in a tabernacle of flesh in the likeness of the Father, and the sons of God began life upon the earth. 

They were not menial nor of low or servile nature. They were of high estate, of the noblest lineage, endowed with the God-given gift of intelligence or the light of truth, the sublime and supreme investiture of both God and man, the eternal verity which "was not created or made, neither indeed can be." This intelligence not only gave man superiority over all other creations but, even more importantly, it brought him consciousness of his relationship to God and the world and envisaged for him the purpose and destiny of his life. 

POWER OF CHOICE A GIFT FROM GOD 

With intelligence came a concomitant heritage equally essential to the eternal progress and development of man, — that of free agency, or the power of choice. For, "the Lord gave unto man that he should act for himself, wherefore men are free according to the flesh; * * * they are free to choose liberty and eternal life through the great mediation of all men or to choose captivity and death according to the captivity and power of the devil." This power of choice is essential to our very existence for "it must needs be that the devil should tempt the children of men or they could not be agents unto themselves, for if they never should have bitter, they could not know the sweet." (Members of the Church will recognize these quotations.) 

This theological doctrine of free agency which has been proclaimed  our Church from its very beginning, this glorious concept of man's intelligence and his incomparable status in the universe, upon which more light and clearer explanation have come through the latter-day revelations of our Prophet than from any other source whatsoever, lie at the very foundation of, and indeed constitute the essence of the most discussed, the most contested, and the most priceless thing in the world today, — human liberty. It is as a premise to a few observations on this important subject that I have cited some of our doctrine. 

LIBERTY ESSENTIAL TO MAN 

Perhaps I should define liberty, but I do not propose to do so. I have heard many definitions but I need not choose among them. For our purposes here, everyone knows sufficiently well what liberty means. Every man senses it, which is infinitely more important than being able to formulate a definition. The more vital and less academic question is how to secure, defend, and preserve the liberty of mankind. 

Now I maintain, simple and naive as it may sound to some, that the first and prime necessity in the accomplishment of this all important task is a definite and conscious understanding of two things : First, what is this man for whom liberty is so essential ? — and second, what does one do with liberty when once acquired ? With reference to the first item I believe I have given a summary of our doctrine from which it may be logically deduced that man is vastly greater and more important than anything else in the universe; that all other creations are designed primarily to serve his needs and purposes; that all institutions, ecclesiastical, civic, and social are but adjuncts and contributory to his progress and welfare; and that no government, no science, no art, no philosophy, and no order of society is greater than the intelligence and personality who invents, devises, executes, and maintains them. Even the Church, which is set up under decree of God, is not greater than man, for it is established merely to conserve the progress and welfare of man. 

OPINION OF A NOTED AUTHOR 

In this connection, I have read nothing more stimulating in a long time than Dr. Link's new book entitled, The Rediscovery of Man. I wish that everyone could read particularly the first chapter in which he decries that modern philosophy rampant throughout the world in the last several decades which has debased the noble concept of man as a son of God, the master of things and himself. 

He begins by pronouncing Harvard University's Tercentenary Conference of Arts and Sciences held in 1936 the greatest tragedy of the age. Here the outstanding scholars of the world in profound deliberation reached the conclusion that while science had made great contributions to man's physical progress, "the automobile, the x-ray, insulin, and thousands of other things, but that the social studies * * * had contributed little or nothing to man's understanding of himself," that the sciences "had given man a miraculous control over his physical environment" but 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

"they had added practically nothing to his control of his personal and social behavior," and that "individuals were more at war with themselves, nations more liable to internal strife, and the world farther from international peace than before." "This," says Dr. Link, "was the gist of Harvard's celebration of its 300th year. * * * Add to this the fact that Harvard was founded, like most of our historically great universities, by the religious leaders of the time to prepare students 'for public employment both in church and in state' and the tragedy is complete. Three hundred years of science and education, of emancipation from religion, and to what end ?" 

He answers his own question : "to the end that the true values of personality and character have been almost completely buried; that our educational system has become the most elaborate plan ever devised for obscuring the obvious and homely facts of life, to the end that we have created a complex system of ideas which, instead of helping mankind, threatens like a parasitic growth to kill the very civilization which it has produced." "A scientist like Alexis Carrell can write a book on Man, the Unknown — not because man is unknown, but because science has dismembered him almost beyond recognition." 

Now my friends, these are the comments and conclusions of a scientist, a psychologist of great distinction with long years of training and a vast experience with individuals. Is it not time that there be reconstructed for the world the noble concept of man that makes him something more than a mere chemical automaton in a mechanistic universe with a defeatist philosophy that robs him of the highest incentives, the finer virtues, and self-control? I believe with Dr. Link that it is high time, and I thank God that there is an institution in the earth prepared and ordained to do just that thing for humanity. Only when it is done will the first sure foundation for liberty be laid. 

FREE AGENCY EXERCISED THROUGH KNOWLEDGE 

What, I ask again, are we to do with our liberty when once acquired and how shall we preserve it ? Here, too, the answer comes from an adequate understanding of theological doctrines. Free agency is the inherent right of man. Through it he may exalt or condemn himself. He can exercise his power of choice intelligently and wisely only when he has knowledge of truth, because truth is the criterion by which his elections become good os bad, helpful or harmful to himself and his progress. 

What is truth? Here I must give you an inspired definition, a definition that came from an unsophisticated boy-prophet, but one which rivals the definitions of the greatest scholars and of all time. "Truth," says Joseph Smith, "is the knowledge of things as they are and as they were, and as they are to come." How is such knowledge to be obtained? Through science and education ? Yes, in part, but not wholly. And why not completely? Because most of the knowledge of things "as they were" and things that "are to come" are without the realm and province of science, as well as much knowledge of "things as they are." Science, , can give us but fragments of truth, not the whole truth. And the whole truth is necessary if we are to be provided with proper criteria by which to do our choosing. 

FAITH THE KEY TO KNOWLEDGE 

How, then, is the whole truth to be secured? The key is to be found in another revelation, "the spirit of truth is of God." That being so, we must, of necessity have God's aid in the acquisition of truth. His aid comes through faith and prayer. Faith contemplates the acceptance of the spiritual reality of a world outside the domain of science. It involves methods and processes different from those of scientific research. It postulates humility and dependence on divine power, the antipathies of egotism and self-sufficiency. A contrite heart is the fertile field for planting the seeds of truth. In such a field they come to fruition in a knowledge, understanding, and conviction of the great concepts of life which defy the reason and philosophy of the arrogant, and selfsufficient, who will not stoop to the methods of the humble. 

TRUTH AND LIBERTY 

What, then, has truth to do with liberty? Jesus gave the answer when he said to his disciples, "and ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." Free from what? Free from all unrighteousness and every sort of bondage that inhibits the growth and progress of the race. It requires but a moment's consideration for any sane, logical person to reach the conclusion that there is no freedom and no liberty worth striving for and preserving that does not contemplate the exercise of free agency in truth, in virtue, and in righteousness. Any other hypothesis would mean complete frustration and ruin. This is the second foundation for liberty. 

What then is the application of these doctrines to conditions in the world today ? I believe it to be this : that no nation under heaven can successfully preserve this great boon of liberty and freedom unless the people of that nation have a truthful conception of the status of man in the earth and also an adequate understanding of the exercise of the options and powers of free agency in conformity with the standards of righteousness. So surely as either of these concepts shall vanish, will bondage ensue. And this applies with equal force to the enlightened of the world as to those in darkness, as witness the countries of Europe today. Philosophies are more potent than armies in the progress of civilization. "As a man thinketh, so is he," and a nation is but an aggregation of men. Too often we think we think enmasse, — but we don't, — there is no mass mind/ — only that of the individual. That is why personality is so important to the happiness and peace of the world. You just have to make enough good men, and society and nations are good. 

TRUE LIBERTY AND INDIVIDUAL ACHIEVEMENT 

Now I scarcely need say that having great concepts in the abstract is sufficient. As a matter of fact, great concepts are really not acquired in 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

the abstract. True philosophy comes out of life and living, and truth becomes part of us only as it is incorporated in our habits. Individual strength to acquire the truth is what every man needs. No one can do it for another. It is so with liberty. We usually speak of it as a heritage from the fathers, — something handed down to us. It is more accurate to say that the opportunity to acquire liberty is passed on to us, for true liberty is a personal achievement, as I have tried to point out to you. 

I am sure that it is regrettable and a point of real hazard to individual liberty that in many countries, even to some extent in our own beloved America, there is a clearly discernible tendency to relieve people of responsibilities which they have long been accustomed to bear and to extend paternalistic solicitude and care to vast portions of the population. However well intentioned such policies, I am confident they are destined to result in weakening of moral fiber, increased dependencies, and, more importantly and worse than all, eventually, a destruction of the fundamental concepts and philosophies that have been responsible for the progress of humanity in the world. 

THE MISSION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

What, then, shall we do about it ? I think our mission is clear. We are to go forth, not boastfully, but confidently, to deliver our message of truth to our f ellowmen. To give the message, we must live it and we must truly love those to whom we are sent. 

Let us never forget that we are disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is our Leader and Exemplar. There must be no bitterness in our hearts and no harsh judgment for any of our Father's children. Mercy, kindness, tolerance, and love are the passwords that shall open our way into the hearts of men. Of this I am confident : if we love them enough, they will receive us. When they do and when we become qualified to deliver the truth in the spirit of Christ, then will peace and righteousness and liberty be secure. God grant this happy consummation, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An anthem, "O Morn of Beauty" (Sibelius) was sung by the Singing Mothers (Soloist, Mrs. Margaret Marchant). 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

My brethren and sisters : For a number of years it has been my privilege to appear before you in these conference meetings as a mission president of the Church. In that assignment, and the fulfilment of the duties and obligations in connection therewith, I found exceeding great joy. I love the missionary work of the Church and the privilege it affords of bearing testimony of the restoration of the Gospel, and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the accomplishments of this great organization. 

A year ago I was sustained as the Presiding Bishop of the Church; and the duties and responsibilities of this office, during the past year, have also brought great joy to me and evidence that in every branch of the work the inspiration and revelation of the Lord are guiding and directing the destinies of this Church. 

THE PRINCIPLE OF GIVING 

In this position my duties are more or less temporal, and I find satisfaction therein. I should like to call your attention to one principle the Latter-day Saints have learned to understand. They have learned to know the meaning of the word "give." We give of our time; we give of our talents; we give of our means. Our fathers and mothers give their boys and girls to the missionary service of the Church, and wives give their husbands. As I have often said in the mission field, if one is looking for an easy religion he had better not bother with Mormonism. Most of us know that we are at the call of the Church all the time. In fact, my wife has always said the children belong to her and I belong to the Church; and I presume there are many brethren here, and sisters too, who feel the same way about it. 

We know the history of the Saints; we know the great sacrifices that have been made. Those of us who have filled missions in foreign lands have seen the Saints leave all that was dear to them. We know the history of the pioneers as they left their homes behind and came to these valleys of the mountains. 

During the past year, traveling throughout the Church, my heart has been moved because of the faith of the Latter-day Saints. It seemed to make no difference whether they were to travel ten miles, a hundred miles, or two hundred miles, they were always there when the call came. They do not ask for compensation; they do not ask for expense money. They know that they are to bear the burden of their missionary boys and girls, and the expense. They have learned how to give, and as I study the scriptures and read the words of the prophets and of the Master himself, it seems to me that the one thing above all others in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that men should be willing to give their all. 

THE GOSPEL REQUIRES SERVICE 

We are commanded to love God first above all other things, and our f ellowmen like unto ourselves. One good man who came to the Master said : "Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest." As though he would say to all coming generations : "If ye follow me, ye need expect no compensation," He replied : "Foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head." 

And to another he said : "Follow me." But he said : "Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father." There are very few obligations in life more important than burying one's father, but the Lord wanted to impress upon his servants the importance of a call from him, and so he said : "Let the dead bury their dead; but go thou and preach the kingdom of God." 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Oay 

And another said: "Lord, I will follow Thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house." Jesus answered : "No man, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God." He expects real service but offers no monetary compensation. 

Then he sent the Seventy out. He gave them nothing, but he gave them of his power, and said : "He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me." And they returned again with joy saying : "Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name." 

Speaking again of service, he said : "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he that taketh not his cross and f olloweth after me, is not worthy of me. He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." 

MORE THAN SERVICE REQUIRED 

In addition to giving ourselves, and giving our services, the Lord has asked us to give of our means and our substance. We have men in the Church who give their time, they will go when they are asked to preach, they will perform a public duty, but it is hard to do the little duty that is seen in secret by them and God alone and their presiding officers. And so we are asked to contribute our tithes and offerings, not only because the Church needs money to build itself, for before there was an organization of the Church, God introduced the principle of sacrifice in order that his servants and his children might be tested, that they should bring the best of their lands and of their herds; and, because the Church did not need these things, and there were no poor to feed, they were burned upon the altar of sacrifice; but the giving sanctified the souls of those who gave. 

The Lord apparently realized that some men can give service easier than money or goods. We have the lesson of the rich young man who came to the Master inquiring what he might do to inherit eternal life. He was told that he should "keep the commandments," to which he replied : "All these things I have kept from my youth up, what lack I yet ?" We are told in Mark's account: "Then Jesus beholding him loved him." He loved him for the good things he had done and sought to show him the way to perfection, so he answered : "If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow me." But the young man turned away sorrowful : "for he had great possessions." 

The prophet Malachi declared that in the last days the Lord should send his messenger to prepare the way before him, and he called upon Israel, and I interpret that to mean latter-day Israel, to return unto him and promised that he would return unto them, and they said : "Wherein shall we return unto Thee ?" And he said : "In your tithes and offerings, * * * * for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house." 

And I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we need the  of the Saints in order that the kingdom might go on, for it shall be builded just as rapidly as the faith of the Saints can build it, and it is retarded when there is a lack of faith. 

PROMISES OF THE LORD 

And so the Lord proceeded to promise those who would bring their tithes and their offerings together, that he would rebuke the devourer for their sakes, and that a book of remembrance should be written before him for them that feared the Lord, "And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels. * * * * then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not." 

Now) as a member of the Presiding Bishopric, I feel that the storehouse of the Lord should be replenished. We have heard the report today. Much has been accomplished; the faith of the Saints is not lacking, because our receipts have been equal to any year of the past; but there are still many who lack the faith to do their part in rolling on the kingdom of God in the earth. 

EMPLOYMENT SHOULD BE PROVIDED 

In our office we contact many of our brethren who are out of employment. Some of them are choice men of the Church, men who. have labored diligently and made great sacrifices, have sent their boys and girls on missions, and my soul has been moved with compassion. I believe if my greatest desire were fulfilled it would be that I could provide employment for all these fine men who are worthy servants of God. We can help to feed and clothe them, and we will do that; but we must also, as bishops and as quorum officers and ward work directors, put forth every effort to provide employment for them. In this connection, I thank the Lord for this great Welfare Program of the Church, which is assisting in such a marvelous manner. But I believe we should have a little more consideration as bishops and quorum officers to sit down with our brethren and study their needs and see if there is not enough genius in the leadership of the wards and stakes and priesthood quorums to be able to provide activities for these fine men. 

Now, the Master tells us that when he shall come in his glory and all the holy angels with him, and before him shall be gathered all nations, that as the shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats he shall separate them one from another, and to them on his right hand he shall say : "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." 

Then shall the righteous answer him saying, "Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee, or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in, or naked, and clothed thee ? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee ?" 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

Then shall he say unto them : "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

In closing, may I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, that I think it is a grand and glorious thing that the Lord has re-established his Church, that so efficiently, and without cost of administration, is able to do so much to care for the unfortunate of its members. I feel that the bishops and the presidents of stakes and those who preside with them in the wards and stakes of Zion should realize the great responsibility that is theirs and should not regard it lightly, but should do all they can do to care for their brethren. 

God grant that his Spirit, and inspiration and revelation, may ever guide the destiny of this Church. Of all men who are examples to the Church in this spirit of giving is our worthy president. I remember, as many of you do, when he was sustained as the President of the Church, he said he would never ask any man to give more, in proportion to his ability to give, than he, or to be more faithful in observing the commandments of the Lord than he; and we all love him for his noble example. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM W. SEEGMILLER 

President of the Western States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in having the privilege of representing the Western States Mission. In this mission we have over 8,000 members, and 87 missionaries. Throughout the states where we labor people treat us with respect and consideration everywhere. 

In the membership of the Western States Mission we have those who are as capable, as worthy, and as faithful as there are in any of the wards of the Church where I have lived. 

I am happy today to know that from Denver 25 Singing Mothers are here. I am sure that the inspiration of these Singing Mothers is sufficient compensation to justify the presence of any of us. 

I was happy this morning when I heard the report read by President McKay and noticed that the Kanab Stake led the Church in paying fast offerings. I have spent most of my days in the Kanab Stake, and I feel a humble but justifiable pride in the fact that they demonstrate that they love their neighbor as themselves, for how does it help him who is hungry or cold to recognize his hunger and his need of clothing, without providing for him. So, to the Kanab Stake I want to say I was happy in hearing their record read. 

We have many fine opportunities in the Western States Mission, greater opportunities than were known when I first went to the mission field. We are provided with equipment that we little dreamed of when I was a boy in the mission field, and we are asked to give our program, "The Fulness of Time," everywhere. Radio stations are asking us to bring these records to them. People are asking us throughout the Western 

States Mission to give them opportunity to hear the history of the Church as recorded in "The Fulness of Time." 

Such a thing as this was not even dreamed of when I was a boy in Germany preaching the Gospel. 

The other day at Scottsbluff , Nebraska, a sectarian minister, in speaking to his congregation, said : "There is no church in this city that offers a program for the social entertainment and education of our youth; and if ever a church does offer such a program, God will bless that church." 

Elder John O. Livesy, of Salt Lake City, wrote me a letter the next morning and said : "I am going to that minister tomorrow and tell him that we have a Mutual Improvement Association organized in this city for the very purpose he mentioned, and that we have eighty regular attendants, only eight of whom belong to our Church. And for this we shall call upon him for his benediction." 

My brethren and sisters, I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that every man and woman who lives it will be happy. I know, too, that there is happiness in living its principles, that the wages of sin is death, and that all who sin will be miserable and unhappy; so I pray the Lord to give us strength in the Western States Mission to be true to the faith of our fathers, that we may be happy, for that is the purpose of our creation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CARL F. EYRING 

President of the Nezv England Mission 

This is precious time. I trust that I may bear my testimony that you may know that I believe in this Church and that I appreciate the heritage which I have received. 

I have enjoyed the music of this Conference. In the mission field we are delighted with the music which comes from this Square. The broadcasts from Temple Square help us in our missionary work. 

It is a pleasure to be at another General Conference. We of the missions, just as you of the wards and stakes, depend upon the inspirar tion of General Conference to motivate us to greater diligence as the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. As we worship together, we more fully sense the power we are, and the added power that we might be, as defenders of the way of life preached and exemplified by the Master. In the mission field, probably more than at home, we keep asking ourselves the question, "What unique message do we have for the world ?" This question becomes the more significant because so many well-informed and intelligent persons are free with the conclusion : All churches are good, select the one that suits your taste. Apparently the selection of churches takes too much of the same attitude to be found in the selection of an automobile. Thus if we are to convert, we must not only present an acceptable religion, but we must develop first a conviction that it does matter which church is selected. 

What is our unique message to the world? First of all, we bear testimony that Jesus is the Christ- In no uncertain terms we declare 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

that the teachings of Jesus will save the world from slipping downward under the grip of materialistic and pagan philosophy. We testify that the way of life outlined by Jesus will preserve peace, and will eliminate poverty and suffering. We reaffirm that the attitude of "love thy neighbor as thyself," together with a practical application of this principle, will bring us out of our social and economic chaos. What the world needs is not more assent, or even belief that Jesus is the Christ, but a faith in him, a faith that will cause humanity to find the answers to its problems in the basic principles he taught and not in the teachings of self-appointed teachers who set up panaceas — short-cuts that lead down blind alleys. 

Further, we bear testimony that through a miraculous origin we bring to the world a Gospel restoration which is simply an additional testimony that Jesus is the Christ and that God really does care to have his children follow the way of life of his Son. 

The Christian world has accepted the Bible. Through this scripture Christians generally gain their testimony of Jesus, but through modern divine aid we extend to the world added testimony that Jesus is the Christ. In the preface of the Book of Mormon we read, "and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself to all nations." In brief, we notify the world that a people on this continent had unique religious experiences, similar to those received among the Hebrew prophets, and that the ancient American prophets testify that Jesus is the Christ. But we do more than present to the world this ancient scripture, the Book of Mormon. We present the teachings of modern prophets; we present the vivid and convincing testimony given to us this morning by our beloved President, as he quoted from the Doctrine and Covenants (Sec. 76:22-24). We need the current testimonies of our leaders who are our contemporary prophets. 

Our greatest message to the world, then, is the declaration that Jesus is the Christ. We wish for all men that they might have faith in Jesus Christ. We claim that only through him and his teachings may the' inhabitants of the earth be saved from chaos. We further testify that through divine appointment and selection we have been charged to bear this testimony to the world and to live the Christian life so completely that we shall truly be a light set upon a hill. This call of the Priesthood is truly a call to greater service, a call to the colors of improved and superior life. This is the type of testimony that we strive to bear to the world. 

I am very happy to report that your sons and daughters are maintaining and bearing this testimony. We are grateful to you, the fathers and mothers of these sons and daughters, for the support which you are giving the New England Mission. I can report progress, a fine condition among our branches, greater interest in Mormonism, and a splendid development among your sons and daughters. 

God bless the leaders of this Church. We are back of them with our loyalty. We declare that this is the work of the Lord, and that Jesus is the Christ. Amen, 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

One hundred and three years ago a missionary representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints found in the city of Toronto, Ontario Province, Canada, and converted and baptized a young lady. Soon after, she moved to the United States and married a man who had lost his wife. She became the mother of children the former wife had left. Later two were born to her. She saw and endured the trials and sufferings through the persecutions of Missouri and Illinois, where her husband was murdered by a mob. She was left alone to provide for and look after six young children. She made her way across the plains to the valleys of the mountains, not complaining, constantly teaching these children the word of the Lord as it had come to her from their father and his associates. She understood and believed the Gospel message, not doubting. 

I became acquainted with her only through the story and history of her life as it has come to me through her children. At first I saw in her life, suffering, hardships and trials, but recently I have found more than that. Possibly it is because the Gospel came to her in the city where I now make my home, but more assuredly because of the fact that this woman is my grandmother. 

Today her trials and the hardships she endured are dwarfed by her example of faith and integrity. I now see more clearly a spirit which overcame hardships and trials, and built up a resistance which enabled her to carry on and perform the labors which seemed necessary, not alone for her welfare and exaltation, but also to give encouragement and blessings to her offspring. Through my grandmother, I have been blessed and have found encouragement and strength, which has materially helped me in the work I have been called to do. 

I rejoice in the opportunity I have of laboring with your sons and your daughters, some of whom come to us full of the spirit which comes from our heavenly Father, eager to go to work and prepare to engage in it. Some are fearful because they have been poorly trained. We must nurse them, and encourage them. They see that they are not prepared for this work and become discouraged. But as they apply themselves to study, and through prayer a new spirit comes to them, we find them gaining confidence in themselves as their knowledge increases, and the beauties of the Gospel message unfold to their understanding. 

If you could have seen these young men and women during this winter, the severest winter with two exceptions since 1870, it would have made your hearts rejoice. We have removed from the walks in front of the Mission Home a little more than six feet of snow, and for months we have faced zero weather nearly every morning. Blizzards and snowstorms have been frequent, and yet our reports are almost equal to our summer reports, Some of the missionaries have been ill and have 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

gone to bed for a few days, but there has been no severe sickness. The Lord is good to us and we rejoice in the opportunities afforded us to serve in his great cause. 

May I suggest again, my brethren and sisters, as I have done for years past in the general conferences and in the stakes, that you take missionary work seriously. You do a grave injustice to your son or your daughter when you send them into the mission field to labor as missionaries without that preparation which provides for them a foundation upon which they may build and go on with a feeling of security. I hope, as I have hoped for most of my life, that the time will come when we can develop here at home, the spirit which your boys and your girls develop when they are face to face with the problem of teaching the Gospel, which is given to us in its fulness in this the last dispensation — the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

During the last year the First Presidency were good enough to provide us with a chapel in Toronto. This year the few times I have been permitted to meet in that chapel on the Sabbath day— several times in a blizzard — I have seen men, women and children who have walked miles in zero weather and in a snow storm to go to Church, and the spiritual food they receive seems to justify and reward them. In the mission field we find faith which would do credit to any ward or stake. We say with the prophet of old : "Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and my heart delighteth in righteousness; and I will praise the holy name of God." 

May he grant unto us that we shall not fail, but continue on under the influence of his Spirit and enjoy the blessings which come to those who serve him in faith, with a full desire to accomplish that which is required at our hands. With this feeling and this hope we are preaching the word of the Lord as it is found in the Holy Bible and the Book of Mormon and in the revealed word of the Lord given through modern prophets, the prophets of the latter days, and we are trying to follow these teachings and impart them to the people, many of whom find that they have lived in darkness and they rejoice when they see and comprehend the light. 

May the Lord bless us. Remember us in your prayers. I am hoping the time will come when you will all have meeting houses built and paid for, for then perhaps, more money can go into the mission field to help build houses for those who cannot build for themselves and are without suitable homes where they may serve the Lord in general assemblies I hope to see this time come. May God help us to be worthy of such blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. TEW, JR. 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be here this afternoon, and to meet with you in General Conference on this memorable occasion. I read not long ago from the pen of one of our great American religious preachers that there "is no such thing upon the earth today as the true Church of Christ. I rejoice that a hundred and nine years ago in the little town of Fayette, Seneca County, New York, at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., the Prophet Joseph Smith, as the Lord's instrument upon this earth in this dispensation, organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and, according to the Lord's word in the preface of the Doctrine and Covenants, it is the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which the Lord is well pleased, speaking of the Church collectively and not individually. 

I rejoice in my membership in this great organization. I rejoice in my privilege of being in the mission field with my family, presiding over the East Central States Mission. I am happy to report to you parents who are here this afternoon, and to you parents who are perhaps listening in on this occasion, that during the past three months I have visited every district and almost every branch of the East Central States Mission. I have contacted your boys and your girls in their conference assemblies, and in their mission field experiences, and in the missionary testimony and report meetings. I rejoice in the growth and the development, and the spirit that accompanies those young men and young women as they bear testimony of the truth of the Gospel. 

During the last month, just previous to coming to this conference, I spent my time visiting five of our districts. Forty-one conference sessions were held; two outstanding M. I. A. banquets were put on, and I believe that I can report safely and conscientiously that Mutual Improvement work in the mission field is the key position that captures the interest, the attention, and the devotion of our young people, and makes of them real, genuine Latter-day Saints. 

In the East Central States Mission we have almost 14,000 members on our records. I regret to say, however, that we do not know exactly where a. great many of these members are; they have moved from place to place without leaving their new addresses. 

We also have in the mission field 106 Elders and lady missionaries today. We are bringing back, or have brought back during the month of March, 14 Elders and lady missionaries who have filled missions in the East Central States. 

We find in the East Central States a very great need of teaching the people the Gospel of Jesus Christ. So many of them have been converted through emotional appeal, which seems to be the method of procedure in a great many different denominations in the world. I read just a few days ago that one of our great American preachers defines religion as a great psychological experience. To me that is far from 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

the truth. Religion to me is the actual practising of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in our daily lives. It is a life process, my brethren and sisters, and it is my hope and prayer that through our efforts in the mission field we shall be able to encourage our missionaries along this line of activity, because we know that through their living the Gospel the people of the world have become friendly unto us. 

Very seldom do we hear anything derogatory concerning the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it is preached and lived by the Latter-day Saints. We are always met with a greeting that is fair and congenial, and really and truly tolerant by those with whom we associate. 

I should like to leave with you people one thought in closing. It comes from the great prophet Amos, of Old Testament days, that shepherd prophet who lived at the little town of Tekoa, near the Dead Sea. The prophets were the Lord's great trail builders, as they are today. They had the power and influence among the people to unify them, and set in order the Church of God. Amos was sent to the northern kingdom of Israel, in the days of wickedness, in the days of apostasy, in the days of indifference, in the days of Jeroboam II the king of Israel. 

One of the things he told those people is this : 

Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood upon a wall made by a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand. 

And the Lord said unto me, Amos, what seeth thou? And I said, A plumbline. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of my people Israel : I will not again pass by them any more. 

That plumbline, my brethren and sisters, to me is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is this living Church, which is the embodiment of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I believe that we should remember that the eternal verities, those eternal laws of God must be lived up to if we ever expect to reap the blessing and the benefit that we should derive therefrom as members of the Church. 

May I encourage you to give us your faith and your prayers, and above all other things may we have your good works in living the Gospel here in the stakes and wards of Zion, that the reflection of these good works here at home may be a beacon light to us in the mission field in allaying prejudice, in bringing about a tolerant spirit among those with whom we labor. 

We assure you that with your faith and prayers and with our faith and prayers and efforts, and with the blessings of the Lord we shall succeed, and I may say, too, that, in the words of John Bright, the great English statesman, "If we cannot succeed as fast as we think we should succeed, we know that in the end our enemies cannot succeed at all." 

The Lord bless us, that we may succeed, and that we may succeed admirably, and as the Lord desires we should succeed in promulgating the Gospel to the world, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Central States Mission 

It is a rare privilege that I now enjoy. I am grateful for my testimony that the Gospel is true, for the associations that are mine, both in the mission and at home, and for the blessings that are resting upon the Latter-day Saints. I think the Latter-day Saint people enjoy the blessings of the Lord so regularly that we come to accept them as a matter of course. 

I am quite sure we do not appreciate fully the privileges and blessings that are ours at the present time, nor the value of the heritage that has come to us from our parents. 

Shoemaking in America largely began in the New England states; there were few good shoemakers elsewhere. When Missouri and the central west began to make shoes along the banks of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, they imported their skilled workmen from the New England section of the country. A number of generations have passed since shoes began to be made at these points, and there has now grown up in that vicinity a generation of natural-born shoemakers. The boys and girls, as soon as they are able to be employed, go into the shoe factories and secure" employment. There seems to be a skill that is inherited from their fathers and perhaps their mothers — for women worked in the factories. Manufacturers no longer have to send away for their skilled labor. 

I have used this thought in connection with the Church. In the promotion of the magazines of the Church I have frequently said that there are no people in the world who can write such as our people can on religious subjects, or social topics, and that there are no magazines that equal the magazines of the Church. 

The very same thing is true with reference to the leadership of the Church. The Lord has said that we are to be like a little leaven that leaveneth the whole lump. I have observed that sometimes into a community comes one man and his family who have this quality, and as a result of their coming, an organization is built around one or two families. Without them the organization could not succeed. If one of them should move away we would have difficulty in maintaining the little group. 

What shall we say then, with reference to the value of the teachings that come to us, and which we accept almost unconsciously, in the Sunday Schools and other organizations of the Church at home? Young men and women come into the mission field thinking that they are almost wholly unprepared. They do not realize the strength that is naturally within them, nor the rapidity with which they will obtain skill and arrive at a stage where they are able to leaven the whole lump and stir it up wherever they go. It soon becomes apparent that there is a leadership among them that is unusual. 

 There is another feature of our people that astonishes the world, and that is the cleanness of the lives of the missionaries. I had this brought forcibly to my attention through the sanitarium at Independence, First Day 

Missouri. We have a custom of bringing our "wounded" missionaries into that place. The doctor who attends them has marveled at the fine, clean bodies of the boys that have come to the hospital for operations, and the wonderful spirit of the girls that have gone there. The nurses at that sanitarium have mentioned it to the doctor, and he said to me one day : "Brother Woodruff, I know you will be very glad to hear this compliment to your people. Our nurses tell us that there are no people like yours that come within the walls of this institution, that there are none who respond so quickly to the healing care of medicine and good treatment, none who are so sweet-dispositioned to wait upon, and who leave behind them such a lovely and beautiful influence." 

This is the influence that comes from clean lives and from proper training at home. I am led to appreciate more and more the value of what the Church is doing. 

I know we are conscious of our failings; I know we know that we have our limitations, but I say this if it is of any value, by way of encouragement to those who labor with the youth of Zion at home. People say to us : "Where in the world do you find such fine young men and such fine young women, so many of them ?" 

I always reply, "Why, the woods are full of them out west. All we have to do is reach out and take what we can use, and they are all good." 

Well, it is a marvelous work and a wonder, and the Lord is being magnified, and our testimonies are growing. The Church is growing in strength and power, and I pray that it may continue to do so, and that we may all partake of its blessings. I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. 

I should like to repeat the request and the admonition made by President Grant this morning, that we exercise the greatest care in driving our automobiles. As he observed, there is a great tendency among us to feel that we must get to a certain place at a certain time. It is said that recently a Chinese, a man of great distinction, was to be taken uptown in New York by one of the Wall Street men of influence, and the Wall Street man described in detail how he would take the local to a certain station, that there he would take an express to another station, and that there he would get off and take another local and that by so doing, instead of taking a local all the way through, they would save a minute and a half. 

The Oriental said : "What will you do with the minute and a half when you have saved it ?" 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency I am sure that I can speak for all of you when I say to President 

Grant, who is listening in, that we have missed him, and that we join in prayers that he may be early restored to health and strength. 

I should like to thank, on behalf of the First Presidency, of this audience and of all who have listened in, the Singing Mothers for their excellent singing. 

An anthem, "The Lord's Prayer," (Cecil Gates) was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

Elder David R. Langlois, President of the Burley Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Friday, April 7, 10 a. m. 


