Afternoon
08 04 1939

The concluding session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock Sunday afternoon, April 9. 

Again the Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was fully occupied, and hundreds who could not find accommodations in either of these buildings assembled on the grounds, where they listened to the Conference proceedings by means of amplifiers. 

President Heber J. Grant was present and presided at this session. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session, and sang as an opening number, "Holy Art Thou," (Handel), Rilla Petersen, soloist. 

Elder Eugene A. Hilton, President of the Oakland Stake, offered the invocation. 

An anthem, "Awake My Soul," (Stephens), was sung by the Choir (Myrtle Checketts and James Haslam, soloists). 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I have been thrilled with the exercises of this present conference. I was deeply thrilled with the singing of the Singing Mothers about fifteen hundred of them — it was wonderful. I have been greatly thrilled with the singing of our regular Tabernacle Choir here today. I compliment them on the fine work they are doing, and I verily believe there is no better choir in the world. I am thrilled in standing before you and looking into the faces of this vast congregation. It is certainly a privilege to stand here and occupy the pulpit a few moments. . 

PURPOSE IN LIFE BRINGS HAPPINESS 

Happy is the young man, and happy is the young woman, yea, and the older ones, if they shall have discovered the purpose of life in their youthful tlays, because if they have discovered it, it will help them to order their paths, and to live more intelligent lives. 

People sometimes say : "Well, yes, the 'purpose of life' : What does it mean? What does it amount to? We are born into the world, we live our earth life and pass on." What is the answer? 

The answer is that it amounts to a very great deal, that it is a serious matter, and should require our careful attention. 

"Brother Clawson, what is the purpose of life? Can you tell me in a few words ?" Yes, in one sentence. The Prophet Lehi said : 117 

Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy. (2 Nephi 2:25.) 

Perhaps the Prophet should have added that they might have a fulness of joy. That is the purpose of life. 

"Well, how is one to obtain this fulness of joy?" 

EXPERIENCES BEFORE OUR EARTH LIFE 

Ah, my brother, that is another question. But the Pearl of Great Price tells us that God ordained that his spirit children should pass through three estates, and we here who are his spirit children, and others, have passed from a former estate. We must have lived there, my brethren and sisters, a long, long time. We must have learned much by experience. It must have been a place of happiness, but it was not a place where one could attain fulness of joy. The time came in that first estate when there was war in heaven. A rebellion had broken out in that great spirit family, and we are told in sacred writ that Michael and his angels fought with the dragon and his angels. I have a few lines here, taken from the Bible, which give a brief description of that war and the results that followed. Permit me to read them : 

And there was war in heaven : Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 

And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. 

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world : he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. 

And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ : for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night. 

And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death. (Rev. 12:7-11.) 

Rebellion in heaven! Could it be possible ? Yes, not only possible, but it actually occurred. These spirits at that time had their free agency, as we have our free agency, to choose between good and evil. And there was a class of spirits, headed by a prominent spirit named Lucifer, the Son of the Morning. He must have been a spirit of ability, a spirit of power and influence, and a spirit of great authority in that heavenly place. He stirred up the spirit of rebellion and sought to displace God upon his throne; so he was cast down to the earth with his followers, a third part of the hosts of heaven. 

Others fought for the right and were faithful, so that the time came when the Lord said to one of the spirits : 

You can go no farther. You have progressed as far in this estate as it is possible. Go down to the earth below and take upon yourself a body, and then you may pass through your second estate. 

And, if this should be said to one, it would be said to all that great family of spirits, that each in his turn should go down and get a body, 

118 General conference 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

that this was essential to their progress. They came down, as we have heard, Satan came, and his followers who were evil spirits. 

And the young man went down, and we read in the Bible, second chapter of Genesis, that "the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul." 

So it was with all those spirits in that first estate. They came down and are coming to get mortal bodies and will be coming for a long time in the future. It was a vast group. 

EVIL PRESENT IN THE WORLD 

Satan is here with his followers, and the fight is still on. The righteous spirits find, when they are brought into material form, that they stand naked and bare as it were. If they are to battle with the evil spirits they must be clothed upon with divine authority. How is this brought about ? 

It is brought about in the manner stated by the Savior when he said to Nicodemus : 

Except a man be born again — [and that means every man and every woman] — Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

And: 

Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. (John 3 :3, 5.) 

And so it was made plain by the Savior that in order to enter the kingdom of God it is necessary to be baptized by immersion in water and by the spirit, or Holy Ghost, by one having authority. There is no other way. But this birth by water and spirit, which simply and only gives a person a standing in the kingdom of God, is not sufficient. If the war which originated in heaven is to be fought over again on earth in the body, men must have divine authority as a preparation. The said authority consists of the Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthoods. The battle is continuous and will be waged through the second or mortal estate. Satan's punishment and the punishment of his followers for their rebellion in heaven, Joseph Smith the Prophet said, is that they are denied mortal bodies. The said punishment is terrible and will make those who receive it most unhappy for the reason that they are halted, they cannot progress, they cannot go forward, cannot attain a full measure of happiness. 

Their eagerness to secure bodies is so great that in many cases they endeavor to steal the bodies of the more favored spirits, and when these evil spirits enter into and take possession of the bodies of others we say of those afflicted that they are possessed by evil spirits. They can only be subdued and cast out of stolen bodies by those members of Christ's Church who are under divine authority. 119 

A SCHOOL OF EXPERIENCE 

They who pass through the second estate will be tried and tested to the uttermost, because it is said of them that if they keep their second estate glory will be added upon their heads forevermore, while those who do not keep their second estate but rebel against the God of heaven and against the Priesthood and power of God will be defeated and go down to destruction. 

The great majority of Latter-day Saints are making a gallant fight. Some are putting more effort into it than others and therefore accomplish more than others. Surely the second estate is a great school of experience; a variety of conditions are encountered — sickness, disease, misfortune, disappointment, sins of commission, sins of omission, days of happiness and days of sorrow. 

In this estate the children of God are sorely tried that it may be seen whether or not they will keep the commandments of God and will live by every word that proceedeth forth from his mouth. If they are faithful they will rise to exaltation and glory in their third estate, as already mentioned. 

That there is a definite purpose of life is further shown by the following paragraphs in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, verses 33-34 : 

For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; 

And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. 

I apprehend, my brethren and sisters, that it is our supremest desire to secure this great, if not the greatest of all blessings. 

A FULNESS OF JOY 

Another thing : Before we can enter into full and complete exaltation and glory and receive a fulness of joy we must take into account the sublime doctrine of marriage. It is necessary to our final exaltation. The man and woman were created together, or in other words it was one creative act. In the Garden of Eden it was found not to be right for Adam to live alone. Therefore Eve was created and given to him for a. companion, a helpmate, that he as a king and a priest and she as a queen and priestess might rise to exaltation and glory and together receive a fulness of joy. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, today in the glorious opportunities that are before us to win a crown in the kingdom of our God. The victory is within our reach if we will only take hold and make the best of our opportunities. 

THE BODY A PRECIOUS GIFT 

Let me say in a few closing words how important it is that we should look after these mortal bodies that God has given us. They are precious gifts from heaven. It is not only proper and right that we should look after our spirits, for that is what constitutes the life within the body, but we should also look after our bodies. Is it any wonder 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

that the Church has organized a campaign against liquor and tobacco which are so hurtful to the body, and in a measure defile the body ? There are other things also that weaken the body — immorality, etc. We should remember that we are to lay these bodies down and take them up again as the Savior laid his body down and took it up. He was the first fruits of the resurrection, and he holds the keys of the resurrection. So, as he has gone down and come up, surely his brethren will go down and come up and be resurrected. And it is therefore very desirable that we should take up our bodies free from sin and defilement. 

Now, I shall just read these few lines to close my remarks : 

I live for those who love me, 

For those who know me true, For the heaven that smiles above me, 

And awaits my spirit, too; 

For the cause that lacks assistance, For the wrong that needs resistance, For the future in the distance, And the good that I can do. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. The Lord bless the Presidency of this Church, and the Twelve, and the First Council of Seventy, and all the presiding authorities, the authorities in the stakes of Zion, the authorities in the mission fields. May peace and blessing and success attend you is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This has been a glorious occasion; we have delightful weather, comfort and peace. We rejoice in both the speaking and the music, and I do not know of any people in all the world who has more reason to be grateful to our Heavenly Father than the group that is assembled at this conference. 

EVIDENCES ESTABLISHING THE FACT OF THE RESURRECTION 

Today we are celebrating what the Christian world calls Easter, the anniversary of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, who was the first fruits of the resurrection from the dead. 

We have had some splendid information imparted to us in this conference. Surely if there is anything more pleasing than the knowledge that we are living eternal life, it is that the Lord in his mercy has bestowed upon us the information necessary to enable us to enjoy that eternal life in the highest glory. 

We possess all that the world knows with reference to the resurrection from the dead, and in addition we have other important information concerning it. We accept without reservation the testimony of all of the evangelists contained in the New Testament with reference to the resurrection of the Redeemer of mankind. It is so plain that it seems to me that no thoughtful person can fail to comprehend it. The fact is that 121  the Savior was crucified and was laid in the tomb he came forth, and for forty days he associated with his disciples, he partook of fish and honeycomb with them, they felt the prints of the nails in his hands and the spear mark in his side. He declared to them while he stood among them, "Behold my hands and my feet that it is I myself : handle me and see for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." Surely this is incontrovertible evidence and yet there are many of our Father's children who do not understand it. 

We read in Job, "But there is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." Those who have not received that inspiration will not comprehend the meaning of the resurrection from the dead, and without that understanding it seems to me there would be little happiness for those who are living in mature years, waiting for the time when the spirit leaves the body to go they know not where. 

ADDITIONAL TESTIMONY IN THE BOOK OF MORMON 

The Lord has favored us. He not only gives us the evidence contained in the Bible but in addition the testimony that we find recorded in the American scripture, the Book of Mormon, III Nephi, Chapter 2. After the Savior had been crucified and resurrected and ascended into heaven a great multitude of people were assembled around the temple in the land Bountiful on this western hemisphere, marveling at the changes that had been wrought. They heard an unusual voice repeated three times. It was not a loud voice, neither was it a harsh voice, and yet it pierced them to their very centers. Looking toward the sound they saw a man descending out of heaven. He was clothed in a white robe, and he came down and stood in the midst of them and declared to them, "Behold I am Jesus Christ whom the prophets testified should come into the world." 

What more direct evidence of resurrection from the dead could have beenhad than that he, in his resurrected body, came among them and taught them the same Gospel that he taught in Jerusalem. And he now fulfilled the promise he had made in Jerusalem when he said, "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold and one shepherd." He came in his resurrected body to bring to them the information he had predicted should be given to those to whom he now ministered. 

It was a wonderful experience for those people. After teaching them all day he told them that he must leave them but would return on the morrow, which he did, to find a much larger group assembled. He healed their sick and blessed their children and continued to instruct them in the beauty of his Gospel. There was no doubt in their minds that he was the Savior of the world. They saw him come from heaven and witnessed his marvelous power. He did not come to them as a little babe, helpless in the hands of his enemies, but he came in glory. Angels came down from heaven as it were in the midst of fire and surrounded the little children so that they were encircled with fire. And the angels did minister unto them. 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 9 Third Day 

Those were not hallucinations, but experiences of such marvelous character as to be remembered forever by those who experienced them. As Latter-day Saints we accept this record as evidence of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S EXPERIENCE 

When Joseph Smith, not yet fifteen years of age, read in James 1 :5 "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him," he believed what he read. He was not reared in ignorance as some have supposed. His father was a successful school teacher. The Bible was a sacred volume in their home library. When he read that the Lord would give wisdom to those who asked for it, he went into the woods nearby and he knelt down and prayed. 

In answer to his prayer he beheld the Father and the Son. Not only did he see them, but he heard their voices, first the Father saying : "This is my beloved Son; hear ye him!" And then the Son spoke to him and answered his questions. Joseph wanted to know which Church to join and was informed that he should join none of them, because they were not doing what the Lord desired them to do. He was informed then and later that there was work for him to do. It was a little over a hundred years ago when that occurred, but what Joseph saw and heard had a great influence on the religious world. 

DIRECT REVELATION FROM GOD 

In our day we have the Bible, we have the Book of Mormon which was given to Joseph Smith by our Heavenly Father, and we have the revelations of God in the Doctrine and Covenants. We have the witness of others who have had angels visit them and who testified regarding sacred things. In the Kirtland temple marvelous manifestations were witnessed by faithful men, all contributing to assurance of a literal resurrection. 

The resurrection ought to be an easy thing for us to understand. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the laying on of hands of those who had been with the Savior as disciples in Judea. They conferred the Priesthood upon them and explained to them the teachings of Jesus Christ as contained in the Holy Bible. 

We ought to be grateful. No other people in the world have been so blessed as we. We should evidence our belief in Jesus Christ by living in such a way that we will be worthy of the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit. We can if we will live in accordance with the things that have been revealed to us. Now, with reference to the resurrection of the Savior, there is no doubt. 

We may turn to section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants and see what the Lord has said about our resurrection, not only the resurrection of the Savior, but he tells us what may happen to us, and I will read so that I shall not misquote : 

Now, verily I say unto you, that through the redemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead. 123 

And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. 

And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. 

And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it. 

Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory; 

For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father; 

That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it forever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified. 

And they who are not sanctified through the law which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom. 

For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. 

And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. 

And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory. 

And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law — 

Wherefore, it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it. 

For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise again, a spiritual body. 

They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened. 

Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And also they who are quickened by a portion of the telestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness. 

And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received. 

For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift. 

We are informed in this section that our bodies are to be raised from the tomb, not some other bodies, and that the spirits that possess these tabernacles now will inhabit the same tabernacles after they have been cleansed and purified and immortalized. 

BLESSINGS BRING RESPONSIBILITY 

I think we would be a very ungrateful people if, with all the information that God has bestowed upon us for our comfort and blessing (and he has told us that we must divide that information with all the world), we did not go a long way and make many sacrifices for our Father's other children who are precious in his sight, that they might know what he has revealed to us. There will be many who will not understand, but th§ 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

Lord intends that all shall have an opportunity to know, and it will be our duty and responsibility to see that this Gospel is proclaimed in all parts of the world for the blessing of all who will receive it. 

We know all that the world knows with reference to the resurrection. We have all that the world has with reference to other truths. We have the authority of the Holy Priesthood bestowed upon men in this dispensation to prepare the human family for the Celestial kingdom. 

I wonder if we appreciate how blessed we are in having all that our brethren and sisters of the world have and in addition these other opportunities. With these opportunities and responsibility we ought to set our homes in order. We ought to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to our children and to our grandchildren, and to our great grandchildren if we live long enough. There is nothing more precious to us than our children, and our eternal happiness will be largely conditioned by what they attain to. The Lord has given us to understand what it all means. Surely we will not betray his confidence in us by failing to do the thing that we know we should do. 

INSPIRATION GIVES UNDERSTANDING 

Mention has been made during this conference of the failure of many of the Latter-day Saints to obey the commandments of our Heavenly Father with reference to the Word of Wisdom. As simple a thing as refusing or failing to obey the Word of Wisdom may deprive us of the companionship of that Spirit that would enable us to understand other important truths. There is a spirit in man but it requires the inspiration of the Almighty to give it understanding, and if we want that understanding we must live for it. There will be no doubt about it if we observe the commandments of God. We will not need the testimony of others to know that this work is true. When the disciples of the Savior were with him they admired him not knowing how great he really was, but not until the power of the Holy Ghost came upon them, not until they had the baptism of fire were they able to face the problems and endure the persecutions that almost made life unendurable. When the inspiration of the Almighty gave them understanding they knew they were living eternal life, and if they proved faithful they knew that when they laid their bodies down in death they would be raised from the tomb to glory and immortality. 

That was the result of the inspiration of the Spirit of God that came upon them, the inspiration of the Almighty that gave them understanding. If there is any doubt in the mind of any man or woman in this Church who has been baptized and repented of their sins and who has had hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost — if there is any doubt in their minds of the truth and divinity of this work it is because they have failed to measure up, it is because they have transgressed the laws of God, and because they have not kept the light of truth burning in their souls. We need repentance if that occurs to us; otherwise that assurance may depart from us to return again no more. 125 

JOY IN LABORING IN THE CHURCH 

Standing in your presence as I do today I am grateful for my blessings, I am thankful for your companionship. It is a joy to be associated with men such as lead this Church — these who are upon this stand. I can testify to you as one who knows them from personal contact that they are men of God, but they are men. They may make some mistakes, but they will correct them. They are holy men who are seeking the will of God and for that inspiration that gives them understanding. It is a joy to labor with them and to have contact with them and I thank my Heavenly Father for that privilege I am grateful to be your companion in this great Church, for the opportunity I have of visiting the Stakes of Zion and the missionary field. I am thankful for the privilege that has been mine to associate with good men and women, many of them not members of this Church. But our Heavenly Father desires that they shall have an understanding of the truth, that they may take advantage of their privileges while they are here. It is your duty and mine to let our light so shine that others observing our upright lives will be constrained to glorify the name of him who is the Author of our being. It is our privilege to do that and if we fail it will not be because we have not known better. 

I pray that that Spirit which keeps us in the pathway of truth and righteousness may abide with us, and I pray that that desire that comes from the inspiration of our Heavenly Father may direct us on that pathway of life. Some of us may not be here many years more, and today is the acceptable time of the Lord for every one of us to atone for the mistakes we have made and repent of our sins and come to him with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, with a desire that we may be forgiven of our mistakes and rejoice in the companionship of his Spirit while we remain upon the earth. 

That God may add his blessings and that the joy that comes from him alone may fill your hearts and your homes, that wherever you go you may be leaders of ability and teachers of righteousness among the children of men, and when the time comes for us to go hence that we may receive from our Heavenly Father that glorious welcome, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This conference is a spiritual feast, a feast of fat things for the righteous prepared. Just before the close of this morning's meeting these words came to my mind. "Certain Greeks came to Philip, saying, 'Sir, we would see Jesus'." 

JESUS MOVING AMONG MEN 

In the heavenly bodies, in the skies, God may be seen moving in his 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 9 Third Day 

majesty and glory. The stars, those rounded orbits of light, the sun and the moon and the heavens declare the glory of God, but they do not declare his will. I would see Jesus moving among men, giving uplift of spirit to the distressed in mind and in body. 

Tennyson was asked by a friend : "What does Jesus Christ mean to you personally ?" 

The great poet replied : "Christ means to me what the sun means to the rosebush." 

I am thankful that the philosophy of our religion gives me the comfort of a personal God, who hears the widow's mournful cry, "sends the laboring conscience peace, and grants the prisoner sweet relief." I think it was Victor Hugo who said that of all the names of Deity, compassion was the most beautiful, and God is a compassionate being. "So nigh is grandeur to our dust, so near is God to man." 

THE ROAD TO HEAVEN 

In the Book of Mormon we read that the great Creator suffered and bled on the cross, died for all men, that all men might become subject unto him. Jesus became subject unto man in the flesh. He was the suffering servant, the personification of service. Service was the road his sanctified and heavenly feet trod, and in all the philosophy of the world, yea in the philosophy of religion, the only road to heaven is the road of service. This shines like a gem. 

What glorifies a mother? She becomes subject unto her children and serves them, wearing out her splendid life to care for them. My brethren and sisters, if our children fail we too fail, in a measure at least. In this great Church Welfare movement, I see the spirit of Christ moving in compassion, in grandeur, in mercy, and in pity among the unfortunate children of men who are not blessed with much of this world's goods. 

Do you want to taste heaven ? Do you want to feel the presence of Christ? Then go with the Elders who have these charitable projects in hand. Minister to the needy, give aid to the worthy poor, teach people to work, to become independent. The fulness and the majesty of manhood rests upon him who is willing and anxious to toil and who has the opportunity to labor. What people get for nothing they do not always appreciate. As God became subject to man in the flesh, so in preaching this Gospel, in going about as Jesus did, doing good, we are serving, we are knowing that Christ lives, and that he is not far removed from us. I repeat, if we want to have a foretaste of heaven, if we do not want to wait until the millennium before we walk in the Garden of Eden, let us give liberally of our substance unto the poor. 

CHRIST THE AUTHOR OF EVERY GOOD AND PERFECT GIFT 

Christ is the source of all light. I do not believe there was ever an architect, a scholar, a surgeon, a painter, a builder, who did those wonderful things without the spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ. We may 127  to acknowledge it, but nevertheless it is true, for Christ is the author of every good and perfect gift that cometh from above. 

Our Church educational system, the Brigham Young University, and all our institutes and seminaries presided over by devoted men and noble scholars, are doing, I am fully persuaded, a great work in preparing young men and women to preach the Gospel, and in fitting them to face the problems of life. 

Jesus said : "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth," but the peace that makes for godly contentment. And brethren and sisters, this world will never know true and lasting peace until righteousness goes before peace, for there can be no enduring peace without righteousness. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. 

THE RESURRECTED LORD 

Another promise : "Because I live ye shall live also." Oh, the sweet comfort this promise gives, I know that my Redeemer lives. And because he lives I shall live, my personality shall survive. I like to think of Christ immortal and resurrected in glory. I like to think of him as he moved among men upon the earth. I do not believe we change much in the way of rendering service when we go to the other world. Jesus, after he was resurrected, used the hands that made the world, to prepare food for his disciples, and when the resurrected Lord came to this glorious western hemisphere, he called for the halt and the blind, the maimed, the deaf, the sick and with those heavenly hands he touched their infirmities (which he had borne in mortality) and he healed them. 

I see crowded around him those beautiful children, not afraid of the Almighty, the little girls smiling into his face, the boys going up to him unafraid. And upon them he laid his hands and blessed them, and behold, as he knelt on the ground he "groaned within himself," for he was "troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel." 

Now I do not think that when we get to the other world tears are going to cease to flow nor trouble cease to enter our hearts, for the Prophet Joseph said that our loved ones are not far from us, and they are cognizant of what we are doing, and some of our actions grieve them. I see the Savior praying, sympathizing with the multitude as he did in mortality. He fed the hungry, he listened to the complaints of the poor. Remember he said to the people : "The poor ye have always with you." 

The spirit of Christ is in this Welfare movement. It is going to lead us upward to higher and still higher spiritual heights, for Jesus is behind it. "Holy art Thou, Lord God Almighty." Amen. 128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My brethren and sisters, I came very nearly believing that this was going to be for me a day of "passover," and, had it been such, I would not have been at all worried. The only thing about it was that I had no mark on the door to know that it was going to happen. 

I have been more than pleased with the spirit of this conference, for I feel that every April Conference that we have should be a testimony to our Lord Jesus Christ. We are the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Our lives and our words should both be testimonies unto the world of the divinity of this organization, of the divinity of the Man, if you will permit me to call him a man, who caused it to come into existence. 

If I could spend my days and could convert the world to that thought, or just a man or two in the world, I would feel that my life had been a most successful one. 

A NEW WITNESS FOE GOD 

We have heard here some things incident to the life and the activities of our Savior. We have been told of them in the Bible, almost entirely in the New Testament. There are some prophetic utterances in the Old Testament, but we get most of our knowledge of Christ from the New Testament and from the Book of Mormon. We call the Book of Mormon — and rightly so — a "new witness for God," because it came along to corroborate and bear out the story of the writers of the New Testament. Now, in order that the Book of Mormon shall be a new witness for God, I think we must first believe in the Book of Mormon. In order to believe in the Book of Mormon we have to believe in the Prophet Joseph Smith, to accept his testimony that he saw God and Jesus Christ, and that he was commissioned by divine interposition to restore to the world the Book of Mormon. 

ARE REASON AND STUDY SUFFICIENT? 

Where are we going to get that testimony? Can we reason ourselves into it by studying the few prophetic utterances of the Prophet Joseph Smith that have already come to pass ? Can we get it by reading the testimony of the witnesses on the fly-pages of the Book of Mormon ? Can we get it by studying the archaeology of America and reasoning from that point of view that the Book of Mormon tells a true story, and that consequently the Prophet Joseph Smith was a true prophet ? 

From some source we must get this testimony, in order that the Book of Mormon may be for us a new witness for God. 

I cannot remember a time in my life when I have very seriously wondered if the Prophet Joseph Smith were commissioned of God. I grew up with that faith in my heart that he actually, in vision, saw God and Jesus Christ, the Angel Moroni, and other heavenly beings, and with that testimony more or less inherent within me, I have never 129  the veracity of the Book of Mormon. As I grow older I like to dig into the archaeology and the enthnology of America somewhat, mainly with a view of getting things to tell other people that might help them along this line. But I find that there is in the minds of people who have studied these things such great confusion that you can hardly bring any uniform interpretation out of their studies and their reports. One man reads the inscriptions on the ruins of Mexico as far as he can, or looks at them and tries to interpret them. Another man does exactly the same thing, and they write quite divergent reports about them. What good is it then as a testimony to the Book of Mormon? 

A SURE WAY 

There is, however, to me, and I believe there should be to you, a sure way of getting at that question. There is a promise in the Book of Mormon that if we will read it with a prayerful heart God will tell us whether it is true or not. I have often wondered in my mind just why God saw fit to do that most wonderful thing which he did in preserving and bringing to light the Book of Mormon. It tells us many interesting things about a people that lived on this continent, and it tells us above all others of the visit of Christ to that people, and the more I study it the more I believe that the purpose God had in mind was to bring that new witness of Christ to light. 

THE PRINCIPAL PURPOSE OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

I think the preservation of the history of that people was purely a secondary matter, perhaps, but that the real purpose was to testify anew to the life of Christ and his mission in the earth, and to clarify the doctrines that he gave us. And I find that by reading it through and studying it from that point of view, rather than one of history, I do have a feeling and a testimony when I get through with the book that it is divine. There is a spirit in it, there is a whispering to your soul, that an honest man cannot deny. 

That to me is the value of the Book of Mormon. 

Now, if we could go into Mexico and Central America and South America, and into our own United States, and, by scraping aside the earth which has accumulated over a few centuries, expose to view a consecutive and true story of this people which would bear out in all its major details the story of the Book of Mormon, what a simple thing it would be. But it would lose, in my mind, one of its greatest values. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF FAITH 

We are blessed as much, if not more, by the acceptance of certain things on faith than to accept them on reason. Whenever we can reason ourselves into a thing we get a certain satisfaction out of it, it is true, but whenever through faith we can accept the life of Jesus Christ our Lord and Master, we get a development that no amount of reason can ever bring to us. 

I believe that God purposely covered up these things that when 

'msppuD jo suo;ou 'juids stqj 3ABq jjim uouuop\[ jo >joog aqj SinpBsa usqAV 'qaanq^ siq} jo saaquiaiu aaB oqA\ sn jo asoq} }Bq; ab.hI j 

AN0WIJ.S3X DNIAFI V 

sn c\ 

amoa jijav ji iBqj ssau;iA\ jBaq J 'Auouiusa; }Bq} sn saiS o} poQ >[sb [jim puB 'qjnaj aqj a\ou>[ oj aaisap ano ui aaaouis aaB-A"qBaa aA\ ji;nq '3110 issdn ubd }Bq; sSurq; Aubiu ooj axe sasqj apnji;}B jbdiujd b si aaaq; aaAaaaqM asueaaq 'AjpaijiaD;ou 'puau Suumbui ub qjiM ji psaa 05 pjjoav aqj >(sb puB 'uouuojaj jo >pog aq} 'poQ aoj ssaujiAV A\au b pireq }q§ia ano ui A"aaB3 3A\ puB 'poQ ui qjjBj puB aDUB}uadaa o; ppoM aqi Suqjra 'sassauiiM jBpads qiaoj oS 01 Ajnp ano uaqi si }j "Ajnp stqj jo aSaBqasq} aqi ut maqi piB 01 pajpja 3q oj /Cipapuaaajaad aaB 3A\ iBqi puB 'uoipaaip apq} aapun aiBaado puB siuBuainaq;aaaip aiaqi aaB sa\ iBqi sn jpj o; SB jbj os s3o3 sjubu3ao3 puB suujDOQ aqjL 'sapsody 3A[3Mj_ sq; jo spueq aqi ppqdn puB }aoddns 01 uaiu jo Apoq siqi jo Ajnp jBtoadsa aqi si ij qoanq3 siqj ui A^uaAag b si auo ^pjBunxoaddB 'pooqjsauj >ppazuppi^ 

91J1 UI U3LU U3A3S A"j3A3 JQ 'PJJOAY 3ql 0} AlI0UIl}S3} IBqi A"a.IBD 0} SI }I 

ssodand asoqA\ pooqisaiaj aqi jo A"poq b ABpoi noA" oj lusssadsa j S3iXN3Aas aHi ao noissim am 

pOQ JO U3AI§ JJlS B SB Sn 0} S3UI0D A"uoiuijs3i sq; inq 

'uiSuo sji oj sb uopssnb ou si aaaqj jBqj auuuaaisp puB uoisnpuoo b oj 3siui3jd b moaj uosbsj ubd noX jBq; 'saij jsS puB asqjsSo; 33jqj puB oa\};nd ubd noA";Bq; jobj sq; iuojj lou ssiuod Xuouiijss; anoA! u pB3j noA" usqAV puB 'poQ jo J3A\od aqj Aq p3}B[SUBj; 'uonisoda3;ui 3uiAip qSnoaq; sn o; sujbo 11 : paiBaa^npBun sn o; suibd;j 'P°0 jo } ssaujiM 1B3.i§ sqj si;Bq; 3iu oj^ aswBiu pafqns sqj si uoauoj/^ jo >|oog sqj sjsqM ssssBp A"pnis qSnoaqj sssoons issjbsjS apqj;aod3j ssijbuoissiiu 3^b;s ano jo smog -ppiOA\ sqj jo uoisjsauod aqj aoj 3abi[ A"[qissod ubd 3A\;blj; 'uisqj jo auo ao 'uossaj jssjb3jS 3qi si ji 3A3ipq j 

aoo ao xaio v sv sawoo ANownsaj. 

ji jo jno ao qaanq3 sq; ut si sq asqjsqM auouiuss; jbijj;a§ jp.A\ 'qjnaj saqoBaj;i ji uaBaj jiaids jBqj moaj puB 'jiaids sji uaB3j |jiM 3q jBqj puiui ui;q§noqj sqj qjiAV uouiaoj\[ jo >[00g 3qj qSnoaq} spBsa oqM jnos Suiainbui issuoq ^a3A3;Bq; 3A3qsq j -jpsuiiq po£) Aq Xjuo sn o} usaiS 3q ppoo }Bqj qjiBj b 'qjiBj uodn isaa o; aABq pjnoM ji iqSq O} auioo pjnoqs;i uaqM lBqi os 'uouiaojAJ jo >iooj:[ aqj jo iCao;s aqi puB ajdoad siqj jo Xao;siq aq; Ajmbque ui dn paaaAoo 'aAaipq I 'Apsodand SBq po£) puB 'ajq ui 3uiq; issjBaaS aqj si sui o; qjiBj 

'3jq siq sSuBqo oj uiiq pduii pjnoM qjiBj 'ji oj SuipaoDOB saij pjnoM aq ao 'qjiBj jo >{aBds b jou SBq aq '. qjnaj aqj saaoujj jiAap aqj^ up3§B ami; puB aiuq 'a§paiA\ou>[ uBq; a3}B3aS si quB^ 'ssasAiun aqi ]|B ui aaMod aApoui jsa;Baa§ aqi si qjreg 'qjrej uo paidaaoB aq oj aABq pjnoAv u uoiiBaausS siqi ui;qSij oj auioo p|noqs uouiaojAi jo >ioog aq; 

3DN3X3JN0D 7VH3N3D 0£l 131  one necessarily of investigation and discovery, except in so far as we can discover the spirit of God speaking to the hearts of men. I pray that he will bless us with his spirit, that as the days go on and grow into years, and as the years pass and we grow toward the end of our lives, that we may realize that we have done our best to live honorable, upright lives, to be a credit to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to be a living testimony of the work that was established under Jesus Christ. God grant it. Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

For the unbeliever and the skeptic I imagine I have a panacea. I think were he permitted to sit where I have been sitting for these few days looking into your countenances, he would in very deed believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. I do not think it is possible that the light, the intelligence, and that spirit which emanates from an audience such as this can carry other than conviction even to the heart of one who is a firm unbeliever. 

God has given to this people so many blessed things that your faces just speak them out loud. It has been said that our life here is but a shadow of the life from whence we came, and that in the future death will be but a shadow of the life which we personally know and comprehend while we are living. 

THE BOOK OF MORMON PRAISED 

God in his mercy and goodness has granted to us all this knowledge and all this understanding. I rejoice beyond my ability to express myself at the things which have just been spoken by Brother Ivins. I believe there is no other book that can be profitably studied by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints particularly, and by the world in general, that would do as much good and bring the same conviction to the hearts of the people of this great world of ours, as the Book of Mormon. 

At least fifteen hundred years ago there was penned by the hand of one with whom we became acquainted later on, a record which was hid up and which contained the words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I think those words would intrigue anyone, and the things which are written in this great and marvelous book — history, adventure, all that one could desire even for young children — the glamor and the charm of it would take them far. 

Moroni, the man who hid up the record of these things, appeared to Joseph Smith, September 21, 1823. Later he appeared time after time and brought this sacred record with the careful statement that it must be correctly, accurately, definitely, positively translated, according to the will and promise of God. Afterwards' through holy messengers, 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

came the declaration that it had been translated correctly and that it contained the fulness of the everlasting Gospel. 

I have written just a verse or two from this book, and I shall ask you to bear with me while I read them. Think and ponder upon what is said : 

And again, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you concerning hope. How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save ye shall have hope ? 

And what is it that ye shall hope for? Behold I say unto you that ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection, to be raised unto life eternal, and this because of your faith in him according to the promise. 

Wherefore, if a man have faith he must needs have hope; for without faith there cannot be any hope. 

And again, behold I say unto you that he cannot have faith and hope, save he shall be meek and lowly of heart. (Moroni 7:40-43.) 

And so I ask you, do you know a people anywhere who are meek and lowly of heart? I think I do. I think I know they are meek and lowly of heart because of their adherence to the principles which God in his mercy gave in purity to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

HOME MISSIONARY WORK 

Your sons and daughters are preaching the Gospel in every land and clime. And then, I would remind you that you have husbands and sons and daughters here at home who are engaged in the most magnificent missionary work that they can perform. In the one hundred and twenty-seven stakes there were two thousand laboring during the past year. God did not forget them. Approximately eighteen hundred souls were brought to a knowledge of the truth, and many hundreds of lukewarm and indifferent members were brought back into a state of activity. 

In the month of February of this year, the shortest month, there were two hundred and seven baptisms in the stakes, and over four hundred inactive members of the Church were brought into activity. All this bears a great testimony to the faithfulness of the missionaries. They were strengthened in their testimonies. 

This work was accomplished through the local stake missions last year at an expense of only $2.18 per baptism. 

I hardly feel sometimes that it is proper to ask God to bless his Church because this is God's Church, but I do feel to ask him to bless us who are trying to carry on. May he make us strong, hold us up in our weakness, even to the time when we shall attain for ourselves that which we are seeking: eternal rest in the mansions on high, I humbly pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 133 

ELDER FRANK EVANS 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

I realize that one who is called here is greatly favored, and yet that favor is not given to him because of himself, but because of the fact that he is engaged in the humblest of service. 

If I were to ask the members of the Church in the Eastern States Mission as to what would be their choice in a religious, or church, experience, I feel sure that most of them would say : "The privilege of attending a General Conference of the Church." 

It is true they have many privileges there. Within a few weeks many of those within a radius of fifty miles of Harmony will gather on the banks of the Susquehanna to engage in a _baptismal service at the point where Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were baptized, and will also celebrate the restoration of the Priesthood. 

A little later in the summer many will visit the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove, and the home of the Prophet. They will go to the little old farm, the cradle of the Church, the place where six young men performed the necessary service of organization — five farmers and one school master, the oldest only thirty, the youngest slightly over nineteen. 

I am glad that all of those places are much as they were a hundred years ago, and I hope they will remain so. There is no encroachment, to speak of, of population. They are still only humble places.. I wish they could have seen — all of them — one of the demonstrations here during this conference, and I refer to the Singing Mothers, -not as a musical demonstration, particularly, but as something far more than that. 

I think if there had been a student in this audience who was interested in human reactions and human behavior, he would have seen something very, very interesting. Fifteen hundred minds directed to a leader here, fifteen hundred spirits responding to every gesture of the leader in order that they might give forth their message. Was there one amongst them who thought she was surrendering some personal liberty or personal privilege by acting in that way ? 

it seems to me that here was an achievement in leadership; but more than that, in the high art of following it was a triumph. I feel it was typical of the leadership in this Church, men who lead by persuasion, by long-suffering, by kindness and meekness, and by love unfeigned. 

I want to be a follower. There never was a great leader unless he had first learned to be a follower. There have been times when parents of young men and young women who were about to leave for the mission field have asked me what their preparation should be, that is, what they should take with them. Now, after nearly two years of work in the mission field I am ready to say that I cannot answer that question in terms of material things alone, but most importantly of all, let them come to us with the Spirit of God in their hearts, with a willingness to believe. "Be ye faithful and believing." 

If they bring with them humility and the willingness to believe then all else will be added' unto them. May God bless you. Amen. 

134 

Sunday, April 9 Thitd Day 

ELDER RULON S. HO WELLS 

Formerly President of the Brazilian Mission 

I had much less fear in the jungles of Brazil than I feel upon this occasion. I am indeed humble before such an awe-inspiring assemblage. 

This year marks the centennial of the Church's missionary work abroad. I am pleased to make a report of one of the latest, or perhaps the last, foreign mission opened up by the Church — the Brazilian Mission in South America. In 1930, through the efforts of a few missionaries sent out from Buenos Aires, Argentina, converts were baptized and a branch was established in a small town in the southern part of Brazil. In 1935, just four year? ago now, we were called to open the Brazilian Mission. Since that time, with the splendid cooperation of your missionary sons, and the great leading spirit of the Lord which has been with us in that work, eight branches in that great country are now part of our Church. 

Inasmuch as this is the first report of this new mission, you might be interested in knowing that our work up until just recently has been carried on solely among the European colonists who have been settling Brazil for the past hundred years, more particularly among the German people. We have 'many stalwart members and fine friends among these people. 

Ours has been a pioneering work and in many of the villages and towns where the -missionaries have gone the name "Latter-day Saint" or ''Mormon" had never been heard before. It didn't take the adversary very long to catch up and circulate the usual falsehoods. 

In one town three of our missionaries were mobbed and driven out, but fortunately sustained no personal injuries. Not long after that time, missionaries returned to this same town and were able to establish one of the finest primaries we have in the mission. At the last conference I attended there the hall where we have our meetings would not hold all the people. There were people in that town waiting for the truth and with the help of the Lord the power of Satan was stayed. Since then several have been baptized there in that same village and the work is going forward. 

While our work was carried on among these German-speaking people we were able to get the Book of Mormon translated into the Portuguese language, the common language of the great country of Brazil, and now many missionaries are engaged in proclaiming the restored Gospel in this language, and the work will go on even more rapidly. 

Through the translation of the Book of Mormon into the Portuguese language the way has been opened to nearly forty million Portuguesespeaking people who may hear the Gospel in their native tongue for the first time. Through the work of proclaiming the restored Gospel in the Portuguese language in Brazil, new evidences of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon are coming forth. 

Just recently in the upper region of the Amazon Basin hieroglyphics 135  some form of Egyptian scroll engravings have been found. The Brazilians are puzzled. They can't find any Egyptian relationship with Brazil's history. The development will be interesting to us as a people, I am sure. 

Brazil and the Brazilians are and have been friendly to the United States and we find very little difficulty in general in preaching the Gospel in that great country. We are a long way from headquarters here in Salt Lake City, and I would like to express gratitude and appreciation for the splendid cooperation and support received from the First Presidency and the General Authorities. We have felt their sustaining prayers and faith. 

This is a marvelous organization and system that we have here in this great Church. Without the spirit of the Lord and the sacrifices of humble people very little can be accomplished. You parents and relatives who are supporting missionaries are in very deed showing your love for the Gospel and your fellow men in enabling these young men and women to be messengers of light to a tired and weary world. 

In one of the large cities of Brazil recently a very well trained and educated man asked me why we didn't concentrate and send missionaries to the so-called heathen countries and nations as most other churches do. I told him that I thought perhaps the Lord was more dissatisfied with those generally who profess to follow him and those who bear his name than with those who do not profess to be such. He said, "I agree, and may your people succeed in such a great undertaking." 

It was my privilege to be traveling in far-off India a few years ago and going around with a native, a so-called heathen or non-Christian. I remarked on the large number of American automobiles used there by the natives. He replied rather philosophically, "If the American religion or religions would work as well as the American automobiles, we non-Christians would accept them as we do the automobiles." 

My testimony has been strengthened by witnessing how the Gospel of Jesus Christ actually works for the salvation of the soul in the daily lives of Latter-day Saints more universally than in any other form, creed, or symbol to be found upon the earth today. I feel there is a great future for the Gospel in Brazil and South America and that there are many souls who are waiting for the truth. 

I bear you my testimony to the divinity of this work and ask the Lord's blessings upon us, that we may so live that we will be an example of light and peace to the world'. I do so in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

136 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 9 Third Dag 

ELDER EL RAY L. CHRISTIANSEN 

President of the Texas Mission 

I was called up here, once before, five minutes before it was time to close. I have never bad any sickness in my life, never been to the hospital, I have never had a pain, but I do believe I know what it means to suffer. 

Brothers and sisters, I feel honored to have the privilege to represent here today the sixty-two hundred members of the Church in Texas and Louisiana, and the ninety-seven missionaries who are laboring there so valiantly for the work of the Lord. We have a great mission. 

I was going to read some statistics that I thought would interest you, but perhaps I will not have time. I would like to remind some of the brothers and sisters here, who are not aware of it, that our mission is larger than Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, and Nevada put together. We have twenty-three thousand square miles more than the combined area of the following states: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Ohio. Some of the people have said, "Well, you must have it mighty nice to have a small mission so you can get around." I looked up these figures and Brother Rowan helped me find some of them. 

Texas has fifty-three thousand square miles more territory than France — Texas alone — and eighty-three thousand square miles more than Germany; and has two hundred and fifty-four counties. We are told that Russia is the only European country that has more territory than the State of Texas. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, I believe that these ninety-seven missionaries are helping to fulfill in a splendid way one of the greatest obligations that this Church has to the world. And I believe that one of our great responsibilities is to preach this Gospel to the world. Here we have been rejoicing in each other's presence in hearing the word of the Lord preached and in hearing this beautiful music rendered. I wish to commend those who have done it, and yet upon the hands of this people was given the responsibility of taking this very thing to the world. I know that we are doing a commendable job, but I believe that there are more that could become conscious of this great obligation that we have to the people of the world. 

"This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." That doesn't mean just us. Everyone is entitled to this grand and glorious privilege of having the Gospel plan taught to him. 

The missionaries are well. I thank you for your sons and your daughters and for your husbands. We have some fine husbands there who are doing marvelous work. They have the true spirit with them, they have the fire of the Priesthood, they are magnifying that power, and the manifestations of healing and of testimony that they exhibit are inspiring indeed to all of us who work with them. They have more than 137  can attend to. The day before I left we had gained. permission from the superintendent of the Houston City Schools, who is an attorney, to take our lecture on The Book of Mormon before the teachers and before the students of certain classes in those schools. They are friendly to us. We are happy that we are able to meet with them and to teach them the divinity of this great record that we have. " 

These missionaries have taken two hundred and seventy-nine souls into the waters of baptism during the year 1938. Two hundred of them were matured people, and today those two hundred — I have interviewed most of them — are rejoicing in the wonderful principles of the Gospel. I feel so happy. I feel like Alma did as recorded I believe in the 29th Chapter of Alma: 

O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people. 

A missionary says that his two years in the mission field are the happiest two years of his life. I wonder why. I used to think that was just a commonplace statement, but now I know the answer. During that period of service in the Lord's work they are living near unto him. They pray. They realize and recognize the need of prayer and the need of the Lord's help in their work. They are living clean lives. We don't have to admonish them, so far as I know, to live the Word of Wisdom. They do it — and why shouldn't they be happy when they prepare themselves and qualify themselves to have this great blessing that the Lord has promised to those who are faithful. 

I have been thinking, all through this conference, why is it that we Latter-day Saints who know this thing to be genuine, who know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, why is it that we have to be told more than once to obey the principles that are presented to us here in every conference and in every stake conference ? Surely we could be valiant; we could be courageous; and rise to the occasion and live these wonderful principles so that we can inherit the blessing that God has given. 

I am taking somebody else's time. 

I ask for the blessings of the Lord upon you people here at home. I wish you knew how much you can help us by living this Gospel and meeting other people, as you should, when they come to visit you. Nearly a half million people visit here in the stakes of Zion each year, and they come back there with fine reports for the most part. But I tell you they come out here to learn about us and to see what they can see; and if you can prove by your good works that Mormonism is what it is supposed to be, that is going to give us one of the greatest lifts that you can give us in the mission field. 

I know that this is the work of the Lord. I know that he will bless us when we qualify for his blessings. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

138 

Sunday, April 9 Third Day 

ELDER PHILEMON M. KELLY 

Formerly President of the Swiss-German Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters and friends of the Church, I am very desirous of giving just a brief report of existing conditions in the German-speaking missions. I have presided over all three of these missions, having had the privilege of organizing the West German Mission. 

We have in these missions approximately fifteen thousand souls. I wish to report to you good people that they are among the most devoted members of the Church at the present hour. They are strong in paying their tithes and offerings. They are very devoted unto the authorities of the Church, and they literally worship our President. 

I have also had the privilege, in connection with my good wife, of visiting the Holy Land. Among other things we saw some of the mountains on which the ancient Prophet Elijah stood. You will remember at one time he went to the mountain of Horeb, and as he stood upon the mountain top the voice of the Lord commanded him to stand and observe. "And a great and strong wind came and rent the mountains, and it broke the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake; and after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire a still, small voice. And so it was when Elijah heard it he wrapped his face in his mantle." 

I wish to bear testimony that I, too, have felt the presence of the still, small voice while in the mission field. I am going to take the privilege of just giving one illustration. 

In 1937 President Grant and his party visited us in Germany and Switzerland. In Basel, Switzerland, he honored us by remaining as our guest in the mission home. Early one Sunday morning twenty-six lady members from the Basel branch came to the mission home. They were dressed in white. As President Grant descended the stairs to come into the reception room the girls began singing, "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet." In President Grant's party there were various mission presidents. There was such a sweet spirit of peace and love and affection for the Prophet of the Lord surrounding us. Only those who were present could understand. We all bowed our heads in worship. Some of the brethren from other missions not only bowed their heads in worship but wept tears of joy and appreciation at having felt the presence of the Lord and knowing that the Prophet of the Lord was in our midst. 

The German and Swiss people honor and love President Grant. There could be no request made by him but what they would, to a hundred percent, follow out that desire. 

I bear testimony unto you that those people themselves do not want war. War is from a different source than from the people. Those 139  are a devoted people; they love life; they love liberty; they love the pursuit of happiness. They are devoted members of the Church. 

They requested when we left for home : "Just simply tell the truth about us as a people." 

May God make our hearts in attune with those things that are real. May we overcome false propaganda, and may we serve God in truth and keep his commandments, I pray most humbly in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER W. AIRD MACDONALD 

President of the California Mission 

Someone has said that in every group or gathering will be found someone to say a good word for California. We barely made it today. 

I am honored to bring to you the greetings of one hundred and twenty-three missionaries and nearly eleven thousand Saints in the great California Mission. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is being carried forward and the Church is being planted all over that goodly land. There are fifty-five organized branches of the Church, whe.re the Saints are being taught the Gospel and are keeping the commandments of God. 

We are happy to report to you that in their tithes and offerings they are keeping pace with the stakes of Zion. I echo the testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon, as given by President Ivins and President Hardy, and say to you that out there in that mission nearly seventeen thousand copies of that sacred record have been distributed during the past year. We believe the Lord intended that this book should be read by the world, for he sent the Angel Moroni fifteen times to this planet to see that it was properly printed, that the world might be taught that Jesus is the Christ; and unless we, as a people, see to it that this sacred record is distributed among his confused children on the earth, they will not be sure that Jesus is the Christ. For they all read the selfsame Bible and are going in hundreds of different ways, evidencing their confusion. So I believe that the Book of Mormon is the means the Lord has given us as a new witness for God and that Jesus is the Christ. 

May we as a people rise to this great responsibility and carry forward our work. I bear testimony to you that it is the truth and pray God to bless us all in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER A. LORENZO ANDERSON 

President of the Mexican Mission 

Brethren and sisters, I am sure that President Christiansen is not the only one who has been suffering the last few minutes; I did not know that President Grant ever ran a meeting fifteen minutes overtime. I appreciate the compliment he has paid to us mission presidents, in allowing these few minutes to those of us who have not had the opportunity of reporting to you. 

Running through my mind all during this Conference have been these words of the Savior : Third Dag 

Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 

Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. (Matt. 7:16-20). 

I am sure that anyone who can see the fruits of Mormonism today cannot help but agree with us that the tree is good. I have rejoiced greatly in this conference. 

We are having wonderful success in the Mexican Mission. As I reported to you six months ago, we are limited to one lone stake to furnish the missionaries who may serve in the Mexican Mission. I believe that Mexico is the only nation in all the world which requires of its ministers that they be native-born citizens of the country before they are allowed to preach the Gospel; therefore we are very much alarmed. I said to one of the bishops of the Juarez Stake yesterday : "If you have any more sixty-six year old men who can come into the mission field and do like one of the missionaries of that age who is now working in the Mexican Mission, send them along." 

When this brother arrived in the mission field, Sister Anderson said : "Please do not send him out into the country to work with the rest of the boys, keep him here in the city where I can look after him. He is too old to go out and preach the Gospel." 

He was quite offended when I told him that Sister Anderson wanted  to keep him under her wing. He said : "I can take it along with any of the boys." 

I appreciate the leadership we have in the Church today and the excellent spirit that exists, and I do know that we have the authority of God to preach his Gospel here in the world. May he bless us and help us at all times, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

I know we can stand a selection by the choir, and inasmuch as we are to have "The Hallelujah Chorus" from "The Messiah," by the choir, I am prolonging the meeting a little. I know that you will wait to hear this selection. 

I rejoice in the remarkable and splendid Conference we have had. It has been a source of sorrow to me to be absent part of the time. I am feeling fine, physically. Speaking of old age, Brother Charles W. Penrose lacked only a few weeks of being seventy-five when he came to Liverpool to preside over the European and British Missions, and he performed — at least the missionaries did during his administration — many more baptisms than did Francis M. Lyman and Heber J. Grant. Brother REGARDING AGE 141 

Penrose was there three years, and we had five years. So you must not think that age counts when it comes to spreading the Gospel. If they have the root of the matter in them and are healthy, just let them go out and work. 

BECAUSE WE HAVE THE TRUTH 

I thank the Lord for this remarkable and wonderful Conference we have had. No such conference could be held by any other people in all the wide world. Why is it that the Latter-day Saints have such a spirit with them ? Why is it that every missionary who fulfills a good mission says it is the best time of his life ? It is because we have the truth and they are nearer to the Lord when in the mission field than in any other place. 

May the blessings of the Lord be and abide with all of you. May you go home under the inspiration of the spirit that has been with us, first, last, and all time. 

I apologize to Brother Rulon S. Wells for not having him speak. Brother Wells, you know, is past eighty, and so am I. We had him speak to us in the temple, and then we asked him to speak again today, after the morning meeting, to the German Saints. 

The Choir sang "Hallelujah Chorus" from "The Messiah," (Handel), after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder William R. Palmer, President of the Parowan Stake. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The musical exercises at the Thursday sessions were furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Wade N. Stephens, Conductor; at the Friday sessions by the Nebo Stake Choir, J. D. Christensen, Conductor; and at the Sunday sessions by the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor. The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Anderson, Elder A. Lorenzo 139 

Ashton, Elder Marvin 96 

An expression of appreciation, 96 — What of our real accomplishments, 97 — Some problems presented, 98 — A plea for more thinking, 98 — Experience of a farmer, 98. 

Auditing Committee's Report 10 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 10 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 65 

Ward choirs encouraged, 65 — The mission of the Church, 65 — Revelation points the way to life eternal, 66 — Honesty should characterize the Latter-day Saints, 66 — Obedience to commandments brings blessings, 67 — Sowing and reaping, 68 — Power in the Church, 69. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O. 27 

Proper leadership needed, 27 — The power to develop leadership, 28 — First element of true leadership, 28 — Leadership through Church activity, 29 — Better qualified to preach Gospel, 30. 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 92 

Relief in God the basis of religion, 92 — Another basic principle, 93 — Christ's teachings a stabilizing force, 94 — Jesus as a teacher, 94 — A guide to life, 94 — Spiritual regeneration will come through faith, 95 — The triumph of right, 96. 

Broadbent, Elder David A. 24 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 103 

Broadcast, Church of the Air 104 

Callis, Elder Charles A 125 

Jesus moving among men, 125 — The road to heaven, 126 — Christ the author of every good and perfect gift, 126 — The resurrected Lord, 127. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 82 

Marriage and divorce, 82 — Temple marriages, 82 — Parental responsibility, 83 — Home the foundation of society, 84 — Preparation for Church membership, 84 — An army of young people, 84— Training of children, 85 — Health training, 85 — Moral standards and mental development, 85 — Develop local industries, 86 — Patronize local products, 86. 

Changes in Church Officers 7 

'Choir and Organ Broadcast 103 

Christiansen, Elder El Ray L 136 

Church of the Air Broadcast - 104 

Church Welfare Committee 12 

Church Welfare Program Report 5 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 54 

Urges care be exercised in driving automobiles, 54 — President 

Grant absent because of illness, 54. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 104 143 

Righteousness at war with sin, 104 — Christ's mission perfect and complete, 105 — -Responsibilities attending homemaking, 105 — National stability depends upon true homes, 106 — Filial obedience enjoined, 106 — Charge to parents, 107 — Revelations cite parental laxness, 107 — Children to be taught Gospel principles, 108 — Character to be built in the home, 109 — Greed for gain destroying Christian standards, 109 — Proper teaching a shield in temptation, 110 — Home fundamental to civic and religious life, 110. 

Clawson, President Rudger 116 

Purpose in life brings happiness, 116 — Experiences before our earth life, 117 — Evil present in the world, 118 — A school of experience, 119 — A fulness of joy, 119 — The body a precious gift, 119. 

Evans, Elder Frank 133 

Evans, Elder Richard L. . 69 

Influences surrounding growing children, 69 — Comparison between present and former conditions, 70 — Movement away from Utah, 71 — Home influence far-reaching, 71 — -Prophecies sure of fulfilment, 71 — A testimony, 72. 

Eyring, Elder Carl F 47 

Financial Statement 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 31 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

General Authorities of the Church 10 

General Authorities Present — 1 

General Auxiliary Officers 12 

General Officers of the Church 11 

Grant, President Heber J 13 

Marvelous record of attendance at Conferences, 13 — Individual testimonies of Latter-day Saints, 14 — A tribute to Orson Pratt and other leaders, 14 — Testimony of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, 14 — Growth of the Church, IS — A revelation given in Liberty Jail, IS — Welfare work receives praise, 16 — Colonel Hawes' compliment, 16 — Nomination as Governor refused, 17 — President Woodruff's answer, 17 — Everything in a belief involving future existence, 18 — Knowledge must be put into practice, 18 — Invokes blessing, 19. 

Grant, President Heber J. 31 

Avoid auto accidents, 31. 

Grant, President Heber J. 75 

Gratitude for work of singing organizations, 75. 

Grant, President Heber J. 140 

Regarding age, 140 — Because we have the truth, 141. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 131 

The Book of Mormon praised, 131 — Home missionary work, 132. 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 61 

Howells, Elder Rulon S 134 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 128 

A new witness for God, 128 — Are reason and study sufficient?, 128 — A sure way, 129 — The principal purpose of the Book of Mormon, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

129 — The importance of faith, 129 — Testimony comes as a gift of God, 130 — The mission of the Seventies, 130 — -A living testimony, 130. 

Kelly, Elder Philemon M 138 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 32 

Dates of important events, 32 — Answers to prayer cited, 33 — An appeal for family prayers, 35 — Joseph Smith's prayer in Liberty Jail, 36 — Quotations from a young man's letter, 37 — Admonition to seek the Lord, 37 

MacDonald, Elder W. Aird 139 

McKay, President David 2 

Financial and Statistical Report, 2. 

McKay, President David O. 10 

Sustaining of Church Authorities, 10. 

McKay, President David O 76 

President Grant absent on advice of physician, 76. 

McKay, President David 99 

Service of peace officers commended, 99. 

McKay, President David O Ill 

The need of the world for the teachings of the Savior, 111 — Christ's apostles witnesses of the resurrection, 112 — Mark's testimony, 113 — Paul's testimony, 114 — Latter-day Saint belief, 115. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 87 

Reasons for Church-wide campaign, 87 — -Newspapers voice warning against liquor, 87 — Danger from intoxicated drivers, 88 — Opinion of United States Senator, 89 — Cost of liquor and tobacco, 89 — Subtle propaganda, 90 — Bills passed by Legislature, 90 — Booklets issued by Church committee, 90 — Assistance needed, 91 — Obligation rests upon Church, 91. 

Nibley, Elder Preston 63 

Richards, Elder George F 57 

Plans made in councils of heaven, 58 — Punishment of those not valiant, 58 — -Consequences of rejecting the Gospel, 59 — The hope of reward, 60 — Object lessons from the past, 60. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 42 

The principle of giving, 43 — The Gospel requires service, 43 — More than service required, 44 — Promises of the Lord, 45— Employment should be provided, 45. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 38 

Man's place in the universe, 38 — Power of choice a gift from God, 38 — Liberty essential to man, 39 — Opinion of a noted author, 39 — Free agency exercised through knowledge, 40 — Faith the key to knowledge, 41 — Truth and liberty, 41 — -True liberty and individual achievement, 41 — The mission of the Latter-day Saints, 42. 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 76 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 55 

Seegmiller, Elder William W 46 145 

Smith, Elder David A 49 

Smith, Elder George Albert 120 

Evidences establishing the fact of the resurrection, 120 — Additional testimony in the Book of Mormon, 121 — Joseph Smith's experience, 122 — Direct revelation from God, 122 — Blessings bring responsibility, 123 — Inspiration gives understanding, 124 — Joy in laboring in the Church, 12S. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 100 

Knowledge alone will not save, 100 — Revelation needed, 101 — Pure intelligence brings obedience, 102 — Education reaches into eternity, 102 — Teachers should seek the Spirit of God, 103. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 55 

A day of extravagance, 55 — The faith of a President, 56 — The divorce evil, 57. 

Statistical Report „. 4 

Taylor, Elder John H. _ 80 

Opportunities given the Latter-day Saints, 80 — Priesthood intended for service, 80 — "Harmonizers," 81 — Many blessings, 81. 

Tew, Elder William T., Jr 51 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting .. 116 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 100 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 19 

Books an aid to civilization, 19 — Printing of the Bible a blessing, 20 — Value of literature in the Church, 20 — Faith increases by study of Gospel principles, 21 — Daily reading habit urged, 21 — Warning against demoralizing literature, 22 — The Gospel to be studied in the printed word, 22 — Scriptures a guide to right living, 22 — Publications of the Church, 23 — Advice given to Hyrum Smith, 23 — Gratitude for the Gospel, 23. 

Williams. Elder Orlando C 26 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 76 

An expression of gratitude, 76 — The value of counsel, 77 — The dutv of teachers, 78 — The Church to be a standard to the world, 79." 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 53 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 72 

The Tabernacle a monument to the Pioneers, 72 — Praise from eminent people, 73 — Places in which to worship the Lord, 74 — Tribute to early builders, 74 — Need for worship, 75. 

(Book 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Rational Theology by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by losiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man. 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Expert Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith 

Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications, are not accessible for general use. 

In accordance with the many calls that have been made that there be a more extensive compilation of these discourses and sayings, the matter was taken up in the Historian's Office and such a compilation has been prepared, submitted to the First Presidency and passed by them for publication. 

Specially priced at $2.00 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City. Utah 

LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH 

Sixth President 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 

JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

From the day of his birth until the day of his passing — four score years — there was scarcely a day that was not filled with intense and interesting activity. He commenced life in the midst of tribulation and dark persecution, and through the greater part of his life he was called upon to face the spirit of hate and wickedness, to a degree almost beyond human endurance. 

This volume dedicated to a man among men with the faith of the prophets of old. Its worth in your library is incomprehensible and its presence, when read, will give words of wisdom and words of courage. 

Price, $2.50 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah 







