Morning
07 04 1939

Conference reconvened Friday morning, April 7, at 10 a. m. 

President Heber J. Grant was present and presided at this session. 

The music for this meeting was furnished by the Nebo Stake Choir, Elder J. D. Christensen, Director. 

The hymn, "How Firm a Foundation," was sung by the Choir and the congregation, after which Elder J. Robert Price, President of the Phoenix Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "He Is Risen," (Simper) was sung by the Nebo Stake Choir, (Melba Powell, soloist). 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel to thank my Heavenly Father for again having the privilege of attending a great Conference of this people. I know I utter the thoughts of everyone who listened to and attended the services yesterday, when I say that I have attended no Conference of the Church during all my service as an Apostle, or even before, when I have not felt in my heart that the thanks and the counsel and the wisdom expressed must have ascended to our Heavenly Father. 

Among the great things that every member of the Church should be not only interested in, but thankful for, is the privilege to serve God. I am thankful that I have been privileged to serve my God. I am grateful for the health and the strength and the vigor that enable me to be of service to my family, and with all my heart I am thankful for my service to my Church. Weak or small as that service may be I have asked my Heavenly Father to assist me in that service in every particular. 

A DAY OF EXTRAVAGANCE 

We are living in a day of extravagance and I have wondered of late 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

where it is going to end. The Church has set the example to every member of it and to the glorious nation that we love, to be out of debt. I remember when our nation, at the close of the World War, found itself in debt to the amount of twenty-six billions of dollars. For ten years as Chairman of the Finance Committee, and a ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, I did everything in my power to reduce that obligation by necessary legislation. It was reduced to sixteen billion dollars and now it is up to forty billion dollars. 

I know it is easy to say "billions," and we have become used to it in America and perhaps in the world, but it may be of interest to some, at least, to give a description of what forty billion dollars really is so that all can understand it. I do it in this way : Supposing that the minute the Savior was born some person had decided to deposit in a place selected by him forty dollars and he continued that plan, carrying it out faithfully every minute to the present time, at the end, my brethren and sisters, there would be forty billions of dollars there. 

So you see what responsibilities rest upon those who direct the financial affairs of our Government. I want every Latter-day Saint, no matter where he is, to support in every way every recommendation made, not only by this administration but by the administrations to follow to reduce these obligations, for they will have to do everything in their power to accomplish this. 

I thank my Heavenly Father that the Church is out of debt. I am told by President Grant that it is ten years since the Church has been in debt. That is splendid. 

THE FAITH OF A PRESIDENT 

Among the homes that I visited during my service in the Senate of the United States was the home of President Coolidge, where I was invited several times. I never ate a mouthful of food at his home without a blessing upon it. Prayer was the practice of President Coolidge. The last time I visited him was shortly before his death. I sat by his bedside. We talked over conditions existing in our country, and when I was about to leave, the President said to me : "Senator, there is some plan in your Church, isn't there, where men administer to the sick and pray for them ?" I said, "Yes, Mr. President. We call that administering to the sick." He said, "Can anyone in the Church administer to anyone outside of the Church ?" I told him "Yes." He said, "Reed, I wish you would administer to me." I did so, and I want to say to you, my brothers and sisters, I never felt happier in my life than when I laid my hands upon him and asked God to bless him. He was a wonderful man, as nearly all of the American people knew him to be. 

I believe, with all my soul, in the administration of the sick. I have seen the results of it hundreds and hundreds of times and it will never cease being a part of our faith. 

May God's blessings ever be with the Presidency of this Church and the Authorities of the Church. No matter what position they may hold may the Father give them a desire in their hearts to fill the position with , with integrity and love. I am quite sure there is no people, other than the people of the Latter-day Saints, that has such faith in prayer and exercise it more generally than do we. Never forget God's blessings. 

THE DIVORCE EVIL 

One thing more that I desire to speak of is divorce. I haven't the figures now. I don't know how we stand along this line, compared with other parts of our country or the world, but I do know that the last investigation made by me revealed the fact that there were fewer divorces per capita among the Mormon people than other group of people in the world. South Carolina has no divorce law and I understand Nevada has about fifty-seven kinds or fifty-seven reasons for a divorce. Brethren and sisters, I pray that the Spirit of God may be in your homes, and that marriage of a man and a woman may be such that they can work together in the service of our Heavenly Father and that the Spirit of the Lord may direct their thoughts and their actions, that people seeing their deeds may judge that there is something binding upon them and their conscience, quite different from those of the world. 

Our Heavenly Father, bless the Authorities of thy Church and particularly give strength and health to our President. God be with us and bless us all, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I realize keenly, brethren and sisters, the responsibility resting upon me in being asked to speak, being expected to lead this vast congregation in intelligent and profitable thought. I think it a wonderful accomplishment for a man to be able to stand before a congregation of this size and think consecutively and intelligently, and to give intelligent expression to those thoughts. It makes me to fear and tremble. 

I realize in this position, as in all others, my dependence upon the Lord. If he were not to assist me by his Holy Spirit, my mind would close up like a clam. I wouldn't know where to begin, how to continue, or to end. But with the help of the Lord, the experiences I have had in the past, trusting in him and having his blessing to attend me, I have some hope, with the prayers and faith of the people, that I may be able to overcome my weakness and present something that will be worth our consideration. 

I have in mind that what I shall say will not only be heard by those within this building, a congregation made up of members and nonmembers of the Church, but possibly by many people on the outside who are listening in over the radio, and I would like to say something that would be helpful to those who are not members of the Church, as well as to members of the Church, if they will accept of what I have to say, the advice that I may be led to give. 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

I want to say this, that I am grateful that my feelings are in complete harmony with what has gone before in this conference. I think we have had a splendid conference. The Spirit of the Lord has been with us, and we have really been fed the bread of life. I was deeply interested in the statistics which were read to us yesterday morning, which show the accomplishments of the Church, and the faithfulness of the members thereof. I feel in my heart to bless the Latter-day Saints for their faithfulness and their worthiness. 

PLANS MADE IN COUNCILS OF HEAVEN 

And now I have a thought pertaining to the Gospel, that I would like to talk over with you and consider it together. We read in the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, an account of a visitation of the Lord to his servant, the prophet Moses, where the Lord talked with Moses face to face, and in conversation told Moses that it was his work and his glory to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. 

The provisions for the accomplishment of these purposes were made in the councils of heaven before the world was. We were all present. We saw the Savior chosen and appointed, and the plan of salvation made, and we sanctioned it. Not all of our Father's spirit children sanctioned it, for we are told that one Lucifer, who stood high among the sons of God, took exception to the plan. He would substitute his will and his way of salvation for that of the Eternal Father, which would have deprived us of agency in this life, which we exercised in the spirit world, and other important principles were involved. Because he and those who were associated with him, one-third of heaven's hosts, could not have their own way, they rebelled and a war ensued, as we read in the scriptures, and he and his followers were cast out and down, and became the sons of . perdition. They were the enemies of God then, and the enemies of man, and they have been since, and they have wrought havoc among the children of men from that day to this. 

It is said that experience is a dear school, but that fools will learn in no other. I shall not undertake to say how much of truth there is in that saying, but it does have the effect of calling our attention to the fact that we should, as intelligent, wise men and women, profit by the experiences of others. And so we should profit by the experience of Lucifer and those who went away with him in rebellion, and forever and always try to make our minds and our wills conform to the mind and will of God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ, who are one, and who seek our welfare, our happiness and our salvation. 

PUNISHMENT OF THOSE NOT VALIANT 

The negro is an unfortunate man. He has been given a black skin. But that is as nothing compared with that greater handicap that he is not permitted to receive the Priesthood and the ordinances of the temple,  to prepare men and women to enter into and enjoy a fulness of glory in the celestial kingdom. 

What is the reason for this condition, we ask, and I find it to my satisfaction to think that as spirit children of our Eternal Father they were not valiant in the fight. We are told that Michael and his angels fought, and we understand that we stood with Christ our Lord, on the platform, "Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." I cannot conceive our Father consigning his children to a condition such as that of the negro race, if they had been valiant in the spirit world in that war in heaven. Neither could they have been a part of those who rebelled and were cast down, for the latter had not the privilege of tabernacling in the flesh. Somewhere along the line were these spirits, indifferent perhaps, and possibly neutral in the war. We have no definite knowledge concerning this. But I learn this lesson from it, brethren and sisters, and I believe we all should, that it does not pay in religious matters, matters that pertain to our eternal salvation, to be indifferent, neutral, or lukewarm. The Lord, through one of his servants, addressing the angel of the church of the Laodiceans, said : 

I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot; I would thou wert cold or hot. 

So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth. 

To members of the Church I would ask, are any of us of that class today — lukewarm, indifferent and neutral — a lesson to be learned from the experiences of others who have gone before. I firmly believe that God had something to do with the recording of these events, and having them preserved and handed down to us from generation to generation, that we might read, and reading, profit thereby. We are under direct command of the Lord to search the scriptures, where these things are contained. We have been admonished in this conference so to do. 

CONSEQUENCES OF REJECTING THE GOSPEL 

We have another example, that of the antediluvians. We are told that Noah the prophet preached to that people a hundred and twenty years. They rejected the prophet. They rejected his message. They gave themselves up to the lusts of the flesh, and were immoral and corrupt, according to the scriptures. A just God, in his mercy, wiped them off the face of the earth with a flood. You may call that a severe penalty, but that does not tell the story, by any means, of the consequence of their rejecting of the Gospel and of their wickedness. We are told that they were shut up in a spirit prison for over twenty-three hundred years, according to Bible chronology. We do not know what the nature of that imprisonment was, but the prophet Alma tells us that they were in darkness and having a fearful, awful looking forward to the time when the fiery indignation of the wrath of God would be poured out upon them. It is something to be dreaded and to be feared. Second Day That suggests in my mind the teaching of the Savior. There are two principal incentives for all men to do what is right, the one the hope of reward, the other the fear of punishment. We have sung today, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word." And, "What more can he say than to you he hath said, you who unto Jesus for refuge have fled?" The hope of reward. He has promised the male membership of his Church who shall receive the Priesthood, that if we will magnify that Priesthood — and that means live righteous lives, lives of service to God and to our fellow men — all that he has shall be given unto us, and the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof. 

There are other blessings besides those pertaining to earth and earth things. They are in the hands of God to give, and he is glad to give them to his faithful servants, his faithful children, for he loves us with a perfect love, and our souls are precious in his sight. 

So the condition of the antediluvians, of those who rebelled in the beginning, Lucifer and his followers, and the negro race that we have been speaking of, are object lessons from which we should profit. Not only did the antediluvians lose their lives in a flood — eight souls only saved — and suffered an imprisonment for centuries in the spirit, of whatever nature that might have been, but we are told in the vision from which President Grant quoted yesterday morning, that the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph and Sidney Rigdon the glories that we read of in the scriptures of the New Testament. The Apostle Paul speaks of the glory of which the sun is typical, another of which the moon is typical, and another of which the stars of heaven are typical. 

This was shown to the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon, and they were told what class of people should attain to the celestial glory, to the terrestrial and to the telestial glory. And speaking of those who should attain to the terrestrial glory, he said: "These are they who received not the testimony of Jesus in the flesh, but afterwards received it." So I conclude, and I think justly and rightly, that the antediluvians not only lost their lives, because of their wickedness and rejection of the Gospel, and were shut up in prison, but they are denied the opportunity of going into the celestial kingdom; and even if they accepted the Gospel, or the testimony of Jesus, in the spirit, they may go only into the terrestrial kingdom. 

I am reminded of the march of time. We see over and over again that crime does not pay. And I say it does not pay to reject the counsels of God and give ourselves up to wickedness. There are the cities of the plains. The people, because of their wickedness in rejecting the Gospel — ten righteous men could not be found in all Sodom and Gomorrah — fire from heaven was sent down to destroy them, and may ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

 not conclude that their further fate was like that of the antediluvians? It does not pay. 

So we follow down six hundred years before the birth of the Savior, when Lehi preached the same Gospel to the people in Jerusalem, and his life was sought, that it might be taken away, as other prophets have lost their lives. He had to flee the city and was led, as you know, to this American continent. The people of Jerusalem who were not slain in battle were taken captive, and the city was destroyed, as Lehi had predicted, because the people would not repent. 

Then there are the sons of Lehi who were rebellious. You know the punishment that befell them. 

And when the Savior came, he came unto his own and his own received him not. They put him to death, and they have since been a hiss and a by-word in every nation of the earth, and the results of this action still follow them. 

Will we, brethren and sisters and friends, profit by the experiences and the mistakes of others, as we read of them in the holy scriptures? If we are wise we will do so. God grant that we may, for the salvation of our own souls, and the effect that it will have upon the world, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Nebo Stake Male Chorus sang "Service" (Cadman). 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

It fills a missionary's heart with gratitude and stirs his soul with pride to attend a general conference of the Church. He may labor with ever so much zeal, still the returns are small. His voice is a little one in the world. You can well imagine how it heartens and encourages him to come to a conference like this and see this great body of people! There is a serene and tranquil influence here; a sense of peace and security born of a settled faith in God and his beneficence. 

I was greatly interested in the report which President McKay read yesterday, a brief and comprehensive report showing the great service of the Church, in a material way, for a single year; also showing the strength of the Church, its growth and its progress. 

Since listening to that report my mind has been going over the past. I am not an historian, but I travel over historic ground. I have been to Far West, frequently to Nauvoo and to Kirtland, and have passed over a good deal of territory which has been sanctified by the touch of men and women whose hearts were warmed with a living faith in God. 

A hundred years ago, an onlooker, unfamiliar with the spirit and power of Mormonism would have said that this Church could not endure. It seemed to be on the brink of ruin. The winter of 1838-39 was a very dark period. The leaders of the Church were imprisoned. The people 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

were scattered, pillaged, persecuted and pursued. They had no place to go. They could find neither rest nor security. Those were the days that tried men's souls. Many did not have the fortitude to endure, and fell by the wayside. Many were cut off from the Church for good reasons. Among these were two of the three witnesses for the Book of Mormon. 

I remember reading that when Brigham Young asked Bishop Partridge to care for the poor, that devoted and loyal man was so worn that he replied, "The poor will have to care for themselves." I only recite this to show that those days were hard even for the strongest. 

Out of those hard and bitter experiences, great things were born. Great leaders were brought to the front, men who, under the Almighty have led this people for almost a century. Those were the days when Brigham Young first gave evidence of his leadership and his resourcefulness. It was then that he was trained for the great work which the Almighty had in store for him, for the hard and heroic days of 1845 and 1846 and '47, and all the hard days that made up his great life. 

John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, and many others were given the opportunity, not only to prove their loyalty to the Prophet, but to prove their fidelity to the truth. These men were tried in the crucible of affliction. Spurgeon once said : "The great soldiers of the Cross have been gathered from the highlands of adversity." It was true in those early days of our history. Those people were winnowed and sifted by the winds of adversity, until nothing but the wheat was left. 

They were the people who went to Nauvoo and with their bare hands built a magnificent city. They were the people who crossed the plains, and settled these valleys, and established their feet in these eternal hills. 

You remember that at this time the Governor of Missouri was enforcing his cruel exterminating edict. What became of the men who persecuted the Saints? Their names are forever forgotten, unless they are covered with infamy. And the great state that permitted this persecution atoned for it in blood and tears in the tragic days of the Civil War. Running all through the history of this people is the sustaining evidence that the Almighty has directed their course. People recognize that we have something that no one else has. 

President Grant made reference yesterday to the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, explaining that it was given to the Prophet while he languished in Liberty Jail. I want to say, with him. that I have often thought that that revelation was the greatest declaration ever given concerning the government of men. Compulsion finds no place in the government of God. While Joseph Smith languished in that foul jail in 1839 the Almighty revealed to him the spirit and the genius of a government better than the world has yet seen. 

Compulsion cannot in the long run succeed. As Brother Geo. F. Richards has told us this morning, that principle was put on trial before the world was framed, or man appeared upon its surface, and those who espoused that cause, and all who followed them, were cast over the  of heaven and came upon the earth to rob men of their free agency, and to take from them the sacred privileges of personal liberty and freedom of soul. A great revelation! 

My brethren and sisters, a missionary coming home has his soul stirred with two profound urges : First, to prophesy good for this people. That comes from a knowledge of their achievements, from the record which they have made, from the standards which they maintain, and from the ideals which they cherish. We are not better than the people of the world, but the Almighty has been exceedingly kind to us. He has traditionated us in standards and ideals sure to bring us to recognition in the world, if we have the faith to live them. 

Now, the other urge : This is born of the zeal which a man develops when he preaches the Gospel in the world, that is to admonish his own people to live their religion. My brethren and sisters, it does not require a prophet to say that if we have the simple faith to live the religion which the Almighty has given to us, we are sure to find a high place in the world. There is nothing miraculous about it. It is a natural result of the religion which we have received. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. There is nothing that you can do to support the missionary work like living it at home, demonstrating it in your own lives. God bless our President. It is a delight to hear the ring of his voice, its clearness, the precision with which he expresses himself, the benevolent influence which he radiates. This Church has had even seven presidents, but it has never had a better man preside over it than Heber J. Grant. President Grant is a demonstrator. He shows how it should be done. He leads out. I am sure the Almighty loves him and loves you. Peace be with you. 

The Northern States is a great mission. The good parents who are here this morning know that all is well with their children. If the missionaries weren't happy and well you would be immediately advised. 

I know that Mormonism is true. I have always known it. This is my testimony to you : I never have seen an honest heart, that was warmed with the fire of the Holy Ghost, that hasn't been quickened to nobler and finer things. This is my testimony, and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER PRESTON NIBLEY 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Behold a great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

These words, uttered one hundred and ten years ago by a boy, poor, unlearned, alone, had little significance at the time. Today we may paraphrase these remarks and boldly exclaim: "Behold a great and marvelous work has come forth among the children of men." 

Brethren and sisters, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is very strong in the Northwestern states, where I am laboring as a 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

missionary. There is scarcely a town or a city of over five thousand population, in Oregon or Washington, northern Idaho or western Montana, but that you will find a congregation of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that our people are there, and in every way they are loyal and true to their Church. We missionaries could not begin to accomplish the work which is being done there without the fine cooperation which is given us by the Latter-day Saints who reside in our mission. 

I am pleased with the fact that many of our people are migrating to the Northwestern states. Our recommends show that about one hundred per month are coming into the Mission, and we would be pleased to have thousands more, if they could find opportunities there, and I am sure that the opportunities are numerous, both in business and in a farming way. 

In our gatherings together we find the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints, and it is not an uncommon occurrence to have people drive one hundred, one hundred fifty, or two hundred miles, to attend a meeting. Our Union meetings, which we hold monthly in our districts, are numerously attended by people who come from fifty to two hundred miles each way to attend their Union meetings. 

I rejoice in the young missionaries with whom I am permitted to labor, and if these young missionaries are an example of the young people in the Church, then I say, brethren and sisters, you need not have any fear for the future. All these young missionaries, when they come to us, soon obtain a testimony of the Gospel and bear it fearlessly, and they are loyal to the very heart to their religion and their Church, and they would die for it. Many examples come to us which are faithinspiring. 

Not long ago a fine boy from Arizona — and Arizona sends us some splendid missionaries — wrote me to this effect : He said : "Father has gone broke. I am out of money." He didn't ask for money. He said : "What would you think if I got a job for a month or two?" 

I had to answer that letter, but I recalled, in reading Church history, that the Prophet Joseph, in fleeing from Kirtland to Missouri in 1838, had applied for a job cutting cord wood in Indiana. I recalled that the missionaries who went to England in 1839 worked around New York City — Apostle Orson Pratt and George A. Smith and others — to obtain ship money to go to England. I recalled that President Joseph F. Smith, when he went as a boy to Hawaii, worked in the wheat fields around San Francisco to obtain his ship money. 

So I wrote back to this young man, and said : "All right. Get a job for a month, but take your companion with you." He wrote me in a few days that he was happy. He said : "I am milking thirteen cows night and morning, for $45.00 a month and my board. My companion is pitching hay, and he is going to give me his check at the end of the month." 

At the end of the month he had $90.00, and the two started their missionary work again. He bought a new suit of clothes and continued his missionary work to a fine conclusion. 

There is loyalty, integrity and fidelity of the highest type in these young missionaries. 

In closing I want to tell you that we feel the fine support that we have at home. We have absolute and perfect confidence in our President. We have absolute and perfect confidence in his counselors, and what they tell us we carry out to the letter. We have perfect confidence in the brethren who preside over us and who come to visit us. 

Brethren and sisters, I am an optimist. Things look good to me, for this Church in the Northwest. May God bless us, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

WARD CHOIRS ENCOURAGED 

I express, I am sure, your feelings when I say that we have been delighted with the excellent music that has been rendered during the sessions of this Conference. This Nebo Stake Choir is made up very largely of ward choirs of that stake. The Church Music Committee, with which I happen to be associated, is extremely anxious that we shall build up a choir in every ward. These can be combined for stake conference music, or even for our General Conference music, as we have had it here today. 

Tomorrow night in the Tabernacle we shall have a demonstration of what sixty ward choirs can do. Some fifteen hundred singers, who have been training now for several weeks under Brother Cornwall's direction and others associated with him, are going to show you what can be achieved by a group of ward choirs. We earnestly hope that all of you who are interested will come and get the inspiration of what I think will be the finest demonstration of a group of that size that has ever been presented in this building. 

THE MISSION OF THE CHURCH 

The Church has a definite mission and responsibility, and how excellent it is that we come together every six months, and in our stakes every three months, to keep our eyes upon that mission. Sometimes in my missionary work people have asked : "Why do you send missionaries to this town ? We are all Christians here. Why do you not go to the pagan nations?" 

Our mission is to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, no matter what their faith or nationality. Our mission is unique. We recognize no competitors, and yet we recognize men doing good in all churches, insomuch as they teach men to honor Christ, to believe in God and attempt to live up to some at least of the teachings of the Master. 

May I help you to keep this in mind by calling your attention to the ministry of the Master himself ? He undertook to teach men to step forward to a higher level. That beautiful Sermon on the Mount, how in contrast it was to the Mosaic Law that allowed an eye for an eye and 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

a tooth for a tooth! There were not many who could endure Christ's teachings, however, and as they turned away from him he asked his disciples if they would go also, but they answered : "Whither shall we go ? Thou hast the words of eternal life." There was no other place. Difficult as it was, they were determined to stay. 

REVELATION POINTS THE WAY TO LIFE ETERNAL 

Then one of the disciples said : "Lord, are there few that be saved ?" And he answered: "Strait is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life," — life in the presence of God, life in the celestial kingdom, life in the highest place provided for the sons and daughters of our Father, — "and few there be that find it." "For wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction", — to death, meaning loss of that exaltation, — "and many there be which go in thereat." 

Our declaration to all men is that we know the strait gate and the narrow way, not from our knowledge, but from the revelations of God, from those who knew it, who have visited the earth and have revealed to man again in this age the way through that strait gate and narrow road, and the divine authority is restored to administer the sacred ordinances of the Gospel, to put men's feet in that path that shall lead to exaltation in the celestial kingdom. 

We have gathered together these hosts of people who have enlisted, and we are inviting men and women everywhere to enlist, to subscribe to the highest standards that men have ever undertaken to subscribe to in the history of the world. This people is peculiar because they have been able to reach a higher standard of living set forth by the Master. There isn't an item he gave to man that is not incorporated in this Church and in the revelations of God to this generation. 

HONESTY SHOULD CHARACTERIZE THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

What Peter" said to the baptized believers, that they should add to their faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and temperance and patience and godliness and brotherly kindness and charity, we have in the fourth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and there is added, humility and diligence. 

The Prophet said in the Articles of Faith: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." I say these standards are the highest that have been undertaken to subscribe to by any generation. Our ceremonies and ordinances are important, yes, but it is only the initiation. The great effort is to bring poor, weak human nature to adhere to these standards of living, to be honest with each other. One of the characteristics of this Church has been that we have the reputation of being honest. 

I shall never forget the thrill that came to me forty-three years ago when in the Northern States, at the close of an open-air meeting, an elderly gentleman with a high silk hat drove up in a carriage, and asked if he might speak. He said to the people of South Bend : 

I want you to be kind to these Mormon Elders, because their people are my friends. I have been doing business with them for many years. I have never lost a dollar on a Mormon, and I cannot say that of any other community in the United States. I have discovered that a Mormon's word is as good as his bond. 

That was Mr. Studebaker, one of the members of that great institution, Studebaker Brothers. 

I want the Latter-day Saints to know that our Father in heaven expects our reputation for honesty to be maintained in order that we may distinguish ourselves. Honesty to the Lord in the payment of our tithes and offerings is where honesty really begins. The record we heard yesterday thrilled us all because of the honesty and the integrity of many of our people. If we have failed there is always the chance to repent and get into the path again and undertake to conquer and to master and to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh. For there is power in this Gospel to enable the weakest of the weak to attain this perfect state of living. 

OBEDIENCE TO COMMANDMENTS BRINGS BLESSINGS 

So far as mortality is concerned we do not expect to reach perfection, but we can live up to these standards. There may be some of us who may feel like those of old : What profit is it that we pay our tithes and offerings ? We see the wicked flourish like a green bay tree. But the Lord comforted them with the assurance that not all of his blessings were material, that a faithful record of the acts and the labors of men was being kept, and added, "When I come to make up my jewels I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him." Then shall the books be opened, and then shall we know, when we return to the earth, whether it has been profitable to serve God. For the man who pays his honest tithing is paying his rent to the Almighty, who is the proprietor of this earth, and if he expects an eternal inheritance upon it he must obey the law of inheritance. 

Has it been profitable to the Latter-day Saints that they have paid their tithes and offerings and sent their sons and daughters on missions ? The record shows that not only spiritual blessings but even material blessings have come and the windows of heaven have been opened and blessings have been poured out upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

When we took our survey of the membership of the Church that was on relief it was not a surprise to me to find eighty-five percent of the entire group were non-tithe payers. The Lord had somehow or other taken care of those who had paid their tithing. There had been some who had felt that it was impossible for Latter-day Saints to pay their tithing, and then send their sons on missions and meet their other obligations. But our own survey reveals the fact that those who are meeting their obligations are tithe-payers, and those who are sending their sons on missions are tithe-payers, and they have not suffered financial loss because of these great contributions. 

I have before me a survey of twenty thousand living returned mis68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

sionaries. What a glorious thing it is to discover some eighty-five percent of them are faithful in paying their tithing, and some eighty-seven percent of them have employment. The Lord has fulfilled his promise. I confess that a drain such as all this on any other people, without the favor and the blessing of the Almighty, would have bankrupted them, but it has not depleted us. And those who are most prosperous and who are blessed in their material affairs are those who have served the Lord in this respect. 

I once was asked by a banker if I thought the time would ever come when the treasures, such as gold and silver and securities, might be preserved without putting them in banks and locking them up and then electrifying the vaults. "Yes," I said, "some day, not on this earth in its present condition, there shall be separated into their own group those men who are so honest that they could walk within hand's reach of that which is not theirs, and nothing prevent them, save the rectitude of their own intentions, from taking that which does not belong to them." And when they have subscribed to all the other requirements, they shall find themselves in the celestial kingdom, whose streets will be paved with gold, and whose walls will be set with diamonds and jasper, and there will be no fear of these valuables being interfered with, for they will be honest who walk there. 

SOWING AND REAPING 

There are two principles as certain and as true as that the sun shines : Like has ever and shall ever be attracted to like; and as we sow, so shall we reap. One poet has expressed it as follows : 

To every man there openeth a way and ways 

And the high soul climbs the high way, 

While the low soul gropes the low, And in between on the misty flats 

The rest drift to and fro. 

But to every man there openeth 

A high way and a low, 

And every soul decideth 

Which way his soul shall go. 

We are all free, but we are inviting every man to climb the high way. We know the way and that way will lead through the strait gate to the presence of God Almighty in the celestial kingdom. This is the mission of this Church. 

Yes, the men who are laboring to create faith in the hearts of the children of men in the Redeemer of the world are doing good, and we bless them for it, but they are not engaged in the kind of work we are engaged in. The masses of our Father's sons and daughters will find ultimately through their obedience, their salvation in some of our Father's other kingdoms. But that is not the work that we are concerned with. 

It is written in our own revelations that only those that can abide the celestial law can endure celestial glory. As we sow so shall we reap. We are reaping now, here on the earth. Blessed and fortunate are we, the sons of Joseph, the descendants of Israel, for we are reaping the con of our righteousness before ever we lived on this earth. Just as Brother George F. Richards has indicated that our poor benighted negro brethren are suffering the consequence of their sowing at some other time and place, so as certainly shall we hereafter reap what we are sowing here and now. 

These are eternal principles. Every man and woman, no matter what their nationality may be, who can subscribe to these standards and add *to their faith virtue, keep themselves above temptation and full of the spirit of charity and self-mastery in that they can control their appetites and otherwise can subscribe to these highest standards of living given to us by the Master in preparation for eternal living in his presence, will pass to that company of glorified men and women, as certain as the sun shines. 

POWER IN THE CHURCH 

It is the mission of this Church to prepare men and women for eternal living in that glorified presence. And the power to do it is being seen on earth. There is more power in this Church today to control the world and its destinies than in all the armies and all the guns and all the military provision that is being made, for nations may be subdued by the might and power of arms only to rebel. There is only one way by which the nations can be brought into unity and into peace and into brotherhood. This is not through guns, nor might, nor force, but through the power of God and the love of our fellowmen that is in the hearts of this people. This great demonstration of bringing these hosts of people together from all nations, living here in love and brotherhood, is a demonstration the like of which has never been shown before in the history of the world. 

God bless the great and glorious cause of Zion, that we may keep our eye upon the great destiny of this work and its mission, for our redemption, for our preparation for exaltation with the glorified and to become the hope, the light of the world, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am very deeply mindful of the responsibility of occupying this position. There are a thousand things I would like to say, but I would like the help of the Lord in enabling me to say one of them well. Approximately ten years of more or less intensive activity in the radio field have taught me that the best way to say a thing in the fewest words and with the least time expended is to use a prepared script, but I have concluded, this morning, to speak without a manuscript before me.  

INFLUENCES SURROUNDING GROWING CHILDREN 

A great many things of consequence to me have happened within the last few years, one of the most important of which is the privilege 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

I have had of becoming the father of two fine boys. One of them, with the liberal help of his parents, celebrated his first birthday anniversary recently, and the other is now just past four. Already, with a family yet so young, we are beginning to worry about those influences which come into their lives, and tend to shape their characters and their moral and spiritual integrity, outside of the family home and circle. 

We realize that in this day particularly, children partially leave the influence of their parents very young. From the time they begin to* toddle in the neighborhood they belong partly to some one else, and from the time they begin going to school, at five or six years of age, this is still more the case, and from then on until they go out to make their own way, they move farther and farther out of the realm of home influence. 

COMPARISON BETWEEN PRESENT AND FORMER CONDITIONS 

I find myself at times, because of this condition and because of the realization of it, with a certain envy in my heart for my grandparents — envy because of the moral and spiritual environment in which they were permitted to rear their children. They could go to sleep at night, in this community and in most of those communities from which we have gathered here, in the days of our more or less isolated condition, aware of the fact that the family home and fireside were the principal formative elements in the lives of their children; and if, perchance, their little brood was out at some place of entertainment, they could be assured that these places were being run by men whom they had put in office, or in whom they had confidence, and that they were as the extended influence of the home, and were protected from moral tarnish or physical "harm. And if, perchance, there were a wolf at the door, at least it was the wolf of honest hunger, and not a wolf of warped thinking or subtle influence. 

I realize that the catalogue of the material advantages that we enjoy, that our grandparents did not enjoy, would number tens of thousands of items and services, and a listing of them would make a very thick publication, indeed; but I realize, also that we have paid a price for each of them. 

The radio that carries my voice beyond the walls of this auditorium, the automobile that takes us to the world, and brings the world to us; that takes our produce to profitable markets, and that causes us to worry if our children happen to be out until one or two o'clock in the morning; the airplane that brings us in touch with our friends and our business associates, almost hourly — or that drops bombs upon us under less favorable conditions — and ten thousand other items that might be listed, for all of which we have paid a price. 

When I speak of envying my grandparents I realize that I would not go back to their day if I could, and that I could not if I would. They solved the problems of their day, and we must solve the problems of ours. Because it was necessary for us to do so, there was a time when we pulled up the roots that had grown deep into an older civilization, and planted them in a new place, but it is highly improbable that we shall ever again become an isolated people. 

It is possible, perchance, that we, or a part of us, could again find a place of isolation that would sustain and prosper an independent and an industrious people, but by doing so we would not be solving our problems. We would only be postponing them, because the world is very small in this day, and civilization moves in very quickly. 

MOVEMENT AWAY FROM UTAH 

I am aware of the fact, further, that approximately forty-three thousand of our people left Utah during the decade between 1920 and 1930 and that most of them were of such age as to be called youth. I am further aware that this movement is going on all around us, beyond the borders of Utah, and that it continues into the present decade, and shall continue. There are more influences, it seems, to take our children from us — more competition for the influence that we have with them. I think we should not discourage this movement that causes them to leave us. They go out for academic advantages, for better employment, and for various other reasons, and a man, after all, must go where he must go for the best good of all concerned. But those who go from us, and remain one of us and use their influence for good, are among the greatest assets we have, because around them grow up groups of our Church people, even so that it becomes necessary for us to establish our wards and stakes, from the East to the West in America, and beyond. Those who do not remain one of us fall away and become lost, and become something greatly less than an asset. 

HOME INFLUENCE FAR-REACHING 

And so I say I am worried about my young family, even now only one year old and four years old, and I hope that the influence in the home in which they are reared will cleave so closely to the principles of this people that when they go out, their internal strength will be greater than the outward stresses. I hope that we can, in all of our homes, cause this condition to be so, in the coming years, in the coming decades, and in all the oncoming generations, so that no matter where our young people go, or no matter under what influence they may find themselves, they will find that the fortitude- within is greater than the temptation without. We cannot go out with them. We cannot keep our arms around them, literally. But we can give them all that a Latter-day Saint home can give them, and we must begin early. 

And so my plea this morning is to parents in general, and to young parents in particular, that our responsibilities may be realized and may begin in infancy, and may not cease until the grave, because our children are never too young to be influenced by our example, and never too old to pass from the realm of our influence. 

PROPHECIES SURE OF FULFILMENT 

I do not know in what condition this people will find itself a year or a decade or a generation hence. I do not know whether we shall be 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

at war or at peace, whether the world will be in greater spiritual darkness, or in a condition of greater spiritual enlightenment. I do not know what new scientific theories will prevail, or what new fads there will be in education, whether the press will praise or revile us, whether men will profess friendship or hate for us, whether we shall be in greater depression or in greater prosperity, whether we shall be materially better off or worse off — I do not know any of these things, but I do know that the words of all the prophets will be fulfilled, and that what the Lord has spoken he has spoken, and that though the heavens and the earth pass away, his words shall not pass away. And I know that my family and I will be better off to be found among the faithful of this people, than in any other condition in which we might find ourselves. I know also that this is true for my friends, and for all men everywhere, no matter under what flag they live, or in what land. 

A TESTIMONY 

I am grateful for the opportunity to serve. I thank the Lord for my knowledge of the divinity of this work, and I know, as well as 1 know any of the facts of life, that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God, and that the Father and the Son came to the boy Joseph Smith, and restored to earth the Gospel that had been lost. 

I ask the blessings of God on all men and on all of their righteous endeavors everywhere, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

THE TABERNACLE A MONUMENT TO THE PIONEERS 

It was a very remarkable thing for the Latter-day Saints to construct this marvelous building, the Tabernacle, on the edge of the wild western wilderness in early days. The workmanship of this old building is very fine and everything in it bears the stamp of artistic design, executed by hands who labored for the love of God. It was opened for worship in October, 1867, and it is one of the noblest monuments of our city. The proportions are good; the effect is graceful and imposing; the structure is in good taste, simple, and impressive. This Tabernacle in which we are assembled today is one of the great buildings of America. It was built on scientific principles and has been dedicated to God as a place of holy worship. The word "Tabernacle" is beautiful in its meaning. It is the place of the Holy Altar, where the people go up to hear the word of the Lord. Every time we come here, we dedicate this building by our spirit of worship and adoration. 

As we sit here today under this marvelous dome, we may well praise the Lord for his goodness unto us. It is a holy shrine, a place of communal worship. If we are to enjoy and understand it, we must search for the thoughts and emotions, which testify alike to its beauty and to  goodness of human life. We should know something about the thoughts and the faith of its builders as well as the craft with which the walls were built and the span was roofed. It is a house of God, for it shows how the chief manifestitations of religious feeling are connected with the idealism and the geographical influences of the surrounding country. We should know the human constants that entered into its creation : hunger and labor, seed-time and harvest, love and death, faith and hope. All these forces operated to create this Tabernacle, as well as our sacred Temples. 

In the days of the Emperor Akbar, there was written above the doors of the temple these words : 

O God, in every temple I see people who see thee, And in every language I hear, they praise thee. 

PRAISE FROM EMINENT PEOPLE 

It was Ruskin, the English art critic, who pointed out the truth that the basic principle of architecture is found in the capacity of matter to bear a weight and span a space. From this point of view, how glorious is this building! Professor Thomas E. Talmadge of the American Institute of Architects says : "Up and down the Atlantic seaboard, through the Western Reserve, along the Gulf of Mexico, up the Mississippi, and over the plains, the Greek Revival spread. I have noticed that the famous tabernacle built in Salt Lake City by that extraordinary man, Brigham Young, has the tell-tale Greek profiles in its mouldings and cornices. In all these localities, climate, building materials, and even the habits of the people differ enormously. Yet the style of the architecture and even its forms are common to all." 

A few years ago, Dr. Wallace Clement Sabine of Harvard University came to Salt Lake City with a letter of introduction from Dr. Edward Channing. The letter said in part: "Dr. Sabine would like to look over your great tabernacle. Kindly help him." I met Dr. Sabine and spent many days with him. The tabernacle intrigued him, he studied its contour and its acoustic properties. In this book, entitled Collected Papers on Acoustics, Dr. Sabine says: 

I know of no building a considerable portion of whose wall or ceilingsurface is part of an exact ellipsoid of revolution, but the great Mormon Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is a near approximation. Plans of this remarkable building do not exist, for it was laid out on the ground without the aid of formal drawings soon after the settlers had completed their weary pilgrimage across the Utah desert and settled in their isolated valley It was built without nails, which were not to be had, and held together merely by wooden pins and tied with strips of buffalo hide. Notwithstanding this construction, and notwithstanding the fact that it spans 250 feet in length, and ISO feet in breadth, and is without any interior columns of any sort, it has been free from the necessity of essential repair for over fifty years. As the photograph shows, taken at the time of building, the space between the ceiling and the roof is a wooden bridge truss construction. These photographs, given by the elders of the church, are themselves interesting considering the circumstances under which they were taken, the early date and the remote location. 

It is difficult for an interior photograph of a smooth ceiling to give an 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

impression of its shape. An idea of the shape of the interior of the Tabernacle may be obtained, however, from a photograph of its exterior. It obviously somewhat resembles an ellipsoid of revolution. It is equally obvious that it is not exactly that. Nevertheless there are two points between which faint sounds are carried with remarkable distinctness — the reader's desk and the front of the balcony in the rear. 

The essential geometrical property of an ellipsoid of revolution is that lines drawn to any point of the surface from the two foci make equal angles with the surface. It follows that sound diverging from one focus will be reflected toward the other. The preceding photographs show the progress of a sound-wave in the model of an idealized whispering gallery of this type in which the reflecting surface is a portion of a true ellipsoid of revolution. 

PLACES IN WHICH TO WORSHIP THE LORD 

As you sit here this morning and cast your eyes to the ceiling you will feel the majesty of its creation. Right that you should. Before it was built it was worked out in the mind of a great architect whose name was Henry Grow. The style of the building was happily chosen, and though I am told that it violates some architectural conventions, it has a large note of originality that is very conspicuous. It is a realized dream, and it was wrought out by hard labor and sublime faith. It has a spiritual quality that puts us all in a proper frame of mind to receive the word of God. The great men who built it demonstrated that their talents were equal to their tasks. 

So may we also speak of our meeting houses in every stake of Zion. They are small tabernacles, where the Saints go up to hear the word of God, and to partake of the holy sacrament. We can make of our sacrament meeting something more sacred and divine. Every Sabbath evening we should go to these holy houses, with the spirit of worship. There should be no whispering, no noise, no feeling of hate or envy in the soul of any one who sits within the sacred presence of the Lord. 

You do sit in the sacred presence of the Lord when you are assembled in one of these holy houses, for a prayer has dedicated the meeting to God. "We take upon ourselves his holy name." 

If you will turn to the first Book of Kings, you will find the prayer that was recited by the people who went into Solomon's temple. It is in the 8th chapter, 28 and 29 verses, and reads : 

Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O Lord my God, to hearken unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today. 

That thine eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which thou hast said, My name shall be there: that thou mayest hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shall make toward this place. 

TRIBUTE TO EARLY BUILDERS 

The design of the building was suggested by President Brigham Young, and it was planned by Henry Grow. The largest hall in the world unsupported by columns, it was built after the Remington Patent of Lattice bridges, in which construction Mr. Grow was a master. The building of the stone pillars was supervised by another master builder, William B. Folsom. It is my joy to pay tribute to these two brethren, as well as to Truman O. Angell, whose genius was expressed in the building of the Temple. In fact there were many fine architects and builders in the early days of this State, men who gave their lives to help build the cities and meeting houses and who had ever before them the establishment of the kingdom of God in the world. 

NEED FOR WORSHIP 

This great building has a beauty of holiness; and all our meeting houses should have the same beauty, for they are dedicated for holy worship. Their charm must be in the thousands of happy people, both old and young, who give thanks to God for the opportunity of living life, and for the light that has come into the world to guide us to the kingdom. The need of the world today is the worship of God by every living soul. In worship, hate, unkindness and war come to an end, for where the love of mankind is, there is God. If we all lived according to the light, our homes would be places of worship, and God would have an altar in every dwelling. Our meeting houses would also be shrines where our faith would be met by the Spirit of God. 

May we not every Sabbath day say : "Come, let us go up unto the temple to worship him, to show our adoration of him who gives us the way to attain eternal life." May the blessing of God attend us one and all when we are assembled in this beautiful house of the Lord. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are very grateful to the Nebo Stake Choir and thank them for their fine music upon this occasion. 

We were also delighted with the singing of the Singing Mothers yesterday, and we thank them for their fine work. 

An anthem, "Cherubim," (Bortniansky) was sung by the Nebo Stake Choir. 

Elder Wilf ord A. Beesley, President of the Salt Lake Stake, offered the benediction. 


