Morning
06 10 1898



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

OPENING REMARKS , 

Brethren and sisters, at the commencement of this Semi-Annual Conference I wish to say a few words. I suppose that many of the audience now before me have come from a long distance to meet with us in 'this general conference; and that all have been moved to gather here by pure motives -by a desire to improve and perfect themselves in matters that pertain to their usefulness in the kingdom of God. In order that we may not be disappointed in this, it becomes necessary that we prepare our hearts to receive and profit by the suggestions that may be made by the speakers during the progress of the Conference, which may be prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. I have thought, and still think, that our being edified does not so much depend upon the speaker as upon ourselves. When we come together on occasions like this we are entitled to 

2 GENERAL C 

leceive something that will he of great importance to us in our lives. We ought to understand— and I presume that we do generally— that the work which we have come into this life to perform cannot be dene to the glory of God or to the satisfaction of ourselves merely by our own natural intelligence. We are dependent upon the Spirit of the Lord to aid us and to manifest to us from time to time what is necessary for us to accomplish under the peculiar circumstances that may surround us. It is the privilege of Latter-day Saints, when they get into difficulties, to have supernatural power of God, and in faith, day by day; to secure from the circumstances which may surround us that which will be beneficial and advance us in the principles of holiness and sanctification, that we may as far as possible be like our Father. It certainly is possible to advance ourselves toward the . perfections of the Almighty to a very considerable extent, to say the least In fact, we are commanded to be perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. From everything that arises, whether if be of a disagreeable nature or of a pleasant character, we should derive information and secure power to serve ourselves in the path of exaltation and glory over which we are moving. I know that we should never have been able to endure the severe trials that we have experienced during the past few years, had we not been gradually educated in times past and prepared to struggle with difficulties as we passed along. 

I desire to suggest to the Latter-day Saints this morning that they should not lose sight of the object which has prompted us to gather ourselves together, that we may not return to our homes without having received lessons of encouragement to assist us in the surrounding difficulties. It is impossible for Latter-dav Saints to move along in the path of glory we are now treading unless they devote themselves fully and wholly to the work and make the preparation which is absolutely necessary to meet and overOhFERENCE 

come the temptations that might otherwise overpower us. Here, I suppose, are brethren and sisters who hold important positions in the Church and have most solemn and pleasing duties to perform, and it is their ardent desire that they may be properly qualified to discharge these sacred duties satisfactorily to themselves and in a way that shall promote the interests of those they preside over. 

There is something grand in the consideration of the fact that the Lord loves us with a most ardent love. The love that a woman exercises toward her offspring cannot equal the love that God exercises towards us. He never leaves us. He is alw T ays before us, and upon our right hand and our left hand. Continually He watches over us. The antideluvians rejected the Lord in their day. The message which He sent to them was of the highest importance. Upon their acceptance of the message depended their temporal and spiritual salvation. But they rejected it. When the Lord communicates to man that which pertains to his most important i!it°rests, it is a solemn and serious thing ft v him to reject so direct a message. liut the antideluvians rejected the message.even the fullness of the Gospel, as it is now preached to us. If they had then embraced (he opportunity thv.y migiiL have received the fullness of the Gospel and been prepared, when Christ was crucified and arose from the dead, to receive through the resurrection of their glorious bodies, free from /disease and corruption — the most glorious object that ever man set his mind upon. Those people failed to embrace that opportunity; but the Lord did not fail to love them and to have regard for them, and He gave them another opportunity, although it was about two thousand five hundred years afterwards. After Jesus was crucified, He went and visited that people and gave them the opportunity of receiving that which they rejected when Noah proclaimed to them the principles of spiritual and temporal salvation. Now, in some respects we differ from any other class of people. Opportunities are before us which are not before them, though at some future time they will have the same opportunities as we have received and acted upon. But our prospects are different from their prospects; things are required at our hands which are not required of them; and there could not be placed before men more glorious prospects than are placed before the Saints. No mortal man could wish anything greater or that will ultimately prove more satisfactory. Everything that pertains to perfect peace, happiness, glory and exaltation is before the Latter-day Saints. We should enjoy the spirit of this, and keep it actively before us. We should not let our prospects be darkened in the least by doing that which is not acceptable before the Lord. 

Brethren and sisters, I pray that the Lord may be with us during this Conference; that He may be with those who address you, and especially with you, that you may receive and comprehend some principle or some suggestion that will be of the most sacred importance to you. 

The brethren will now address you, and through the exercise of your faith you will be greatly and abundantly blessed; which may God grant, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. Condition of missionary fields— Preparation for the 

ministry — Relating to immigration— Providing 

employment— efficacy of faith. 

The six months that have passed since our last General Conference was held here have not been particularly fruitful in changes in the missionary field, or in any other direction, excepting the loss of our beloved President. The Elders have been blessed in their labors in all the countries where they are endeavoring to propagate the Gospel, and more have returned from their fields than the number of those who have gone. We have, therefore, a smaller number of Elders now in the various fields than we had at our last Conference. There is one thing that has been noticed in the reports that  come from the fields, and that is, there is more diligence on the part of the missionaries and a better class of work is being done. There has been more care taken in sending out missionaries; more strictness observed to have men go out who would not bring discredit to the name of Latter-day Saint by their indiscretions or by their lack of faithfulness. It may be said, I think, truthfully, that the standard is being raised. Our young men are entering more into the spirit of the work, and are seeking to qualify themselves in a manner that will be more acceptable to the Lord and more satisfactory to their fellow servants. There is plenty of room for improvement in this respect. There was a timeprobably many of you can remember — when if a man were called on a mission it was frequently asked what he had done that he should be called On a mission. But now the question is asked, if a man is eligible and not called, "What have I done that I should not be called to go and preach the Gospel?" I think that is the rule at the present time among the Saints throughout Zion. It is looked upon as an honor to go out and preach the Gospel. I was talking to several strangers last night, and we were conversing about our sending out missionaries, and how quickly they responded to the call. I remarked that a young man was always looked upon more favorably by the gentler sex if he were called on a mission than he would be if he were not called. I believe this is true. I believe the girls among us look with favor upon the young men who are called to go on missions, and they feel that their lovers are slighted if they are not called when they are at the proper age; and if they marry, they feel as though their husbands are not taken notice of as they should be if they are not called. This is a good spirit and feeling. 

We want our young men to qualify themselves for this labor. Education is easily procured now. There was a time, in the early days, when education was not common— that is, it was net uncommon for very able men to have but meager education. This was the case with the first and most prominent Elders in the Church. But all this has changed. In those days, if a man were not educated it did not attract much attention, for the reason that education was not general— that is, higher education; but now, through the increase of colleges and universities and educational facilities, it is rather discreditable to a man not to be educated, because education is within the reach of all. Therefore, our youngmen who "go on missions should bear this in mind and should endeavor to qualify themselves for their missions. There is no reason why we should be behind any people in this respect. It should be a stimulus to our young men to seek for education and to qualify themselves, when they know that this is the feeling and the opinion of the world concerning men who go forth as ministers of the Gospel. But a great many lose their faith because they do not understand how to avail themselves of the advantages which they have. This is especially so in regard to college education. Our young men who go away to get education come back in many instances with their faith weakened, because they do not revere the principles of the Gospel and hold fast to them as immutable truths. But, notwithstanding these drawbacks, I am sure we are all gratified at the progress that is being made by our young people, and I hope it will continue. Some perhaps may not use their education aright, and may have their faith weakened; but this is not the case generally, and I trust will not be the case, but that our young people will learn to obtain higher education without becoming imbued with the belief and the skepticism that prevails in the world. 

Our Elders among the nations have been very successful, the Lord, is blessing them, tnd great progress is being made in various directions. We are warning the people, and we are bringing the honest in heart to a knowledge of the truth. There is one course that has been taken which I think will be att^rded with good effects, that , counseling the Saints in the various lands where they embrace the Gospel to remain quiet for awhile; to not be anxious to break up their homes to gather to Zion. This counsel is being given by the Elders now in various lands, and it will be attended with excellent effects, because the converts will be accustomed to the principles of the Gospel, and acquainted with the circumstances which surround the people, and more familiar with thi trials they may . have to meet. Their faith will become stronger, and they will be better able to withstand the trials and difficulties they will have to contend with when they do emigrate to Zion. Most of you know how this operates. A man that is new in the Church and has no experience is not in a position to resist trials that he could subsequently. By having the Saints remain in the places where they dwell they gain experience and strength. Besides this, they are able to help the Elders, and the Elders do not find it so difficult to preach the Gospel, because they have the support and the assistance of those who are members of the Church and who live in organized branches of the Church. I am sure that we will see the good effects of this. We shall not have so many spending means and time to come here, and then apostatizing, and becoming tired and desiring to return again to where they came from. This effect, I am sure, will be noticeable throughout the wards and Stakes of Zion. 

In our own land the Lord has been very kind to us. He has prospered us. He has given us good crops, and the people are in better circumstances, speaking generally, than they were a year ago. And He will continue to bless us. There is one thing that we should attend to as a people, and that is, diversify our pursuits. Our cities should not be crowded with unemployed men. There is plenty of opportunity in this State for men to work out for themselves a subsistence. I often think of how it was when the people landed here in the beginning. They had but very little to eat,  little clothing, and but few tools; but they came on this" ground, and they built themselves houses — such as they were — and they turned in and cultivated the soil, to raise their food, and they succeeded without anyone but the Lord to help them. If our brethren who are unemployed would ask those who have had experience, they could tell them how to make a living without expecting somebody to feed them or to furnish them with that which they need. It is wrong for them to walk around unemployed. In the spring of the year, if they have not some other employment, they should get a piece of land (there are plenty of people who would let them have a piece on some terms) and raise their own food, or try to raise it. Have somebody teach them how to do it, if they do not know themselves. Our people are willing to assist the industrious and the persevering. None need go short. There is plenty of room on every hand. You need not go out of the State of Utah; there is land in abundance to be obtained here, and obtained easily; and if we can get land and are healthy, every man ought to be able to sustain himself and his family. There is no reason why he should not. Our young men should not be contented to be looking around for somebody to give them employment. Every man should seek to be able to employ himself, and not be hanging around stores and offices asking for somebody to give him employment. Let him strike out for himself, and make a living for himself. He can do it in this country. There are plenty of facilities for every young man. There is no need to go to California, Montana, or to the mines; go to some place in the State and build the State up, build up Zion, and take example from those who have preceded us, who have shown what can be done in building up a commonwealth and making a rich people. For, not withstanding our difficulties, we are a comparatively rich people. 

I alluded to a conversation I had last evening With some gentlemen. Another thing 

I mentioned comes to my mind, and when it was told wonder was expressed how we could do it. I related how years ago, before the railroad was completed, we sent down every year for several years 500 teams, 500 teamsters, and guards, and loaded those teams with provisions to feed the poor, whom the teams brought up, and also to feed the teamsters. This was done by the Latter-day Saints. Thousands of people were brought into this country in this way. Now, we did not think that was very heavy. I never heard, that I know of, a murmur from anybody respecting this labor. Just think of the cost of it! The hiring of 500 teams for the summer (it was practically a whole year's work), 500 men and guards, and then the provisions to feed the people who were brought from the Missouri up here. We can do great works if we are united and have faith. But where people have no faith, and they say, "I cannot," "It is too much." They ought to feel that they can do anything that is right. We as a people can do anything the Lord requires of us. We ought to have faith in these directions. But we fall into the ways of the world and into thinking as they do. Why, if we do that, we become a commonplace people, of no value particularly. The strength of the Latter-day Saints is their faith. By that they can accomplish anything they set their hearts to do if it is right. God will be with them and sustain them. He has done it all the time. We have accomplished apparent impossibilities through the power and blessing of God and the faith of the people. If we have faith we can accomplish all things that are required at our hands. We should not say, "I cannot do it" — "it is too much for us." That ought not to be the feeling of a Latter-day Saint. We can preach the Gospel, we can gather the people, we can build temples, we can build houses of worship, and we can do everything that is required of us, by the principle of faith, actively exhibited in works. But the feeling that has been growing among us is to drop on somebody else for them to help us. You would be surprised to know how many there are who come and want the Church to help them. They pile on to the Church, and forget that the leaders of the Church have to exercise faith themselves. If they get into a close place instead of going to God and asking Him to help them, and having faith that God is able to assist them in carrying their loads and open the way before them, they must come to the Church. "Cannot the Trusteein-Trust help me do this?" They cannot build meeting houses; they cannot do this or the other; it is too much for them; and they want the Church to help them. Well, it is a wrong feeling. We should seek to help ourselves, and to call upon God, who is as near the individuals in the settlements as He is to us. He is as willing to listen to the prayers of an Elder in the remotest parts of the earth as He is in Zion. He is willing to hear all our cries, if we have faith. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we must cultivate this faith and this confidence in God. One reason, I believe, that the Lord has required the Elders to go without purse or scrip is that we may have faith developed in the earth, that the Elders shall come back filled with faith. Why? Because God has heard and answered their prayers in the utmost extremity. When they have been in the greatest difficulty and it has seemed impossible for them to get relief, the Lord has heard their prayers. These men, returning by hundreds as they are, ought to have faith and to increase faith throughout the entire community. There is no doubt they do have a good effect. This community is being elevated by this kind of training. But there is still plenty of room for us to cultivate faith, and not imagine that we must fall on the Church for everything that we need or that we have difficulty In accomplishing. The Trustee-in-Trust cannot respond to all the calls. There is not means enough at his command. Therefore, we should seek individually to do our part towards this work. It should be our pleasure to labor for Zion in every  ar^| to the utmost of our power. There is no labor on the earth so pleasurable as laboring for Zion, whether in the ministerial field or at home in any field that may be assigned us. There is no greater work, and no work that God smiles upon and blesses as He does that. The man that does it is a happy man, and will be a happy man, who labors for Zion with singleness of purpose and with his heart devoted to the work of the Lord. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MATHIAS F. COWLEY. 

Guidance ot the Holy Spirit — Perpetuity of the Church — Divine authority of the Priesthood — The power of Faith — Necessity of strictness in the payment of Tithing. 

My Brethren and Sisters: I am gratified for the privilege of meecing with you at this Conference, and I desire, in performing my duty, to enjoy the suggestions of the Holy Spirit. The object, as I understand it, of our general conferences,, and proportionately the Stake and ward conferences of the Church, is that we may be strengthened in our faith, that we may be encouraged in the performance of our duties. 

There is no question of greaiter importance than the one which every man and woman should ask himself or herself personally: 'Am I doing my duty as a Latter-day Saint?" Am I living in strict harmony with the sacred covenants which I have made witn the Lord? If I am there is a testimony in my heart that the Lord is pleased with me, and if I am not there is a testimony that I am not as acceptable as I should be." And if any one who is not doing his full duty is not chided by the Holy Spirit, he is in a dangerous condition, for he has deadened the influence of the power within him. 

I have been impressed so many times that it almost seems to be a hobby in my own mind, by the statement that President Woodruff made to us on several occasions; I think not only in this tabernacle but in other places throughout the Church, and possibly in his writings; that President Brigham Young appeared to him on a certain occasion, I believe it was when he was in exile' in Arizona. President Woodruff was on hi's way to attend a conference and the departed Prophet presented himself to this living' Apostle, in the flesh, and President Woodruff asked him: "Are you going to attend conference with us, President Young? and will you address us on the occasion ?" 'President Toung replied to him: "Brother Woodruff, I have done my talking in the flesh; that remains for you to do; hut there is one thing I want you to do and to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints, and that is to tell them to get the spirit of God and keep it with them." This sounds a little peculiar because it is the common injunction that is laid down in the Scriptures, that has been written in the revelations of God in every dispensation and has been uttered by every Prophet, and for that matter it has been urged by every faithful Elder in his ministration, ana by every faithful Bishop of the Church, and every president of a Stake, to seek for the guidance of the Holy Spirit, and to cultivate it that it may be unto us a constant companion. Considering this it would seem a little peculiar that a departed Prophet of God should come to a living Prophet and tell such an apparently common message. But it is not common; it is the important key-note to everything in this Church. When the Latter-day Saints first heard the sound of the Gospel in their native lands, they were led to re-  it with joy and satisfaction, but they were unacquainted with the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. It had been taught for many generations that the living Spirit of God as it was enjoyed in the ministrations of the Savior and his Apostles in the land of Palestine during their ministrations on the earth, was not to be expected in this enlightened age; and that the conditions Which were associated with the various dispensations of the Gospel committed to man from the time of Adam down to the present day, the conditions associated with the enjoyment of the spirit of revelation to guide every man and woman that should embrace the Gospel, were not to be expected in the nineteenth century. And consequently when the Gospel was restored to the earth, and the 

Eiders went forth declaring the same, it was a matter of astonishment to those who heard it and who did not have the spirit to receive it, and were not looking for such a message; but the hearts of those who received the Gospel had been, in most instances, prepared for it. They were looking for such a message. Their hearts were filled with joy and pleasure when they embraced the Gospel. They received a living testimony for themselves. That testimony was not confined to the Prophet Joseph Smith, nor to his immediate associates. It was not confined to any council or quorum in the holy Priesthood, but the promise was universal; that whosoever -would receive the Gospel might not only receive a remission of their sins, but also a living testimony of the Holy Spirit; they should know that God had spoken from the heavens; they should receive a witness that their sins had been remitted; and when this testimony came to those who embraced it, what joy, wlhat satisfaction it produced in their hearts! And during all the history 'Of 'tlhis Church, now sixtyeight and one-half years in this dispensation, it fis so organized and, in the purposes of God, is so designed as to perpetuate itself. Men have passed away; the Prophet of God and his brother, Hyrum, who stood by him in all the trials and tribulations of life, and who was also a Prophet of the living God, they laid down their lives; they sealed their testimony with their blood; but the work did not die with them. The Lord had organized the Church in such a way that when the Presidency was dissolved by the death of the Prophet, Twelve Apostles should preside over the Church, until the Presidency should be organized again; and so this organization has been perpetuated on the earth; and when men have been called to positions, they have been called by the spirit of revelation from God, just as literally, and just as distinctly as those that Paul spoke of in the 13th chapter of the Acts of the Apostlles. When the Apostles were assembled and considering the appointment of Elders to laibor (in the ministry, and as they fasted, the Hoiy Ghost said unto them: "Separate unto me 

8 GENERAL 

Barnabas and Saul for the work where unlto I have called them." And they were called by the Spirit of revelation, and by the laying on of hands by those who had been called of God to administer in His name in the flesh; and this is the only way that the work of the Lord has ever been perpetuated in the earth in any dispensation of the Gospel. It was so in the days of Moses, who had received the higher Priesthood, which holds the keys otf receiving revelations from God far the government of His affairs among the children of men, and Without which Priesthood, the Lord has said the power of Godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh. But Moses honored this Priesthood, and he sought to sanctify all his people, just as the Prophet Joseph and hlis successors have sought to sanctify the Latter-day Saints, that they might come to a higher standard in the enjoyment of the Gospel, and the authority and power of the holy Priesthood. He sought to sanctify them that they rmight have the the manifestations of the glory of God, and he sought to promote them to that standard, but when he wenlt up to commune with tlhe Lord on Mount Sinai, he had to draw a boundary Mne, and say to them that they should not pass over it because of their unworthlness; and he went up and communed with the Lord, and he received the mind and will of the«Lord; and when he came dawn to communicate it to the House of Israeli, they could not look upon his eountenace, because it shone with the Spirit of God— it shone with that power of Godliness which was reflected through the Priesthood which the Prophet Moses held; but they could not be sanctified, far the reason that they rejected the higher Jaw of the Gospel, which had been delivered to the Prophet Mioses and through which he sought to sanctify them. As they were unworthy to continue in these higher blessings the Lord decreed that they should continue in the ordinances of the Lesser Priesthood-the administration of sacrifices, symbolical of the sacrifice of the Son of God for the redemption of mankind. He was called to do that work; to stand at the head of the House of Israel; a man that was called of God by revelation--a, man that had been faithful. 

CONFERENCE 

Joshua, the son of Nun, was always inspired with that faith in God spoken of this morning by President Cannon. He did not stagger at the command of God, or at the purposes of the Almighty in designing the plan for entering into the land which had been promised to Abraham and his seed after him for an everlasting possession. You may read in the later chapters of iDeuteronomy how Joshua was called. The Lord said unto Moses: "Take unto thee Joshua, the son of Nun, in whom is the spirit of wisdom, and lay thine hand upon him." He was called of God by revelation, and was oirdained to stand 'at the head of the House of Israel and to preside in the admlinistratdon of those ordinances which were symbolical of the atonement of the Savior, and which continued in Israel until the coming of the Son of God, who' introduced the Gospel again in i'ts fulness and restored the higher Priesthood. 

The work of God in this generation has been established just as literally as it was anciently. The brethren who have been called to preside over this Church have been selected by the Spirit of revelation, and it has been manifest very strikingly af late in the calling of President Lorenzo Snow, and of brethren to preside over missions. Brethren have communed with the Lord; they have sought the mind and will of the Lord to know 'about these matters, and they have received it by the (Spirit of revelation. I want to bear my testimony concerning the principle of faith. We do not have it as we o'ught to have it; it is not exemplified in our lives as it ought to be; we ought to have the faith that characterized Nephi, when he was sent to obtain the. plates af Lalban, and when his brethren staggered af the thought of their going to face the probable danger of performing that duty which had been assigned to them by their father, or by the Lord through their father, the Prophet Nephi said unto them: "The Lord, God, giveth no commandment unto the children of men, save that He will prepare a way for them to accomplish the thing which He commandebh them." That statement, enunciated by the Prophet Nephi, is as true today as it was then. The evi oif the truth of this work are stamped upon the mind (by the exercise of the principle of faith. We may not be able to coimmunicate by mere verbal statement or by letter the Spirit and testimony of this work, but it is as tangible to us as it is to the human body when you receive a shock of electricity. You cannot describe the sensation so that others can feel it and understand it; they must have the current of electricity turned into their own souls in order to understand it. It is just as possible to receive a testimony of the divinity oif this work as it is tangible to the human body to be shocked wiibh electricity. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the labors of the Elders abroad. I rejoice when I see them returning with a good report, having been schooled in that experience which oan be obtained alone by tihe exercise of faith in God by going forth, without money and without price, to declare the Gospel unto the nations of the earth. Education is not alone to be olbtained from books and in universities, colleges and in seminaries of learning. There is an education that comes through the revelations of the Spirit of God to man that is higher than every other class of education, and compared with which all other systems of education sink into insignificance. What do we know about the earth even upon which we stand? What do we know albonxt the planets that roll in space? Very little; (but when the time comes, we will receive a knowledge of these things by revelation from God— when these sciences will be written upon by the Spirit of revelation resting upon men of God— men who exalt the Lord above all else. These things will be revealed from heaven, and we will understand them in their true light, and we will understand them perfectly. 

I exhort you to pray to God for His spirit; strive to keep it with you; the only way to do that is to do your simple duty. There is nothing so important as the simple duty of the hour — that is the duty of the Latter-day Saints.. It is their duty to nave family prayer in the evening, and to call God into their midst. They should teach their  to pray; teach them to ask a blessing on their food. It is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to pay his tithing and to pay it fully, not to make a feeble attempt at it by paying onehalf, or one-fifth, or four fiftns, but by paying his full one- tenth of his interest annually. If it is not one-tenth, it is not thoroughly and completely tithing. When you baptize a man in water, if you do it with his right hand not immersed, the Elder on the bank in charge, requests the one administering to do it over again, and immerse the whole body in the water, that it may be truly a baptism for the remission of sins, in similitude of the resurrection of the Son of God. As Latterday Saints, we ought to be just as thorough in the performance of our duties, our simple duties in the Gospel, our prayers, our thanks, our offerings, our attention to the Priesthood of God in complying with the calls to carry the Gospel abroad, or to labor at home, as a merchant is in looking after the interests of his establishment. If we were so, the spirit of the Lord would be more abundantly poured out upon this people. There would be more living witnesses by their experiences of the power of God among the people than there are. I want to bear my testimony that no man or woman ever gets tired of paying tithing so long as they observe these simple duties. It is one of the grandest testimonies to the truth of this work, that no man who conscientiously lives it, who reflects and studies upon it according to the best opportunities, and time and ability that he has, ever tires of what the world call "Mormonism;" but when you find a man that has fallen by the wayside, you can trace in his course the neglect of some duty or the violation of some covenant which he has made with his God. 

May God bless us, my brethren sisters, and enable us to live nearer t" him and keep His commandments more strictly in all respects, that we may enjoy the spirit of the Priesthood and the spirit and power which belongs to this work; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir sang, We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 
