Afternoon
06 10 1898




ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 

Missionary work in the Orient— Opposition encountered— Changes in Palestine — An American Colony, 

I hope that I may be in possession of the same spirit that inspired our brethren who addressed us this morning I feel happy to be in your midst, to see so many faces, happy faces, of the Latter-day Saints as I see here before me today. 

When you last met in general Conference, 1 did not have the pleasure to be with you, as I was then laboring among the Saints in the Orient. I had a very interesting mission 'to that part of the earth. As you know, we have a number of Saints in the Turkish empire. During the massacres which occurred in Armenia a few years ago, our brethren and sisters there w^re left without any Elders from Zion to preside over them. The Presidency of the Church sent Brother Hintze and myself over there last December to organize the Church more fully. We found that the Saints there, though left without Elders from Zion to preside over them, had not lost the spirit of the work. It is quite a testimony to me that the Spirit of God works the same, makes the same manifestations wherever it is enjoyed. The Saints there enjoy the  of the Gospel, rejoice in that which they have received, and the Spirit had led them to a right understanding. I was pleased to see them so well grounded in the principles of the Gospel, especially when I thought of their not having access to any of our Church works. Only a few of the Saints were able to read English, and we have not yet any of our Church works translated into Turkish. A few tracts have been published, but the works of the Church have not yet been translated into that language and consequently our brethren and sisters there have not been able to read our accepted works except the Bible, nor any of our published sermons; and still we found them in full accord with the belief and faith of the Church, showing that the Spirit of God leads into all truth. They were very happy to have us come and visit them. We found quite a number ready to receive the Gospel, and had the joy of leading quite a number into the waters of baptism. Some had been baptized, but for the want of an Elder had not been confirmed members. They were glad to receive 'this blessing. We organized a branch of the Church at Aintab. I do not think that such a condition will again arise there, as that of the Saints of the largest branch being left under the presidency of a Priest only. We found brethren there worthy of presiding, worthy of the Priesthood, and ordained them. 

We also found that our adversary was not pleased with our work, nor with the work of the Saints. Persecution was raised against the Saints there, the mob disturbed some of our meetings, but the Lord was with us; none was hurt, and it caused more Of a spirit of inquiry amongst the people. The government and the officers of the government were friendly to us and promised us protection. I found that it was mostly members belonging to different Christian denominations which raised this persecution against our people. The Turks themselves did not act in any' way unfriendly towards us. They wondered what all this turmoil was about, and came to us and wanted to know What we really believed. While the Turkish government is not one that an 

American would like to live under, still it gives greater religious liberty to our Saints than they would be permitted to enjoy in countries like Greece, Italy, or Spain. The Mohammedans do not interfere with our brethren in the exercise of their religion, or forbid them to believe as they desire, but give freedom to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience. I may qualify this by saying that the Mohammedans themselves do not enjoy this freedom to the same extent as the Christians. If a Mohammedan should leave his religion and join any other religion in that land, he would be ostracised from the society of his relatives and friends, and would be in danger even of his life. But as to the Christians, the Mohammedans are willing that they do as they please in regard to their religion, and I believe the more contention they see amongst the Christians the more they like it. 

When persecution was raised against us, the Saints were desirous of our appealing to the government for help, but on second thought we felt that this would not be wise. We did not like to raise strife between the Mohammedans and the Christians. It is not a long time since a great many Christians lost their lives in Armenia, and we were afraid that we might be the cause of starting this race hatred between the two parties, and we thought it would be better to suffer a little wrong than to be the cause of wrong being done. I told the Saints that I did not think the persecution would amount to much, and I knew that the Lord was able to protect His Saints. 

Wherever the Gospel has been introduced it has always met with opposition. The Turkish mayor of Aintab said to me, when I asked him to look after our people, that they should not suffer any wrong at the hands of their enemies, "Wherever a message of truth is sent, those bearing it will suffer persecution." I knew the sentiment was true, but it sounded curious to hear it from his lips. He promised to protect the 'Saints, and I learn from them that he has fined some of the mobocrats. 

I believe there is a great future for our people in that land; and that there are many of the honest in heart, and I hope our brethren will find them. They love to hear the Gospel. They love the truth, and when they receive it they enjoy the Spirit, and the signs follow them that believe, even in that far off land. 

In company with- Elders Hintze, Maycock, Larson and Nishan, the latter a native Elder, I visited the Holy Land, and traveled over the places so familiar and so interesting to us from reading the Scriptures. We examined the country and the conditions existing there carefully with a view of finding a place of gathering for the Saints. 

You remember that in the forties Apostle Orson Hyde was sent to that land, and that he dedicated it unto the Lord, and for the gathering of the Jews. That land had been cursed on account of the iniquity of its people, and for hundreds of years it has been a testimony to the world that the Lord honors the words of his servants, the words spoken by the inspiration of His Spirit. Moses, thousands of years ago, was permitted to see the future and prophesied concerning it, warning the people of Israel that if they did not obey the commandments of God they should be scattered amongst the nations of the earth. You who have read history know how literally this prophecy has been fulfilled, and that the land given to Abraham and his seed has been occupied by strangers, and that the blessings of God which once made that land a delightful place in which to dwell, were withdrawn and it was turned into a barren and forbidding land. Brother Hyde went there and blessed it. The mission given to the servants of God was to proclaim the Gospel to the Gentiles first and then to the Jews. This was declared very early by the Lord as the mission given to His servants. His chosen people were not forgotten. They, also, should receive the Gospel message; but this time the first should be the last. The Prophet Joseph was inspired to send Brother Hyde to that land, and look at the change! A spirit has come over the Jews, over the House of Israel, to gather to that land. This was not felt by them before 'but since that time. 

This spirit has come upon them in whatever part of the earth they dwell, We found in traveling- in that land whole settlements of Jews who have gathered there of late years. In talking with them (Brother Hintze being a'ble to talk the language) we learned that they were not gathering in faith; it was not because they believed that the Lord had opened the way before them, but they had a desire to go there. A learned Jewish doctor told us that his people wanted to become again a nation. They longed to be once more a people upon the earth, and 'to own the land given to their fathers. 

In Jerusalem we found quite an increase in the number of the Jews; during the last three years, fifteen thousand had settled there. The sultan is not pleased with this and has prohibited the Jews from emigrating into Palestine, but still the movement is going on, the Zion movement among the people of Israel, and they are looking forward to inhabiting that land. It is one of the signs of the times. Before long I believe the Lord will touch the hearts of that people and they will believe in Jesus as their Messiah. The Book of Mormon has the prophecy that when they do believe in Him that land shall be given them again as their inheritance. I do not believe that time is far distant. I believe that the time is hastening when the Lord will accomplish what he has spoken by His servants the Prophets. 

While in Jerusalem we met a colony of Americans. These people have been impressed that they live in the last days and that the coming of 'Christ is near, and so they have sold out their possessions, taken their means with them to Jerusalem that they might live there when Christ comes, believing that He will come to Mount Olivet. 

We spent a very pleasant evening with them. They lived in the united order, having everything in common, and they use their time in doing good, in going to the sick and helping the poor. So far they are doing a good work. Mrs. Spofford, the president and leader of the society, told us that in studying the Scriptures they have come to the conclusion that Christ will soon appear, and she said: "We  struck very much by the prophecy uttered by Zachariah in the 14th chapter, 10th verse, and also by the prophecy of Jeremiah, concerning Jerusalem, in the 31st chapter, in which it is foretold how the city of Jerusalem shall be built on certain lines. When reading the chapters closely we find that the time alluded to is the latter days, and it is said there that the city of Jerusalem should be built from the tower of Hananeel to the king's wine presses and from there to the valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes." She pointed out to us this fact, that the city is being built now exactly on these lines. They did not know at first where the tower of Hananeel was. Nobody seemed to know, and if you look into books giving descriptions of Jerusalem, that place is not designated, but a few years ago when they were digging the foundations of the Grand hotel in Jerusalem they discovered the foundations of a tower and among inscriptions found was the name of Hananeel. This made them believe that this must have been the tower of Hananeel. Taking that for a starting point, and to the king's wine presses and down to the valley of ashes, Jerusalem is being built as thus described These people took this to be one of the signs of the times. I take it to be one of the signs of the times, that God is working upon His people, His chosen people, and that they are gathering to that land. 

As for our people gathering there, we feel that our brethren should be well grounded in the faith before we move them, and still being in their infancy it would be better to strengthen, the branches and have more come into the Church, and then gradually gather them down to a place selected in the Holy Land, and this is a work that will be accomplished. There will be a Zion in the East as well as in the West, "for the law shall go forth out of Zion and the word of the Lord from. Jerusalem." 

Brethren and sisters, I delight in dwelling upon these things. I see the Lord is working with the nations. He is gradually accomplishing His purposes, and His work will grow in the earth, and all the opposition in the  will not stop it. He has revealed His will to men. He has established His kingdom upon the earth, and it will grow until it becomes, as Daniel saw, a kingdom that will fill the whole earth. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful and true and to have a share in His kingdom forever, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

An occasion for self-scrutiny— The labor committed to the Saints by the Lord— The Church the most perfect of all organizations— Local officers should be active and discreet— No unworthy person should be recommended to enter the holy Temples—The great work for the dead. 

In arising before you, my brethren and sisters, I desire to make you hear the few words I may speak to you this 

afternoon. 

In looking over this congregation, I realize that we all have an object in view in coming to the Conference from distant parts, and as was observed this morning, perhaps a large majority of the congregation here today is from remote parts of the country. We are here to be instructed. We are here to listen to the voice of the Spirit of the Lord. We are here to have a refreshing from the Lord in our assemblings together during the Conference. It is 1 a good time to reflect, it is a good time to look over our history, that is our private history and our private life and the acts thereof. It is a good time to sit in judgment upon ourselves and judge ourselves as to our standing and fellowship with the Lord. The Lord has been very merciful to us, very merciful to the Latter-day Saints. We are constrained to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in/ His kind dealings with us in this mountain country. 

Those who have had a few years experience can see visibly that the elements have been tempered. The earth has been blessed and sanctified for the good of the people, so much so that it produces in abundance to the husibandm'an; it rewards him for his toil; while but a short time ago it looked as though the country was a barren waste. But we find that the Lord has blessed the earth; has blessed the people; has multiplied them in the good  of the earth, so much so that all, or seemingly all, have all the bounties of the earth. 

The Lord has also given unto us the charge of His work in the earth; given unto us the charge of organizing His people, to teach them the Gospel, and to send the Gospel to the distant parts of the earth, as we have been hearing this afternoon. This charge and labor has been committed to the Latter-day Saints, and we are obligated to the- Lord to preach the Gospel in all the world, to every nation and to every people. This is the work that we have in hand; this is the labor that is marked out for us; and we come together from time to time at the conferences of the Church, and we usually hear from the brethren who are posted with regard to the spread of the work in other lands and in our own land, and we are led to exclaim: "Praise the Lord for His goodness and for His mercy and His long-suffering to us as His people." 

We have, my brethren and sisters and friends, a beautiful organization, corm plete in all its details, such as no other people has; such as was not in the wisdom of man to give to the people. I often think about it, think about how we are situated, the circumstances under which we are placed. We are not left to depend upon ourselves, upon our judgment in matters of Interest that pertain to ourselves. We have been advised to seek counsel of each other, to seek 'the counsels of the Lord. In the midst of counsel, it is .said, there is safety. I have thought sometimes that we did not appreciate this beautiful system that the Lord has revealed and made known to man under which we may live and have full fellowship with each other. I have thought, my 'brethren and sisters, that if we were a little more careful, and should give a liftle more attention to the organization that we have, Lt would save us a great deal of trouble and also save our brelthren trouble. 

I have said that I thought it was a good thing, and I say it from experience, for the authorities of a ward, the organizations of the Priesthood in a ward, to have their meetings frequently. The Bishop in a ward should call his brethren together, especially his counselors, and talk over the interests of the people there. Counsel together, call in others that have interest in the work of the Lord, and advise together about all matters relating to the interests and welfare of the people that live there. Old wards need this, and new wards also need ft — to know the condition of all of the people and to specially know the condition Of the young people, in this ward organization; and if it be found that there are matters of interest and problems that they cannot solve, then they may apply to the president of the Stake, and take him into their confidence and apply to him for the counsels of the Lord; and if the problem is such that he can not solve it, then' there is another source that he may apply to and get the mind and will of the Lord on all matters relating to the interests, relating to the welfare, relating to the establishing of the people in the faith of the Gospel. We' want to encourage faith, as was said this morning; we want to instill that faith into our children and into the young people. I believe faith is increasing in the land, however, but we find it will be through our efforts, through our labors that faith will be increased in the minds of the people. 

I have had, in connection with others, some experience with people, young people especially, and middle-aged people, too, sometimes, who procure endorsements or recommends from the Bishop of their ward where they live, and I have been led to question whether the Bishop knew much about the person that he recommended, if he was fully familiar with his life. Now this should not be. We ought to b e familiar with the affairs that are under our care and under our jurisdiction, and this can be brought about by holding as I said before, these councils. Why, we have an ex-ample of this in the Church, a striking example. The Presidency of the Church hold their council and call in the brethren with them and counsel upon given matters. They hold it every week, and counsel and talk over matters pertaining to the Church, the whole Church. Of course they are not supposed to come down  the details of a Stake or to the details of a ward; they are looking after the general interests and welfare of the whole Church here and abroad in all the world. Such counsels in a ward capacity and in a Stake capacity would have good results; they certainly would have no bad results. If the Bishop of a ward were to call the Priesthood together they could talk over matters of interest to the ward, of labors that there are to accomplish, and take into consideration the propriety of making their influence felt in all the associations of the organization— in every association in the ward. These organizations and associations in the ward make up the grand total of the Church; they make up the grand total in the greater organization; and they have to be watched over and cared for and looked after with a diligent eye. 

Now we are singularly situated; there are a great many things that need to be watched over, and that need to be looked after in order that we may retain the faith, retain our fellowship, retain our favor with the 1 Lord. Somebody has to do it. The 1 Lord has made these appointments.has given us these organizations, and when the Elders go out into the different Stakes of Zion, new wards are to be organized, new Stakes are to be organized, the matter is canvassed and looked over carefully, and good men are sought for, diligent men are sought for, in order that they may have a proper organization, in order that the people may have proper care and proper attention when the ward or the Stake is thus organized. 

W e might bring this down in detail even in a ward. When we have teachers, to select, when we have Priests to select, when we have brethren to select for various positions and labors, we want to canvas the matter, look it over, and counsel together about these things that the greatest good may be effected by our labors, and that the greatest good may be accomplished through our labors in our various callings in the ministry whereunto we are appointed. 

Tt is desirable that no unworthy people go into the sacred places — go into  houses^ of the Lord. They would not want to go there themselves if they understood matters properly. It is not desirable to have unworthy people go. And who is to know? It is not fair to suppose that the President of the Stake in endorsing these people personally knows them all. 

President Taylor once said, in speaking on this same subject, and giving counsel and advice, that if they were unacquainted with the doctrines of the Church and had not had experience, they should at least have experience in a ward somewhere, before they sought to go' to the Temple. He said they ought to be at least a year in some ward under some bishopric, before they sought to go to the house of the Lord. We find it very desirable to have good people present themselves at the doors of the house of the Lord, who has entrusted us with this work, pertaining to our kindred that are passed away; has entrusted us with the work to have our families and our progenitors labored for and organized under the holy Priesthood; the children sealed to the parents from one generation to another, and to see that the work for the dead, as well as for the living, goes forward, as has been indicated by the erecting of temples to the name of the Most High. 

I remember in mv early experience in the Church that I never contemplated that there would be more than one temple. T thought that would be all that would be needed for the work of the dead; but as it has rolled On, as we gain experience, we find that the work of the Lord is expanding, and we are also expanding in our views with regard to the work of the Lord. We are more enlightened now than we were before the temples were built. We have greater desires in many respects to hunt up and look after our kindred, to look after the genealogies of our forefathers who have died without a knowledge of the truth. Now this is one of the things in connection with a great many others that we have to <3o. We must not lose sight of it in our day nor in our lifetime. We must  have it said when we go to ' the other side of the veil, when we meet our kindred there and they perhaps ask us what we have done for them — we do not want to have to say we have done nothing for them. It would be much more desirable to say we have done all we could. We have hunted up and down the earth; we have traveled abroad to find records and genealogies of our kindred; we have done all that we could. How many of us can say this today, up to date? We have had four temples going now for some time and the people have been invited to attend to these matters, and how many could say up to date that they have done all they could for their kindred that have passed away? I presume that there are many that can say it and there are a great many that can't say it. It is advisable, therefore, my brethren and sisters, to not lose sight of this important labor, as well as educating and training our sons and our young people to become ministers of the Gospel to be faithful representatives, honorable representatives of our people and of our Church. I repeat that in the midst of these labors we should not lose sight of ithe importance of attending to these matters in the temples of the Lord, because there is a purpose and a design in these things, and those that enter into the spirit of it can comprehend it and understand it. When they come and make a commencement they want to stay longer, they want to stay a year, some of them, and continue their labors because they enter into the spirit of it. They see the importance of it more and more as they progress in the work. 

'There are a great many things for our consideration as live, active Latter-day Saints; a grea't many duties and responsibilities that are upon us, but there is nolthing required at our hands but that we may accomplish through our diligence and our faithfulness in observing and keeping the commandments of the Lord. 

I would urge upon you, my brethren, the Bishops and presidents of fo takes, who may be here, to try the experiment if you have not tried it, and have your counsel meetings occasionally, once a week or oftener; counsel together with your brethren, and whatever is done let it be done with common consent from the head of the ward, from the head of the .Stake, from the head of the Church, let it all be done by common consent: then everything- will be harmonious. We want to work in harmony, we want no friction, we do not want discord, we do not want contention among the Saints; we want peace and the good spirit of ithe Lord in -our homes and in our families. We desire that above all other things. We Want that union, that strength that will make us valiant in the work of the Lord, and the way to get it is to seek for it, look after it, and attend to this beautiful organization that the Lord has given us, and work together, counsel together in all matters pertaining to us spiritually, and pertaining to us temporarily. We Tsed to do this, I think, more than we do now. Those of us who went up into Cache valley a good many years ago to open up that country and develop it. had to do this, because we were surrounded by the enemy, the red men, who were on our path. They killed some of our brethren and we were driven together. We had to talk and counsel together, and work unitedly. If we went to the canyon for anything we had to go in force. One man did not start off alone, it was not safe, but we went in force, we worked unitedly in that district of country. And thus it was under the wise counsel of President Young, who would come to us and talk to. us like a father, told us what to do to save ourselves. Naturally we wanted to scatter all over the country, but there would not have been a town anywhere. He counseled with us and advised us what to do, and we can see and have seen the good in so doing. It is a good thing to do now, to counsel together and be agreed upon matters pertaining to our interests, and in doing this we learn to love one another. We learn to respect each other. We won't want to pass over the Bishop of our -ward and go somewhere else; we won't want to ignore the President of the Stake and go to someone else; nor we won't want to pass over the Apostles when they come around, but we will have the spirit of , that we may take counsel together for our good. I am sure it will result in good to the wards and to the Stakes without doubt. We may know, through this means, everybody in our ward. The Bishop may become acquainted with every young man. If the president of the Elders' quorum, doesn't know him personally, why his brother knows him, his counselors know him, the president of the Elders' quorum knows, him, some of the Priesthood there know him, some of the High Council may be there that may know him; what a nice thing- it would be for the Bishop to be acquainted with all these affairs. Talk these matters over together, . and not hurt anybody, but work for the salvation and unification of the people in the district where we live. We may find, in counseling together, that there are some families that are careless, that are indifferent. We may find also that the teachers are a little indifferent, and that they do not visit everybody, and they only make a visit occasionally. You may find in couseling together many things you might correct. You may find that some family is not living the lives of Latter-day Saints, not paying their tithing unto the Lord, and not doing their duty in helping to support the poor, and so on. They can foe kindly looked after, cared for, and watched over, and talked over in a gentle way, that they may be brought back into the fold and into full fellowship with the Church of Christ. 

Perhaps ' I am lengthening out too long in imy remarks. But I know, my brethren and sisters, that this work is true; I know it is from the Lord, and I bear record of this. I have had many testimonies from my youth up; testimony upon Itestimony with regard to the truth of this work, and I bear you this testimony, that this work is true, that the eye of the Lord is upon us, and He has organized His Church according to His mind and will, and according to the dictations of His spirit, and the brethren who stand at our head are inspired men of God. We have reason many times to hear record of this, because we have seen it made manifest so plainly to us. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL. 17 

ELDER J. G. KIMBALL. I realize, my brethren and sisters, 

An ambition that is not wordly— A great Mission- that there is a very great labor deary responsibility-Special reference to the volving upon this people. As was Seventies. stated by President George Q. Cannon, 

I trust, while I stand before you, we cannot say that we have the numthat I may be governed and influenced ber of missionaries laboring throughout by the Spirit of the Lord; for I can as- the nations of the earth that we had sure you that I have only one ambition, six months ago. In the Southern only one desire burning in my heart, States alone there have been over one and that is, to serve the Lord and keep hundred and twenty-five Elders reHis commandments. I understand leased since the 20th of June, and Oin my labors to be to preach the Gospel the 20th of June there were five huncomtinually among the children of men; dred and eighty Elders laboring in that that my calling and labors are well- mission; and Elder Rich, who predefined; and I do not ask any Seventy sides, stated that there should be rein the Church of Jesus Christ to do leased from that mission another . onewhat I am not willing to perform my- hundred and twenty-five Elders. Take self. I am a candidate in the Church that mission alome, then, and there of Jesus Christ to take up the cross should be sent, into that field of labor and follow the Savior, and preach the at least two hundred and 'fifty more Gospel to the nations of the earth; and Elders as soon as it can possibly be I am willing, if the customs of the done. I feel myself that it is a time to country will permit it and I am so di- thrust in the sickle; for the Lord has rected by the Spirit of the Lord, to softened the hearts of the children Of travel without purse or scrip, to addict men towards this people, and Satan, myself to fast and to pray, and to in his anger, is trying to raise up perlive near unto the Lord, that he may secution against our people, and it is soften the hearts of the children ol already developing in the Southern men towards me. I have only one am- States. I feel, my brethren, that we bition, viz., to follow in the footsteps should put ourselves in a condition to of my father and emulate his ex- undertake and carry out this labor, ample. While I believe it to be my especially the Seventies^ whose labor right, notwithstanding I am a member it is to continually preach the Gospel, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat- We read in the Doctrine and Covenants ter-day Saints, to work for any gift that the High Priests are to preach as that can be. given by this great nation their circumstances will permit; but or by the people of this State, yet I there are no such words found in the have no ambition in that direction. I Doctrine and Covenants regarding the realize that there is danger in specu- Seventies. I went into a qporum of lation; but I claim the right to specu- Seventies only a few nights ago — one of late, if I am honest and straightfor- the best quorums, too, that I have met ward in my dealings. I claim that it with — and we found eighteen Seventies is my right to become rich and to sur- out of thirty-five that have never filled round myself with the riches of the missions to the nations of the earth, wtorld, inasmuch as I use it for the So we find it all through the Church, good of the children of men. But I It is my opinion that there are but few have no further ambition in that di- quorums in the Church in which you rection, unless I am specially called by cannot find twenty Seventies that have those appointed to labor in the Church, never filled missions to the nations of have, however, an ambition to be the earth, and I look upon it as one of saved m the kingdom of my Father, the most unfortunate things that can yesire to understand the Gospel, the befall a man-to be robbed of that Plan of life and salvation, and if there privilege. While it is true that many 8 any greater ambition that can be of our brethren have filled honorable given unto the children of men, I pray and wonderful missions at home, yet you to point out the pathway. we look to Seventies to fill up this number; and I pray the Lord to move upon them mightily by His Spirit, that we may be able to supply our brethren in the next year with three hundred Seventies that are willing to take upon themselves this labor. 

I realize, my brethren, that we should be charitable. I do know that our brethren are in debt, that they are in trouble and in difficulty. It is only two weeks ago since I personally interviewed eight bright, intelligent men who were perfectly able, physically, mentally, and, for aught I know, every other way except financially, to go on missions, and these eight brethren all declared that they were in debt and unable to go. I felt impressed by the Spirit to prophesy to them and to promise them that if they would have faith they could pay their obligations in the next six months, if they would make a covenant with the Lord that they would take up this labor and preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. But it leaves a very grave responsibility upon the Bishops and the presidents of Stakes; for when you send that class of men, they leave behind them probably large families to be taken care of. I feel that that is one reason that so many young men have been called — men who were not Seventies— because many of them had no families to leave behind. But I say to you, my brethren and sisters, inasmuch as this is my calling, that it devolves upon this people, notwithstanding there is a great expense to it. From a human standpoint, it would seem as if it Avould take from our people nearly all their means to preach the Gospel to every nation. Yet, if I understand the matter aright, when the angel came, that was the message he delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I do not desire to occupy more Of your time; but I did desire to call your attention to that part of our labor that is devolving upon the people. I pray the Lord that He will continue to bless us, and bless the earth, that it shall yield forth of its strength, so that our people may free themselves from debt, and take up this labor; that it may not  necessary to hunt and search as we now are under the necessity of doing, to find men to send forth to the nations. I pray the Lord to bless our brethren, the Apostles, for my sympathy is with them. I desire to say to the people that I hope the time will never come when it will be necessary for any of our people, through their strife and their troubles — their political troubles— <to make any further trouble for their brethren; for when I look back to that aged servant of God —President Wilford Woodruff— who has passed away, and when I think of our other brethren who follow him, how true and how faithful, how full of integrity they are; they have never swerved, but they have been steadfast and have fought valiantly for the cause of Christ, and just as they get here and have established themselves seemingly permanently, and it seems when it ought to have been a time of peace and rest for our brethren, some of us who became restless and got the spirit of the world had to make more trouble for them. I pray the Lord that He may soften our hearts, that we may love the Priesthood, that we may honor them, that we may serve the Lord and keep His commandments, aind have the Spirit of God burning in our hearts like a living fire. This is my desire, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

This is God's work— Human weaknesses— Payment of Tithing— Every day duties. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that while I stand before you this afternoon I shall have your faith and prayers in the testimony that I may bear and in the few remarks that I may make. It is very unexpected to me to have to stand before you at this time; but I always esteem it a privilege to bear testimony to the truth of the great latter day work, and also to that which is being accomplished by the labors of our brethren. I understand and realize that we are accomplishing the work that God has designed; that we are fulfilling His purposes; that this is His work, and not; and that according to His good pleasure, according to His divine will, all things will be brought about, and the words of His servants will be fulfilled, until this earth is prepared for the reign of His Son. I have no doubt of this on my mind. All things, whatsoever they are, that the Lord has willed in the restoration of His Gospel, in the gathering of His people, in the building up of His kingdom, will be brought about. And though our efforts from day to day may seem but small and insignificant, yet in the end they will fulfill the purposes designed of God. Therefore, as a people we have every cause for encouragement. God will not leave us to ourselves. He will not forsake us. He will not give us over into the power of our enemies. He will not permit that His kingdom in this dispensation shall be overthrown. Though we are weak, though we commit follies, yet in these respects we are not different from those who have gone before us. We are told, in the various divine records that have reached us, that those to whom God gave His revelations, on whom He imposed the responsibility of performing His work, and who were His representatives to the people, were men of like weaknesses as ourselves. We are furthermore told in the Book of Mormon that God gives men weaknesses, that by having weaknesses they may be better prepared, be better able to do what He requires. There is one thing of which we are satisfied, that there is none that is perfect save God. We are instructed to seek to be perfect, even as God and His Son Jesus Christ a^re perfect; and that Jesus Christ so advised shows to me that it is possible for us so to be. The Savior  not say this in derision, or in irony; hut he so encourages us all that we may seek to reach that which is perfect as near as we possibly can, and by so doing we progress. We have long since learned that obstacles, as far as the Church of Christ is concerned, are things to be overcome. When we speak of obstacles we mean that they are things that stand in our rath, not to prevent our progress, but  we may triumph by overcoming them; for most of us have learned with the youthful Prophet Nephi that God never gives a commandment to men but he provides the way by which that commandment can be obeyed. In other words, the Lord does not. ask impossibilities of us. Many things that have been done by this people through the grace of God and by His help, in gathering together to these mountains, and the things that have been accomplished since we gathered here, not only show the overshadowing hand of God in our favor, that He has been with us all. the time, that He has protected us, and that He has directed His servants who have led us, but also, looked at humanly, we may say that this people have performed miracles in that which they have accomplished in the building up of this community in this intermountain region. But our history,, when read in future ages, should the world continue as it is now — which, of course, we do not expect; but if it were possible in the future to look on the present as we now look into the past, if our history could be read in this light, removed from the obstructions that at present obscure the view of things as they really are, we shall be surprised at what we have accomplished through God's help, the influence that we have wielded .in the world, the results of the ministry of the Elders, and the changes that we have produced in the world's history. We are a small people, but, as we often say, our numbers are not commensurate with our influence. God has given us power — power above our numbers, and this is so because we are seeking to serve Him. He has also made us a wealthy people. We may not have many multi-millionaires in our midst; but when we take the riches of this people, head for head, I do not believe this Avide world over we can find any community of a quarter of a million of people taking them as we would take ourselves, who are so well situated with regard to material prosperity as we are. And this is but the beginning. How often have we heard the servants of God promise us that if GENERAL CONFERENCE  would be faithful to God, if we would keep His commandments, if we would pay our tithing, if we would* be honest with the Lord and generous in our donations, that He would bless u.3 to an extent that we could not at present conceive. I believe this is so. The little that we have done has brought its reward. We none of us claim that we, as a people, faithfully observe the law of tithing; yet the Lord has abundantly blessed us. True, we have been thrifty, we have been patient, we have been persevering, we have been economical — all of which virtues tend to the increase of material wealth. But why have we been so? We have been so because it is the genius of the Gospel that men should be thrifty, economical and temperate in all things; and that the virtues which have an especial effect upon man's present condition should be observed as well as those that more particularly affect man's future life. The Lord is now blessing us abundantly in our flocks and herds, in our crops, and in all other respects in which we materially increase, and I believe He will look to us to honor His law. Now is a most convenient time, a most proper timenever a better time — when we should be faithful to the Lord in paying our tithes and our offerings; that the hands, of the servants of God who bear the responsibilities of this Church should be loosened; that they should not be held under the burden of debt and the responsibilities that weigh so heavily upon their shoulders — the responsibilities which President Woodruff felt so keenly, and which should not be upon those who bear authority and presidency in the Church of Jesus Christ. They should be relieved from these burdens by all of us doing our duty, by us observing those laws that we acknowledge, in our testimonies, come from God. These things affect us all. We are bound up in the Church. What would we be if it were not that we are members of the Church? What should we be without the Church? What should we amount to? Where would our salvation be? What could we accomplish alone and , or in a disorganized condition to further the purposes of God and prepare men for - the coming of His Son Jesus and for that time when the earth is to be filled with a knowledge of God, when His purposes are to be accomplished, not only in the redemption of the living, but also in the redemption of the dead. Without us, we are told, they who have gone before cannot be made perfect, and we without them would be insufficient for the fulfillment of the purposes of God. All the various generations of men have to be welded together in indissoluble links, so that as one great whole, as one united family, we may be prepared for the great final consummation, when all things that our Heavenly Father has created and made shall be returned to him in the condition in which they were when he pronounced them, at the beginning, very good. But in view of this great consummation we sometimes lose sight of the fact that it is little by little that all these great things are accomplished. We lose sight of that truth that is taught in the verses our children learn in the primary departments in the schools, that it is "the little drops of water and little grains of sand" that go to make up the ocean and the land of which this earth is composed. It is the little actions of our lives that go to make up our characters. It is the minutes that make the days, and the days that make the years, and the years that make eternity. So it is 'with us in our everyday walk; in the fulfillment of our everyday duties we shall bear off the kingdom of God triumphant; not so much by .deeds 'of heroism that few of us may be called upon to perform, but by the daily, patient, continuous performance of our every day duties, laborious though they may be, wearisome though they may be, tiresome though they may be, and drudgery though they may sometimes be. It is by the performance of these duties that we are building up the kingdom of God, that we are accomplishing His purposes, and that will eventually bring us that perfection of character that will enable us, through the mercy and blessing of God and the atonement of His Son, to enter into His eternal presence, and reign with Him through the years to come. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. God bless this conference, that all that is said and done herein may  God's approval, is my prayer, through Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: Light and truth the world are waking. 

Benediction by Elder Charles W. I'oinr.ise. 




