Afternoon
09 10 1898




PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON said: 

This is a very solemn occasion, and the spectacle from the stand is most impressive. It is difficult to repress emotion on seeling such an assembly. "We have come together this afternoon in solemn assembly, to vote for the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Every one present is entitled to vote — to vote as he pleases — that is, every member of the Church. They can either vote for or against. Every one has perfect liberty. And it is well that you should understand the method of voting. The brethren will be called upon in their various quorum capacities to vote. If their vote is an affirmative vote, they will rise from their seats and raise their right hands. When they have thus voted, if there are any negative votes— they having kept their seats — they can rise and vote. And each one as I have said, will have perfect liberty to vote as he pleases. 

The order of voting by quorums was as follows: 

First — The Twelve Apostles. 

Second— The Patriarchs, Presidents of Slakes and their counselors, and the High Councilors. 

Third— High Priests. 

Fourth — Seventies. 

Fifth— Elders. 

Sixth— Bishops and their counselors. 

Seventh — Priests, Teachers and Deacons. 

Eighth— The entire congregation. 

In each instance President Cannon announced the vote to sustain the authorities successively, then said to the voting quorum: Are you prepared to vote upon this question? If so, arise to your feet and raise your right hands. "When the arffimativc vote was cast he  for those opposed, to arise to their feet. 

Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer and Revelatcr, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world. 

George Q. Cannon as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Joseph F. Smith as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Franklin D. Richards as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the que rum of the Twelve Apcstles — Franklin D. Richards, Erigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Arlthon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley and Abraham 0. "Woodruff. 

All the voting was unanimous, and it was so announced, until the negative vote upon sustaining the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles was called from the Elders. Two of these arose to their feet. President Cannon addressing them, asked who they objected to and for what reason? 

Each of these two Elders said he objected to John "W. Taylor, and the reason was certain objectionable remarks made by him in Conference on Friday, October 7th. 

They were asked if they would come to the stand at the close of the session and see whether Brother Taylor could make the matter right with and satisfy them. Both replied that they were willing to do this. 

The voting for members of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles then went forward uninterrupted and was unanimous, until the negative vote of the entire Congregation was called for. At this point a number of members of the Tabernacle choir, probably from twenty to twenty-five of both sexes, arose to their feet. 

On being asked by President Cannon who they objected to and the reason for it, they replied that they objected to John W. Taylor on account of some disparaging remarks he had made in Conference regarding the choir, on Friday, October 7th. They were asked if they were willing that Brother Taylor should personally meet with the choir and endeavor to make the matter right to their satisfaction. They signified that this arrangement was agreeable to them. 

It was then announced by President Cannon that a vacancy had been created in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles by the removal of President Snow from it to assume the position of President of the Church. It had been decided that this vacancy should be filled, and announced the name of Rudger Clawson for the position. The mind and word of the Lord had been obtained upon the selection of Brother Clawson for this office. 

A motion was made and put to the several quorums and to the entire congregation, -that Rudger Clawson be ordained an Apostle, be one of the Twelve Apostles and a member of that council. The voting was unanimously affirmative. 

The following authorities were then presented to the entire congregation to be voted upon in the usual way which obtains at ordinary General Conferences, and were unanimously sustained: 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

Patriarch 'to the Church— John 

Smith. 

First Seven Presidents of -the Seventies—Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, B. H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton as his first and John R. Winder as his second counselor. 

Franklin D. Richards as Church historian and general Church recorder, with John Jaques, Charles W. Penrose and Andrew Jenso'n as his assistants. 

As 'the General Church Board of Education — Lorenzo Snow, George, Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, Anihon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John Nicholson and George H. Brimhall. 

As Trustee-in-Trust for 'the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — Lorenzo Snow. 

John Nicholson as olerk of 'the General Conference. 



It Was stated thait the release of the presidency of the European mission had been contemplated, and that one of the number, Elder Edwin F. Parry, had already returned. By unanimous voite of the Conference Elders Rulon S. Wells and Joseiph W. McMurrin were 'also released, aind Plate D. Lyman appointed bo preside over 'the European mission, with James L. McMurrin arid Henry W. Naisbitt as his counselors. 

Similar unanimous action was taken with regani 'to releasing Brother Lautensock from the position of president over the German mission and the appointment of Arnold H. Schuithess to succeed him. 

President Cannon remarked that there was no other Church in the world the officers of which were subjected to such an ordeal as had been applied to those who had been voted on here today, and he felt 'thankful for the unanimity that had prevailed. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Brethren and sisters, this is a very trying position that I occupy before you this afternoon. It isi true, as President Cannon has said, thait I have been placed in some trying situations. I was with Elder Joseph Standing at the time of his martyrdom, and was myself exposed for a few moments to martyrdom, but I escaped through the providence of the Lord. I have been placed behind prison bars for the testimony of Jesus, and that was a very trying situation. When I came out of the penitentiary I was told that the Lord wanted me to labor as President of the Box Elder Stake, and I assure you, brethren and sisters, that that was a great surprise to me at that time, and very trying. I had been brought up in Salt Lake City; all my interests, all my associations, and, as I thought, all my expectations were in Salt Lake City, and it was a great trial for me to be called away. No inducements were offered, but I was told that the Lord would bless and sustain me in that appointment, and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have been sustained in my presidency of the Box Elder Stake of Zion, and I have enjoyed my labors there. There is a good people in that Stakes — a people, I believe, 'who are trying to serve the Lord. They have sustained me and I have felt blessed and prospered in my labors there. This later call that has come has proven to be a very great surprise. I had no> knowledge of it; I had no notice of it whatever, only as it has come to me today in this meeting. My patriarchal blessing, that was given a number of years ago, indicated that I would be called to a high appointment in the Church in the due time of the Lord, and I presume that this is the appointment now. I feel very weak; 1 feel very humble. I know that unless I can enjoy the spirit of the apostleship and the faith and prayers and the support of my brethren and sisters of this Church I cannot stand, I cannot succeed in this labor; and therefore I earnestly pray that God will be with me, and that I may have your faith and prayers, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

A serious ordeal— A. godlike resolve— The Saints increasing In strength— Will have greater power in the future— glory and dominion in eternity. 

My brethren and sisters, this to me is, as it undoubtedly is to you, a solemn scene. It is wonderful what the Elders of Israel have succeeded in securing; it is perfectly marvelous the union of feeling and of action, found nowhere else in the world, among such a great number of people as are here this afternoon. I never felt more humble than I do on this occasion. It is, as was said by President Cannon, a serious ordeal through which we have to pass from time to time — to be presented here before the people, and all of our past acts and doings viewed by them, and we depend upon their sanction and approval or rejection. This belongs to them. The Holy Spirit of light, that brings intelligence to us and an understanding of sacred things, belongs to every member of the Church. They have a right to pass their opinion upon those that are presiding over them. The works and the labors that the officers perform in  presence of this people may be known and understood by every member of the Church — in a general way, at least. There may be some things that the First Prsidency do; that the Apostles do, that cannot for the moment be explained; yet the spirit, the motives that inspire the action can be understood, because each member of the Church has a right to have that measure of the Spirit of God that they can judge as to those who are acting in their interests or otherwise. 

Now, brethren, this much I say, and I say it in the name of the Lord: I will endeavor to be devoted to your interests and the interests of the kingdom of God. I will serve you to the best of my knowledge and understanding, in reference to that which will promote your interests in connection with the interests of the Almighty. I will do this, the Lord being my helper. 

It is an easy thing for us to rise here and raise our right hands in token of our approval of what is presented before us. I can do that without any trouble, and so can you. But there is something involved in this rising here and raising our right hands in approval of the propositions presented; there is a meaning to it; something that ought to be well considered, and that is, acting in the future in accordance with this manifestation of our approval. Now, I know — and I know it well; no-body can know it betterthat if this mighty Priesthood and these Latter-day Saints that are before me will act up to that which they have approved by raising their right hands and in accordance with the motives that undoubtedly inspired them, the progress of this Church will be more rapid than it has been in the past. The Latter-day Saints are becoming stronger. They are much stronger at this Conference than they were at the last, as a general thing. There are some, no doubt, that are weaker, that have not the strength and the faith they had six months ago; but the people, speaking generally, are much stronger and, if called upon, could endure more and make higher sacrifices than they could have done  months ago. There is a satisfaction in this consideration. 

In this solemn assembly, let us decree in our hearts, let us inwardly testify to the Dord, that we will be a better people, a more united people at our next Conference than we are today. This should be the feeling- and determination of every man and woman present in this solemn assembly. T feel in my heart that I will try to be more devoted than I have been in the past to the interests of the kingdom of God and the carrying- out of His purposes. We are bound to rise and to advance in power and in influence in the midst of the world. There may, as has been suggested by one of the speakers, be opposition to meet of a nature that we have never met before; such things have come in the past, and will come in the future; but I will assure you that if we will do our duty with a determination that we will be prepared for everything; we will go through successfully any future difficulties that may arise no matter how serious they may be. "We have done wonders; we have passed through difficulties and made sacrifices that are marvelous, when we consider their nature. And we have done, and will do in the future, that which we never could have done unless we had educated ourselves by the spirit and power of God. We are a mighty people, and growing mightier as trials and difficulties arise. I can imagine that at some future period, in the other life, we will pass through an ordeal that will be as close and as serious to us as we have passed through today; for our past course and conduct will be fully understood. What a pleasure and consolation we have in thinking of the past, the sacrifices we "have made, the purity of our motives, and the feelings that have exercised us in the past in having done right and passed through ordeals that were of an unpleasant nature. Coming before this mighty people here, what a pleasure there is in thinking that we have done heretofore about as well as we knew how, having kept our consciences tolerably clear. You who are seated  will have opportunities of standing in the presence of multitudes, and I can easily imagine, yonder in the next life, after we have passed along perhaps a thousand years or more, that many of you who are here today will have an audience before you of your own posterity. I am as sure of it as I am that I am talking to you; I know it just as well as I know anything. Now we are starting in. Most of us, no doubt ,have sons and daughters who will continue faithful to your counsels, and in the other life they will be with you and increase with you. It was said to Abraham on one occasion that his posterity should be as numerous as the sands upon the sea shore and as the stars in the firmament. His offspringare being increased generation after generation. 

It is well for us, once in a while to look away ahead and see what will be the result of all the sacrifices and labors that we endure and perform in this life. This existence is but a moment; but the other life is continuous from eternity to eternity. This is Sunday, and we are not pleased to talk very much on Sunday, or any other day, on matters of politics; but I sometimes think that our friends here make themselves a great deal of trouble and there are no fruits to their labors and exertions. No matter what condition we are in, we ought to have that understanding that we can do all our labors whatever they may be, as the Lord pleases that we should do them. We should perform them right and be faithful in every calling and position that we occupy. Whatever may be the difficulties or the temptations that a person may labor under, he should so govern and control himself that in every condition he may act wisely and in a way that will increase his intelligence, power and faith. It is a grand position that we occupy. Our future is glorious. We could not desire more for our happiness than has been prepared for us. Those who endure unto the end shall sit upon thrones, as Jesus hath overcome and sat down upon His Father's throne. All things shall be given unto such men and women, so we are told in the revelations we have received. In view of these pnospcts, what should we not be willing- to sacrifice when duty requires? It is a great thing, we say, for a man to be an Apostle; yet there are things you can look forward to which are greater than this. A man has no reason to envy his friend because he happens to get a little higher than himself. The glory that is before, us is open to every man and every woman, through this Gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, glory and exaltation, in the fulness thereof. We have learned some things that are more valuable to us than a gold mine of the highest richness could possibly be. We are the offspring of God, He is our Father, and we have a mother in the other life as well. These women that are sealed to us for time and eternity will, with our children be ours in the other life, going on in honor and gl'ory. The Lord has revealed this to us, and we know it is so. Is it not something grand to know these things? So I say, we should be a holy people, a sanctified people, a people that God loves, and worthy of being directed in the highest path of glory and exaltation. 

It ias been a grand assembly this afternoon. We do not gee it every day in our lives. How soon such a gathering as this, for such a purpose will be again, God only knows, unless He has revealed it to someone, and I doubt whether He has. 

Now, brethren and sisters, God bless . I say it from my heart, and I feel it— God bless you. I feel that it belongs to me, and my brethren here, to be longsuffering, kind, always ready to forgive, and to cherish the highest love for every man and woman who is trying to do the will of God. Do not be discouraged, brethren. If you cannot become perfect at once; if you see that you have weaknesses which have brought you into some trouble, do not be discouraged; but repent of that which you have done wrong, by which you have lost more or less of the Spirit of God, tell the Lord what you have done, and resolve in your hearts that you will do it no more. Then the Spirit of the Lord will be upon you. I say again, my brethren and sisters, God bless you, to the full extent of that word, and fill you with His Holy Spirit; and may we all so live that, when we go forth from this life into the next, we may have such glorious scenes as we have here this afternoon. Amen. 

Mrs. Emily E. Woodward of Boston, with much sweetness, sang a solo, Come Unto Him All Ye That Labor. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet. 

Benediction by President Joseph F. Smith. 