Morning
07 04 1930



PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I had hoped yesterday to have time to read a number of telegrams that we have received. I had also hoped to hear from the Presiding Bishop of the Church, who presides over all of the members of the Lesser Priesthood — Priests, Teachers and Deacons — but it is a difficult matter of course to concentrate one's thoughts and stay within a limited time. 

CABLE MESSAGE FROM ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

We shall not attempt to read the many telegrams that we have received from individuals, including leading business men in the United States and in Europe, but I would like to read a cablegram from one of the absent members of the Twelve Apostles. It is from Liverpool, dated April 4th : 

"First Presidency: The Church members of the European Missions number nearly thirty thousand with the missionaries about seven hundred strong, unitedly express joyous gratitude for the blessings of the Gospel and the present prosperity of the Church, and extend to you and the whole Church felicitations upon this happy occasion. May the Gospel, true to its divine purpose and history, spread over the earth to make multitudes glad through righteousness. 

John A. Widtsoe." 

FELICITATIONS FROM GOVERNOR OF WYOMING 

We have a telegram from Governor Frank C. Emerson of W yoming. 

"Heber J. Grant, President, Mormon Church, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

"Please accept my felicitations upon the centennial celebration of the founding of the Mormon Church. From the time of the arrival of Brigham Young and his band of courageous followers in the Salt Fake Valley the Mormon people have had a leading part in the welfare and development of this western country. We appreciate their contributions to the progress of the commonwealth of Wyoming. It gives me pleasure to designate Honorable L, T, Qldroyd, our 

Commissioner of Agriculture, to represent Wyoming upon this auspicious occasion. 

Cordially yours, 

Frank C. Emerson, 

Governor of Wyoming." 

OTHER TELEGRAPHIC CONGRATULATIONS 

"Salt Lake City, April 5th, 1930, President Heber J. Grant : The Knights of Columbus of Utah extends congratulations on the centennial conference and wishes your people a successful meeting. 

Vere L. McCarthy, 

State Deputy. Dr. J. J. Galligan, Master of Fourth Degree." 

A cablegram dated Capetown, South Africa, April 6th, arrived before the conference meetings yesterday. They had held their services over there on the 6th of April and we received the word after they were over. It is from Don Mack Dalton, President of the South African Mission : 

"Our services had great spirit. We join you in remembrance and reverence. Missionaries well." 

From Holger M. Larsen, Copenhagen, Denmark: 

"Elders and Saints in Denmark send congratulations on this centennial anniversary." 

From Edward P. Kimball, Dresden, Germany: 

"Missionaries and Saints German-Austrian Mission greet you in love with Hosanna." 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the splendid gathering of the saints this beautiful morning, and the wonderful gatherings that were held yesterday. I rejoice in the favor that is granted to me, in common with you, to take part in the exercises of this remarkable conference. I feel deeply grateful to the Lord that I am privileged to live in this day and age, and to enjoy the confidence of my brethren of the General Authorities, and of you, my brethren and sisters, the presidencies of stakes, bishoprics of wards, and all the members of the Church, so far as I may be worthy of that confidence. I can assure you that I desire to live to be worthy of it. I desire to serve you, because everyone who is called to any position in this Church is a servant of the people. 

EXTENT OF PRIESTHOOD MEMBERSHIP 

When the priesthood were gathered here yesterday, and when it was not possible for all to attend who desired to obtain seats, I was thinking of the problem that was before us— the First Presidency and those of us who had the seating of this building in hand — as to how we could accommodate those who desired to be here. There are 150,000 members of the priesthood of the Church. Of course not nearly all of them could be here on that occasion, although many of them would have liked to come. Of those who are presiding officers of the stakes and wards and of the various quorums of the priesthood, there are fourteen thousand — practically double the seating capacity of this building, as at present. There is room for only six thousand in the body of the hall. Consequently it was necessary to cut down, very extensively, the number allotted to each stake of Zion. As a result, a large proportion of those who were seated here are the presiding officers of the stakes and wards and other high priests, as well as seventies and elders. There were not as many of the Aaronic priesthood as we should have liked to see, and as could have been seated here, had there been room for them to be seated. I am sure that there could have been two or three times the capacity of this building of Aaronic priesthood members who would have been glad to be here on that occasion, because they appreciated the memorable occasion, and what a tremendous influence it would have in their lives to take part in this centennial celebration. 

FRUITS OF THE GOSPEL 

I desire to read to you two or three quotations. One of these I was reminded of by the message of the First Presidency yesterday. When the Savior was delivering that remarkable Sermon upon the Mount, among other things he said: 

"By their fruits ye shall know them. Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit." 

I am reminded also of the wise man Solomon, who had been trained up in righteousness by his father, King David, and had become king of Israel under the most prosperous conditions, but who went astray and was led into transgression by reason of the luxuries he enjoyed. Toward the close of his life, after having tasted the bitter as well as the sweet of life, he wrote the book of Ecclesiastes, and in the closing verses of that book he makes the following declaration: 

"Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter : Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man." 

Now there is one other quotation I would like to present to you, and that is from one of the Lectures on Faith, contained in the forepart of the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

A religion that does not require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation." 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

Frequent reference has been made already to the humble beginning of this work. I am reminded of its commencement in the pleasant  of Peter Whitmer, in the township of Fayette, located in that beautiful western section of New York state — a section of rolling hills and lovely lakes. While those six men were met together I believe they appreciated to some extent the tremendous power that was in the work; but whether or not they visualized its growth and development from that time to this is a question. When we think of those humble conditions in that obscure village, and then realize that today there are approximately seven hundred thousand members in the Church, located in all the states of this Union, in Canada and Mexico, in South America, in practically every civilized nation and on the Pacific islands, we comprehend what a remarkable growth it has had. Yet in all its development it has not lost in the least that humble faith and devoted spirit which characterized its beginning. When we sense also that in the hundred years that have elapsed since the beginning of this Church the most remarkable developments have occurred in the progress of civilization, and with those developments the Church has kept pace. It has met and helped to solve the problems of humanity and has presented divine truths which have changed and molded the spiritual thought throughout the world for good. The doctrines declared by the Church have been constructive in their nature. They have not tended to cause doubt or disbelief in the hearts of men. On the contrary they have helped to bring men to a realization of the fundamental truths which have been declared by prophets and seers in all dispensations. 

EFFECTS OF "MORMONISM" 

"Mormonism," it is said, and well said I think, enters into every phase of the lives of its members. It molds their characters in conformity with these principles. It enters into their habits and influences them. It affects their physical beings and their mental development. It affects their hearts and their desires toward their fellow men. 

. What are some of the effects of "Mormonism?" What have been some of the effects in all the years that it has existed? I would like to discuss with you for a few moments a few of the practical things that may be evidenced in the lives, the habits and the characters of the Latterday Saints. There are various things by which the faith and sincerity of the people may be measured. Particularly, there are three ways that I should like to consider with you wherein the devotion of the Latter-day Saints has been evidenced in their lives. It is said, as was stated by President Nibley yesterday, that "sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." It is declared in the quotation I have read that any religion that cannot require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation. If Abraham had not had the faith necessary to conform to the command given him of the Lord to sacrifice his own son, Isaac, undoubtedly he would not have been able and worthy to receive the great blessings which our Eternal Father gave to him. His obedience to that command, even though it was not required at his hands, proved his devotion, his loyalty, and his entire and complete faith in God. The Latter-day Saints who have accepted the Gospel in faith, and with a real desire to serve the Lord, have conformed to the principles of the Gospel, even though they might require what would appear to be sacrifice on their part; and yet I am sure that we all appreciate the fact that every sacrifice is a blessing in disguise. It is a means of progress and development for every one of us. 

RESTRAINT OF PHYSICAL APPETITES 

One of the ways whereby men may evidence their faith, integrity and sincerity in their religion, is by restraining and controlling their physical appetites, in conformity with the principles which are offered for their welfare. In the Word of Wisdom the Latter-day Saints have the finest set of rules that is to be found, I think, anywhere, affecting the physical being of the people, and also affecting their mental progress and development. 

Not long ago a member remarked to me that he had been in the East and had met a prominent business man in New York, who had inquired of him regarding the Mormon people. Among other things this local man had told him of the Word of Wisdom and of the stipulations and requirements contained therein. The man said to him : "Do your people observe that set of principles and instructions?" He replied: "Not entirely, but to a considerable extent." "Well," said the man, "if your people conform to those instructions, they will become the finest people in the United States or anywhere else in the world, in physical vigor and in mental development." The Lord has said to us that these instructions are given for the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints, and when the Lord says that to us, it ought to be sufficient, whether it be in the way of a .suggestion or a commandment. It means that when the Lord gives a commandment it is intended for the progress, the welfare, and the blessing of those to whom it is given. 

FAITH .PRODUCES WILLING OBEDIENCE 

During all these years, the Latter-day Saints have, in large measure, observed the Word of Wisdom. There are some people who complain that no church has any right to direct what one shall or shall not eat or drink. On the other hand, if we accept the proposition that spiritually we are the sons and daughters of God, that these bodies are created in his image, that the Holy Spirit should enter and be a part of our tabernacles and inspire us, and that the Lord expects of us that we shall be physically sound, it is by all means important that we should learn to control and regulate our appetites and desires and keep these bodies clean in order that we may be entitled to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and draw near to him. But there is no compulsion in this or any other principle of the Gospel. We have our free agency. If we obey, we gain the benefits and the privileges accruing therefrom. 

RESULTS OF OBSERVANCE OF WORD OF WISDOM 

Now what has been the result of the observance of the Word of 

Wisdom on the part of the Latter-day Saints? I cannot tell you in so many words, but I can quote to you some of the statistics that come into our office with regard to the vital conditions among the Latterday Saints. We cannot say, for instance, how many members of the Church have cancer. But we can say how many members of the Church die of cancer, and that is a very important thing among people today, because cancer is a serious disease; and so with various other maladies. The death rate among, the Latter-day Saints for the last few years has averaged about 7.5 per thousand. The average death rate of the United States registered area, which includes the most progressive states, is 11.4 or rnore per thousand. In other words, the Latter-dav Saints' death rate is only about two-thirds of the death rate throughout the United States. 

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS 

Let us analyze that a little farther, as to the causes of death. Among other things we find that in the matter of what are known as epidemic, endemic and infectious diseases, the death rate in the United States is more than double what it is among the people of this Church. The Lord has declared to us that scourges should come over the earth, and that if we will observe his commandments we shall escape those scourges. Not entirely, probably, because we are all subject to death. In a measure, we are all subject to diseases. But as I see it, through the observance of the Word |pf Wisdom, we are promised at least partial escape from many of these scourges. In the matter of diabetes, which is also a disease of some considerable concern among mankind, the death rate in the Church is approximately half that of the United States average. 

EFFECTS OF NARCOTICS 

It is recognized that tobacco and spirituous liquors are causes, at least in part, of cancer, and in this respect we find that the death rate in the Church as compared to the United States is less than half. In the matter of nervous diseases, it is recognized also that certain stimulants affect the nervous system. The death rate from diseases of the nervous system in the Church is less than half that of the United States. In the matter of kidney and kindred diseases, which are also affected by the use of stimulants, the death rate throughout the Church is about one-fourth that of other parts of the country. The death rate from diseases of the heart and circulatory system in the Church is approximately one-half that of the United States average. 

Are not these records ample evidence to you that the observance of the Word of Wisdom is worth while ? Are not these the fruits of a good tree? Of course, we ought to observe this or any principle because the Lord has made it known to us. That ought to be sufficient, but when we examine the effects produced we find that we are fully justified, from a material standpoint, in observing it. 

RESISTANCE TO MORAL TEMPTATIONS 

There is another way in which men and women can demonstrate their faith and sincerity and that is by resisting immoral tendencies, by refusing to do those things which we have been advised are vicious and contrary to the word of the Lord, as affecting relations between the sexes. The influences of today throughout the world are such as to undermine moral standards. Virtue and chastity are apparently not considered of great concern. The Latter-day Saints recognize the fact that strict morality is of the utmost importance. We have been taught to abhor immorality and unchastity. The Lord has declared to us that those who practice sexual transgressions will degenerate, and cannot retain the Spirit of the Lord, which is the spirit of life and truth and virtue. 

BENEFITS OF HIGH MORAL STANDARDS 

Now what are the evidences as to the benefits of the observance by the Latter-day Saints of high moral standards as compared with other people ? I would like to take the opportunity to give you certain government statistics. The Church does not keep record of births out of wedlock, but the government records for Utah and Idaho, where the majority of the Latter-day Saints live, as compared with the rest of the United States, show that the illegitimate birth rate in each of these two states is less than one-third. And that is true also of still-births out of wedlock. Is that any evidence to you as to the benefits of the observance of the declarations of God and the teachings by the leaders of this Church with regard to the proper relations between the sexes? 

THE MARRIAGE RELATION 

Then taking the other phase of that relation, that is, marriage, the Latter-day Saints have been taught continually that marriage is a sacred obligation, and that it should be undertaken, not only for this life but for eternity as well. Mutual respect and consideration between husband and wife, and continuance in the marriage relation, are, likewise, evidences of the faith and uprightness of the members of the Church. The bearing of children and the proper training of those children is enjoined as a responsibility that every married couple should undertake. The proper training of children, as well as the bringing of them into the world, is of great importance. 

MARITAL STANDARDS 

What are the results of this training among the Latter-day Saints, comparatively ? We find that the marriage rate throughout the Church as compared with the government statistics for the nation, is about 43% greater. The birth rate throughout the Church is about 45% higher than that of the United States generally. The infant mortality rate in the Church is approximately 62% that of the United States. It is interesting to note, further, that the divorce rate throughout the Church is only about 40% of the United States average, and that the divorce rate of those who were married in the temple is only about 18% that of the United States, or about 43% of the total divorces in the Church. Isn't that evidence also of the real benefits denved from the  of these divine instructions? Those who are married properly, who have taken upon them these covenants in the temples and have seriously and with due appreciation of the responsibility, promised to maintain this bond in affection not only for this life but for eternity, have been so impressed with this obligation that they are able to live together in love and joy and peace. 

FAITH EVIDENCED BY LIBERAL GIVING 

There is one other way that I would like to refer to briefly whereby, it seems to me, the faith and sincerity of the members is clearly shown. It is said that a man's pocket-book is very near to his heart. I am told that Michiavelli, a diplomat engaged in Italian affairs of state in the middle ages, a keen, wily schemer, and politician, expressed this statement — whether it be true or not — "You may kill their fathers, you may take away their wives and daughters, you may destroy their brothers, and they will forgive you, but you dare not touch their pocket books." That indicates his idea, at least, as to how precious one's pocket book was. But when men and women will give liberally and consistently of their means and of their time for the welfare of their fellow men, it is surely an evidence of their faith and sincerity. The true Latter-day Saints have been and are giving liberally and devotedly through the observance of the law of tithing and the making of donations for the poor and for other purposes. They have shown, I think, a remarkable spirit of giving of their means, and of their time and labor, because they understand that these are commandments of the Lord. 

INDIVIDUAL GROWTH 

What are the results? Well, in an individual way, the result has been to overcome sordid selfishness, produce loyalty and exhibit more positive faith in God and his work in the hearts of those who have observed these things. Brotherly kindness has increased. Financial integrity has been promoted. Individual honesty has been strengthened, and the cooperative spirit developed. Men become more charitable. The finer qualities which make for character, and enhance peace and joy and love in the earth are brought out. The spirit of service which makes for greater community welfare is being encouraged. 

Then, in a spiritual way, what are the effects? The tremendous missionary work that the Church has carried on, the preaching of the Gospel to mankind everywhere, has been made possible not only by the observance of the principle of tithing, but by the giving of time and additional means individually by the missionaries and through their parents. 

MATERIAL PROGRESS 

Again, in a material way, what has been produced ? The building of a great number of community buildings, of temples and of ward and stake meetinghouses. Further, there is the large Church educational program, and the extensive service rendered in the care of the poor. I think there is no other people anywhere that is doing as much proportionately, in the way of erecting fine places of worship and social centers. Also the effect is to develop in the members the spirit of thrift and the desire and determination to meet their obligations manfully and provide for their needs. The Church is undertaking to qualify its people as a whole to secure greater equality and mutual consideration so that everyone, as far as possible, shall properly develop. It causes everyone to seek to increase his or her earning capacity; not only for their own welfare but that they may be able to help the Church in larger measure and to be of greater usefulness in the community. All of these things result therefrom. 

RENEW OUR COVENANTS 

Now, in that which has been presented here, it is not intended to boast of the Latter-day Saints. The desire has been to show that the observance of these principles produces lasting blessings in the lives of those who have faith. My brethren and sisters, we have reached the end of this first century of the Gospel restoration gloriously, and stand on the threshold of the second, which is fraught with even greater events than have occurred heretofore. Shall we not here and now renew our covenants with the Lord, and solemnly pledge ourselves individually and unitedly to serve God and keep all his commandments, to prepare for sacrifice and bring forth the fruits of right living? May the Lord help every one of us to do this, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Heber J. Grant read the following letter and message from Elder Reed Smoot : 

March 29, 1930. 

"President Heber J. Grant, 47 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear President Grant : 

"As you are aware, it is impossible for me to attend the April Conference. I regret it more than words >can express. I enclose you a short statement, which I would like to have you present to the Conference if agreeable to you. 

"May God's blessings ever attend you and may the coming Conference be one of the great epochs in the history of the Church is my desire and prayer. 

Your brother, 

(Signed) Reed Smoot." 

Apostle Reed Smoot, who is unavoidably detained by his duties in the nation's capital, sends greeting to this conference his most cordial good wishes and a message in these words : 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF TRUTH IN THE RESURRECTION 

Ages ago, when the Son of God, in mortal tabernacle, stood before a human judgment seat in the city of Jerusalem, the Roman procurator asked him, "What is Truth?" 

That query has been of vital significance to mankind in all the  ages, and was never more vital than at this very time and on this present occasion. Only a few days after the scene in the Roman court, visitors to an empty sepulchre, seeking to view the body of the crucified Jesus of Nazareth, were accosted by a heavenly messenger who said concerning him : "He is not here : for he is risen." The angel's words were the announcement of a wonderful Truth, of paramount importance to, all mankind. The resurrection of the Redeemer and Savior of the world had come to pass. 

. TRUTH REVEALED THROUGH JOSEPH SMITH 

More than one hundred years ago, to specify as to time and place, in the spring of 1820, near the town of Palmyra, state of New York, there came a divinely manifested vision to a young man, Joseph Smith, who was of Israel's birthright heritage and who earnestly sought the truth. That vision was the appearance of God the Eternal Father and his Son, the resurrected Jesus of Nazareth. Pointing to the other heavenly Personage, God gave witness : "This is my Beloved Son, hear him." It was the divine revelation in this age of the resurrected Christ. It was the Truth. Multitudes in Palestine and adjacent countries had no knowledge of or belief in the resurrection on the day of its first announcement, but its truth has permeated the ages since then and has brought life, and hope, and joy, to myriads of our fellowmen. Multitudes in this and other lands had no knowledge of or belief in the revelation of the resurrected Redeemer to the young man Joseph Smith on the day of its occurrence, 'but its truth today is permeating people in all lands, and will grow to a perfect knowledge in the due time of the Lord, because that revelation is God Almighty's Truth, and will prevail. 

Some years later, in May, 1829, there came the restoration of the Lord's priesthood authority to administer the required ordinances of the Gospel; and in the next year there followed the publication of the divinely revealed word known as the Book of Mormon and the event of which we celebrate the one hundredth anniversary at this April Conference, namely, the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ, for the accomplishment of God's great purposes among men in this latter-day dispensation, known in scripture as the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Further organization and divine revelation succeeded this event, until April 3, 1836, when the revelation of the fulness of the Gospel was completed by the appearance of other heavenly messengers with the keys of their respective dispensations, the culminating one being the promised coming of the Prophet Elijah with the keys of the priesthood authority which he held, and that prophet's announcement to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery that "the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the door." 

More than twelve years before this latter date, on September 21, 1823, God had promised to Joseph Smith, through an angel, that he would send to him the prophet Elijah, with the mission to "plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers." Among millions of our race today, outside of membership in the Church as well as with those inside, this prediction is being verified in a truly wonderful manner. These millions are seeking to know of the promises made to their fathers; and truly in the world today there is wide turning of the hearts of the children to their fathers in genealogical research through records of ages agone. These facts and many others bear indubitable evidence that the revelation of the Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith and others in this age is God's Divine Truth. To this fact I bear my most solemn testimony on this occasion. 

PERSONAL DESIRES 

It is my earnest, sincere desire that in my calling my preaching shall be, as the Lord directs, "the warning voice, in mildness and in meekness." To be qualified for the work all engaged therein are required to show forth hope, charity, and love; to "remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence;" and to beware of pride and a cold haughtiness such as weak humanity often is prone to. 

My desire also is to convey to my brethren and sisters, and to all my friends, a message that to me seems of great worth on this particular occasion. Thousands of years ago, when Israel was before Mount Sinai under the leadership of their great Prophet Moses, God gave to Israel statutes and commandments, with promises of great blessing if these were kept, and predictions of punishment for wrong doing if disregarded; for Israel had taken upon them his name. Among those commandments was one which carried a peculiar and remarkable promise. That commandment was : 

BLESSING IN KEEPING THE SABBATH 

"Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord." 

The promise for obedience was that their enemies should not prevail against them, but Israel would prevail. This command and promise are recorded in the twenty-sixth chapter of the book of Leviticus in the Old Testament, second, seventh and eighth verses. All during the thirty-three succeeding centuries when Israel has remembered to keep God's sabbaths and reverence his sanctuary, the promised blessing has attended them in that obedience. It also is manifest in the nations whence we gather Israel today, wherever the command relative to the sabbath and sanctuary is observed. That observance is of great moment to the saints at this time, if they would receive the divine blessing. It is momentous and needful because it is divine Truth. 

My word and message to my fellowmen everywhere today is that  Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ set forth in his revealed scriptures is the plan of salvation and of peace to the world; that while it is commendable in men to seek peace by every honorable means, the great peace for humankind comes only through the potent, sacred, divine mission of the Man of Galilee, whose mission is God's Eternal Truth. God bless you all, in Jesus' name. 

A solo and chorus, "Let all on earth their voices raise," was sung by Lavar Isaacson and the choir. 

ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am very grateful to the Lord that I am permitted to be present on this occasion. I feel that I am among my friends, and have always tried to feel that way. I have only one great big desire and that is to live until I have fulfilled and completed my mission here upon the earth. The revelations tell us that if we desire to serve the Lord we are called to the work. I have a burning desire in my heart to follow in the footsteps of my father, and to he loyal and true and faithful, and to be found among the number that sustain God's work and uphold the hands of his holy priesthood. 

I realize, in part only the great responsibility that is resting on the Presidency of this Church and the Council of the Twelve and all those who take part in this great work. I believe Joseph Smith is one of the greatest prophets that has ever lived. I believe in his prophecies and revelations. While I may be among the number that would like to rush things on a little, to see how they are coming out, in Jackson County and all that, I am sure that all will be literally fulfilled in the due time of the Lord. 

Whenever the Lord wants to speak to his people he knows whom to talk to. I have known President Grant during my labors in the First Council. I have slept with him and talked with him, but I haven't slept with him since he has been President of the Church. I know of no better man. I am not one of those who cater to men. I sustain them and uphold them, but I have learned that they are human. I sustain and uphold, with all my heart and soul, President Heber J. Grant as the prophet of God. It was only two months ago that a young lawyer — I suppose he considers himself one of the brilliant young lawyers — undertook to criticize severely the President of the Church. I was somewhat disturbed. I said, "I am going to take out my watch and give you five minutes to name a better man." I haven't heard from him yet. I want to say to you, in full faith and confidence, no man has ever earned his place as the prophet of God, through loyalty, faithfulness, devotion and sacrifice, more than President Heber J. Grant. I realize that this is a serious work. I have had more joy and more happiness — real joy and happiness — when in the service of the Lord, when standing before the people and testifying of the truth of this- work, than at any other time. True it is I may have said things that would have been better unsaid. Unfortunately, I have tried to say some things that haven't been understood, but I know that this work is true, as well as I know anything. If there is anything I know, as far as my testimony goes, it is that this is the work of God; that God is our Father; that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world. Joseph Smith is and always will be a prophet of the living God, and his prophecies and revelations will come true. I know it is needful to have a little joy, a little peace and happiness in this world of ours, which is full of sorrow, death and misfortune. I get a good deal of joy sometimes from very simple things. I couldn't help but think this morning of one man talking over the radio, getting a hundred fifty thousand dollars a year. No one ever gave me a nickel for any joy that I ever gave him. I think we need a little cheer, a little helpfulness, and a little encouragement. I have a matter that I would like to read to you. It will take me only a few minutes. 

"It is a very old, old story; but it never needed retelling so much as in this present hour : His name was Joseph, and he was carried away from home, and found himself in Egypt, a strange new land. Because he was good looking and intelligent and a hard worker he rose rapidly until he became prime minister. Except the king, there was no other man in Egypt more influential or more celebrated." 

His relatives learned with interest of his rise. They followed into Egypt, and with his help they too prospered and were likewise influential. It looked as though they were permanently provided for, as though nothing could happen to dislodge them. But in a single generation — yes, in a little fraction of a generation — the unbelievable occurred. The people who were so contented, so free from all concern, were hurled from their high position into the bitterness of slavery. The thing that had happened to them is recorded in a single sentence, "Joseph died." That has not been the case with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Joseph the prophet died, but the Church has continued to progress and advance and will until it completes its mission. A new generation has arisen. "A prophet in the wilderness was still crying, but there was no one to heed — there was scarcely anyone to listen — material force was in evidence in its might." It seemed so foolish to rely on so slender a thing as divine support. It ought to be self-evident to a pagan that arrogance and earthly power can vanish over night, for all that is not built upon God shall -fall._ To trust to material standards of strength brings calamity — material" force, as apart from God and opposed to him, cannot succeed. 

A new generation has arisen. The people seem so content, so free from all concern; but like the Jews in the days of Joseph, they can be hurled from their high position into the bitterness of slavery. 

We older men think our story should be told of our pioneer fathers  mothers, and the faith of our ancestors; and we write a book, preach a sermon or two and think our task is ended. This new generation that have arisen have discovered over night that a new world has been born and that the United States of America is about tp assume the responsibility of saving the world and they are content and satisfied. 

At no time in the history of this great nation has there been greater danger than for this new generation. The danger comes from ease, idleness and luxury, as there never was a time when the people were spending their means as prodigally as now and ever reaching out after material things. 

The prodigal dollar seems to be swallowing all that is great and noble in the nation. 

To my mind the Mormon people are becoming content and selfsatisfied — they show evidence of falling down in their spiritual efforts. It seems to me, a great deal of that which has been gained by faith, adversity, sacrifice and years of hard work is being let loose of. Our fathers and mothers died for the faith and we are living on the faith of our pioneer ancestors. But behold, another generation has arisen, and in the very instant of our self-content the silence is broken by our being hurled from our mighty purpose. Joseph Smith, the mighty prophet, was chosen of God to send forth the message of salvation to the children of men. He was martyred, but that was not the end. 

Brigham Young rightfully succeeded him; and his followers with him fled to the Rocky Mountains. Brigham Young led the way for the first trekkers of adventuresome spirits in the year 1847 who were the original builders in what Daniel Webster christened the "Great American Desert." On entering the Salt Lake Valley divine intelligence at once manifested itself in all his deliberations. "This is the place." There beats in the heart of this great man, a leader, a prophet of God, a great load of care — the destiny of his people. 

One has to believe to understand the destiny, object and purpose of this people. The leaders understood and believed. They knew — God revealed it to them. President Brigham Young and his followers said, "We will make this barren waste bloom and furnish clean unsullied wealth for thousands of poor people from all over the world, who have been crushed under the Juggernaut of our Christian civilization — we are going to plant them under the shadow of the Rocky Mountains, we will create an Eden out of the desert; we will lay out townsites and cities and build churches and schoolhouses and raise wheat and vegetables. God's children shall be converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and be given land. They shall have a chance for life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. They shall know their toil will bring them some returns so that they can have a home and a hope for the future. 

It was a big thought, a great idea, manifested by divine intelligence. He was a prophet. He had a vision of the future. The great leaders did not want the land and water for themselves; they wanted men to be God's agents — stewards for God — and hold the land in trust as a sacred inheritance. This land was to belong to the lowly of the earth and to be saved for the hewers of stone and the drawers of water. These valleys in the mountains were to be made to bloom and blossom for the poor- whose hope is the land that gave them birth and life and would receive them in its bosom when they died and made a safe return to the Father of all. 

Just take the time to think of the thousands of acres of lonely thirsty land waiting for centuries, to be reclaimed from the ruins of ages. They saw in vision green fields and farms just as Joseph Smith prophesied it would be. "It is the place" where you'll find all the things your souls are hungering for; where the people will own big farms, with green fields of wheat and alfalfa with purple blossoms and long rows of fruit trees and vegetables. All will be most beautiful in a desert. It was a vision, a dream come true. Nobody was there to despoil their dream. 

A new generation has arisen. Think of your pioneer fathers and mothers who built better than they knew. Think of the men, women and children toiling in sweat shops, with little food, families without money, without hope and without fuel, facing cold winters in these great cities, who have been gathered to a barren empire which our ancestors have transformed into an Eden. A land of liberty — a home for the oppressed of God's children, where they can have life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and worship God according to the dictates of their conscience. The stranger has found his way amongst us and many of us have sold our inheritance for a mess of pottage and are seeking elsewhere, hoping for more ease, more idleness, more luxury. In this once lonely sage-covered, wind-swept valley there should be erected a granite monument and written thereon this epitaph : 

"Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul, may keep the path, but will not reach the goal; while he who walks in love may wander iar, yet God will bring him where the blessed are." (Henry Van Dyke.) 

On an occasion in San Francisco, on March 16, 1924, young Elder Larkin handed this to me. On that occasion J. G. Kimball prophesied that "before many of you go to the other side, you will all have burning desires in your hearts to return to the places where the leaders of the Church have counseled the saints to settle and you will give anything for a home there." 

God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

I am honored this morning in being permitted to worship with this wonderful congregation, to find myself numbered among those who are considered worthy to assemble in the name of the Lord. I desire sincerely that the time occupied by me may be profitable to you; and will, therefore, appreciate an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be led to say the things that will be helpful. I rejoiced exceedingly during the sessions of yesterday and last evening, and there wells up in my soul a feeling of thanksgiving to him from whom all blessings flow. I am one of those who believe in the teaching of the Bible, that "man was created in the image of God." Last night, as I beheld the beautiful pageant portraying the various ages of the world and conditions that have existed, I felt to thank my Father in heaven that my lot has been cast in this day and with this people. THE WAY PREPARED 

In the Bible we read, in the third chapter of Amos : 

"Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." 

I believe that, and I believe that all down through the ages, as recorded in holy writ, the Lord has vindicated that statement. The preparation for the ushering in of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in this latter dispensation was indicated in the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, and repeated again in the days of the Apostles, and then the foundation was laid for the organization of the government of the United States by men and women who believed in the divine mission of Jesus Christ. The stage was not set hastily; it was preparing through hundreds of years. We who live in this marvelous age may look back and see that throughout the centuries our Heavenly Father has fulfilled his promises to his children, and the people or nation that has observed the laws of God and honored his commandments has been blessed; while those who have been recreant to their opportunity have suffered calamity and in many cases entire destruction. Our Heavenly Father prepared the way for the coming of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which was to precede the second coming of our Lord. 

HIS PROMISES FULFILLED. 

The Doctrine and Covenants contains several revelations given by the Lord before he organized his Church. Among them was this one — and I call attention to it as evidence that the Lord fulfills his promises. In February, 1829, one hundred and one years ago, this revelation was given through the Prophet to his father. By the way, this revelation was given at a time when the people of the world did not believe in new revelation, when they did not accept the idea that God could speak again from the heavens, and those who believed that he could or would were ridiculed. But the Lord did speak, and this is what he said : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work." 

This was before the Church was organized, before the priesthood had been so widely conferred and when men were called to the work in an orderly way. "For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 

god's church. 

A hundred years ago yesterday the Lord commenced this work. He had predicted it himself, and had called attention to the fact that it was to be a marvelous work. No man could have fulfilled that prediction, but our Heavenly Father has fulfilled his promise; and in the year 1830, on the 6th day of April, he organized his Church. I would like to emphasize that, as I believe with all my heart that it is his Church, not the Church of Joseph Smith or of Brigham Young or of John Taylor or of Wilford Woodruff or of Lorenzo Snow or of Jpseph F. Smith or of Heber J. Grant; for while these men have been his faithful representatives upon earth, it is not their Church, but it is the Church of the Redeemer of mankind. 

THE LABORERS IN THE VINEYARD. 

At that time he gave certain information. I shall not take time to read that (Section 21) but I call attention to the fact that in it the Lord said : 

"For behold, I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing, and they shall believe on his words, which are given him through me by the Comforter, which manifesteth that Jesus was crucified by sinful men for the sins of the world, yea, for the remission of sins unto the contrite heart." 

I call attention to the fact that he made a promise that he would bless all those who labored in his vineyard, and since that time thousands of men and women have gone into the world to advocate the truth. I have met and visited with hundreds, yes, and with thousands of them myself, and I have never heard one bear any other testimony than that the Lord had blessed him and given him great joy when he labored in his service. 

I was thinking today of the Smith family, chosen by the Lord to be instrumental in beginning this work. I checked over in my mind the number of the descendants of Asael Smith, the Prophet's grandfather, who have given a portion of their lives in the* mission field. I find that in that family alone more than two hundred years of faithfulness and devotion in advocating the Gospel of Jesus Christ have been thus spent. It is marvelous when you think of what has been accomplished, and how the Lord has fulfilled his promise. 

THE WORDS OF THE BOOK. 

One hundred and one years ago this very day, Joseph began the translation of the Book of Mormon, and Oliver Cowdery became his scribe. We have a copy of that wonderful book here upon the pulpit. Hundreds of thousands of them have been distributed in the world. Ridiculed though it was at the time, it contains a special promise. I will read that promise. The Prophet Nephi said, as you will find in the thirtieth chapter of the second book of Nephi : 

"Now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles; for after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth and be written unto the Gentiles and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words of the Book." 

That statement was in the manuscript in the hands of the printer, and was there with the knowledge of Joseph Smith and his associates who assisted in translating the record. At that very time the people in the neighborhood of Palmyra and Manchester had already declared that they would not buy the book, that its publication would be a failure if they could make it a failure, and the copies that were to come from the press would be wasted. Had that book been written by Joseph Smith himself I am sure that passage would have been deleted, that "many shall believe the words of the book." But it was the word of the Lord, through Nephi. Has that prophecy been fulfilled? What are the facts? The book has been translated and published in fifteen different languages, and is translated in several other languages. Approximately a million people have believed it and accepted it as a sacred record. It has been generously distributed among the children of men. In a hundred years nothing has been discovered that would set aside the statements that are contained therein, and the things that have been uncovered by archaeologists and others have demonstrated the truth of the historical facts contained in the Book of Mormon. One hundred years have passed, and surely many have believed the words of the book. The prophecy has been fulfilled. Our Heavenly Father caused that it should be written, and he always fulfils his promise. 

THE LORD WORKING AMONG THE NATIONS 

In the same chapter we find the following : 

"And it shall come to pass that the Lord shall commence his work among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to bring about the restoration of his people upon the earth." 

Has he fulfilled that promise? If there be anybody in this house past seventy-five years of age who will take the time to think of what has occurred since the Book of Mormon was first published, he will discover that almost every implement, almost every convenience now enjoyed by mankind, has come since the Book of Mormon issued from the press in the year 1830. We are witnesses this. day that in a hundred years this world has made progress along most lines greater than in all the previous centuries since the earth was created and our first parents came upon it. The Lord said he would commence his work among the nations. Man had had his trial; men for thousands of years had worked at it. But when the Lord set his hand and when he began to quicken the minds of men by the inspiration of his holy power men began to work out wonderful inventions that have changed the entire condition of this world. I say to you that after a hundred years we are living in a new world. But the work of the Lord has only just begun. 

Oh, how my soul thrilled last night as I beheld the pageant that was presented before us of the ages that have passed. It was called most forcibly to my attention that we who live in luxury today do not appreciate what our .forbears have passed through. The scene of our pioneers toiling across the plains touched my heart, and tears dimmed my eyes as I thought of them under the burning sun's rays and in many cases in the snow; and remembering that my own father was born on the way, I asked myself : Am I living to be worthy of the sacrifices that were made by men and women such as these ? I hope I am. I hope I appreciate this blessing. 

GROWTH IN A CENTURY. 

This is our Father's work. In a hundred years we have made great progress. Do you realize that in a hundred years after the organization of the Church with six members there has been more than one hundred thousand people converted for each one of those six whose names appear as the organizers of the Church? One hundred thousand for each one in a hundred years. Multiply that by our present membership, and if we should do as well in the next hundred years, considering our present membership, do you know what it would mean? Not three fourths of a million people, but more than seventy billion people would be members of the Church of Jesus Christ. Can you not see how a marvelous work and a wonder has been going forward ? Can you not see how we as individuals have only contributed our mite, but the multitude has united, and the word of the Lord has been disseminated among the children of men; not in a militant way, but in kindness and in love, with a desire to bless all mankind. 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

If I interpret the spirit of this conference it is a spirit of love, a feeling of thanksgiving to him who is the author of all our blessings. 

I stand here today one of the humblest among you, profoundly grateful to my Heavenly Father for my membership in this Church, and for the knowledge that he has given to me of its truth, for my association with these men who are my close companions in life, and for the privilege of mingling with the members of this Church throughout the land. I, too, am thankful for the friendship of great and good men and women throughout the world, who have not yet understood the purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and how I hope and pray that because of our upright lives, by reason of the continued development of this work and of the power of truth as it has been made manifest in the last hundred years, these too may be made to understand, and that they with their children and their children's children may become members of the fold of Christ and receive, an inheritance in his celestial kingdom. 

God grant that we who have been so bountifully blessed may hold  the hands of the servant of the Lord who presides over us; that we may help him not only by our faith and prayers but by loving kindness as opportunity offers; that we may march under the banner that he shall hold aloft as God continues to sustain him as President of the Church, as the prophet of the Lord in these latter days. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, as I know that I live; and I bear you witness of it in humility and in loving kindness, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

My heart has been filled to overflowing and I have been greatly thrilled with the spirit of this great occasion, this great celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church. I rejoice this day over the glorious truths that have come to light in the restoration of the Gospel of our Redeemer. 

Those who were present at the pageant last night must have been impressed with the magnitude of this work. The story told in symbol contemplates the "Message of the Ages," the work of the Lord. It had its beginning before the foundations of this earth were laid. It has been one great struggle between good and evil, a great struggle for the liberty of the children of God. This work contemplates an exercise of free agency, of liberty. It is for the purpose of making men free and securing unto them their inalienable rights, which they, of necessity, must exercise in order to obtain eternal life. There can be no salvation in compulsion. There can be no reward through compelled obedience. But when men elect in the free exercise of their agency to serve God instead of serving mammon, thereby do they comply with the conditions of salvation. 

This Gospel is a plan of liberating mankind from bondage. "The whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin" (Doc. and Cov. 84 :49) , but the truth from heaven has a mission to perform, namely, to liberate us and make us free. It is no wonder that the Latter-day Saints have espoused the great cause of human liberty, that they regard this great government of which we form a part as having been inspired of Almighty God, that they regard the Constitution of our land and that instrument that preceded it, known as the Declaration of Independence, as being inspired of the Almighty for the salvation and the protection of the children of God. We rejoice in being citizens of this great republic, the freest country in all the world. Its principles, the very foundations upon which it has been established, are set forth in that Declaration of Independence, wherein it is stated that "all men are created equal and that they have been endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Let it not be felt that these rights are given to us by any government. Not so. We live not because a government has given us the privilege to live; we live because God gave us life. We are free not because any government has given us our liberty — we are free not because we have received that power and that right from any human source; we are free because God made us free. 

The Lord inspired the fathers of our country, our Revolutionary fathers, with this same spirit of human liberty, this right of free agency. This great struggle for liberty did not begin on this earth; it began before the foundations of it were laid. The Lord devised the plan whereby we might be liberated and made free and independent. The Lord designs that we shall be so. There was war in heaven before the foundations of this earth were laid. And what was that great conflict over ? It was a struggle for the liberties of the children of God. 

What is freedom? What is liberty? Does it mean license to do evil? No, indeed it does not. To be free means to liberate ourselves from the bondage of sin. We, in this country, boast of our human liberty and we have great reason to be proud of the liberty that we enjoy under our Constitution; but after all is said and done it is only a measure of civil liberty, but the greatest measure to be found among all the governments of the world. We sometimes boast of being in the land of the free, the heme of the brave. Nevertheless, we are not free until we have overcome evil — until we liberate ourselves from the bondage of sin. 

The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is destined to make us free. It is the truth revealed from heaven that will make all men free if they will only render obedience to it. This plan of free agency was opposed by the enemies of God, foremost among whom was Lucifer, even in that primeval day when the plan of life and salvation was first promulgated among the children of God, when it was made known that they could come upon this earth and receive bodies of flesh and bones and live this earth life, in the exercise of their free agency. 

"To live and to be free, To worship God alone, As conscience guideth me, As my own heart is prone. These are rights God-given; He gave them all to me. They emanate from heaven — E'en life and liberty." 

There is none in all the world who feels more deeply than we do the import of our popular national hymn : 

"Our fathers' God! to thee, Author of liberty, To thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light, Protect us by thy might, Great God, our King!" 


What a blessed boon is liberty. The free agency of man! The right to live upon the earth with a knowledge of good and evil. Blessed are we if we choose the good and reject the evil, provided, of course, we do so of our own volition, in the exercise of our free agency. Many there were even in the very beginning who opposed this plan. We are told in holy writ that one-third of the hosts of heaven followed Lucifer in his rebellion against God and were cast out of heaven. That war begun in heaven, is continued here on earth. To follow the enemies of God means to follow them into slavery, but to serve God means freedom, and we are under necessity of choosing whom we will serve — God or the adversary of our souls, the arch enemy of God. Many there have been in all ages who have endeavored to enslave mankind — to dominate the minds and consciences of men. All such are enemies of God. They have instituted despotic governments and have ruled with an iron hand. They have established state religions and punished non-conformists as heretics and even burned them at the stake. All enemies of God are they who seek to destroy the free agency of man or to deprive them of their inherent — their inalienable rights of life and liberty, the right to worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences. The establishment of a state religion is an abomination in the sight of God. Think of poor afflicted Russia now under Soviet rule. How they have suffered in the past under the despotic rule of the Czar, and dominated by a corrupt hierarchy — an established state church, enslaving and oppressing them! 

The people of that land had good reason to rise up against such conditions and all sympathy should be extended to them in their struggle for liberty; but no sooner have they liberated themselves from this condition of thralldom till the . Soviet seeks to plunge them into the still more deadly slavery of atheism. These Soviet masters are still greater oppressors and tyrants than any who have ever preceded them, for they have even undertaken to prevent them from serving God in any form whatever, and when men cease to serve God, at that moment they begin to serve the devil, which means slavery. Such rulers have no conception of human rights. What they need is a Thomas Jefferson to write into their constitution a provision like this : The Soviet shall make no law respecting the establishment of any religion, nor prohibiting the free exercise thereof. They have surely broken down the establishment of a state religion, but they have also undertaken to prevent the free exercise of any religion — to deprive their people of their inherent rights. Tread lightly, ye powers that be, for this is holy ground. Even in our own land there are some who seem to think that our Constitution is unfriendly to religion. On the contrary, it is intended to encourage and protect all religions. It simply means "equal rights to all, but special privileges to none," — no state religion, but no interference with any. This is holy ground. To congress it says "hands off." 

How grateful we ought to be for those champions of human. liberty that have arisen in our own land — for George Washington, "the father of his country," who led our forces in establishing this free republic, founded upon the principles of human liberty; for Abraham Lincoln, the great emancipator, who under the inspiration of the Almighty, carried on the fight to preserve unto us these sacred rights that they might not perish from the earth; for Woodrow Wilson, who led the American forces in the greatest struggle of history for human liberty, and that these priciples that we love so dearly shall be extended to all mankind. The influence of these great champions of human liberty will be felt by the inhabitants of this world throughout the ages which are to come. 

Let us, then, as Latter-day Saints, rejoice in the precious boon of liberty secured unto us by that great palladium of our inherent rights, the Constitution, and manifest our loyalty to it by obedience to it and the laws which have been enacted in carrying out its provisions. Let us also rejoice in the free agency of man which permeates the Gospel of Jesus Christ and manifest our appreciation of it by our obedience to that Gospel which is the "Truth that will make us free." This I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
