Afternoon
07 04 1930

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

MEANING OF IMMORTALITY 

At a time when Moses was caught up into an exceeding high mountain and face to face talked with God, an account of which is given in the first chapter of the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, the God of heaven and earth made use of this very significant and impressive expression: 

"Behold, this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

Immortality and eternal life as here used by the Lord, I understand to mean exaltation in the celestial kingdom. That represents the aim and object — the end in view, with the Lord, in all his works. To obtain an exaltation was the end we had in view in the beginning. It should be so with us now and throughout our life. 

The cobbler seemed to understand this principle who on being asked, "What is your vocation or business?" answered, "My business is to serve the Lord — I mend shoes for a living." 

THE PLAN OF SALVATION 

The purpose of our existence in this life then is to prepare for eternal life in the world to come. -The Lord in the beginning instituted the plan by which this might be accomplished. The plan provided is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, including the work of a Savior, and Jesus Christ is the Chosen One. No other plan has the Lord provided for man's salvation; and any other plan that might be presented from any source would be rejected of the Lord, and should be by us, also, just as was the plan proposed by Lucifer in the beginning. 

Next to our own salvation, of importance and interest to us, is the salvation of those whom the Lord has given to us — our own flesh and blood; and then the salvation of others — the living and the dead. 

The greatest service one can render to his fellowman is that of assisting him to obtain salvation. Such is the character, directly or indirectly, of all our church work, including the work of the home ministry and that of the ministry abroad. It is pure religion and undefiled. Its importance calls for our very best efforts, as individuals and as a church. 

EARLY PERSECUTIONS 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has lived through a century of varied experiences, and has passed through much tribulation. It has builded cities and temples from which its members have been driven by ruthless mobs — self-styled enemies of the Mormon people. Our Prophet Joseph and his Patriarch brother, Hyrum, were murdered in cold blood by a brutal mob, for their religion's sake. Many of the saints have suffered death at the hands of their enemies and through exposure to the inclement elements while being driven from their once peaceful and happy homes. 

My father's brother, George Spencer Richards, at fifteen years of age was fairly butchered with about twenty other members of the Church, men, women and children, at Haun's Mill, Missouri, Oct. 30, 1838, and their bodies were thrown into a well for burial. No word or pen can adequately picture the physical and mental distress and suffering experienced by the Latter-day Saints during the early part of the century, while representing the Lord in the establishment of his Church, and the restoration of the Gospel. But Mormonism subsists and ever will, for God is at the helm. 

The accomplishments of the Church and its people during the first century of its existence are marvelous and wonderful. The pageant being presented in connection with this centennial conference is portraying in an impressive manner some of the leading features of our work and accomplishments. But, notwithstanding all that the Church and its members have accomplished during the first century of its existence, to which our minds are being directed during this conference, there is much that we have undertaken that we have been unable to accomplish. However, we are in no wise discouraged. 

SACRIFICES REQUIRED IN THE GOSPEL 

We could scarcely hope to be more successful in an effort to convert the world than were the Lord's people of former gospel dispensations. Mormonism is just about as popular today as was Christianity in the primitive Church. The Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, is accepted about as generally today as were Jesus and his disciples in their day, or as were the prophets who preceded them. The Gospel truth never has been generally accepted. It is a standard of life that is too high for most folks to live. Jesus Christ is the only person who through life lived up to the Gospel standards in all respects and at all times. The best of saints are but striving to walk in the footsteps of the Master. Many have not the courage to undertake it and therefore do not embrace the Gospel. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is one of sacrifice and self-abnegation, such that too many are willing to hazard their chances of salvation rather than to receive the Gospel and make the necessary sacrifices. Salvation is a gift of God freely given to his children who are willing to pay the price — the price to be paid is acceptance of the Gospel and obedience to its precepts. Certain principles are to be accepted, ordinances to be received, commandments to be kept, laws to be obeyed, service to be rendered, evils to be avoided and sacrifices to be made. 

It is no small matter for one to give to his church year after year one-tenth of his interests and income and meet other financial obligations of church membership. It is no small sacrifice made by many thousands of our people in leaving home and loved ones and going abroad to engage in the ministry and missionary work from two to four years at a time, and in many instances filling two or more such missions. The home ministry of the Church also makes important demands upon the time and efforts of its members. Our faith in the words of the Savior is absolute and he has declared most emphatically that unless we are willing to lay down our lives for his cause, we are unworthy to be his disciples. We desire to be worthy disciples , of the Master, and if we are, we will be willing to lay down our lives for his cause; and if we are thus willing followers of our Lord, there is no demand that can be made upon us, looking to the advancement of his work, to which we will not cheerfully respond. 

PREACHING THE GOSPEL FOR A CENTURY 

Our present corps of missionaries consists of about two thousand  and women scattered throughout the various nations of the earth and the islands of the seas. In money and time it is costing the Church and the membership thereof about three million dollars annually. For and during a hundred years we have been carrying on this missionary work in the discharge of a sacred religious duty and obligation to preach this Gospel of the Kingdom' in all the world as a witness unto all nations before the end comes; and with a view to rendering to mankind a service the greatest one person can render another. To make such sacrifices requires faith, conversion, and courage such as but few possess. 

For a hundred years we have tried to convince the world of the truth that there is a God in heaven; that he is the Creator of all things, the Giver of all good; that he is the Father of the spirits of all men; that Jesus Christ is the first born of the Father in the spirit and the only begotten of the Father in the flesh; that under the direction of the Father, the Son is Creator of all things, and that he is the Savior and Redeemer of the world, the very Messiah. 

For a century we have been telling the world that God the Father, and his Son Jesus Christ, are ^separate, immortal and glorified beings, each having a body of flesh and bones and spirit as tangible as the body of man, and that we are all created and made' in his image and likeness; that all his attributes are manifest in us, his children, they having been inherited by us through our spiritual birth; that by perfecting these God-like attributes we become like him in character as well as being like him in form. 

For a century we have been trying to convince the world of the fact that God our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, have revealed themselves anew in this Dispensation of the Fulness of Times to and through the instrumentality of a boy less than fifteen years of age; that in answer to earnest, anxious prayer, both the Father and the Son visited him and talked with him, and made known to him the fact that there had been a universal departure from the faith and that the .Gospel was about to be restored and that he, Joseph Smith, if faithful, would become their representative in accomplishing the restoration. 

For a century we have been trying to show to the world that the scriptures teach the truth pertaining to God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ as revealed to Joseph Smith by their heavenly presence. 

While addressing a class of college students who were in training for the ministry, upon the subject of Deity, Henry Ward Beecher said: 

"I am compelled to say that I must form an ideal of God through his Son, Jesus Christ. Christ is indispensable to me. My nature needs to fashion the thought of God, though I know him to be a spirit, into something that shall nearly or remotely represent that which I know. I hold before my mind a glorified form, therefore; but, after all the glory, whatever may be the nimbus and the effluence around about it, it is to me the form of a glorified man. And I therefore fashion to myself out of the spirit, that which has to me, as it were, a divine presence and a divine being — namely, a divine man." (Lectures on Preaching, page 129.) 

If Henry Ward Beecher and the Latter-day Saints find in the scriptures evidence that God is a divine and glorified man, why cannot and why do not other religionists do likewise? The facts remain that despite our efforts the bulk of the Christian-Sectarian world prefer to believe God to be something different from what he really is. 

For a century we have been trying to convince the world of the fact that there had been a general falling away from the truth prior to 1820, when the Father and Son appeared to Joseph Smith, that the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel had been withdrawn from the earth, in fulfilment of prophecy, and that the Gospel in its fulness, with all its ordinances, gifts and blessings has since been restored, with authority to administer its ordinances to the repentant believer. 

For a century we have tried to show to the world from the scriptures that baptism is necessary to man's salvation; that baptism signifies immersion and that immersion was the only form of baptism known and practiced in the primitive Church until several centuries A. D., and that the changing of the mode of baptism from immersion to pouring or sprinkling is without authority and fulfils the prediction of Isaiah with respect to the last times, "The earth, also, is defiled under the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant." (Isaiah 24:5.) 

For a century we have taught that children who die before arriving at the age of accountability, eight years, have eternal life, being redeemed from the foundation of the world through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ; and that for such, baptism is not necessary, nor approved of the Lord. 

For a century we have denounced pedo — or infant — baptism as being unscriptural, unreasonable and in conflict with revealed truth; yet the practice of sprinkling infants continues. There are certain quolifications candidates for baptism must possess, as prescribed by the scriptures, which only those of understanding can possess. If their mode of baptism were right, and their subjects worthy and eligible, without the necessary authority which is found only in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, their administrations would be of no virtue as affecting the salvation of the candidates. 

EXPERIENCE SAME AS IN FORMER DAYS 

Our experience has not been unlike that of prophets and saints of other Gospel dispensations. We find Isaiah saying: 

"Who hath believed our report?" (Isaiah 53:1.) 

And the author of the epistle to the Romans : 

"But they have not all obeyed the Gospel. For Esaias says, Lord, who hath believed our report?" (Romans 10:16.) 

And the words of the Savior: 

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Matthew 23:37.) 

Then Jesus said unto them : 

"Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness come upon you; for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. 

"While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spoke Jesus and departed, and hid himself from them, 

"But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him: 

"That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report ? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?" (John 12:35-40.) 

If they believed not in Jesus who wrought such mighty miracles among them, and taught them as no other person could do, we will not be discouraged though but few believe our report. 

It is a satisfaction to have been right, and a disappointment to have been wrong upon any question that may have engaged our attention; and the more important the question, the greater the satisfaction or the disappointment, as the case may be. 

MEANING OF SALVATION 

The most important question that has ever engaged the attention of man is that of salvation, of what it consists and how it may be obtained. There is, perhaps, no other question upon which there has been such a diversity of opinion and understanding. 

As sure as there is a life beyond the grave and that the soul of man is immortal, and there is nothing more sure, the time will come when it will be universally known who are right and who are wrong in their understanding of salvation. Then will the satisfaction and the joy of those who have been right be supreme; and the disappointment and sorrow of those who have been wrong will be terrible to endure. 

We who have accepted the true gospel of the Redeemer, and by so doing, know of the doctrine, would have our f ellowmen to accept it also and thus avert the terrible consequences of a mistaken conception of the all-important question of salvation. 

Wje have the responsibility to preach this Gospel of the kingdom in all the world for a witness unto all nations before the end shall come; and we are trying as a Church and the membership thereof to discharge ourselves of this important and sacred obligation. 

THE PROPHET JOSEPH'S INSPIRED WORDS 

In the language of the Prophet Joseph: 

"Shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceeding glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoner shall go free. 

"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud, and all ye seas and dry land tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the fields praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! ^nd again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers! 

"Behold, the great day of the Lord is at hand; and who can abide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire and a fuller's soap and he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Let us, therefore, as a Church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple * * * a book containing the record of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation." (Doc. and Cov. 128 :22-24.) 

That we may be able to do so and be prepared for his second and glorious coming which is nigh at hand, is my humble prayer. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek Ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, where abidest thou? He saith unto them, Come and see." 

"What seek ye?" "Master, where abidest thou?" "Come and 

see." 

These three significant expressions were probably uttered immediately following the Savior's return from the Mount of Temptation. "What seek ye?" is the first recorded utterance of the Savior of men as he entered upon his public ministry. The question, "Master, where abidest thou?" was asked by two disciples of John the Baptist, undoubtedly, Andrew and John. 

In that second question, I read some such meaning as this : "Rabbi, where can we find Messiah ? Where may we obtain deliverance from the oppression of Rome, or, possibly, deliverance from the, evils of our age?" The Savior's answer is most significant and important. If I may put it in my own words I read in that "Come and see," isuch a fact as this : If you will follow me, you yourselves may discover the way." 

"what seek ye?" 

My purpose in calling your attention to this text this afternoon is to apply those questions to the world today. Suppose that the Son of Man said to mankind in the present age, "What seek ye?" what would  the answer? Many would say: We seek pleasure; some, wealth; others, fame and power; but the most thoughtful would answer, We are seeking the light of the ages, as mankind has ever sought. We are seeking a social Utopia. We want a society in which we may be relieved of some of the ills of mankind, free from the troubles and toils of life. 

UNSUCCESSFUL EXPERIMENTS 

With every progressive age of the world intellectual, noble-minded leaders have sought for a better way of living than that which was current. The good life, a social Utopia, has been the quest of the ages. To sense the need of reform has been easy; to achieve it has been difficult and often well-nigh impossible. Ideas and suggestions proposed by the wisest of men have seldom been practical, often fantastical; yet in most cases the world in general has been made better by the disseminating of new ideas, even though the experiments proved failures at the time. In this respect the century just past has been no exception. 

The first half of the 19th century was marked by a general feeling of social unrest. Observant people became dissatisfied with social and economic conditions, and thinking men sought for remedial changes. In France, early in the century, the fanciful theories of Charles Fourier were circulated. He attempted to outline the future history of our globe and of the human race for eighty thousand years. Today his books aren't even read. Robert Owen founded a commercial society at New Harmony, Indiana. Although supported by a fortune that he had amassed by intelligent and frugal efforts, and although he was |encouraged by the Duke of Kent who became his patron, his scheme for the betterment of mankind came to naught in 1827. He returned to England where he tried several similar experiments with the same result. 

George Ripley, a Unitarian minister, conceived a plan of "plain living and high thinking." He had as his associates such able men as Nathaniel Hawthorne, Charles A. Dana, afterward assistant Secretary of War in the United States, and John S. Dwight. Ripley's impulse was really religious rather than economic, and "was due to a kind of monastic desire for withdrawal from a sordid world rather than a desire for a new society." He and his associates became the founders of what was known as the Brook Farm, a "Great Experiment" as it was called, to make the world an agreeable place to live in. It came to an end in 1846. 

"Some of these Colonies" writes Phillip Russell, "were religious in purpose, others educational, and still others economic; but all, including Brook Farm, were social symptoms — rashes and growths indicating a sick and strained America." 

THE CHURCH AS A SOCIAL ORGANIZATION 

It has been charged by a cynical writer that the Mormon Church was but one more excrescence of the fermenting body politic of this religious-social reaction. It is true that "religious excitement" led Joseph Smith to seek the right church, the proper mode of worship, the right way to live. A desire to know this impelled the youth to seek the Lord for wisdom in the spring of 1820, the greatest result of the answer to his prayer being the organization of the Church, in Peter Wihitmer, Sr's. home, on Tuesday, April 6, 1830. 

In considering the Church purely as a social organizaton having as one object, at least, what other worthy organizations had in view; viz., the amelioration of social ills, and the advancement of mankind, it is well to keep in mind at the outset the facts : 

First: That Joseph Smith was unschooled and "unacquainted with men and things." Undoubtedly, he had never even heard of Fourier's phalanxes, the Owen experiment, nor any other scheme, religious or economic, for the bettering of social conditions; 

Second : That the six original members were practically unknown, were financially poor, and had no political or social standing; and 

Third : That Joseph Smith did not organize the Church by man's wisdom but by divine direction, "in accordance with the order of the Church as recorded in the New Testament" . 

For one hundred years this organization has survived financial panics, social upheavals, and religious turmoil, and today conforms to the best concepts of sociologists as a means of supplying the highest needs of mankind. 

CHURCH GOVERNMENT IN GENERAL 

"Government represents the authority of the group, usually exercised in an external coercive way, to enforce the will of the group upon its individual members." That government is best which has as its aim the administration of justice, social well-being and the promotion of prosperity among its members. 

Considered politically the world is upset at the present time in its opinion as to the best form of government. Wb are just witnessing the downfall of monarchies. Rising from these monarchial ruins have come democracy as exemplified chiefly in Great Britain in her dominions and in the United States; the dictatorship of the proleteriat as in Soviet Russia; and the Fascist regime in Italy, with Mussolini as chief dictator. It is apparent that men are seeking for a better form of government than most nations now have. Will they find it in the government by a dictator or in the government by the people, or in a combination of both ? 

One clear writer, Mr. Kirkpatrick, says that "Efficiency and progress are favored when the government is such that the local community has a great deal of responsibility of its own affairs and the central government has final authority to introduce those institutions and rules of procedure that have been shown to be permanently useful." 

Now my fellow workers, and thinking honest men of the world, take that fundamental definition of true government and see how admirably the Church of Jesus Christ conforms to it. A careful analysis of  organization of the Church reveals the fact that it embodies all the strength of a strong central government and every virtue and necessary , safeguard of a democracy. 

First, it has the authority of priesthood without the vice of priestcraft, every worthy man being entitled to a place and a voice in the governing quorums. 

Second, it offers a system of education, universal and free in its application — the safety valve, the very heart and strength of a true democracy. 

Third, it offers a judicial system that extends justice and equal privileges to all alike, applicable to the poor and to the millionaire. 

Fourth, in its ecclesiastical groupings of stakes and wards and branches and districts, efficiency and progress are enhanced inasmuch as every local group attends to its own affairs, and yet each is so closely united with the central government that every mode of procedure proved useful and beneficial to the people can be adopted without delay for the good of the entire group. 

Truly, from the standpoint of enhancing efficiency and progress, the Church of Christ has that form of government which the nations today are seeking. 

A REVERSION TO THE TEACHINGS OF CHRIST 

This is because it is patterned after that order which Christ himself established. I call your attention again to the fact that the Prophet Joseph stated on the 6th day of April, 1830, that the Church was organized after that order given in the New Testament. I read recently in a book published last year by Charles A. Ellwood, Ph. D., L. L. D., author of "The Social Destiny of Man," that "The religion of the future cannot be based upon historical Christianity, but must, in order to avoid misunderstanding, go back to the teachings of Christ, as recorded in the Gospels." Isn't it significant that a young man not twenty-five years of age, unacquainted with the social systems of his age, or of any age, should have realized and declared one hundred years ago just what this thinker realizes today! 

Says the sociologist of 1930: "The religion of the future must go back to the teachings of Christ, as recorded in the Gospels." 

Said Joseph Smith one hundred years ago : "The Church of Jesus Christ was organized in accordance with the order of the Church as recorded in the New Testament. And the practical and beneficent workings of the organization prove its divine authenticity." 

FUNDAMENTAL ELEMENTS 

Mr. A. Euston Haydon, author of "The Quest of the Ages," names four fundamental elements as an ideal of the satisfying life: 

First: Man must feel a sense of security in regards to the basic needs of living. He must have food, shelter, proper family relationships and protection, and a recognized place in the group. Second: Religion must contribute to the joy of personality, by permitting individuals to share in racial and cultural achievements. This calls for an educational discipline for poise and self-control, ability to think, in order to live more abundantly and free and to achieve kindness and tolerant sympathy for all people through understanding. 

Third: The joy of human comradeship. No other community or organization in the world offers sweeter, more wholesome comradeship than does the Church of Jesus Christ. The love of husband and wife is an eternal bond, not sealed lightly in frivolity or passion but entered into by premeditation, careful observation, sacred association and prayer. The laughter of little children is music in the well-ordered home, and youthful pleasures and associations in home, ward society and auxiliary organizations, quorum service, and mutual helpfulness from babyhood to old age, offer an opportunity for comradeship that fills the soul with a joy that is unknown to the sordid and self-indulgent. 

Fourth: The joy of contributing something of value to the common life. 

Another writer, scanning the social needs of the world today with clear vision declares that "A church that will enthuse men not only for the redemption of individuals but for the redemption of communities and of mankind may never arrive. But if not, the cause of Christ will perish from the earth. 

"I see the church as a life-boat launched to save a stranded world perishing amidst material prosperity, misdirected scientific achievements, and moral decay." 

The author quoted says further: "We are witnessing either the crumbling of civilization under the weight of its material mechanism, or the birth of a new world organization with a' spiritual ideal." 

My testimony is that we are witnessing the birth, or rather the continuance of a great spiritual enlightenment. 

WHAT OF THE FUTURE? 

What of the future ? "Come and see." "Life abundant, beauteous, laughing life," more brotherhood, securer peace, better social relations are some of the fruits of Mormonism as seen by the eye of faith. 

"The increasing prospect tires our wandering eyes. Hills peep o'er hills, and Alps on Alps arise." 

Can you not see many nations yet to hear the truth — Jew as well as Gentile! India and China both awakening, Russia but in the throes of the birth of a new nation, a new religious freedom it must be. God will overrule it, for that people must hear the truth, and the truth in simplicity. Truly there is much for the Church to do in the coming century! 

THE SOLUTION OF SOCIAL PROBLEMS 

Brethren, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has in it  that the world would require. I am not associating political government with our religious government; I am merely pointing out that system of organization established by the revelations of God to man. 

Let me conclude : The Church, established by divine inspiration to an unlearned youth, offers to the world the solution of all its social problems. It has stood the test of the first century successfully. In the midst of brilliant concepts of men in this twentieth century, who seek conscientiously for social reforms and who peer blindly into the future to read the destiny of man, the Church shines forth as the sun in the heavens, around which other luminaries revolve as satellites of minor importance. Truly it is the creator and preserver of man's highest values. Its real task, the redemption of our human world. "It is the light of truth radiating everywhere in the world, and this light cannot fail to reveal to man, sooner or later, the divine ideals by which man should live." 

God help us and qualify us for the mission of carrying to the world this light. May we labor even more zealously than heretofore for the establishment of a social order in which God's will shall be done on earth as it is in heaven — a kingdom of God which shall foster the brotherhood of man and acknowledge the fatherhood of God. May we so live that men seeing our good deeds may be led to glorify our Father in heaven, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang a sacred selection, "There is a blessed home," solo part by Alene Peterson. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I had hoped my turn to take part in this great conference would come a little later, that I might have time to partake more of the spirit of the occasion. For the last few weeks I have tried to fix in my mind something I might present to this conference, only to find each thought pushed aside with a vision of carpenters, painters, electricians, drapery hangers, printers, and the task of greeting the mass of people who come here expecting to view the wonderful pageant which is being given. I have gone home in the evening dizzy, and during the night have dreamed of stacks of colored cardboard tickets with a hundred thousand people pleading for them. Such temporal duties have left very little time to think of the spiritual, which above all else, at this time is of the greatest importance. And so I come before you relying wholly upon the Spirit of God, praying for your prayers, for the mercy of the Lord, that I may at least bear testimony to the truth of this great work. 

I was impressed this morning with the remarks of Bishop Cannon in his reference to the Word of Wisdom, and I hope I may call to your attention some of the specific requirements of that revelation which was given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through the Prophet Joseph Smith, ninety-seven years ago, three years after the Church was organized. It was given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak, or the weakest of all saints who are or can be called saints. It applies to all alike; none is exempt. 

As we stood here yesterday morning when President Grant called for a standing vote from that great body of men holding the holy priesthood, I was thrilled, for it was certainly a glorious sight. More than seven, thousand men stood up. They are leaders in Zion, clean in mind and body. They are, indeed, temples of the living God, temples in which the Spirit of God dwelleth. They are spiritually minded men whose lives are given to thought and work, not alone of this life, but also the preparation for an exaltation in the life to come, eternal life, not in the telestial or terrestrial kingdoms of our Father, but in the celestial where he dwelleth. Every man in this building yesterday morning was, I believe, an observer of the Word of Wisdom as far as it pertains to the use of wine, strong drink, and tobacco, not .because the Church requires that its officers refrain from their use, but because of their faith and their desire to merit the blessings God has promised his children. 

It is unnecessary for me to tell you why liquor and tobacco are not good, for I believe you know as well as I the bad effects upon the body and spiritual condition of Church members who use them, but I am not so sure that we all understand this revelation in its reference to other matters of equal importance. The other day a prominent doctor, not a member of the Church, asked me if I ever read Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants. I answered that I had read it at least once a month for years and that obedience to its teaching had saved me from the doctor's knife. He answered that he seldom retired at night without reading it, and that he never reads it that he does not receive some helpful suggestion; and then he added, "I tell you, if your people would read it and observe it to the letter, there would be very little for doctors to do, for in my opinion, it is the greatest health document in existence." 

Through that revelation we are warned that "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days," we are to be warned and forewarned. It was given for the benefit of the council of High Priests and all the saints in Zion, and was to be sent greeting, not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation, and the Word of Wisdom showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days. "Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints." 

First, wine, strong drinks, tobacco, and hot drinks are mentioned as being ,"Not good in the sight of our Father." Because tea and coffee are not mentioned, some excuse themselves in their use, for they say they do not take them hot. I heard a brother sometime ago, perhaps to justify himself in his desire to indulge his appetite, say that he would not be surprised if someone would come along and attempt to forbid  use of hot soup. I told him provision had already been made for that. 

I shall not attempt to interpret the meaning of the Word of Wisdom, for to me it is clear, but may I call your attention to statements made by others by way of comparison. Hyrum Smith, brother of the Prophet, delivered a sermon on "The Word of Wisdom," soon after this revelation was received by Joseph Smith. In this sermon the Patriarch of the Church, who was sustained with Joseph Smith as a prophet, seer, and revelator, warned the Church against the use of tea and coffee, which he said were injurious to the mind and body. 

It is interesting to note that scientists and medical men have given more thought to and have conducted a more extensive research into the field of foods and food values during the last fifty years than during all the history of the world before, and that the results of their research harmonize with the Word of Wisdom. 

Recent medical publications make the following statement: 

"Coffee and tea do more harm than good. Caffene and tannic acid are the harmful agents in these beverages. Children should not have coffee or tea. Tea retards digestion." "Extremes of cold and heat produce gastric catarrh." "Piping hot broth or coffee is grateful on a cold day, so is ice-cream on a hot day, but extreme hot temperatures in the stomach are detrimental. Food repeatedly taken too hot or too cold may give rise to disturbances. Too hot food may be the cause of stomach disease. Note the frequency of ulcers among cooks. This may be due to the fact that they are constantly tasting hot things which they are cooking. 'The excessive use of pepper and spices may cause irritation of the stomach and intestines. Mustard is used altogether too lavishly. Its real place is -for external rather than for internal use. It congests and blisters tough skin." 

Referring to that which is good for man, the Lord places first, wholesome herbs, which he "hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man — every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving." These are called by the dieticians high residual foods, or fodder vegetables. They are nourishing and give bulk to the stool. These foods are thus excellent for constipation. "Recent research suggests that in the colon is found the origin of many chronic ills and the untimely aging of the body. Fibrous herbs, fruits and vegetables help to correct these conditions. These foods also contain a great amount of the health-giving elements called vitamins. Scientists have discovered that vitamins, when kept, oxidize; the vitamin percentage, therefore, in canned foods, decreases directly with the age of the product. This food element when taken in sufficient quantity, prevents certain diseases." This may explain why the Lord advised that they be eaten in the season thereof. Again we read from the revelations, "Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly." The scientist says, "It is now proved that meat eating is not essential to health and strength. The fundamental constituent of meat is proteid or albumen. This is found abundantly in milk, eggs, beans, peas and lentils. Medical science definitely knows that meat diet is harmful and dangerous in the presence of a number of diseases." Dr. Herser, a man of international reputation has said, "That in all cases of chronic rheumatism, his main advice and treatment is, simply stop eating meat!" "If food, particularly meat, is improperly masticated, it may pass into the colon partly digested. In this stage it is excellent culture media for pathogenic bacteria." Many of the minor ills of daily life are due to abdominal bacterial activity in the alimentary tract." 

The Lord says, "All grain is ordained for the use of man * * * to be the staff of life." The modern scientist says, "Whole wheat bread is fast becoming the bread of choice," among those interested in health preservation. Unfortunately much of the whole wheat bread served is made with a liberal amount of white flour. Graham flour is composed of the carefully ground unbolted entire wheat kernel, and that contains all the constituents of the wheat. Every family would be healthier if whole wheat products were substituted for white flour. The promise to those who follow this instruction is that they "Shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint;" and the Lord gives unto them a promise, "That the destroying angel shall pass by them." 

Is it not worth our while to become familiar with the Word of Wisdom and live according to its teachings, that we may enjoy these blessings which follow in a natural way, as do all of God's blessings, for they are based upon his laws and come to us as a reward of faith and obedience? 

I believe this revelation to be the word of God and given to us as a principle with promises and I am happy to so testify to you at this time. 

May I ask that you pardon a personal incident. The other day we were assembling a number of pictures to send to Europe. We had a number ready for distribution. In making the selection, I stated, that we had one of the Prophet but did not have one of grandfather. Just a few moments before a prominent brother had entered the office and heard the preceding remarks. He interrupted by saying, "I have never before heard Hyrum Smith spoken of in that way." I asked what seemed to be wrong with the statement. "Well," said he, "I guess it's all right but it sounded a little strange to me." When he left his words remained with me. What right had I to speak of Hyrum Smith in that apparently familiar way ? Although a grandson by birth, I had not known him in life. Had I assumed a manner of selfexaltation? My answer is, that from my early childhood I have been taught and encouraged to pray to an all-wise and merciful Personage, who dwells in heaven. That this Personage, in whose image I have been created, is my Heavenly Father. That he is good, kind, merciful and loving and that when necessary he will chastise his children. That we are to acknowledge his hand in all things and he will hear and answer our prayers when we approach him in faith not wavering. 

I have not seen God but I have felt the power of his Spirit as I have approached him in prayer, and never yet has he failed to comfort me. 

Through the teachings and example of my father, Joseph F. Smith, I discovered in the life and labors of his father, Hyrum Smith, those attributes which are God-given and which have become a very part of all those who hope to gain an exaltation in the celestial kingdom. It has not been difficult for me to have faith in God and I have learned to look upon Hyrum Smith, whom I am permitted to call grandfather, as one of God's noble men — one who has gone back to his presence. As a boy I had very little opportunity to really know my father, but the last years of his life I was almost his constant companion. He was a man of God, full of the spirit of love. His life was filled with righteousness and although his words and example are constantly before me I find that I have been left an heritage difficult to carry. If I have failed, it is not because of lack of faith in God or in his promises to his children, but because of my inability to climb even part way to the heights to which they have attained. In my soul I know that God lives and does hear and answer prayers. I know that Joseph and Hyrum Smith were prophets of God, that Joseph F. Smith walked in their footsteps. Their lives have been an example and a source of inspiration to me which has helped me to a better understanding of God and his purposes. And while I may have fallen far short with such examples to encourage me I have always felt in my soul to do the will of my Father which is in heaven and so live that I may at last be worthy of an exaltation in the celestial kingdom where I know their exaltation will be. 

To me the only thing in life worth while is to obtain that goal. If I should fail then what is life? Nothing. For the purpose of our existence in the earth is an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Heavenly Father, and I know that the only way that may be is through faithful service rendered in obedience to his laws. I rejoice that I can, in my very soul, testify of these things. May the blessings of the Lord continue to rest upon us and help us to carry on his great purposes in the earth I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

You may not be aware of the fact that for some time — I think it is about thirty weeks — at four o'clock every Monday afternoon, the Tabernacle Choir and the Organ are broadcasting throughout most of the United States. This is being done by means of the largest and most powerful radio stations to be found in the country. These broadcasts go to New York, Washington, Baltimore, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Toronto, Kansas City, St. Paul, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Denver, Portland, Oakland, San Francisco, and other cities; and it is estimated that more than eight million people hear them. 

We would be pleased to hear from another speaker this afternoon, but time will not permit. By the time we have heard the closing anthem and the benediction it will be necessary for this body of people to withdraw, unless they would like to remain here and listen to the broadcast. If you stay we request that you be very quiet. There must be no whispering. Ordinarily, when this broadcast is going on, no one except the choir is allowed in the building. If someone has to cough we hope that he will smother it as best he can by the use of a handkerchief. 

As I look upon this audience I am impressed with the wonderful fulfilment of the prediction of Joseph Smith which was delivered on the west side of the Mississippi river and recorded in the journal of Brother Anson Call : 

"I prophesy that the saints will continue to suffer much affliction, and will be driven to the Rocky Mountains; many will apostatize, others will be put to death by our persecutors, or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease; and some will live to go and assist in making settlements, and build cities, and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

What a mighty people we are! As I look upon this audience today and think of the wonderful audiences that we had at all our meetings yesterday, and when I think of the seven hundred thousand people who are now members of the Church, I rejoice in the fulfilment of this prediction by Joseph Smith. 

Daniel Webster, acknowledged to be one of the greatest, and claimed by some to be the very greatest, of all our senators in his day, referring to this country where the Prophet of the Lord said we should become a great and a mighty people, made the remark : 

"What do we want with this vast, worthless area? This region of savages and wild beasts, of deserts, of shifting sands and whirlwinds of dust, of cactus and prairie dogs? To what use could we ever hope to put those great deserts or those endless mountain ranges, impenetrable and covered to their very base with eternal snow? What can we ever hope to do with the western coast of three thousand miles, rock-bound, cheerless, uninviting, and not a harbor on it? Mr. President, I will never vote one cent from the public treasury to place the Pacific Coast one inch nearer Boston than it now is." 

"Shout ye hosanna," an anthem, was sung by the choir, solo part by Bob Robinson. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder James W. Funk, President of the Benson Stake of Zion. 
