Afternoon 
09 04 1930


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I very much appreciate the audience we have here today. I am very pleased indeed that our building is practically full at the last session of the conference. As a rule when we have held our closing session on a week day there have been a great many empty benches. 153 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

About one year after the organization of the Church, in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord Jesus Christ said: 

"And even so I have sent mine everlasting covenant into the world, to be a light to the world, and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it, and to be a messenger before my face to prepare the way before me. 

"Wherefore, come ye unto it, and with him that cometh I will reason as with men in days of old, and I will show unto you my strong reasoning." , 

"Wherefore, hearken ye together and let me show unto you even my wisdom— the wisdom of him whom ye say is the God of Enoch, and his brethren." 

From the testimonies that have been borne during this conference, ample evidence has been offered to show that the Lord has fulfilled in part at least this promise, that in the establishment of his Church he was establishing a standard for his people to seek unto and that would also attract the attention of the world. 

AN IMPORTANT PERIOD 

My soul rejoices with my brethren and sisters who have spoken during this great conference, for this glorious day, and I have lifted up my heart in praise and adoration of the Almighty for his goodness to give me life in this time. Had I been given the privilege to choose any period of all the glorious past I would prefer to be upon the earth today, in the year 1930, rather than any other period the world has ever known, because I believe we are at the dawn of far more glorious things than have ever been known in the history of all the glorious past. 

TESTIMONIES REGARDING OUR STANDARDS 

Men are bearing witness to the value of the standards of the Latter-day Saints. Many quotations have been made during this conference from eminent authorities who have been making a study of the lives of the Latter-day Saints. I want to add one from a critic who has already been quoted by one of the brethren, and who, notwithstanding his criticism, acknowledges as he examines the rise of various churches in America that of all of them there is only one that has succeeded. And he asks why has this one succeeded when others have failed ? He answers : 

"Mormonism is the American mind at last hitting on the solution. The solution is, briefly, a co-operation of energized believers working in the name of God for an earthly kingdom that will persist into eternity. In the half century before the Civil War America was frecked with experimental societies struggling to find this formula. Mormonism found it and has endured." 

Testimonies of men who are observing us indicate that not only are our standards appealing to members of the Church, but to those who are not of us. In the establishment of this work the Lord declared that only the truth could survive, and. that everything that could be shaken would be shaken. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

CHURCH PROGRESS IN AGE OF GREATEST ENLIGHTENMENT 

In looking into some late government statistics I observe that of the twenty-three leading denominations in the United States six of them in the period of the last ten years have shown a loss in membership, and of the twenty-three not one of them shows a greater percentage of growth than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. While it is computed that there are twenty-five thousand vacant Protestant churches in the United States, this Church has been through its greatest building program in the period of the last three years. It is marvelous when we think of it also happening in the age of the world's greatest enlightenment. That inspired document which President Grant read, the utterances of the First Presidency, called our attention to the marvelous changes that have occurred in the period of one hundred years. Man's manner of thought, of travel, every phase of human_actiyity, has been so touched by the inventions of science, that we live in a marvelous age. More light and knowledge has come into the world during this period of one hundred years than all the ages of time combined preceding it. And in the light of all this blaze of knowledge Mormonism thrives and flourishes as never before. The greatest ally the Mormon Church has is modern science. 

GOSPEL TRUTHS HARMONIZE WITH SCIENTIFIC TRUTHS 

We have no quarrel with any of the truths of science. We have perhaps still some dispute with some of the theories of men who are attempting to support their theories by the application of scientific truths, but we have no quarrel with the truths of science. They stand in perfect harmony with the truths of this restored Gospel, and all truth naturally will be akin and united. Each truth, whether it comes from science or from religion, will be united harmoniously together. And then when I think of this great flood of light and truth, I aski why did this come into the world in this age? Were there not wise men before 1830? Were there not great characters who have appeared upon the pages of history, and yet they were not able to solve the mysteries, unlock the door, and bring to light the wonderful things that this age has known? Why? I can only answer with simple, trusting, faith and belief, that the reason this flood of light and truth has come into the world in this age is because God willed it so. These great truths were known to him. Not a thing that man knows but was known of God long beforehand. The secret was kept until the day came when the door was opened. The Spirit of God, as was said this morning, has been poured out upon all flesh, and men have seen visions and have dreamed dreams and have unlocked the mysteries of God and have brought to light and knowledge these marvelous truths that are God's means of helping to promote the establishment of his religious truths and to prepare the world for his glorious coming. 

God is not only moving among this people, but he is operating among the nations of the earth. I rejoice in the accomplishments of the past. Our fathers and mothers have stood trials, persecutions. 155  violence, and difficulties, the like of which perhaps no other age has known. But they have endured it. They have stood like beaten anvils in all these trials, and remained true, and have given us a Church conceded by men to have the right to exist. 

THE GLORIOUS FUTURE 

Now what shall we do? Our sacred duty is to stand by the fires that have been kindled, keep them ablaze that they shall never die,, that they shall never perish. This is the glorious age of truth. There are yet conflicts that will go forward. Battles? Yes, struggles. But in the finality of each struggle there shall come the day of the triumph of truth. For this is the age when truth shall be triumphant and victorious, error, darkness and superstition, whether in the Church or in the state, shall perish, for this is the age for the triumph of truth, and I rejoice in it. 

As I look f orward to the future, glorious as the past has been, I see more glorious things before us. You sons and daughters of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, driven out from the midst of his brethren — in his isolation God was with him and raised him up to be the Savior of the whole house of Israel — so you children of Israel, you Latter-day Saints, sons of Joseph and of Ephraim, though you too were cast into the wilderness, driven away, in your isolation God has been with you. He is preparing to bring you out of your isolation, even as he did Joseph, to glorify you and to make you the saviors of the whole house of Israel, the light of the world. 

THE TIMES OF THE GENTILES 

In the document President Grant read, you listened to the scripture from the forty-fifth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord Jesus Christ promises that though Israel was widely scattered she should be gathered again. But the statement is made that Israel, so far as the Jews were concerned, were to remain in theiir scattered condition until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled, and that the times of the Gentiles began with the dawn of this Gospel dispensation, and that that generation should see the close of the times of the Gentiles. 'What follows afterwards ? I am not able to determine the exact hour or period, but we have concluded from our Book of Mormon method that a generation is approximately one hundred years. It may be more. But we have every reason to believe that we are coming to the close of the period of the times of the Gentiles, and then dawns a new day. It does not imply that the Gospel shall necessarily be taken from the Gentile nations; it may remain there, and shall until all who are among them of Israel shall be gathered up and until our work is accomplished among them. Then cometh the day of Israel. 

The Lord said, through Luke, that the Jews should fall by the edge of the sword and should be led away captive into all nations, and that Jerusalem should be trodden down by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles is fulfilled. Jerusalem was trodden down until General GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Allenby's army marched into Jerusalem and broke the power that had ruled over the land and the destinies of that people for ages. 

THE DAY OF ISRAEL 

And I cannot help but believe that God is working with the rulers of nations, even the rulers of Great Britain, for they were inspired to name a Jew, Dr. Samuels, as the first ruler in nearly two thousand years, who has had authority and dominion over the Holy Land, who is a descendant of those to whom God gave the land originally. This all indicates that the time has come for this branch of the house of Israel. Their day is at hand. Many years ago while doing missionary work in Montana I was given to understand by the whispering of the Spirit, as I wondered why the Lamanites had not been brought into the Church at an earlier period — the Lord made known to me that there were many things that he had to do for them before they were prepared to accept the Gospel message. I believe that the things the Lord had in mind are being accomplished and that their day dawns also. I was impressed with it on that memorable Christmas morning in 1925 in South America when Brother Wells, Brother Pratt and I knelt in that beautiful grove of weeping willow trees on the banks of the Rio de la Plata and dedicated the land for the spreading of the Gospel, and the Spirit of the Almighty was upon us. We were made to know that the Gospel message would find thousands who had the blood of Israel in their veins in South America. Then we saw the day when it would go to the fifteen million of Father Lehi's children who are in that land, and that the .shackles, politically, would be broken, the day of retribution would come, the day of deliverance, and that they would come into a full realization of the promises of the Almighty. For, for that very purpose, we read in the third section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, was the Book of Mormon given, to bring them, the Lamanites, to a knowledge of the truth. 

THE LAND OF ZION 

I bear witness to you that God is moving in South America, and that the day will come when it will be as the prophet declared, a land of Zion — yes, the land of Zion for this branch of the house of Israel; while North America becomes the land of Zion to Joseph's children of Ephraim. And God will move the leaders of the nations to prepare the way for it all. 

CHURCH AND STATE 

The great struggle for religious liberty that is going on in Mexico is also on in South America. Within the last five years two great nations have established absolute separation of Church and state, and others are struggling to that end. It will come. No power can stay it. The theory that the great dominant church there has, that its head has the right to rule over the Church and state, (and within the last year he has ascended unto that position, wherein he is now king and also the head of the church) is not the spirit of the democracy of South America, 157  is it the spirit of the democracy of North America or Mexico. It may be a lingering symbol of that which was once in Europe, but that order of things cannot live in this land, for this is the age of the, separation of the Church and the state. Yes, there will come a time when it shall be united again, but not under any earthly man. I believe that the Lord God Almighty is working not only in this Church but in this nation. Yes, this is the beginning of the realization of Daniel's dream. But I firmly believe too that God, as our scriptures very clearly teach, both the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, raised up this mighty nation of the Gentiles, and that his hand has been in it. He was with the patriot fathers who laid its foundation. He sustained them in their struggles. He was with Lincoln. He has carried the work on by his power, and men have acknowledged God as the King of the land. And so I believe when he comes whose right it is to rule and reign he will come as King of kings, and that is politically, and that he will be Lord of lords, and that is in his Church. I believe that when he comes to rule and reign there will be a union of Church and state under him whose right it is to rule and reign. But never has that right been given to a mortal man. 

We are going forward in preparation for that time. This great government is going forward in its holy mission to establish the principles of righteousness in government. It is God's work. It is rolling forth and it is teaching the nations of the earth and preparing them for the order of things when he shall come. It was but a prophecy of that which in time will be, when the Lord Jesus Christ rode into Jerusalem as a king. They strewed their palm branches and hailed him king. That is what he shall be when he comes to rule and reign, and the people shall accept him and be glad for his coming. 

god's purposes to be fulfilled IN RUSSIA 

I am sure also that God is moving in Russia. Much as we are disturbed over the tyranny and the oppression that is waged against religion in that land today, it is not a new thing, for that has been the order for ages. But I oan see God moving also in preparing the way for other events that are to come. The field that has gone to wild oats needs to be plowed up and harrowed and prepared for a new seed. So in Russia. It may seem appalling to us, but it is God breaking up and destroying an older order of things, and the process will be the accomplishment of God's purposes within a very short period of time, which normally may have taken generations. But that people will come back, for I bear witness that there are thousands of the blood of Israel in that land, and God is preparing the way for them. 

SAVIORS OF THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL 

Yes, our cousins, the Jews, whom we have sympathized with, whom we have loved from the beginning of this Gospel dispensation — whether you know it or not God is moving in your interest. This work is the hub and the center about which all the great movements are going forward among the nations of the earth. God is in it and it will triumph, GENERAL CONFERENCE  the Liatter-day Saints will come out of their isolation and become the saviors of the whole house of Israel; not so much to feed them bread as Joseph did, but a more precious bread, the bread of life, the spiritual things that are of greater value. 

THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF GOD'S PURPOSES 

I bear witness to you Latter-day Saints that all we need to do is to keep the commandments of God. His promise was that if we would listen to his counsels we would never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world were subjugated under the Lord Jesus Christ; and the earth will be given to the saints and those who are worthy of it, to possess it forever and forever. All we need to do is to adhere to our teachings, and these standards of living will solve every problem that now vexes the world. In our making progress let us not lose sight of the goal, neither become discouraged. We are about to enter into a new era, a new period, more glorious, more wonderful. All we need to do is to serve God and we shall see his salvation going forward to the accomplishment of his holy purposes, for Zion shall arise and. shine, and the ends of the earth shall come unto her to learn of her ways and walk in her paths, for she is destined to be the light of the world. I know it and bear witness of it, and ask God to send us home rededicating our lives and all that we have to keep the fires burning, to carry on and be prepared when God is ready for the consummation of his holy purposes. 

DEAD BUT NOT SILENCED 

We sorrow at the necessity of the death of the Prophet, but we glory that he was willing to die and did die a martyr and sealed his testimony with his blood. It was undoubtedly essential. As has been said by an eminent authority who has written a life of Christ, "We lend ears only to voices which cry out from the tombs, and reserve our scanty capacity for reverence for those whom we have assassinated. The only truths that remain in the fleeting memory of the human race are those written in blood. All the prophets who have ever spoken upon the earth were insulted by men, and men will insult those who are yet to come. We can recognize prophets by this: that smeared with mud and covered with shame they passed among men, brightfaced, speaking out what was in their hearts. No mud can close the lips of those who must speak, even if the obstinate prophet is killed. They cannot silence him. His voice, multiplied by the echoes of his death, will be heard in all languages and through all the centuries that are to come." 

God vindicate his truth, as I am sure he will, and keep us worthy to be in the ranks of the victorious in the greater day that is to come, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block Mission 

I am happy to be present at this meeting after my lectures at the University of Utah today. We have registered at the State institution over three thousand of the youth of the State; and I have a pride in the boys and girls, for they have faith in life; they have their dreams and hopes, and they will develop into fine citizens and will carry on the institutions of civilization which their fathers and mothers have founded. They will learn as we all learn that they will not go far without being brought face to face with the commanding figure of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. They will see the Creator of divine life in him; a truth that is linking together the peoples of the world into an immortal purpose. 

In this day of mad rush and strife; when noise and glitter influence the human mind; this mighty rushing to and fro; this clash of many strifes; this feverish hastening towards some unknown goal; Jesus Christ gives the intelligible answer in revealing the infinite possibilities of the human soul. The leaven of his doctrine is ever working in the social body of which we are part, and his influence leads the van in every forward movement for the welfare of mankind. It is a plain fact of history that the influence of Jesus Christ upon the world has opened up vast tracks of spiritual opportunity of which the wisest men have never dreamed. He has uplifted and enriched the common life; he has filled the soul with immortal hope. He has brought peace to the desolate heart; he has made the quest for truth a divine adventure. He has made known the abiding joy of service for others; and most of all he has justified the upward reach of man, as he struggles from lower to higher things, which shows that Christ brings life and light into the hearts of men. 

"Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." These are the words of our blessed Savior; and as you think of them, you will recall the wonderful discourse of Jesus with the woman of Samaria by Jacob's well. He tells the woman about the "living water," which he can give to all who ask for it. "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again . . . but the water I shall give him shall be a well of water, springing up into everlasting life." These words are life-giving to us all; and when I think of them, I think of the ideals we are standing for today. 

We have with us on this great occasion Miss Ruth Pyrtle, head of the National Educational Association, who will be introduced to you by President Grant. I should like to say to Miss Pyrtle that we hold sacred above all else the names of God the Father and Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. It was Jesus who taught : "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." The doctrines of Christ are the living waters of our lives. God be praised for them. May we appreciate them. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

As I contemplate them, I think of many of the world's great historical movements, among which are the establishment of the government of the United States and later the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the establishment of his Church by divine authority. Then the gift to the world of the Book of Mormon. It is a history of the religious development of ancient Israel on the American continent, and is a holy book. 

First, as to the government of the United States. Our government was founded by inspiration, and the constitution of the United States was written as an expression of the freedom of the ages; a freedom that had been worked out and bled for by a people who looked always to God. 

When the Pilgrim fathers first set foot on the soil of America, they wrote this divine statement concerning their object and ideals of government. 

"In the Name of God, Amen. We, whose names are under written, the loyal 

subjects of our dread Sovereign, King James, by the grace of God, Great Britain, France, and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, etc. 

"Having undertaken for the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian faith, and the honor of our king and countrie, a voyage to plant the first colonies in the northern part of Virginia, doe, by those presents, solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God, and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic, for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid; and by virtue hereof, to enact, constitute, and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, offices, from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the Colonic Unto which we promise all due submission and obedience. In witness thereof, we have here unto subscribed our names at Cape Cod, the 17th of November, in the year of the reign of our sovereigne lord. King James of England, France, and Ireland the eighteenth, and Scotland the fifty-fourth, Anno Domini, 1620." 

These great ideals, the Mormon people have ever striven to live up to, and only recently has a noted American scholar declared that the people of Utah — the Mormons — stand for the noblest ideals of free government. 

Then came the founding of the government of the United States, the culminating event in a sense of the establishment of free institutions. This Government was founded by the inspiration of God, for the founders prayed for inspiration, and they were inspired. When the members of the First Continental Congress convened at Carpenters Hall in Philadelphia, they turned to God for divine help. The Reverend Mr. Duche was called upon to pray one morning, and in his supplications to God, he said: 

"O Lord, our Heavenly Father, high and mighty King of Kings, Lord of Lords, who dost from Thy throne behold all the dwellers upon the earth, and reignest with power supreme and uncontrolled over all kingdoms, empires and governments, look down in mercy, we beseech Thee, upon these American States who have fled to Thee from the rod of the oppressor, and thrown themselves upon Thy gracious protection, desiring to be henceforth dependent only upon Thee. 

"To Thee have they appealed for the righteousness of their cause. To Thee do they now look up for that countenance and support which Thou alone canst give. Take them, therefore, Heavenly Father, under Thy nurturing care. Give 161  wisdom in council and valor in the field. Defeat the malicious designs of our cruel adversaries. Convince them of the unrighteousness of their cause, and if they still persist in their sanguinary purpose, O let the voice of Thine own unerring justice, sounding in their hearts, constrain them to drop their weapons of war from their unnerved hands in the day of battle. 

"Be Thou present, O Lord of Wisdom, and direct the Council of the honorable Assembly. Enable them to settle things upon the best and surest foundation, that the scene of blood may speedily be closed; that order, harmony and peace may effectually be restored, and truth and justice, religion and piety, prevail and flourish amongst Thy people. 

"Preserve the health of their bodies, the vigor of their minds. Shower down upon them, and the millions they here represent, such temporal blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in this world and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to come. All this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Saviour. Amen." 

After we gained our independence, and later had written the constitution of the United States, our government was organized with George Washington as president of the new Republic. With the advent of the government of the United States came many new movements in the history of mankind. Upon this continent was found a people whom Europeans designated as Indians. They are of interest to us in that their forebears were Jews from Jerusalem. A great and enlightened people they had been, and on this continent they built up a civilization which today is the wonder, of the world. According to Charles Eastman, a full blooded Sioux Indian, we have these words concerning the religion of the Indians: 

"The original attitude of the American Indian toward the Eternal, the 'Great Mystery' that surrounds and embraces us, was as simple as it was exalted. To him, it was the supreme conception, bringing with it the fullest measure of joy and satisfaction possible in this life. The worship of the 'Great Mystery' was silent, solitary, free from self-seeking. It was silent because all speech is of necessity feeble and imperfect; therefore the souls of my ancestors ascended to God in wordless adoration. . . . Among us all men were created sons of God and stood erect, as conscious of their divinity. . . . Being a natural man, the Indian was intensely poetical. 

The solitary Communion with the Unseen which was the highest expression of our religious life is partly described in the word HAMBEDAY, literally 'Mysterious feeling,' which has been variously translated as 'fasting' and 'dreaming.' It may better be interpreted as 'consciousness of the divine.' 

"The first 'Hambeday' or religious retreat marked an epoch in the life of the youth, which may be compared to that of confirmation or conversion in Christian experience. Having first prepared himself by means of the purifying vapor bath, and cast off as far as possible all human or fleshly influences, the young man sought out the noblest height, the most commanding summit in all the surrounding region. 

"Knowing that God sets no value on material things, he took with him no offerings or sacrifices, other than symbolic objects, such as paints and tobacco. He appeared before the Great Mystery. . . . Sometimes he would chant a hymn without words, or offer the ceremonial pipe. In this holy trance or ecstasy, the Indian mystic found his highest happiness, and the motive power of his existence. 

"Then he came down from the mountain and again entered the vapor bath to prepare himself and be clean before he met his fellow men. 

"It was the duty of the parents to direct their children and to assume the priestly power. The Indian was a religious man from birth. It was supposed that the mother's spiritual influence counted for most. The mother's first lessons were Silence, Love, Reverence. Later she added generosity, courage, chastity. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"As a child," says Eastman, "I understood how to give; I have forgotten that grace since I became civilized. . . . The fruits of worship are Self Control, True Courage, Endurance, Patience, Dignity, and Reverence. 'Guard your tongue i:i youth' said the old Chief Wabashaw. 

"The moment that man conceived of a perfect body, supple, symmetrical, graceful, and enduring — in that moment he had laid the foundation of the moral life." 

The coming forth of the Book of Mormon is a great event in history, for it tells about the religious teachings of the forefathers of the American Indians. It is a book of holy scriptures, and it contains the word of God to his people. Prophets there were in those days, and the Book of Mormon tells us that these divinely and inspired men taught the Kingdom of God and its Coming : The Fatherhovd of God and the infinite Value of the Human Soul; and the Higher Righteousness and the Law of Love. These are all to be obtained by obeying the laws and commandments of God, which are fundamentally, Faith in God the eternal father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost; the principles of repentance and holy baptism by immersion by one having divine authority; and the conferring of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by one holding the Priesthood of God. 

So we are this day celebrating great events in the world's history. The Gospel of Jesus Christ will never go from the earth; it is safely lodged in the hearts of men. The Gospel will save the world from degradation and sorrow; from wrong and ignorance. Our Government of the United States will also live. It has already been an inspiration to the world in ideals of liberty and freedom. It will continue to be so if we will but try to live up to the ideals of its founders. This government says to all peoples : Come, you are children of God. Here is the world of God. Enter. There shall be no king; no subject; no master. There shall be no lord, no vassal. All are free to worship God according to the dictates of conscience. 

One hundred years ago, a celebrated French savant, the Abby Genty, published an essay on the Result of the Discovery of America by Europe. The essay closes with the words : "The independence of the Anglo-Americans is the event most likely to accelerate the revolution which is to renew the happiness of the world. In the bosom of this new nation are the treasures which are to renew the world." He names the relief to crowded Europe as one of the blessings which is to come to mankind : the emancipation of slaves, the end of conquest; and the conversion of the world to Christianity. 

The Abby Genty was right. Here will the world find a government of the people and for their eternal good; here will people look for their Zion — the kingdom of righteousness. The day may be far off; it may be near; but the Zion of the Lord will be established on this continent, and the kingdom of God shall reign in the hearts of man. For these ideals we are striving. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Wje are honored in having with us today Mrs. Ruth Pyrtle, who is the head of the National Educational Association of America. I 163  say for her benefit that the Latter-day Saints have always been interested in education Immediately upon arriving here the early pioneers established schools, and last year the Church expended from the tithes of the people on education alone over $918,000. It is now my great pleasure to introduce the President of the National Educational Association. 

MISS RUTH PYRTLE 

President of the National Educational Association 

President Grant and friends : I assure you that I deem it a great honor and privilege to be invited here today, an honor of a lifetime. Our association is greatly honored in that you let me come here as a representative of that great association and bring to you, this educational body, the greetings of the National Educational Association, the largest organization of teachers, of educators, not only of the United States but of the world. 

I have listened with great interest this afternoon to these splendid addresses, and I feel quite at home, because it seems to me that the work of this hundredth anniversary meeting and the purposes that this great Church has had all through the years are common with the rest of the people of the world who are working for the progress of the human family. And so I feel like addressing you for a moment as educators, because that is what we all are if we are measuring up to the opportunities and responsibilities which God has given us as individuals and as groups in a community wherever it is our privilege to work. 

I am tremendously interested in what I have heard expressed here today, showing the interest of this great Church and this body representing the Church, in the international point of view. I think all of us recognize as never before that we no longer live in a neighborhood as big as our immediate community, as big as our school district, or county, or state, or nation. But, as one speaker has so aptly put it, we are in a world neighborhood, and so in these modern days our obligations to each other in the human family are as big as the world. The way we measure up, if you please, and meet those obligations and responsibilities, I think, depends probably upon about how large our point of view is, about how large our vision is. I think that is true of the American school teacher behind the desk and perhaps the parent in the home and the people of the world, no matter where they may be working. We meet our responsibilities, I say, about in proportion as we have vision. 

Great gatherings like this, bringing together peoples from many nations, giving people here such a splendid opportunity to get the great messages that will come out of this convention, (and I trust the press is giving it to the world) are going to help in pushing out our horizon. 

It was my privilege to meet in the initial meeting of the World Federation of Educational Associations, which as you know was held GENERAL CONFERENCE  San Francisco, six years ago; and then again, four years ago, I attended the first biennial in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1925; in 1927 I was at Toronto, Canada; and last year at Geneva, Switzerland. When I mingled and met and talked with those people, representing more than fifteen nations of the earth, educators gathered together in order that we might think through our educational problems together — because we believe the hope of the world is in the intelligent education and direction of the youth of the world — I tell you, friends, when I met and heard those people of other lands, I realized what a common problem it is, this working for the progress of the human family in all parts of the world. It is not a national job. And may I remind you that the reputation of the people of Utah, the schools of Utah, the educational forces of Utah and the West, is not only nation-wide, but it is world-wide, and we are looking to you. I think this nation is looking to the people of the West for more than you sometimes realize. We have never been disappointed either. 

I do not see how people could be small-minded, small in action, that are trained as I know your schools out here do train those who live in this great open country. The hymn that you sang here today expresses it beautifully. I do not see how people could help but have a big vision of their responsibility and their opportunity to serve. I oftentimes said to my own teachers in the building where I had the privilege of serving as an elementary principal, that if I were a parent of children I would be very grateful to that type of teacher who would very early in life put it into the thinking and action, if you please, of the children all along the line, whether it is kindergarten, elementary, high school or university, that type of thinking that Carruth, the Kansas poet, must have meant in his poem, "Each In His Own Tongue." I thought of it as I rode along over your beautiful country this morning. Those lines describe my country, and I think they describe yours. Carruth says: 

"A haze on the far horizon, The infinite, tender sky, The ripe, rich tint of the cornfields, And the wild geese sailing high, — And all over upland and lowland The charm of the goldenrod, — Some of us call it Autumn, And others call it God." 

Friends, I would be more grateful for that type of teacher who put that kind of thinking and appreciation of God's world and the fundamental things in life into the early thinking and training of the children than I would be to the one who fails to do that but perhaps who teaches much exactness in language, or arithmetic, or geography, or what not. Because after all it is the fundamental things, it is the real values that count, that we want. 

Perhaps you would like to know what this great educational association of teachers has been doing recently. Your inviting me in here today, Mr. President, is a sample of the co-operation which we as a great body of teachers find everywhere. I have had the blessed 165  this year, as your president, of going about, seeing the field in action, (I like to call it that) as I had this blessed privilege in Salt Lake today, and yesterday in Ogden. Then I have had several times opportunities of being down in Washington where our headquarters are, seeing them in action. I have been interested in some of the things that perhaps are not directly class-room experiences that we are doing as a great association. For instance, an illustration of co-operating with even governmental agencies. Not so long ago, following the stock crash, President Hoover, through the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. LaMott, invited the great National Educational Association to give any assistance they could in this program that they are working upon to keep confidence, if you please, to keep people employed, to avoid any great crises. To that end more than five thousand letters were sent out from our headquarters, at Sixteenth and M., four blocks from the White House, to the leading school men all over this country in every state, indicating that we should not retrench in education unless absolutely necessary, but keep up our building program, keep up this great educational program which this Church and all Utah believes in so strongly. And when the answers to these five thousand letters came back it was a great satisfaction to me to see them tabulated and sent over to the Secretary of Commerce and to the President of the United States, and to read the letters of thanks that came back. 

That is one illustration of co-operation, which might seem to you almost outside of school room activities. 

Another illustration is the opportunity which we had as a great profession to co-operate with the department of law enforcement. No doubt, friends, you have heard here — maybe not so much as we hear further -east — much of the comment criticising "flaming youth," even accusing the high school youth of America of drinking more these days than in the days of the open saloon. So the law enforcement department of the government asked us to be a fact-finding body and to give the truth or the falsity of such statements. A questionnaire was sent out to more than five hundred educators in every part of this Union. These answers are coming back and I assure you it is very interesting to our great research department to tabulate these results from that questionnaire and to get at the facts. I am not sure it is all finished yet, but enough has come in to show us that there really is no truth in the statement that the children of America, the high school children, are drinking more than they did in the days of the open saloon. It is not true according to the facts. There is enough truth though in some of the answers to the questionnaires to show us that the good work of this Church and of the people who represent it, and all of the other forces at work for the good of humanity in America and in the world, needs to keep on and on, and constantly on. 

I could go on giving you other illustrations of co-operation. I see illustrated it seems to me in Utah, in this congregation today — I have always thought it was illustrated in Utah — one of the major problems of this year. We are working on the wise use of leisure time as a most important factor in this modern age. It is nothing new, but it is new GENERAL CONFERENCE  year, that we have appointed a national commission of fifty people and a state commission of an equal number in each state working on the wise use of leisure time, co-operating with all the other agencies that are working on that, or wanting to be a clearing house, if we may be, to that end. What for? For the youth of America, because we know how -very necessary that is. I can see many people here who remember that in late years we have had at least two of those great national programs of the N. E. A. in this beautiful city of Salt Lake. 1 remember very well being in this very tabernacle and enjoying the program that we had here in 1913, and you will remember that we were here in 1919. This year, in 1930, we are meeting in Columbus, Ohio, and the theme for the meeting is "Vital V alues in Education." The very addresses which I have heard since I have been on this platform, it seems to me, would answer some of the things that we are discussing in our summer program — "Vital Values in Education." The first day will be "The International Point of View, as a Vital Value in Education." I have heard that discussed here today You are doing it in every program. "The Art of Living, as a Vital Value in Education" — I know no people who know that stronger than the Mormon people. 

"The Wise Use of Leisure, as a Vital Value in Education"; "The Enrichment of Life, as a Vital Value in Education." Another day a sub-topic will be, "Creative Learning, as a Vital Value in Education." 

I just mention the topics because it seems to me so in line with probably the very purpose — indirectly, maybe some of you will think — of this great world-gathering you have here. May I remind you that we are working for the youth of the nation; we are working for better salaries, for better teachers. We are trying to bring to the spotlight worthy school activities and broadcast programs and worthy achievements. This association is a clearing-house — I mean the National Educational Association — for local and state associations. It is the voice, if you please, of people in service. We aim to shape the ideals of the profession. It is the pure plan of educational progress. I feel that the aims of our great National Educational Association are the ultimate aims which you have, Mr. President, in this great worldgathering of people. We are working together for the human race. I bid you God-speed. I invite you to give us all the help that you will give us as a group of educators trying to lead your children aright. Let us in that way assist any time that we may. 

I esteem this a great honor and a great privilege for our Association to be allowed a few moments on this platform and to bring to you again the greetings of our great National Educational Association, the largest body of teachers not only of the United States, but of the world, working for the same purposes that you are, the progress, the best progress of humanity. I thank you. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

For the benefit of our visitor I will announce that we have in what is known as our Primary Association, comprised of little children, over 167  hundred thousand members; that we have in our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and our Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association over one hundred thousand members; that in our Sunday Schools we have over a quarter of a million. 

I am sure it will be of interest to you to learn that we expended last year from the tithes of our people: 

For the construction of Ward and Stake meetinghouses $1,257,000, and that the people themselves spent another million. 

For the maintenance and expense of our meeting houses $588,000. 

For Stake maintenance $235,000 

The choir sang the anthem, "God is our refuge and strength." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations are presided over by three of the Apostles, so we shall not call upon them to speak at this time, as they have already spoken. 

Two of the members of the Superintendency of Sunday Schools are members of the quorum of Twelve Apostles, and Brother George D. Pyper, to whom we owe more I believe than to anyone else for this marvelous pageant that is being presented, is one of the General Superintendency of Sunday Schools, and we will allow him to talk to us for ten minutes. 

I wish to say that I have been associated with Brother Pyper for many years, and that he is one of the loyal, true, faithful Latter-day Saints, true to the very core. 

ELDER GEORGE D. PYPER 

My brethren and sisters : I regret very much that I was absent from the meeting this morning when President Grant called me. Not that I desired to speak, by any means, but because I always like to be found in my place when called for. 

I was just informed by a friend as I came on the platform that he had never heard a more splendid introduction to anyone who was absent than that given me by President Grant this morning. Probably it was well that I was absent as I have never in my life been called to face a wonderful general conference, and the shock might have proved fatal. 

However, I am glad to stand before you, my brethren and sisters, and say that I myself am not entitled to all the credit for the production of "The Message of the Ages." There have been some wonderful helpers. We have had the cooperation of the Presidency of the Church and the leading authorities, of Elder George Albert Smith and the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Centennial committee; a wonderful cooperation all along the line. The names of the Pageant committee are as follows: W. O. Robinson and Junius F. Wells of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association general board; Elbert H. Eastmond, director of art of the Brigham Young University, Provo; Charlotte Stewart, Salt Lake City's recreational superintendent; Irma Felt Bitner of the Granite stake committee; Ann Nebeker of the general Primary Association board; Anthony C. Lund, director of the Salt Lake Tabernacle choir; Tracy Y. Cannon, Tabernacle organist; Lester Hinchcliff, director of the Ogden Tabernacle choir; Leroy Robertson, a young musician of the Brigham Young University, Provo, who composed the motif and some of the incidental music and orchestrations connected with the pageant, who unfortunately is ill and in California, and has not been able to hear his own work; Bertha A. Kleinman, secretary of the Arizona Temple; Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist; and A. Hamer Reiser, of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board, who has acted as secretary. 

I may say for your information that the majority of the committee have been working on the pageant for over six months in organizing the plot, selecting the scriptural texts from the Bible, Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. About the first of January, the Centennial committee sent for Sister Bertha A. Kleinman of Mesa, Arizona, who spent one month with the committee; and together we worked out the pageant as you now have it. We believe and hope that it may be a foundation for a Latter-day Saint mission play, that might be produced on the Tabernacle block at stated periods. 

Thanks are due to those who have assisted in many other ways — Joseph D. C. and Cannon Young, the architects of the Church, who drew the plans for building this wonderful platform, as far as I know the greatest stage now in existence, except those that have been specially built for great spectacles. It is interesting to note that all of this has been done with love and reverence for this great building. Howard McKean, a splendid man, built the platform. I said to him, "Howard, be careful not to mar these pulpits." He said, "You do not need to warn me, Brother Pyper. I have such a reverence for this house that not a nail shall be driven where it can be avoided." 

And so all the work has been done in that spirit. Brother M. A. Strand put in for us a wonderful electric system. It is rather thrilling to me to know that part of the switchboard used is the old switchboard of the Salt Lake Theatre which I installed there nearly thirty years ago. We met with many problems in the work, but with our united efforts, they were overcome. It was one of these that I was helping to solve this morning when called for by the President. 

I do not know how many missionaries are abroad in the world today, but it may be interesting to you to learn that we have approximately fifteen hundred men and women working in this pageant, and every one of them is a missionary. If you could get among them and hear their expressions and partake of their enthusiasm you would be surprised — at least you would be happy as I have been. Anything they can do to 169  the cause of truth they are happy in doing. Their only interest is the glory of God and the furtherance of his work upon the earth. 

I walked home with a man yesterday who said : " 'The Message of the Ages' has strengthened my faith." And I believe it is the feeling of all the members of our committee that if the production does that, if it strengthens the faith of the people in any way their greatest hopes and wishes will be realized. 

There are many more connected with the production that I should like 'to name, but time will not permit. 

I want to bear my testimo.>;', my brethren and sisters, to the work of the Lord. I know that God lives, because I have felt his presence and he has been my refuge and comfort, as has been sung today, in time of trouble and tribulation. I know that Jesus is the Christ because I have felt the warmth of his love. I know that this Gospel of the latter days is true because of the blessings it has brought to me and mine in this life and the assurances it has given me concerning the life to come. My greatest desire now is that the few years I may have left upon this earth I may devote to his glory and the furtherance of his cause. For this I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLARD YOUNG 

My beloved brethren and sisters : I presume it is owing to the fact that I am the son of President Brigham Young that I have this honor. 

I want to say that I believe if father were here he would rejoice very greatly in the proceedings that have taken place during the last few days. 

The foundation of our faith is that we believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. We have heard quoted some of the Savior's sayings, such as: "If you come unto me you shall have eternal life," and "If you come unto me and are baptized ye shall be saved." What is salvation, and what is eternal life ? 

To be saved is this, that if we comply with the requirements set forth by our Savior, we will not have to suffer for our sins. That is one thing. Another thing is that if we accept the Gospel, become members of the Church of Jesus Christ and remain faithful to the end. when we die our spirits will go into paradise; that is, we will be placed beyond the power of evil. We will not have to suffer the temptations that we suffer here. 

We are promised if we become members of this Church and are faithful to the end that when the Savior comes again, we shall receive a resurrection, and that promise is not given to any others than those who accept the terms. 

Members of the Church who are faithful to the end will have life in the presence of God. If one has complied with the requirements of salvation in the terrestrial kingdom, he will have eternal life. If he complies with the requirements of salvation in the telestial kingdom he will have eternal life. If he complies with the requirements for GENERAL CONFERENCE  in the celestial kingdom he will have eternal life and exaltation in that kingdom. 

May God help us to properly use the knowledge that has been revealed to us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We will now hear from Elder Junius F. Wells, one of the Assistant Historians of the Church, a son of Brigham Young's counselor, Daniel H. Wells, who succeeded my father in that position. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS 

Assistant Church Historian 

Necessarily what I shall say must be prefatory to that which I should like to have recorded as my contribution to the great volume of testimony that is going forth from this centennial conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to all the world. 

I feel as President Brigham H. Roberts did concerning the announcement of his prodigious work, which is perhaps one of the most important, and perhaps longest-lived contributions to this centennial year of any that shall go forth, the History of the Church, a work, I trust, that shall find its place in every public library, in every school library, and in the homes of the affluent who can afford to buy it. I will go farther and say I, hope it shall find a place in the homes of the stockmen, who should give their sons a calf to raise with which to pay for those books; in the homes of the agriculturists who should let their sons cultivate a sufficient acreage of sugar beets to pay for them. They will in the course of time be worth many acres of sugar beets. 

I wish to say a word concerning Andrew Jenson. I was so happy and pleased this morning that he should have the opportunity of addressing this great conference, for I knew that the desire lay near to his heart. Andrew Jenson, circumnavigator of the world in both directions, for years has devoted himself to historical study and research among the Latter-day Saints and has assembled a library of upwards of two thousand bound volumes, more than three thousand titled pamphlets and more than sixteen thousand manuscript biographies. These he has generously given to the Church and we have found lodgment for them in what we are designating the Jenson Alcove in the library of the Historian's Office. 

Now if I have not exhausted my ten minutes, I should like to bear my testimony. I have borne my testimony from this stand more times than one concerning the Church to which I owe my existence through the faithful acceptance of its doctrines by my father and my mother. I have borne my testimony concerning the personnel of its general officers : the successors to Joseph Smith in the Presidency, six of whom I have personally and somewhat familiarly known and served, and the forty-one out of fifty-four Apostles whom I have personally known and loved, admired and upheld by my faith and prayers. I will not attempt 171  name the number of Seventies, but I have known a good many of them. I desire to bear my testimony that these men were men of God. 

I should like to say a word concerning my testimony of Joseph Smith the Prophet, for I wish to challenge the world upon this proposition, that the world of unbelievers together with the believers among the Latter-day Saints, are witnesses before mankind to the fact that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I will prove it to you. On the night of the 22nd of September, 1823, Joseph Smith appealed to God for a further revelation concerning his standing before the Almighty, and almost instantly in response to his prayer his room was lighted up by a light exceeding that of the noonday sun and within it appeared a personage. This personage spoke to him. I will quote Joseph's own words : 

"He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." 

Now we say to the world, you have fulfilled your part and are fulfilling your part, and will be held responsible for it before the heavens, in traducing the name of Joseph Smith, in proclaiming him as an imposter, in speaking evil of him. We Latter-day Saints, in this volume of testimony that is broadcast from this conference, and in the action that we have taken since Joseph Smith came to his ministry, to uphold his testimony and maintain it before the world, are speaking his name for good, have been doing so in the past, and shall continue to do so in the future. And so between us we declare to mankind that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I challenge the world to refute that statement. 

The Lord bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret beyond expression that we have no more time left. We have not as yet heard from Bishop John Wells. We shall have to ask Brother Wells to speak very briefly instead of occupying the usual fifteen or twenty minutes that have been allotted to the General Authorities of the Church. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been deeply impressed with the references that have been made to the great pageant, particularly with the comments of our previous speaker, Junius F. Wells. It will serve to remind the Latterday Saints of the program of our Father in heaven for the development and salvation of his children. The pageant gives a history of the world GENERAL CONFERENCE  is hardly ever given in textbooks. It shows the dealings of our Father with his children through various generations. 

No one could listen to the music and to the recitation, and see the marvelous presentation of the great events, without strongly feeling the power and influence of God's messengers, prophets, and representatives who have held the holy priesthood. 

We speak of the great events that have transpired in this Church, the restoration of the Gospel through the medium of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I never tire of hearing it. It is always music to me. It is the greatest subject of this last dispensation. We should constantly teach to our children and to others the story of the Prophet's first vision, the coming of the Angel Moroni, the delivery of the plates, the translation of the book, the testimony of the Three Witnesses, and the organization of the Church. We should also teach the mission of John the Baptist, and the travels, labors, and miracles of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

I am going to read to you a small slip that came to my attention years ago, written by a man named Francis, and which appeared in a California newspaper. It ranks very high, I believe, in current literature, and when I read it, it fills my mind with a very profound impression. 

"Here is a man who was born in an obscure village, child of a peasant woman. He grew up in another obscure village. He worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty, and then for three years he was an itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an oflice. He never owned a home. He never had a family. He never went to college. He never put his foot inside a big city. He never traveled two hundred miles from the place where he was born. He never did one of the things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He had nothing to do with this world except the naked power of his divine manhood. 

"While still a young man, the tide of popular opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. One of them denied him. Another betrayed him. He was turned over to his enemies. He went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed upon the cross between two thieves. His executioners gambled for the only piece of property he had on earth while he was dying, and that was his coat. When he was dead, he was taken down and laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend. 

"Nineteen wide centuries have come and gone and today he is the center of the human race and the leader of the column of progress. I am far within the mark when I say that all the armies that ever marched, and all the navies that were ever built, and all the parliaments that ever sat and all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not affected the life of man upon this earth as powerfully as has this one solitary life." 

We believe in God the Eternal Father. We believe in his Son Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother and Redeemer, our Advocate with the Father, who came to redeem mankind from the fall of Adam and to lay down a code of laws known to us as the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by obedience to which we may return to our Father in heaven. After three years of missionary labor, he was crucified, and having overcome all things, all power was given unto him, both in heaven and in earth. By his sacrifice he brought to pass the resurrection and eternal life. 173 

The Gospel he taught has been restored in these latter days through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who received his authority from John the Baptist, and from Peter, James and John. 

I hope that some future historian of the Church (say fifty years from now) will record that as a result of this great centennial gathering there developed among the Latter-day Saints a deeper spirituality, a more sincere desire to serve the Lord our God, a truer and more friendly neighborliness and love of fellowmen than ever before. 

May the blessings of the Lord be with this people, and may his special blessings rest upon those who direct the affairs of this Church, I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We would all be disappointed if we did not have a few words of blessing from the great grandson of the martyred Patriarch, who now stands as our Presiding Patriarch. 

Brother Hyrnm G. Smith has been in very poor health for some time, and at one time I felt it would hardly be fair to ask him to say anything at this conference. But he seemed to have sufficient vigor to offer a good prayer at the opening of this conference, and we shall be pleased now to have a few words of blessing and testimony from him. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this important privilege, although I had thought there would not be time for me to appear the second time. 

GRATEFUL FOR RETURN OF HEALTH 

I am very grateful indeed for the prayers of the saints, and I testify that the Lord has heard them in my behalf. 

Two of the late General Conferences of the Church I have heard over the radio from my home. I have been very grateful to be able to attend all of the sessions of this conference and am very grateful for the strength that has returned to me and that I am able to enjoy your association and presence. 

A great many testimonies of my work, the work of the Lord, have come to me during this conference, and I am praying that what few words I can say will be acceptable in the time that is allotted, or left. 

PARENTAGE EXPLAINED 

Many people have asked me about my parentage and who I am, and in just a few words let me answer your questions thusly: I happen to be the oldest son of my father, who was Hyrum Fisher Smith, the oldest son of his father, the late Patriarch John Smith, who was the oldest son of his father, the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. My grandfather was the oldest brother of his father's children, but his younger brother GENERAL CONFERENCE  the President of the Church and perhaps because of that reason was better known by the people. Nevertheless, grandfather became the Presiding Patriarch of the Church at the age of twenty-three years, and I think he holds the record today for time of service, having served in that office for fifty-six years. Perhaps that is sufficient in that respect. 

WITNESSES OF THE LORD'S GOODNESS 

I want to bear testimony however to the fact that the Lord has blessed me in the work that has been entrusted to my hands as one of the young men of the Church. My grandfather in his fifty-six years was instrumental in administering about 21,000 recorded blessings, to say nothing of the hundreds of others that were unrecorded. And about 20,000 of his blessings are in the archives of the Church today. Eighteen years ago last Sunday I was sustained by the vote of the General Conference in this building to hold the office that I now bear. During that time there have been accumulated in my office nearly twenty thousand testimonies or witnesses that the Lord has been very kind to me. I am very grateful for the faith that the Lord has inspired in the minds of the saints and members of the Church in their blessings and in the power of the Lord through the holy priesthood. 

I have been asked many times by individuals who have received the priesthood how I know that I have the priesthood. They too have been ordained to offices in the priesthood, but they have sometimes wondered whether or not they really hold the priesthood, because of their inactivity in the Church. I want to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that I possess the priesthood of God, because I have faith in those witnesses, nearly twenty thousand of them, and many others not recorded. They are a recorded witness that may go on down through the ages in the archives of the Church as well as in the hearts and homes and lives of the saints. 

BLESSINGS FOR ALL 

I am very grateful to be an instrument in the hands of the Lord in officiating in this sacred work, and indeed it is a sacred work. I pray God's blessings upon the membership of the Church and the c Sicers of the Church — President Grant and his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the Seventies and other presiding officers; the Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons throughout the Church. I pray God to bless them and all their officers and their work in righteousness. I pray for the great body of High Priests throughout the Church. It was a thrilling sight when I saw them arise in this conference. God bless the High Priests in the Church, that they too may know that they possess that power, for the Lord himself was a great High Priest. The Lord Jesus Christ declared it, and these men bear his power in the earth today and are his witnesses; and I share that with them, in which I glorify the Lord. 

I praise the Lord for his blessings, and as his servant I bless the entire membership of the Church. May God bless his servants the 175 , both men and women, wherever they are called to labor, at home or abroad, and I bless them as his servant, that they may continue to go and come in safety, whether upon water or upon land, whether among their friends or their enemies, that they may go in the power of God as his witnesses; that they may find friends and search out the honest in heart, the blood of Israel, and those whom God would have know the truth. 

I bless all who are working in righteousness throughout the world, the honest in heart, the sick, the suffering, the destitute. I pray God to provide their needs and to give them faith to hear and to heed the teachings of his servants. My heart is filled with humility and with blessings for all who deserve them. I know that God is merciful, that he loves the honest in heart, and that his blessings go out to the sick; for when he was upon the earth in person he visited them and blessed them and healed them. I pray his blessings upon them today, that they may continue to receive comfort and the power to be healed and; restored. I bless them to this end in the Church and in the land throughout our mountain country here, those who are suffering in humility and have faith to be healed. God bless them. 

TESTIMONY OF GOD'S WORK 

I know that this is the work of God, that he is merciful to his children, and that this work will go on and on and on until it has finished its full purpose in the earth. This is the work that Daniel saw that should never be thrown down or given to another people, but should go on and on until it should fill the earth. And may God bless us to be instrumental in his hands in bringing about these holy purposes. May his Holy Spirit attend us and bless us in our homes. May his blessing be upon our lands, in our offices, in our fields, and with our flocks and herds. May our lands produce and grow fruit that will be meet for food, and then may we honor God in our tithes and in our offerings. Be honest with him and he will remember you and his blessings will be poured out upon you in rich abundance, and you will come up before him in an acceptable manner and go on richly endowed by his power and blessing, to be magnified in the world as humble servants carrying out his purposes. Unto this end I pray God's blessing upon the Church in all of its activities whether at home or abroad, both in the auxiliary organizations and in the quorums and offices of the priesthood — all of which I pray for in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

REPORT OF AUDITING COMMITTEE 

"President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: 

It gives us pleasure to state that our examination of the reports of the First Presidency's office, which covered the Presiding Bishop's department, disclosed GENERAL CONFERENCE  fact that the finances of the Church are in excellent condition and its accounting system is modern and complete. 

Respectfully submitted, Your brethren, 

(Signed) Henry H. Rolapp, (Signed) O. W. Adams, 

Auditing Committee." 

STATISTICAL REPORT 

There were blessed and entered on the records of the Church last year. .. .19,071 

Children baptized in stakes and missions 15,468 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions. . . . 6,51 1 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion 2,068 

Number of short-term missionaries 59 

Number of local missionaries 99 

Total missionaries on foreign missions December 31, 1929 2,226 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 903 

Total missionaries 3,129 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Mission Home during 

the past year 942 

Persons recommended to the temples (stakes and missions) 68,573 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29 per thousand. 

Marriage rate 14.5 per thousand. 

Death rate 7.8 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 70 per cent We have at the present time: Stakes of Zion 104; Wards, 930; Independent branches, 75; Dependent branches, 27; Total wards and branches in the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1032; Missions, 29; Mission branches, 800. 

APPRECIATION OF DEVOTION OF TEMPLE WORKERS 

I desire to express my appreciation to the many hundreds who are working in our temples without remuneration — several hundred in the Salt Lake Temple alone. In all of our temples an immense and wonderful work is being accomplished, all on missionary time, and I appreciate it. On behalf of the Presidency of the Church I extend our blessing to all of these devoted workers. 

President Grant asked all who were in the audience who had had the privilege of shaking hands with President Brigham Young to arise and raise their right hands. 

There was a large number present who had had this privilege. 

The President then asked those who were present at the conference of the Church fifty years ago to arise and raise their right hands. 

There was a considerable number in the audience who had attended that conference, and who so indicated in the manner requested by President Grant. 

The choir and congregation joined in singing "God be with you till we meet again." 177 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I desire, on behalf of the Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church, to thank the City Commissioners, the Police Department, the Commercial Club, the leading business men of our city, and all who have taken part so energetically and willingly to make a success, so far as was in their power, of this great conference. I wish particularly to thank each and every one who has given his or her services to make a success of the production of the wonderful pageant which is being presented nightly in this building. We think it is a marvel of inspiration, and we feel to pour out our blessings upon all who have been connected with it. 

TO SPEAK AT SERVICES NEXT SUNDAY 

The time has expired. I had hoped to have time to say something to the people. Those of you who happen to be in the city next Sunday, if you will come to the afternoon services in this building, may hear me speak to you on that occasion. 

THANKS SINGERS AND OTHERS 

I wish to thank all of the splendid singers — our own tabernacle choir, the tabernacle choir from Provo, the tabernacle choir from Ogden, the young people from the Latter-day Saints College, who sang for us yesterday; the leaders of these organizations, those who have sung solos, and all who have assisted in providing us with the beautiful music that we have heard. I wish to thank everybody who has contributed to the success of this conference, and if anyone has been overlooked, please consider yourself thanked. 

President Anthony W. Ivins offered the benediction. Conference adjourned for six months. 

Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Tracy Y. Cannon, Frank W. Asper, and Samuel Whittaker. 

Stenographic notes of the conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. 

SUNDAY, APRIL 13, 1930, 2:00 P. M., SALT LAKE TABERNACLE 

In his closing remarks at the General Conference, President Heber J. Grant announced that there was not sufficient time left for him to speak as he had hoped to do, and that he would therefore deliver an address at the services to be held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, Sunday, April 13th, at 2:00 p. m. 

The following is a verbatum report of the remarks of the speakers at that meeting: 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

It is my sincere desire that I shall make a sacred use of the precious time granted to me on this occasion, and that with an eye single to the glory of God I shall bear a faithful testimony to the divinity of this work. 

My soul has been made to rejoice exceedingly during the sessions of the recent conference. I have been filled with gratitude and thanksgiving, filled with testimony and good desires; blessed with a determination to offer continued service unto the Lord, praying for a spirit that shall permit me to discern between the essentials and non-essentials and center upon the essentials and offer full service. 

I never experienced such a day in my life as the day on which we Opened our centennial conference. I never felt a spirit more thrilling than on that occasion. As I stood with that great body of high priests to bear witness before God that we sustain the General Authorities of the Church in their position as divinely called and appointed leaders, my soul went out in gratitude. As we rent the heavens with the glad shout of hosanna to God and the Lamb, it seemed heavenly. Then in finishing the first session, the President of the Church blessed us not only from the kindness of his heart and the good desires and love that he has for all men (especially for the righteous) and for all who bear rule in the nation, as well as the Latter-day Saints. I thought, this is not just the voice of a kindly man, good and great and noble in his intentions, but this is one speaking by divine authority, and whomsoever he blesses God will bless, for he acts for God in the name of Jesus Christ. 

Another week has elapsed, and on this another Sabbath we find ourselves here in worship before the Lord. The message of the centennial has gone forth and will continue its mission in the world. Mormonism, so-called, will be better known now than ever before. We stand in a remarkable position in the world, claiming no descent from or allegiance with any sect or denomination in the world, and every sect and denomination in the world is happy that they are not responsible for our existence. We stand and bear testimony of ourselves that this is verily the Church and Kingdom of God, and that it is founded upon the everlasting and enduring principles of God and is unshakable. We occupy a position different even from our brethren in that remarkable period, the meridian of time, when the Savior organized his Church and ministered among men. At that period of time it was given unto the authorities to know that while they proclaimed the Gospel with all fervor and with a full knowledge, and sought to bring all men to an understanding of the truth, that while they waged a righteous cause, yet they knew that the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times was yet far ahead. I have been led to believe that this knowledge must have carried with it some sorrow, when they knew there would come a time of dwindling in unbelief, that there would come a time when the true faith should be lost, a time when men should seek for the truth and should not find it. It must have been to them somewhat sorrowful. 

But the Lord did not leave them without the knowledge that this Gospel, which is eternal and everlasting, should finally prevail, in the day of the restitution of all things. I have been much impressed with the testimony of Peter, when he talked to those unbelieving Jews. Peter and John, following the Pentecostal outpouring of the Holy Ghost, proceeding in their ministry, had gone to the temple. They saw a lame man who stood before the Gate Beautiful and pleaded for alms. Peter, speaking to him said : "Look on us," and he looked steadfastly into their faces, perhaps expecting alms. Peter said : "Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk." And he took him by the hand, and he did arise and did walk; and, rejoicing, entered into the temple with the brethren. 

It created consternation, and men gathered to know what had happened. Peter reasoned with them and said : "Why art thou so concerned? Why, is this so wonderful? Why do you look upon us as though it is any power inherent with us ? This Jesus whom you would not release, whom Pilate would have released, but you clamored and demanded that he should release you a murderer, and you pleaded for his crucifixion- — this Jesus has God raised from the dead, and it is through his power that this man stands forth healed." Then Peter said, referring to the betrayal and crucifixion. "I wot that through ignorance ye did it." And he warned them and commanded them to repent. "Repent, ye, therefore!" and he, said unto them, not as he had said on the day of Pentecost, "Repent and be baptized and have the Holy Ghost bestowed upon you," but "Repent ye therefore, .... that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; and he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you." 

Then, through the remission of sins, there was a time coming, I say, it was revealed unto Peter, a great and glorious time when Jesus Christ would come again. For he did say that the heavens must retain him until the restitution of all things spoken by God through all the prophets since the world began. In that time of restitution, when God would send again Jesus Christ, whom the heavens must retain until then, should come into fulfilment of things spoken by all the holy prophets since the world began. 

Is it not wonderful, my brethren and sisters, that there should be GENERAL CONFERENCE  people now living who declare that this is the dispensation, or period wherein Paul declared God should gather together in one all things in Christ Jesus, both in heaven and on earth ? The message of the Latterday Saints is to the world, and this great centennial conference has sent anew the declaration abroad, that this Dispensation of the Fulness of Times has been ushered in; that God has sent again from the heavens Jesus Christ; that he has sent ministering angels, each with his special power and special commission and special authority. He has taken away from the world and removed every superstition, every tradition, every false interpretation, and has established anew the Gospel of Jesus Christ and coupled it, not with any promise of some future time when we shall dwindle in unbelief and be left in darkness, but established his Church, given his own testimony that it shall never be thrown down or given to another people, but that it shall go on and on and on until.it shall fill the whole earth. 

This is a period of preparation, this is a period of proclamation. This is a time of warning. The responsibility is given to the Latter-day Saints that as they are warned they shall warn their neighbors, until there shall be no ear that shall not hear, nor eye that shall not see, nor heart that shall not be penetrated. The Gospel is the voice of God to all the world, calling them to repentance, to a godly life; with an assurance that unto all who conform their lives to the requirements of the Gospel there shall be no gift and no blessing that shall be withheld from them. 

The Lord himself has said that it is the voice of God; he has called and he says: 

"Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior." 

This is our testimony. This is the testimony of hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints who have been brought to a knowledge of the truth, and they who have conformed their lives to all Gospel requirements know that their feet are placed in certain and in sacred paths, and that if they remain faithful they shall be led to salvation and exaltation in the presence of God. . 

This is my testimony. I rejoice in the leadership of this Church. I bear testimony of the divinity of the lives, mission and labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith and those who have followed him. I rejoice likewise in the goodness that God has manifested in the consideration of his children, that no man has to walk alone, or lean upon the testimony of some one else, but that the Lord gives a testimony to each and every individual who accepts the truth and conforms his life to the requirements of the Gospel. 

I bear my testimony as one of the third generation in this Church, that as my grandfathers and grandmothers, as my father and my mother knew, so know I that this is the Church and Kingdom of God and his power unto salvation now and forever. May the Lord help us to be true to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 181 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I had hoped that during our conference we would have an abundance of time — seeing that we had four days instead of the usual three — in which I might make some closing remarks at the last session. It does seem that we never get quite enough time at our conferences. I know of nothing that has been more interesting to me in these gatherings than the brief addresses we have had upon many occasions from presidents of stakes. Since we quit having overflow meetings in the Assembly Hall we have not been calling on returned mission presidents and presidents of stakes to speak at our conferences, as we have lacked the time necessary to hear from them. 

I do not know but that in the future it might be a wise thing for us to have our meetings start at half past nine and half past one, as an hour and a half is sufficient time for most people to eat their lunch, and this would allow two and a half hours for each session of the conference. 

Since I became President of the Church, we have always been crowded for time towards the close of our conferences and have had to limit some of our brethren of the General Authorities to very brief addresses, which I regret. I realize that twenty minutes is hardly sufficient time for a man to enlarge upon any idea to a very great extent, and yet I believe that the five minute speeches by our sisters and the very brief remarks by our presidents of missions during our conference have found a warm echo in the hearts of those who listened. 

A WONDERFUL CHANGE 

One of the things I wished to say at the conference I will say now, and that is that I have never felt happier in my life than over the wonderful change that seems to have come all over the world in the attitude of people toward the Latter-day Saints. It has fallen to my lot now to labor for forty-seven and a half years as one of the General Authorities of the Church. In my early ministry as one of the officials, almost without exception as I traveled around the country, I found a spirit amounting almost to hatred in the hearts of people toward the Mormons. I have found people who would double up their fists and say : "If I had my way I would put all of you Mormons in the Tabernacle, and then turn the guns of Fort Douglas upon you." 

I remember that during my three years' ministry in Europe I did not succeed in getting one single line of refutation in any of the newspapers of Great Britain, notwithstanding some of the vilest and most wicked and abominable stories were printed against our people. 

ONE PARTICULAR CASE 

I call to mind one particular case. I went to London with a letter of introduction from the shipping firm with whom we had done business for over fifty years, to the editor of one of the large papers. This letter of introduction not only vouched for me as a gentleman of integrity and honor, whose word was as good as his bond, but it also vouched for all of my predecessors as presidents of the European mission being GENERAL CONFERENCE  that same class. The editor to whom the letter was addressed was away, but his assistant, a Mr. Robinson, received me. When I told him I was anxious to refute the seven to ten columns that had been published on different occasions in his paper, he declined to accept a single thing that I would write. He announced that he was convinced that they had published the exact things that ought to be published about the "Mormon" people. 

LETTERS OF INTRODUCTION 

I answered him that a man may call his neighbor a liar, but that does not make him a liar. Yet he might be honest in thinking that his neighbor had lied. I told him I defied him to furnish a certificate of character from any reputable man or woman for any of the men or women who had furnished him the information that had appeared in his paper. I told him that I had letters of introduction from influential bankers in New York, Chicago and San Francisco, and from every nonMormon banker in Salt Lake City, vouching for my integrity. I had no testimonies, I told him, from "Mormon" bankers. That would be equivalent to my writing a testimony : "To whom it may concern : The bearer, Heber J. Grant, is an honorable man. Very respectfully, Heber J. Grant." 

All of my credentials were from those not of our Church. He said : "It does not make any difference what you have. We will not publish anything that you have to say. We believe that we have published the right things." "I know," was my reply, "that you have published that which is false." 

At that time all of our missionaries in Great Britain were expected to wear "stovepipe" hats and Prince Albert coats. They seemed to be very particular at that time in regard to dress. They have changed somewhat in the last twenty or more years. 

THE ASSISTANT EDITOR 

When I got to the door I put my hat on, turned arouna, took it off and pretended to have an idea. I had had the idea as I was walking upstairs after the boy told me that the edtior was out, but that the assistant editor, Mr. Robinson would receive me. I turned around and said : "By the way, my letter was not to you. The editor is out. You are only the assistant editor, and if I remember correctly the young man who ushered me upstairs told me your name was Robinson. Is that correct?" 

He said: "It is." 

"Do you know Phil Robinson ?" 

"Everyone knows Phil Robinson." 

I said: "Would you accept any statement that Phil Robinson made?" 

"Certainly I would." 

"Did he represent the London Telegraph, one of the two greatest (and I emphasized the two greatest, because his paper was not one of them) London newspapers, during the Boer war?" 

"Yes, he was their correspondent." 183 

"Were all of his statements received at one hundred cents on the dollar?" 

"Certainly." 

"Then you would believe anything he says?" "Certainly." 

"All right. Buy his book entitled 'Sinners and Saints,' and you will find that everything that you have published in your paper is a lie pure and simple. It will only cost you two shillings, and if that is too expensive, I will be very glad to purchase it and present it to you with my compliments." 

He said : "You astound me." 

I said : "You are not the only person that has been astounded when he has come up against the Mormon question." He said : "Write us half a column." 

I said : "Seven to ten columns of falsehoods and a half column of refutation. Small favors thankfully received, and larger ones in proportion. In two hours, you shall have your half column." 

MANUSCRIPT [RETURNED 

I sent it to him. He kept it the usual thirty to sixty days and returned it with the usual printed slip, many of which I have seen : "The editor regrets very much that he cannot find space for this article." The manuscript was sent back to me. 

THE CONDITION IN EUROPE TODAY 

What a wonderful change! When Brother Talmage who is sitting upon this stand presided over the European mission, and today while Brother John A. Widtsoe is presiding over that mission, we have been able to get practically anything and everything that we desire printed in the newspapers. They give us the best kind of notices regarding our conferences there, favorable and honorable notices. 

OUR LOCAL MORNING NEWSPAPER 

I am grateful beyond expression for the change in attitude of our local morning newspaper. I wish to pay a tribute to them for publishing twelve pages with illustrations of all the presidents of the Church, my counselors, our great temple in this city and all our other temples, and for accepting an article written by one of the General Authorities of the Church, covering the twelve pages. 

I am reminded of the fact that some years ago I delivered a sermon in this tabernacle and the report of it was so garbled by that paper the next day that it was about as honest as though a man had said : "I killed John Jones in self defense," and someone had published that this man said : "I killed John Jones," without mentioning that it was "in self defense." 

I remember that the president of the great Hartford Fire Insurance company, of which I was the agent at that time (I have had the honor of representing them for more than fifty years) was in the audience at the GENERAL CONFERENCE  I preached the sermon. The next morning he read this garbled report, and he said to me : "You ought to sue that libelous paper; that is not what you said at all. They have twisted around what you did say, making it altogether different." 

Today no one could ask for fairer publicity or for a better article to be written, with illustrations, than the twelve pages that the Tribune recently published to which I refer. I am very grateful for this wonderful change. 

A VICIOUS OPPONENT 

I remember that when George Q. Cannon was elected a delegate to Congress his right to a seat in Congress was contested. The attorney who went to Washington to oppose Brother Cannon, and in behalf of the man who had received, as I remember it, just ten per cent as many votes as President Cannon, told the Congressmen that we were a vile lot, and went on to say that if a man were opposed to the Mormon hierarchy he was liable to disappear and nobody would know what had become of him; that a man took his life in his hands if he dared to be in opposition to the Mormon people. When he got through President Cannon said to him, calling him by name : 

"You pride yourself that than you, no more bitter, no more unrelenting, vicious opponent of this awful Mormon system lives, do you not ?" 

"I certainly do." 

Brother Cannon said, addressing the committee hearing his case: "Gentlemen, I do not think it is at all necessary for me to answer the gentleman's arguments. He has lived with us for over twenty years. He has a fine dwelling that has cost about $25,000 to erect." Then he sat down and the committee voted for Brother Cannon to retain his seat. 

FRANCHISE TO WOMEN 

Years later it was suggested that the horrible Mormon problem could be solved by giving the franchise to the women. It so happened that the legislature was in session at the time, and there was not a single non-Mormon in the legislature. Within 48 hours, if my memory serves me right, the women were enfranchised by our legislature. The same identical gentleman who was employed to fight George Q. Cannon's taking his seat in Congress, was sent to Washington to have the franchise taken away from the Mormon women as he said that it only added power to the awful hierarchy. He announced that the Mormons had from two to twenty wives, etc., and that these women were all slaves and voted just as they were told to do by their husbands. 

When he got through speaking, President Cannon remarked : "Does it not surprise you, gentlemen, as you are all married, how some intelligent men believe that other men's wives can be bossed." He then sat down. He had killed the gentleman's argument. 

However, when the discussion came before the Congress of the United States, the franchise was taken away from the women of Utah, but it was later restored when Utah attained statehood. 185 

PLURAL MARRIAGE 

The statement about every Mormon having from two to twenty wives, which has been uttered many, many times, is an absolute falsehood. I presided ecclesiastically for two years over one of the counties during the time that we were preaching and practicing plural marriage, and no individual was permitted to take a plural wife without the written recommendation of the bishop of the ward in which he resided, vouching for his character. Not only that, the president of the stake had to vouch for his character as well. And before he could go into the temple to marry a plural wife the President of the Church had to give him a recommend. I had only two applications for permission to marry plural wives during the entire time I presided over the Tooele stake of Zion, covering the entire county of Tooele, and I refused them both. I said to the first applicant: "What is needed in your family is sufficient brains to take care of one wife and one family, and certainly you cannot get a recommend from me to marry another wife." 

To the next man I said : "I happen to have lived in Salt Lake before I came out here, and although you are vouched for by your bishop he is not familiar with your conduct when you are in Salt Lake. I happen to have seen you under the influence of liquor, and your kind cannot get a recommend from me to obtain another wife. It is bad enough to have a man who breaks the Word of Wisdom and gets drunk raising one family, without giving him the opportunity to raise another." 

There never was a time in the history of the people of Utah that two per cent of the population were liable under the Edmunds-Tucker act. But it was a very fine argument to say that we imported, as people are saying yet that we do, women to Utah and forced them into plural marriage. 

AN INCIDENT IN CHICAGO 

The first time I was in the east, in the city of Chicago, in May, 1883, a gentleman who afterward became the general manager of one of the greatest insurance companies in the world, whose representative I was, took me to dinner at the Palmer House. After dinner there were about twenty ladies in the rotunda, and he said to me : "I have invited my lady friends here, Mr. Grant, to meet you." 

I was a young man of 26 and it was my first trip east. I never had read a book on etiquette — and by the way, I never have read one since — and so I watched to see what people did so that I might not make a mistake. I noticed after eating that bowls were brought to us with a piece of orange in them. I thought it did not look very much like orangeade and wondered what it was. I saw my friend dip his fingers in the water and wipe them, and so I did the same. 

When we came out to the rotunda, I noticed that he kept his hat on, notwithstanding there were ladies there. So I kept mine on. One of the ladies turned to me, after we had chatted a few moments, and said : 

"Now — now, really, Mr. Grant, I don't wish to give offense, but would you mind removing your hat ?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I said : "Not at all, madame, I am only 26 years old, and the horns do not come out on the Mormons until they are 32. You will have to wait six more years." 

She blushed and said : "Oh, I have heard that Mormons have horns." 

I said : "I supposed you had, but they do not come out, dear madame, until we are 32 years old. I am sorry that I shall have to disappoint you." 

FAIR PUBLICITY 

Things have changed. We have had some of the very finest publicity all over the country. Occasionally I have seen a picture or two of myself, of Brigham Young and others, together with articles regarding us, that really if I were on a jury, trying the person who was the possessor of the face represented by those pictures I am sure I would convict him no matter what the charge might be. On the other hand there have been better publicity and better articles published about us during this centennial celebration than anything I have ever read before, and I am very grateful for it. 

I want to pay this tribute to those who have published these articles and I expect to acknowledge with thanks the many telegrams that we have received. 

OUR PEOPLE RESPECTED 

When I realize that for years and years not a single person from Utah was ever able to secure employment in Washington, and that today we have several hundred of our people employed there, and when I realize that the delegate from Utah was expelled years ago, and today one of the apostles of the Church is recognized as one of the foremost and one of the most outstanding senators in the United States and respected by the president and his colleagues, I rejoice in this wonderful change. 

I rejoice in having had ex-President Taft say to me when I met him upon a trip to Washington : "Mr. Grant, you did not call on me the last time you were here. Now I want it understood that you are never to come to Washington without coming to see me. There is in my heart a warm feeling for your people. I have great respect for them and I want you to call on me whenever you are here." 

He was in such a condition of ill health that I couldn't call upon him the last time I was in Washington. I rejoice in the friendship for our people of every president of the United States from President Roosevelt down to the present time. 

FRIENDSHIP OF U. S. GRANT 

I rejoice in the friendship of Ulysses S. Grant. He sent out a lot of officials whose work and only object seemed to be to destroy our people politically and to take away from us the franchise, and do everything against us that they possibly could. But he came here himself and met the people. He saw 20,000 vigorous, fine children on the side 187  out near where the Catholic cathedral now stands, waving American flags, and young girls all dressed in white singing a song. And as his carriage stopped and they welcomed the president of the United States, he said: "Whose children are, those? Are they Mormons?" When he was told that they were he said : "I have been lied to outrageously." He went home and chopped off the heads of the officials, figuratively speaking, whom he had sent out here, and then sent us some good men. To everybody who undertook to tell him untruths about us he said : "I have been there. I have met them. I know." 

HIGH STANDARDS 

The one thing I rejoice in is that people are beginning to know that if we are judged by the standard laid down by the Savior of the world they cannot help but respect us. What was the first great commandment of God? To multiply and replenish the earth. We have a higher birthrate, higher than the average of any state in the Union. We have a low death rate. I have been engaged in the insurance business for 58 years. We have a lower death rate than the great life insurance companies. A wicked people never have a low death rate. We have a low divorce rate. We have a low insanity rate. 

ARIZONA PIONEERS 

The ex-governor of Arizona remarked upon one occasion in a public speech that the Mormon pioneers of Utah who had gone over into Arizona and settled there, the early pioneers of Arizona, were among the choicest and best of people in that state. He said : "In one particular they are being robbed of their share of the public moneys of this state. In proportion to their numbers they are feeing robbed of 2,500 to 3,000 per cent of their share of criminal taxes, because they are entitled to have 25 or 30 inmates in the state penitentiary and have but one. Then again, they are being robbed in that they are entitled to six, seven or eight in the insane asylum and they do not have one." 

The very first time I went to Arizona, after hearing this I quoted the governor, and the district judge arose in the audience and said : "Mr. Grant, I am the district judge. That one was from Apache county and he has since been pardoned." 

A year or so after that, Governor Campbell, who was successor to Governor Hunt who made the statement that I have quoted, was here at a convention of all the governors of the different states. They came into our splendid office building to pay respects to the Presidency of the Church and as I shook hands with Governor Campbell I told him what I had heard that Gov. Hunt had said and of the one person in the state penitentiary being pardoned. He said: "That is correct. He was from Apache county and he has been pardoned." 

BY (THEIR FRUITS 

When people stop to reflect upon the statement of the Savior : "By their fruits ye shall know them," and then examine into the record GENERAL CONFERENCE  by the Latter-day Saints, we are not afraid of the decision that shall be made regarding our people. We rejoice that we are becoming known for just what we are. 

I know from my contact with people in early days, of the vindictiveness regarding plural marriage. I have had very many men say: "Why, Mr. Grant, it is a crime morally, intellectually and physically against the posterity of these polygamous marriages." I have said : "I am under the necessity of acknowledging the truth of that statement, because I am the last son of the last wife, and I am a horrible example intellectually, physically and morally, of the fruits of plural marriage among the Mormons." 

I can think of nothing that is more gratifying to me than this wonderful change that has come over the people of the world. 

I am reminded of an incident wherein a young man applied for a prominent position for which his predecessor had received a salary and commission of a little over thirty thousand dollars a year. This was in one of the outlying states where the Mormons have but few members in comparison with others. In this particular state I do not think we have five per cent of the entire population. The man who had the position to offer said to the young man : "You are a Mormon ?" 

"Oh, no," said the young man. "I have outgrown that." 

The gentleman said: "Well, we are considering your application with others. Come around at a later date." 

In the meantime he sent for the president of the stake and said: "What is the matter with that young man?" He thought that by announcing that he had outgrown Mormonism he would get the job. "Unless you can vouch for his honesty," said this gentleman to the stake president, "he will not get the job. What has he done ?" 

The stake president said : "Well, he has been studying psychology, and he thinks he has outgrown Mormonism. But I can say to you that I think he is an honorable and energetic young man." 

"Then," said the gentleman, "we will give him the position." 

OBSERVERS OF WORD OF WISDOM 

The word "Mormon" today is a synonym for an honorable, upright, sober, industrious person, provided the person who is a Mormon is living up to his religion. 

We are fundamentally for prohibition. As Latter-day Saints we have as you all know — and if there are any strangers here I announce it to them — that we have in our Church what is known as the Word of Wisdom, which is a revelation given to Joseph Smith, in which we are told to leave hot drinks (and Joseph Smith interpreted "hot drinks" to mean tea and coffee) tobacco and liquor alone; that tobacco is not good for man, and that liquor is not good for man, except for the washing of the body. We are promised that if we obey the Word of Wisdom it will give us physical strength, whereby the destroying angel shall pass us by as he did the children of Israel. And we are promised that we shall have hidden treasures of knowledge if we live in accordance with the Word of Wisdom. 189 

It is only fair to say to our friends who may have honored us with their presence here this afternoon that we have more than 1,000 bishops of wards and presidents of branches in this Church, from Canada to Mexico, and they each have two counselors, and that each bishopric and branch presidency has a clerk. So that we have more than 4,000 men in the different wards of this Church who must pledge themselves to keep the Word of Wisdom, or we do not install them in office. Occasionally men do not live up to their pledges, but unless they repent we tender them their resignation and of course they accept it, as they cannot help themselves. 

ENDORSE WHAT -LINCOLN SAID 

In addition we have more than one hundred stakes in the Church. A stake includes from five to ten or twelve wards. There are a president and two counselors and a high council of twelve and a stake clerk in each of these stakes. We have more than 2000 men as officers of these stakes who make the same pledge to obey the Word of Wisdom. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, we absolutely believe and endorse most heartily, always have and always expect to, this remarkable and wonderful statement which I am about to read to you, by a man who was loved perhaps as much as any man has been while occupying the presidential chair of the United States after the war closed. Some terrible things were said about him just before the war started and while it was in progress. Lincoln said : 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate in the least particular, the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws let every American pledge his life, his property and his sacred honor. Let every man remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the law be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges. Let it be written in primers, in spelling books, and almanacs. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. In short, let it become the political religion of the nation." 

As I said before, we are fundamentally in favor of prohibition and we feel that any man who violates the prohibition law, the Eighteenth Amendment, as long as it is in force, is encouraging anarchy and shows a lack of that patriotism which should be in the mind and heart of every true American. * 

CONSTITUTION INSPIRED 

I wish to say to our friends who are visiting with us here today, that the Latter-day Saints believe and have taught from the beginning that God raised up the men who wrote the Constitution of this country; that it was an inspired document, and that the Lord fought on the side of our revolutionary fathers. 

It was my privilege to be one of the men who worked to make a GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the Liberty Loan drives. I was chairman of two of the drives for the State of Utah, until I became president of the apostles. I was present in California at a convention of people known as the Patriotic Committee of One Thousand. And then we had a smaller meeting and I was permitted to be a speaker at both of these meetings. In the latter meeting there was quite a feeling that it looked as though the enemies of the United States and of our armies were going to win. These men were saying that the outcome looked very dubious. I said : "There are some people who have no fear in regard to this matter, and those people are the Mormons. Why? Because we not only believe in the Bible, but we believe in the Book of Mormon, as a divinely inspired record, that it is the holy scripture of the forefathers of the American Indians, that it gives a sacred history of many of their prophets and others. In the Book of Mormon we find the statement recorded that this land — America — is a land of liberty, choice above all other lands, and that no king shall rule here. So we are not afraid of the Kaiser ever winning the war. We are convinced that God is on our side in this great conflict. 

TRIBUTE TO JOSEPH SMITH 

I rejoice in the wonderful change that has come and the manifesta tion of good will toward our people. We are glad that people are beginning to acknowledge that Joseph Smith was a very remarkable and wonderful man. Although it has been quoted by me a great many times, I am going to close my remarks by quoting from Josiah Quincy at one time the mayor of the great city of Boston, a man who was acquainted with many leading men of his time. He paid a most remarkable tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith. For the sake of our friends who are here as tourists — the Latter-day Saints have heard this quotation many times — I have decided to read it before the conclusion of my remarks here today. 

"It is by no means improbable that some future textbook for the use of generations yet unborn will contain a question something like this : What historical American of the nineteenth century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his countrymen? And it is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written: 'Joseph Smth, the Mormon Prophet.' And the reply, absurd as it doubtless seems to most men now living, may be an obvious commonplace to their descendants. History deals in surprises and paradoxes quite as startling as this. The man who established a religion in »this age of free debate, who was and is today accepted by hundreds of thousands as a direct emissary from the Most High — such a rare human being is not to be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets. Fanatic, imposter, charlatan, he may have been; but these hard names furnish'no solution to the problem he presents to us. Fanatics and imposters are living and dying every day, and their memory is buried with them; but the wonderful influence which this founder of a religion exerted and still exerts, throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be criminated but as a phenomenon to be explained. The most vital questions Americans are asking each other today have to do with this man and what he has left us. ... A generation other than mine must deal with these questions. Burning questions they are, which must give a prominent place in the history of the country, to that sturdy self-asserter whom I visited at Nauvoo. Joseph Smith, claiming to be an inspired teacher, faced adversity such as few men have ever attained, and, finally, forty-three days after I saw him, went 191  to a martyr's death. When he surrendered his person to Governor Ford, in order to prevent the shedding of blood, the Prophet had a presentiment of what was before him. 'I am going like a lamb to the slaughter,' he is reported to nave said, 'but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense and shall die innocent.' I have no theory to advance respecting this extraordinary man. I shall simply give the facts of my intercourse with him. 

"A tine-looking man is what the passer-by would instinctively have murmured upon meeting the remarkable individual who had fashioned the mold which was to shape the feelings of so many thousands of his fellow-mortals. But Smith was more than this, and one could not resist the impression that capacity and resource were natural to his stalwart person. I have already mentioned the resemblance he bore to Elisha R. Potter, of Rhode Island, whom I met in Washington in 1826. The likeness was not such as would be recognized in a picture, but rather one that would be felt in a grave emergency. Of all men I have met, these two seemed best endowed with that kingly faculty which directs, as by intrinsic right, the feeble or confused souls who are looking for guidance. 

"We then went on to talk of politics. Smith recognized the curse and iniquity of slavery, though he opposed the methods of the abolitionists. His plan was for the nation to pay for the slaves from the sale of public lands. 'Congress,' he said, 'should be compelled to take this course, by petitions from all parts of the country, but the petitioners must disclaim all alliance with those who would disturb the rights of property recognized by the Constitution and which foment insurrection.' It may be worth while to remark that Smith's plan was publicly advocated eleven years later by one who has mixed so much practical shrewdness with his lofty philosophy. In 18SS, when men's minds had been moved to their depths on the question of slavery, Ralph Waldo Emerson declared that it should be met in accordance 'with the interest of the South and with the settled conscience of the North. It is not really a great task, a great fight for this country to accomplish, to buy that property of the planter, as the British nation bought the West Indian slaves.' He further says that the 'United States will be brought to give every inch of their public lands for a purpose like this.' We, who can look back upon the terrible cost of the fratricidal war, which put an end to slavery, now say that such a solution of the difficulty would have been worthy of a Christian statesman. But if the retired scholar was in advance of his time when he advocated this disposition of the public property in 1855, what shall I say of the political and religious leader who had committed himself, in print, as well as in conversation, to the same course in 1844?" 

STATESMANLIKE AND INSPIRED 

We as Latter-day Saints say that God, through his inspired prophet, Joseph Smith, pointed the way to save the vast loss of human life, the breaking of hearts and the vast waste of money which the rebellion brought, by selling public lands to buy the slaves. 

"If the atmosphere of men's opinions was stirred by such a proposition, when war-clouds were discernible in the sky, was it not a statesmanlike word, eleven years earlier, when the heavens looked tranquil and beneficent?" 

It was a statesmanlike and inspired word from the prophet of the living God. 

"Born in the lowest ranks of poverty, without book-learning and with the homeliest of all human names, he had made himself at the age of thirty-nine a power upon the earth. Of the multitudinous family of Smith, none had so won human hearts and shaped human lives as this Joseph. His influence, whether for good or for evil, is potent today, and the end is not yet. 

"I have endeavored to give the details of my visit to the Mormon prophet with absolute accuracy. If the reader does not know just what to make of Joseph GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Smith, I cannot help him out of the difficulty. I myself stand helpless before the puzzle." 

All over the wide world the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been proclaimed by weak humble elders, many of whom have never stood on their feet to speak in public before they were sent out into the world. Men and women from every denomination, under heaven, every religious sect, and in every country where the Gospel has gone, have received the witness of the Holy Spirit that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the true and the living God, and they have sacrificed their families, their friends, their homes and their associates. Many of them, in earlier days, have been turned out by their families, as things of evil because of the testimony that had come into their hearts of the divinity of this work. 

TESTIMONY 

I thank God for the knowledge I possess by the inspiration of his Spirit that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. And I thank him that I do know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. I rejoice in having had the privilege of bearing this testimony from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, in the Hawaiian Islands and in the far-off land of Japan. May God help me and every Latter-day Saint who has a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to so live that our lives may proclaim the truth of this Gospel, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

I want, to say that I have been overwhelmed with gratitude for our marvelous and wonderful pageant. My heart goes out in deep gratitude to those who have taken part in it, I mentioned it at conference, but I want to mention it again today. 

We now have on file more than fifty thousand applications for additional tickets to the pageant. I do not know how we are going to accommodate all of the people who want to see it. But we rejoice in the loyalty and, the patriotism of our choir and of all who have taken part in this great pageant. And we are grateful because of the fine reception it has had from all of the citizens who have seen it. 

A pageant entitled "The Messages of the Ages" having been presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, in connection with the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church, the following article in reference to the pageant was prepared by Elder George D. Pyper for publication in thta pamphlet: 

"THE MESSAGE OF THE AGES" 

On April 6th, 1930, in celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a mammoth production of "The Message of the Ages," a sacred pageant, was given in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City. It was at first intended that the production should be given the evenings of only one week; but the unusual reception accorded the work by the people made it necessary to extend the time one week more and then another and continue until May 5th — thirty performances in all. It was a stupendous undertaking and surprised and thrilled all who witnessed it. Including the people on the stage, choir, orchestra, ushers and assistants, fifteen hundred people took part in the performances. It is estimated that approximately two hundred thousand people saw the pageant. 

The members of the pageant committee, who prepared and staged the collossal affair are as follows: George D. Pyper, former manager of the Salt Lake Theatre, and second assistant General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, chairman; W. O. Robinson, Field Secretary, Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association; Junius- F. Wfells, member Young Men's Mutual Improvement Board (who died April 18th, while the pageant was in progress); Elbert H. Eastmond, professor of art, Brigham Young Universitty, Provo; Charlotte Stewart, City Recreational Superintendent, member General Board of Y. L. M. I. A.; Irma Felt Bitner of the Community Activity Board, Granite stake; Ann Nebeker of the General Board Primary Association; Anthony C. Lund, Conductor Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir; Tracy Y. Cannon, Tabernacle Organist and member Deseret Sunday School Union Board; Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle Organist; Bertha A. Kleinman, Secretary Arizona Temple; Leroy Robertson of the Music Department B. Y. U., Provo, and A. Hamer Reiser, Secretary, member Deseret Sunday School Union Board. 

The Pageant Committee worked under the Church Centennial committee consisting of Elder George Albert Smith, chairman; Elders David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, Melvin J. Ballard, B. H. Roberts, Rulon S. Wells, Sylvester Q. Cannon, with Leroi C. Snow, secretary. The epic readers were Joseph F. Smith and Lynn Richards; the lyric readers, Maud May Babcock, Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart and Mrs. Algie Eggertson Ballif. 

Others were called upon to aid in the work and gave their time gratuitously. 

The aim of the pageant is given in the explanatory note printed in the official program, which reads as follows : 

" 'The Message of the Ages' is a presentation of the outstanding features of the Lord's dealings with man in this world existence. 

"Be it known that the Gospel, planned in the councils of heaven, was known to the ancients, preached by Christ in the Meridian of Time, and, after a great falling away, this same Gospel was again revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith and restored in these last days, a century ago, and through the martyrdom of the Prophet and the faith and patience and heroic toil of his people, 'the Lord hath brought again Zion,' and established her among the hills, and that by walking in his ways, the children of men may find peace and happiness and the 'more abundant life.' 

"The Pageant is divided into a prologue and three periods, viz : The Ancient Dispensations, The Messianic Dispensation, and The DisGENERAL CONFERENCE  of the Fulness of Times. The story is told in narrative tableau and processional, with organ, orchestral and choral music." The plan and compilation of thp scriptural texts taken from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price, were the work of the Pageant committee. The poetical text wq.s written by Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman of Mesa, Arizona; who quoted quite extensively from the poetry of Elder Orson F. Whitney and included in her work a poem by Theodore F. Curtis. 

The Pageant begins with a fanfare of trumpets and musical motif written by Leroy Robertson of the Brigham Young University musical staff. These are used at the beginning of each dispensation. Then follows a reading giving an account of the Council in Heaven, the plan of salvation, the selection of Christ the First Born as the Savior of the world, and the war in heaven resulting in Satan's being cast down, taking with him one-third of the hosts of heaven who became the evil spirits that tempt the children of men. 

The first scene is a mystic representation of the Creation of the world and while this is being shown the great chorus sings a part of "The Creation," by Haydn, with solos by Wallace Bennett and James H. Haslam. Following this is shown Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden offering sacrifice, with the explanation of it as given in the Pearl of Great Price. 

The story of the flood is told, ending with an inspiring tableau of Noah and his sons and their families, the ark and the bow of promise. 

The children of Israel in Egypt are shown in bondage and in ornate and "carnal sumptuousness." Upon the scene comes Moses from the burning bush. Here a stage full of hundreds of people in colorful costumes march through the wilderness to the foot of Sinai where the voice of God speaks forth the Ten Commandments, spoken from behind the scene by Elder John M. Knight. Following this, reaching across the mammoth stage, is revealed a frieze of the ancient seers, prophets, judges and kings of the old and new worlds. These are introduced through the graceful draperies with titles briefly embodying the character and mission of each. With the opening of the draperies and the tableau curtain these characters form part of a composite picture depicting the adoration of the Ages, the Nativity, the Magi, the Shepherds and "His other sheep" on the Western Hemisphere. Music from Handel's "The Messiah" is sung with solo by Emma Lucy Gates Bowen. This is followed by an impressive representation of the Sermon on the Mount, the voice coming through a brilliant light, the beatitudes being spoken by Elder Winslow F. Smith. The Messianic Dispensation closes with a recital of the Lord's passion and a tableau of the resurrection accompanied by Mascagni's magnificent Easter anthem "The Lord Now Victorious." 

Part I of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times opens with a prelude showing the apostasy, the spurning of the prophets, the famine for the word of God, and the search for truth. The reading is accompanied by orchestral music from "The Restoration" by Brigham Cecil 195 

Gates, and the singing of part of "The Nations Bow to Satan's Thrall," an anthem by Joseph J. Daynes. In quick succession come the pictures of the restoration. First is depicted the boy prophet, praying in the Sacred Grove. The appearance of the holy Beings is represented by brilliant shafts of light. The chorus sings the third verse of "Joseph Smith's First Prayer" (words by George Manwaring, music by A. C. Smyth) and then the Voice of the Lord is heard again— "Joseph, this is My Beloved Son, Hear Him.*' The fourth verse of "Joseph Smith's First Prayer" follows and the scene closes with motif, fanfare and chorus, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." (Words by Parley P. Pratt, music by George Careless.) After this the Angel Moroni is seen delivering the golden plates of the "Book of Mormon" to Joseph Smith; and while he peruses the record a gorgeous procession of the ancient peoples of this continent passes in vision across the stage, to the choral accompaniment of "An Angel from on High," (words by W. W. Phelps, music by John Tullidge.) 

Then follow picturizations of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood by John the Baptist, of the Melchizedek Priesthood by Peter, James and John, the organization of the Church, the appearance of Moses, Elias and Elijah to Joseph and Oliver, and the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness. 

"With keys to bind and seal and ratify For time on earth and for eternity." 

Part I of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times closes with a representation of the Elders taking the Gospel message to the world. A male chorus sings "See the Mighty Angel Flying," by Evan Stephens. 

Part II of the last dispensation opens with an epochal reading, with orchestral accompaniment, relating the momentous events of the Church history including the move from Kirtland to Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph's vision of the West, his tragic martyrdom, the singing of "Hail to the Prophet," and the selection of Brigham Young as his successor. The ,curtain is raised to an apostrophe to the hymn, "Come, Come Ye Saints," and reveals in tableau four stages of the western trek : the Mormon Battalion, a camp on the plains, scouting through the mountains, and the first glimpse of Salt Lake valley. As the chorus sings the pioneer song, the bas-relief becomes animated and depicts the entrance into the valley and the beginning of community building. Their trail is followed by other companies with handcarts and afoot. The house lights go up and the congregation sings "O Ye Mountains High" (words by Charles W. Penrose.) 

In scene two the curtain rises upon a plastique — a graven statue in stone representing the composite fundamentals of the community life of the Latter-day Saints — Church, home, school, work and play. To this conception of community life in the valleys of the mountains come the folk from all nations, tongues and peoptej preceded by the reading of the prophecy of Isaiah 2 :2-4, and the following lines : 

"Across the seven seas Thy children come From every land and island of the deep, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

To merge their boundried nationality 

And rear a lasting empire unto Thee. 

Of such as these, the salt of all the earth, 

And as they wend in hallowed pilgrimage 

May grace of Thine enfold and lead them on 

To lave their souls in Truth's resplendant flame. 

This group, made up mostly of natives of the countries where the Gospel has been preached, enters to the inspiring "March Heroique" by Saint Saens and the curtain falls on a tableau showing the nations merged in one united people. 

The finale is a tableau symbolizing the activities of the Church — Priesthood, Temple and Genealogical Groups — Relief Society — Sunday School — Mutual Improvement Associations — Primary. 

The epic and lyric readings in the closing scene are a song of praise for the centenary of truth, a pledge to carry on, and a prayer for the benediction of the Lord on all the world, "till welded nations cease from strife, to learn the way, the truth, the life." 

"Thus in Thy handiwork, O Zion's God, Behold what Priesthood's miracle hath wrought! 

From worlds primeval to the ends of Time — the Message of the Ages stand revealed!" 

The chorus then sings "The Voice of God is Heard Again," at the conclusion of which the congregation, with hands outstretched toward the light, joins the choir in singing: 

"Praise God from whom all blessings flow, Praise Him all creatures here below Praise Him above, ye heavenly host, Praise Father, Son and Holy Ghost." 