Second Outdoor
08 10 1916

Another meeting was held in the provided tent on the lawn east of the Bureau Building, at 2 p. m., Elder George Albert Smith, presiding. 

The singing was furnished by Ensign stake Y. M. M. I. A. chorus, under the direction of John D. Giles, chorister, and Henry Giles, accompanist. 

The chorus sang: "Youth of Zion." 

The opening prayer was by Elder Lucius Hale. 

The chorus sang: "Arise, O Glorious Zion." 

ELt>ER C. ALVIN ORME. 

(President of Tooele Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I am pleased and grateful unto my Father in heaven for the opportunity and for the confidence that has been placed in me that I should be honored to speak at one of the great conferences of our Church, which is the Church of our Father in heaven. I am also pleased to be called upon as a representative of  Saints who are living in the Tooele stake of Zion. I rejoice in the spirit I have partaken of with you in this tent and in reviewing our conditions as a people and the history of our Father's people in  different dispensations. 

One circumstance comes to my mind that is recorded in the Book of Mormon, where King Benjamin gave an address and instructions unto the people just prior to delivering the kingdom to his son Mosiah. There were messengers sent far and near, and they came and pitched their tents, and there was a tower erected from which the great prophet could stand and speak to the people; and there wasn't room for them to hear his voice. It had to be carried by messengers or writing, that the people might hear his testimony concerning the work in which they were engaged, and concerning that great body of people. I am reminded of that today. This Church, which began with but six members, and grew, in poverty, being robbed and plundered and peeled by the enemies of the people — came into the valleys of the mountains, in fulfilment of prophecy by the Prophet Joseph Smith that they should come here and become a great and mighty people. I doubt whether in the history of nations or of men, any question could be discussed and presented before the people, that would bring them together as have the Latterday Saints gathered upon this occasion. 

I am grateful-for the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and as I travel from place to place, and come in contact with young men, I find that there is a growing interest in Church work. There are some with whom I am acquainted, young men GENERAL CONFERENCE. , before they were married, took but little interest in the Church, but now, having assumed the responsibilities of family life, are becoming interested. I have been asking them questions concerning the Church, concerning its growth and development. In some of them at least, I testify that the faith that has been transmitted from the parents to the children, is taking root, although for a few years it may have seemed that there has been indifference and lack of interest in the principles of the gospel. That they are awakening to the truth is a source of gratitude to me. 

Whenever opportunity presents itself, I ask my young brethren how they feel respecting the Church; how strong their faith is in what their fathers and mothers have espoused; what they know concerning the gospel; and in that way, I get an opportunity to speak with them. I like to put my arm around these young men and encourage them to seek after a testimony, for I am convinced that anyone who will ask and work shall be rewarded with a testimony, and with a knowledge of the truth. 

There are other conditions which are improving compared with what they were. I am reminded of a passage of scripture that I am going to read, and if I can get the inspiration and permission from the Spirit of our Father in heaven, I will speak concerning it. I refer to the closing verses of the epistle of James, recorded in the last chapter, commencing with the fourteenth verse: 

"Is any sick among you let him call for the elders of the church: and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: 

"And the prayer of faith shall save  sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, how many of us there are who have implicit faith in this doctrine and teaching. 

I am called frequently to administer to people who are sick, and I bear my own testimony to you that there is efficacy in the anointing with oil and the imposition of hands and the prayer of faith offered unto our Father in heaven in behalf of the sick, and the afflicted. This passage of scripture is true and genuine. Modern revelation also gives unto us the same injunction, that the elders of the Church shall be called, and oil used for the anointing of the sick, and the prayer of faith offered in their behalf. Many times have we seen men and women who were in sore distress because of accident, or disease in the body, relieved through this ordinance even while the hands of the elders were still upon their heads! Not I alone, but you all have the same experience and testimony. Let us then carry out this injunction, and even more faithfully offer prayer unto our Father in heaven in behalf of the sick and the afflicted. 

Not only do members of the Church have faith in this ordinance of our Father's house, but even non-members have believed. Quite a prominent physician in this state, not a member of this Church, said to me one day, "I would like to converse with you a few minutes before we enter into anything else, on some principles of your Church, and in particular, on the question of administering to the sick, for I have had experience for a number of years with your people, and have 121  a great many operations, and I am thoroughly convinced that when men or women are going to be operated upon, and elders of your Church administer to them, I am more successful. I have more confidence in what I do; and the individual I know is strengthened and benefited by the administration. I would like to know its source of power." I then explained to him our belief in those things. 

Another prominent physician made this statement, that in the state he came from "where I have been practicing, we can nearly tell the length of an individual's life when he reaches a certain stage of certain diseases; but here in your state, we give them up and set the time that they can live, and often when we return they are improved. I have asked the reason, and they tell me that the elders have administered to them, and the power of God has healed them." 

These words have come to me directly from these two physicians, and they are men of good, sound judgment, good, clean, honesthearted men, who have sympathy with us as a people. 

Now I want to bear testimony to you that this work in which we are engaged, is the work of our Father. It is not the work of Joseph Smith, who was the instrument in the hands of God our Father, in establishing this work. All that he did was done under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. The visions of the Almighty were granted unto him, and he saw the existing conditions in the world. He was made to see the need of a Church directed under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. He knew that it could not be organized except under our Father's direction. He  placed his confidence in and relied upon the inspiration of our Father in heaven. Consequently we have what we have here represented today upon this Temple square. 

I pray our Father in heaven to 1 less and inspire us with zeal, with determination to serve him and keep his commandments, and that every man and every woman will go from this conference feeling renewed in their faith, and strengthened in their determination to go forward and perform the duties that devolve upon them in this Church. Even though it be only as members, it is better to have our names on the records of this Church, than to be honored among men without being enrolled upon the Church records. It is a great honor to be a deacon and fulfil that office in righteousness before our Father in heaven — or a ward teacher, and perform duties in visiting the families in the allotted districts — or presidents of quorums or bishops of wards or presidents of stakes or auxiliary organizations. 

In conclusion, my brethren and sisters, let me read the closing verses of the one hundred and seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants, an admonition given to those who bear the priesthood : 

"Wherefore now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand " 

May our Father in heaven bless us that we may hold fast unto this work, for it is the work of God, our heavenlv Father, I pray, through Jesus Christ, Amen, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER DANIEL G. MILLER. 

(President of the Yellowstone Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you this day in the privilege we have had of listening to the servants of the Lord, and listening to the counsel that has been given during this conference. I rejoice in the great gathering here of the Saints of God, as they come together with that desire in their hearts to hear the word of the Lord. I am sure we will not go away empty, but that we will feel that we can be better men and better women because of that which we have heard, if we will only carry it out in our lives. 

It gives me much pleasure to see a great many young men and women in this audience, for the youth of Zion is the hope of Israel. I trust that they will remember the Lord in the days of their youth, for according to Ecclesiastes, he that remembers the Lord in the days of his youth, upon him an evil day shall not come. "O, young man, remember the Lord in the days of thy youth, that the evil day come not upon you." Youth is the time to form character, to lay the foundation of our lives. If we will be careful to remember the counsels of God , we shall keep our bodies clean before him, so that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell upon us, and we shall not partake of the evil habits that are besetting men today. According to the counsels of God, in the Word of Wisdom, they who keep themselves free from evil habits will never see the evil day; but those who partake of evils, and let evil become a part of their being, find that as age comes on, it is hard for them to get rid of their appe and desires. Those who partake of the- evils of the world, find when they become old and decrepit, that they have not the stamina and determination to resist their appetites and hence must give way to them. This condition leads them into the path of sin, and as they tremble and go toward the grave, the evil day is upon them. 

I often think of the great prophet Nephi, the son of Lehi, and his example. His father was told to prophesy unto the people of the evil of their ways. They were driven out, as we are told, because the wicked had sought their lives. They went away /from Jerusalem, and traveled in the wilderness. When the time came, the Lord revealed unto Lehi that his sons should return and get the record which Laban had. It was then the older of the brothers rebelled. Thev said it was a hard thing that they should be asked to do this. But Nephi never wavered; he believed what his father said, and, "as the Lord liveth," he said, "we shall do that which he asked for, for he never requires anything of his children that he does not open the way for them to accomplish." And through the history of that boy we find that he always stood firm and steadfast. They returned to their homes, and those who have read the Book of Mormon know how they were turned away by their cousin Laban. He would not let them have the records. Nephi's brothers desired to turn back into the wilderness, where their father was, but he said, "No, as the Lord lives, we shall never return unto our father until we have accomplisheed that which God has asked us to accomplish." His confidence in his father, his obedience, made him strong. The 123 

Spirit of the Lord rested upon him. He did not fear men, but he feared to do that which was not in accordance with the will of God. He earnestly desired to carry out the counsels of God in his life. They finally did accomplish that work, and returned to their father; and in that journey across the wilderness. N,ephi became really the leader of that colony, because of his faithfulness. 

When his father beheld that great vision of which he spoke to his family, he saw, six hundred years before the birth of Christ, down through the stream of time, to the coming of the Lord and Savior. In that vision it was shown unto him that Christ would come upon the earth, and be born of the Virgin Mary. He told the story to his family, and related how that his two oldest sons would not partake of the fruit of life which was offered unto them. When Nephi came to them, they complained and wanted to know why it was. Nephi believed the words of his father, and not only was satisfied with the words of his father, but wanted to know for himself. He went off into the mount alone. There, before God, he presented himself, and pleaded with him that he, too, might behold that which his father had seen. The Lord could not withhold it from him, because of the faith which he had. He told his brethren of the vision when they asked him to explain those things, and he said, "Have you asked God?" They replied, "No, he never makes himself manifest unto us." "Well," he said; "ask God in the humility of your souls, and you shall know." 

So I say unto the youth of Israel : If you do not know that the gospel is true, ask God, your heavenly 

Father; seek him earnestly, keep his commandments, and it will be made know unto you. 

I thank the Lord for so many of our young men who go out into the world willingly to proclaim the gospel. When they declare the truths of the gospel, that God has spoken again from the heavens, and has revealed himself to the children of men, that men now go forth with the authority to preach and to teach in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ — they fear not to promise men that inasmuch as they will keep the commandments of God, believing in him, turn away from their sins, and from that which is evil, and be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that they shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and know of the doctrine for themselves. They need not take the testimony of any man, but shall know for themselves; and the elders fear not to state this unto the world of mankind for they know it is true. 

My brethren and sisters, I know the gospel is true, I know this is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God. It has been made known unto me. I know that, although I might deny the faith, might go into sin and lose the spirit of this work, yet in my heart, I know that God lives, and that the gospel is true. I could not get away from it. It is impossible for a man to keep the spirit of this work and do nothing. He cannot do it. He must be busy, must seek and he shall find; for it is written, ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. This is the work of God. He is leading this people. The man who stands at the head, even President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet of the living God. When I listen to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and hear the sound of his voice, I know it is of God that he speaks, and I rejoice in hearing him. I thank the Lord for this testimony of the truth that has come to me in my youth. I rememher when I was a boy listening to the servants of the Lord speak of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Whenever I heard his name it caused a thrill to go through my being. I did not know why it was that I loved that name so well; but as I became older, and sought God in earnestness of heart, I came to know that he was a prophet of the living God, and had been chosen to bring forth God's work in this day and age of the world; and I rejoice in it, my brethren and sisters. 

May God bless us, and keep us true to him and the covenants which we have entered into; and may we remember that if we walk in the path of righteousness, God's spirit will be upon us; but if we depart from the path, we lose the Spirit, and begin to doubt within our hearts, and cannot testify as we do now. God grant that his Spirit may attend us throughout all our lives, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The chorus sang: "Invocation to Harmony." 

ELDER DON C. DRIGGS. 

(President of the Teton Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am certainly proud to be a citizen of Idaho, the Gem of the mountains, but I suppose I owe my allegiance to Utah, also, because it wa,s here that I was born. I am one of the young men who swarmed over into Idaho, in the later 80's, about the  '88, when the borders of the Church did not reach much beyond the Utah line. Statistics of the Presiding Bishop's office show that there are now residing within, the State of Idaho about 75,000 Latterday Saints. When I went to Idaho, I felt that I was going to a strange land. I hitched up my team, and, with a covered wagon, traveled the distance, and it seemed to me that it was a wilderness all the way. 

I am glad, my brethren and sisters, that I have learned something of pioneer life. I am glad that I looked upon a land that was uninhabited, so that I might appreciate that experience and learn to some extent what our fathers endured in settling this country. We live in the great Teton valley, and my first view of that country was a view that I imagined was like looking upon the land of promise, for it is certainly a beautiful country. We are right up against the National Park. Our boundaries on the north are the National Park, and on the east — I presume lies the Atlantic Ocean, because I do not know of any other stake of Zion between us and the Atlantic. (Laughter). We have two beautiful valleys in our stake, the Teton valley and the Jackson Hole district, Wyoming. The Wyoming and Utah line divides our stake in the center, so that we have the privilege of presiding over not only the Teton stake, but parts of the states of Idaho and Wyoming combined. ( Laughter. ) 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of being with you at this great conference, in seeing the great multitudes of people who have gathered here to be instructed, and to hear the word of the Lord, as it is delivered by his servants. We have been admon125 , brethren and sisters, regarding our shortcomings, as well as. praised for the good that we are trying to do. We have heard good reports from the Church officials. It seems that everything is prospering, and we ought to rejoice in the blessings that we enjoy. 

It is good, I believe, for us to be admonished and reminded of our obligations. In ancient times, or in the days when the children of Israel were driven into the wilderness, they were led to the land of promise by prophets of God, and the great prophet, but a great general and a great leader in Israel, — admonished his people that they were forsaking the true and living God, and were seeking to worship idols, to look after other gods. He remnided them of their shortcomings, and finally told them, "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve; * * * * but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." That is the declaration of a great prophet, teaching his people, reminding them of their shortcomings; and the declaration of his testimony and what he and his family or house intended to do. And the people said, "Nay, but we will serve the Lord." And Joshua caused a pillar of stone to be erected as a testimony that the people had agreed to serve the Lord, and said, "Ye are witnesses against yourselves, that ye have agreed to serve the Lord." And they accepted that statement, and were indeed witnesses against themselves that they had agreed to serve the Lord. And we are told in this Scripture that the people under Joshua did serve the Lord, and the people that lived  him served the Lord, and were true to this covenant. 

My brothers and sisters, the thought comes to us: we are witnesses against ourselves that we have agreed to serve the Lord, and we ought to say in our hearts, as Joshua did, "But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 

I pray that we may have this spirit and this desire in our hearts, and that we will keep the covenant. It may not be necessary for a monument of stone to be erected as a witness that we have agreed to serve the Lord, but we all know that we have agreed to serve him, and that we continue to make covenants, day by day, to serve him and keep his commandments . 

I have a testimony that the work of the Lord is true, that this is his Church; and I desire to be faithful and true to the covenants that I have made. 

I am reminded, my brothers and sisters, that my grandfather stood upon this temple block, even before the great Tabernacle was erected, and preached to the people. He suffered imprisonment with the Prophet Joseph Smith. My grandfather, on the other side, helped to build the wagons to carry the Saints across the plains. I feel proud of this memory lof my parents and grand-parents, and the part they took in the work of the Church. But I realize that their faithfulness is not sufficient for me. The only way I can honor their memory, and be a credit to them, is to do something for myself and for those whom I might help. 

I pray that the Lord may continue his blessings unto his people, and unto us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I enjoy this privilege very much, of speaking from the same platform with these faithful presidents of stakes. I have had the privilege of going into their stakes, and know of their good works, and of the faithful people over whom they preside. I have rejoiced with you in the sessions of this conference, at the timely and important teachings pertaining to God, and of our relations- to him and of our duties. 

For the most part, in the scriptures, there is little reasoning from nature up to nature's God. The existence of Deity is either assumed or directly asserted, without much by way of reasoning from creature to Creator. We have, however, some beautiful illustrations. For instance, the Psalmist exclaims, "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handywork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard." 

In the 104th Psalm, after an enumeration of the works of the Lord, the Psalmist exclaims, "O Lord, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all : the earth is full of thy riches." 

There is a sublime passage from Job along the same line. "Lo, these are parts of his ways; but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand ?" 

Naturalists of high standing have reasoned in the same way, and we have the scientist and philosopher, Spencer, declaring, "One truth must ever grow clearer, the  that there is an inscrutable existence everywhere manifested, to which we can neither find nor conceive beginning or end." And again, "Amid the mysteries which become the more mysterious, the more they are thought about, there will remain this one absolute certainty, that we are ever in the presence of an infinite energy from which all things proceed." 

But while this line of reasoning is valuable, reasoning from nature up to nature's God, it requires a revelation to know God in all his attributes. 

One of the three comforters of Job put this question to him, "Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty to perfection ?" We have in the efforts of men without the aid of revelation the example of men struggling vainly to discover the attributes of God. I rejoice that in answer to the prayer of faith by the little boy, he was able to say, "I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other: 'Joseph, this is my beloved Son, hear Him.' " In that one clear vision, the mystery, the doubt and the uncertainty of the past were swept away. 

If you wish to know what that meant to the world, take as an example the discussion in the September, 1916, number of the North American -Review, by the Rev. Philip S. Moxom on "The Modern Conception of Deity," and see what value it is and has been to the world for that one clear, glorious revelation to be given of the personality of God. He discusses at considerable length this modern concep127 . He confesses that it is difficult to set forth just what this modern conception of Deity includes, but argues for a personal Deity, one that has the power to know and feel and to will; and argues that a being may possess all those attributes of personality and still possess the attribute of infinitude. He also asserts very strongly in favor of the divine immanence of God. Let me read the concluding words of the discussion, which is significant, in view of the general belief, at the time of the Prophet Joseph, that a mere static deity existed, an impersonal power which had ceased to reveal itself. They may call Deity, as the naturalist did, "an inscrutable existence, an infinite energy," but they denied to Him personality. Mr. Moxom concludes his article in these words : 

"The deeper experiences ,of the human soul cause it to repel the old notion of a static deity, — an impassable infinitude of being with which humanity can come into no appreciable relations. It seeks for a God who is not remote from mankind, who is so near, indeed, that the wide sweep and measureless stretch ,of human experience, in some mysterious way, is also the experience of God, and that through the fulfilment of the life of beings whom he has created, God is finding his own self-realization and self-fulfilmerit ^ + + ♦ ♦ t¥ 

"No thought is more deeply rooted in the mind of man today than the thought of the divine immanence. Are we not beginning to see that the divine, immanence means much more than we have realized, and is freighted with consequences vaster than we have dreamed? The old theological battles have lost their zest because they have lost their meaning. The faint light of a new dawn trembles on the horizon. Let us look up and face the East." 

The leaven of "Mormonism" is beginning to leaven the entire lump  humanity. It was through the revelations in the "Pearl of Great Price" that we have the great declaration of God, "Behold this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." The writer seems to have caught a little of that idea, as well as much of the "Mormon" belief in reference to the personal nature of Deity and of his divine immanence throughout the im-. mensity of space, as indicated in this article. 

There is need in the world of socalled "Mormonism." Bishop Greer is quoted as having said, on the 25th of last April at consecration services at the St. Thomas Church on Fifth avenue, New York, one of the fashionable churches of that fashionable street, as follows : 

"No more urgent question, vitally urgent question, confronts the church today than this, of how to close the gap which now too much exists between the church's creed and the church's Christian life — for this at least is certain, it must somehow be closed. Otherwise the church will lose its influence in the world, its leadership and power, and will cease to be a force and factor in the world's affairs." 

Some years ago, as published in some of our prints, copied from the Anaconda Standard, of Montana, the remarks of a Reverend T. H. Martin of the Unity church, were made to the effect that the church had lost its magnet, "that the Christian religion of the present is merely a social code and has nothing in it whereby it could claim a divine origin." I shall not take time to read more of his words, but will read an indictment, published in the September number of the Forum, which is illustrative at least of some of the charges being made against GENERAL CONFERENCE.  church. I am not discussing the question to whether the proofs will sustain this indictment, in any or all of its counts, but simply call attention to the fact that these things are being said and published in leading and reputable magazines, charging inefficiency of the church today. If true, we would not exult in it but it would make all the greater our sense of responsibility to do missionary and evangelical work throughout the world. The writer, Mr. Mercer C. Johnson, says : 

"I have said that the Christian church is in a state of apostasy, that she has tried to serve God and Mammon, and has made an awful mess of it; that she has put away her real Christ; and set us in his stead a Mammon-pleasing Christ; that she is a captive church, under the shameful spell of her ungodly and inhuman captor; that she is the white slave of Mammon, and sits with folded hands watching the cross to which he nails whatever opposes his will, half horrified because of the dreams of the real Christ that haunts her still, half stupefied by the deadly dollar dope that is the meat and drink of her double life, hardly knowing what she ought to say or do, and not caring overmuch." 

I trust the charge is an exaggeration. As I said before, we take no pleasure in knowing of the failure to any extent of Christianity, and yet we realize the necessity for the restoration of the gospel — the explanation we have for our existence as a Church. 

We also have problems of our own at home that will engage the serious attention of earnest men and women. Some of those grave problems have been pointed out — the necessity of bishops and of stake presidents putting our machinery into operation for the purpose of reaching as many as possible of the  men and young women of the Church to keep them from temptation, to keep them in the straight and narrow path. 

In addition to the care which officers may give children, we need also the loving care of parents, — and there is no love that is equal to the mother love and the father love. We have a beautiful picture in Holy Writ of the mother love of Rizpah, the concubine of Saul, whose two sons with five others were offered to the Gibeonites as a sort of a sacrifice or peace offering; and when thej lives of those boys were taken, and their bodies were placed upon the rock, unburied, there was one who kept faithful vigil for O such a long time! The execution took place, we are told in II Samuel, 21 :9-10, in the early barley harvest, and that mother placed sackcloth upon the rock and sat there with her dead — her two sons and her husband's five grandsons — and she kept vigil until the rainy season came, until the water from heaven descended. Just how many weary weeks or months that may have been. I could not at this moment tell you — but it is an illustration of the mother love that she "suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night," and that she kept this lonely and faithful vigil from the beginning of the barley harvest "until water dropped upon them out of heaven." 

This is but an instance duplicated in a different way in this age of ours. Just last year, we saw, upon the banks of the Little Colorado, a lonely woman keeping vigil, watching and wandering on the banks, pleading no doubt for that treacherous stream to give up its victim, her little boy. All others had ceased 129  search, but the mother still stayed, and the father afterwards declared that he would sell his flocks and would join the mother in keeping up the search, to find possibly somewhere in the debris that came downs from the breaking of the Lyman Reservoir, the body of their youngest child. We have examples such as that of what people will do for the dead. In Cache Valley, when the son of the late presiding bishop of the church was drowned, Wm. B. Preston, Jr., with his companion Solon Barber, the nearby towns turned out in large numbers. Stores were closed and business suspended. The bishop of Wellsville called me by telephone to enquire how the search was going, and said, "Remember that Wellsville stands ready to send one hundred men if necessary to take part in this search." And it was . no idle promise; it would have been fulfiled upon the slightest suggestion of need. 

And yet, in all these instances, no living soul could be helped. Rizpah could not bring back the lives of her two sons, or the five grandsons of her husband; the mother, upon the banks of the Little Colorado, could not bring back the life of her child; nor could anything be done for the boys in the Bear River, except to recover the bodies. But there are living children all over this Church who need the care of a mother and of a father; and the plea I make is for fathers and mothers to safeguard their living children! 

I have often quoted the words of the philosopher and the humorist, Mark Twain : 

"When we consider the tremendous forces of the upper and nether world which play for the mastery of the soul  a woman, during the few years in which she passes from plastic girlhood to the ripe maturity of womanhood, we may well stand in awe before the momentous drama. Nature must needs center in her all the possibilities' of life. What capacities she has for tenderness, goodness; what capacities for vileness, bitterness and evil. Nature must needs be lavish with the mother and creator of men and_ center in her all the possibilities of life. And a few critical years can decide whether her life is to be full of sweetness and light, whether she is to be a vestal of a holy temple — or whether she will be the fallen priestess of a desecrated shrine." 

At no time since my remembrance has there been such a wave of unrest and of evil as is sweeping over the country in this day. The citadels of modesty are being assaulted as never before in my remembrance. The forces of the nether world, to use the expression of Twain, are very active. It is necessary for the forces of good to be equally vigilant. We must be militant in this work. It will not do for us to sit supinely down and think that the ward teacher or bishop is going to look after our boy and girl. It will take the best ingenuity of the stake presidents and bishops to control wisely the dancing situation; and they will need the help of every father and of every mother in doing this work. 

A few weeks ago, Governor Kendrick of Woming attended one of our conference meetings. We invited him to speak, and he mentioned the fact that before non"Mormon" audiences he had held up the fact that "Mormon" people accompanied their children not only to the Church, but also to the bail room, and he commended that practice. I could have wished that the examples he was generous enough to thus mention, were more general GENERAL CONFERENCE.  our people — an old custom which must be revived more generally among the people. We must look after our living children, and not be content in case of an emergency to display wonderful zeal for the dead. Grown-ups must be more vigilant and militant in attacking evil. 

I was told by one of the leading lawyers of this city that there was exhibited in one of the playhouses of this very city, where this conference is being held, an act so indecent that no right-thinking man or woman could view it without the blush of shame coming to his face. These things are not necessary, — the evils of the picture show are not necessary. You people in the country districts do not need to sit down and see your children debauched and contaminated by the moving picture show, or evils of this sort. Legislative action may be necessary to control the dance as well as to censor the playhouse and the moving picture show; and I urge diligence in this matter. When this problem was brought to me in one of the stakes, of one of our adjoining states, I suggested if they could not control in any other way dancing in the hall owned by those not of the Church, that a town ordinance be enacted which would make the close bodily contact or any other impropriety or indecency in the dance room a misdemeanor. 

We need not only all the faithful attention of the officers of the Church, but also that of parents, to their children; and then have that supplemented by such legislation as may be necessary to protect us from this wave of evil which is attacking the citadels of modesty, virtue and integrity among the young people. Let parents know where their chil are. I bear the memory from my own home of a mother whom I never went home so late as to find asleep, and very seldom even retired, because she would not do that until the last child came home. And children must be considerate not to drag their parents out to the ball room too often, and not to keep them sitting up waiting too often, or for too long hours; but there must be a co-operation on the part of parents and of children, in order that they may be safeguarded. 

May the Lord bless us in this great and important and pressing work which is now before us in all the stakes of Zion, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The chorus sang: "I know that my Redeemer lives." 

ELDER G. E. ELLSWORTH. . 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brothers and sisters, on two occasions during this conference time, one of the revelations of the Lord, given before the organization of the Church, has been quoted. The revelation referred to is the one found in the 4th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says, "A great and a mighty work is about to come forth among the children of men." Each time that revelation was quoted, my mind went back to the beginning of this great work. I stood again in the grove where the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed unto our Father in heaven; and remembered my many visits to that sacred spot. Again I stood, in my mind, with the Prophet Joseph Smith upon the hill Cumorah, where he met the angel by appointment, and year 131  year was instructed concerning the great things that were to come to pass in this day. I saw him receive the plates from which the great record of the Nephites was printed. I was with him at Kirtland where, under privations and toil, he built the temple in which so many glorious visions were given to the Latter-day Saints. I followed him from Kirtland to Missouri, and from Missouri to Illinois. I was there where he, under the direction of the Spirit of the Lord, directed the digging of a drain ditch which turned unhealthy Commerce into the healthful, beautiful city of Nauvoo. I saw, in my mind's eye, that place grow from only a few houses, to a city of 20,000, with prospects; of being the biggest city in the state of Illinois. I saw railroads directed toward that city, bridges constructed across the Mississippi and a permanent city of our thriving country built. 

Then I saw the Saints leave that city, under persecutions, following the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum the patriarch. 

I have wondered if the early Saints of the Church really realized what was meant in that revelation concerning the great and mighty work that was to be brought forth among the children of men. The Prophet Joseph Smith must have known what would come to pass, for he foretold of our coming to the Rocky mountians. Yet under his direction in the short space of five years, and that constantly disturbed by mob violence, the Saints worked with a heaven-born zeal to make that place part of the great and marvelous work that was to come forth. The people gave much time to public works, paving some  with stone and dividing miles and miles of sidewalks from the street with splendid curb, much of which still stands today together with a number of fine old houses as a testimony of the wonderful integrity of the Latter-day Saints, fired with the revelations from the Lord for the huilding up of Zion in the earth. But the building of this city was only one little part of the great work referred to in the revelation. 

Fourteen years ago I went back to that city, and found about 1,500 people there. The public men asked when we were coming back, and offered' inducements that the Latter-day Saints might get possession of some of their old homes, and help them build up that city again, for, said they, "we can do nothing until you come back." About two years later, I was offered some stock in an interurban coming into that place — for, you know, that while there were four or five railroads projected into that city while the Latter-day Saints lived there, after all these years, Nauvoo stands without, a railroad. Nauvoo is little known to the railroad people, but the city of Montrose, across the river, and that, too, only a very small village, is the shipping point. 

I went back about three weeks ago, to hold conference there. I found that instead of 1,500 people, there were about 900 people. I found the projected interurban still unbuilt, the waterworks they felt sure of having only half-realized — and the beautiful flat next to the river, where most of the city stood in the day when our people flourished, all grown to weeds; the ' houses were unoccupied and much of it almost a wilderness. The people were free, to admit there could GENERAL CONFERENCE.  nothing done here until we came back and helped them. I said, "We do not need to come back — you people who live here now are not responsible for the driving out of the Later-day Saints, and neither were your parents, for there have been several peoples lived there since the Latter-day Saints were driven away. All you need to do is to heed the counsels and the advice and the testimonies of the elders that have been borne to you, from time to time; all you need to do is to repent of your sins, and be baptized, and become members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; if you will do this, you shall receive power to build this city, and make it known again as a flourishing city in the great state of Illinois." 

My brethren and sisters, it is a great and a marvelous work, "a marvelous work and a wonder," for God has set his hand in the last day to rebuild Zion, and to gather together all those whose hearts thirst after righteousness. This goodly land in which we dwell is the land in which the honest in heart of all nations shall be gathered together; and if we, who have been born in the covenant, we who are heirs to the richest blessings upon this earth, do not arise and magnify our callings in the earth, God will raise up from the nations of the earth, men and women like unto our fathers and our grandfathers, who will buckle on the full armor of God and go forth and build up his kingdom in the earth. 

I often wonder if the young men of Zion, who are born heirs to the covenant, are like the sons of rich men, who fritter away the wealth that has been gathered by their fathers. I wonder sometimes what  destiny of that part of Zion that are born heirs to the covenant will be. Do we expect to compete with the world in the gathering of riches? Do we expect to compete with the world in the accumulation of wealth? Or do we expect to fulfil the great mission that the Lord has said must be done in this day? And that great mission is the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ — the calling of the world to repentance. And how can we call the world to repentance, if we ourselves do not repent? How can we expect the world to listen to our testimonies, if we ourselves are not living lives worthy of emulation? I referred to Nauvoo, a city of possibly five or six years of age, rising from a few houses to 20,000. They kept the commandments of God, proclaimed the gospel to their neighbors, sent it into the surrounding states, and to other nations. We do not need to be deprived of the riches of this world, if we would only seek God and his righteousness first, if we would only do the great things that our Father has said should be done by his children. 

There is nothing in this world that will bring more peace, more joy, and more happiness, than the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think that our fathers and our grandfathers are permitted sometime to look down upon the earth today, and see what has taken place since they were called away — for the hearts of the children of men everywhere have been touched by the knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith and preached by our fathers. There are few people in the world today who believe in infant damnation for the unbaptized. Hundreds of people 133  believe in the restoration of the gospel, if not literally, as we Latter-day Saints believe it, they believe in a restoration of light from time to time, and they are adding truth upon truth to their belief, and practicing all the light they receive. I meet hundreds of people today who believe that baptism is absolutely essential unto salvation. I meet many people who believe that the laying on of hands is essential to the reception of the Holy Ghost. One of our elders told me the other day that a man converted in the state of Indiana to baptism in his own church, grew so enthusiastic over the baptism he had received, he wanted to know what could be done for his sister, who had died. He had read in Corinthians about baptism for the dead. The minister took him out and baptized him for the dead sister to satisfy his burning desire to have his sister saved in the same church as himself. 

There is a congregation of people in one of the conferences of our mission, who are feeling after and trying to find out how they can practice the great principle of baptism for the dead, that their fathers and their mothers may come into the same church in which they feel that they have found the light. 

About three months ago, in the city of Winnipeg, a minister there, to comfort the hearts of mothers who had been bereaved of their sons, and to administer hope and consolation to the widows of men who had died in the great struggle in Europe, preached a great sermon on salvation for the dead, declaring that he believed the merciful God would take care of those who had died for their country. Who can say that the leaven is not leav the whole lump? Who can say that the gospel of Jesus Christ is not taking root in the hearts of the children of men? Thousands of men and women today believe in a personal God. Many people are growing to believe in Jesus Christ as the veritable Son of God, born of the virgin Mary and begotten of His Father. The Lord has said that this gospel would go forth) until it filled the whole earth; and there will come a time, my brothers and sisters, when they will only say, "Where can I find someone who can; officiate in some of the ordinances of the gospel? Where can I find a man who has been called of God to take me into the waters of baptism and there bury me with Christ for the remission of my sins? They will want to know where they can find a man who has the right to lay his hands upon their heads after they have been baptized, and confer by the power of God the Holy Ghost. Why? Because the leaven is working and the proclamation of the gospel, made by our fathers and grandfathers, and being made today, is taking root in the hearts of all the children of men. 

There is more tolerance in the world today than there has ever been before, at least in America, and they are only waiting for men to come to them who are fired with something that they have not got, something that will satisfy their souls, that will give them meat and drink. They are hungering and thirsting after something they know not what. 

Upon the Latter-day Saints, my brethren and sisters, has been laid this responsibility. The men of Zion, from the age of twelve years up, have received the Priesthood in GENERAL CONFERENCE.  degree, and that priesthood carries with it the responsibility of proclaiming to the world the things that have been revealed by our Father. My brethren and sisters, I sometimes think "Woe be unto Zion, if she preaches not the gospel! What are we here for, if we are not to proclaim to the world this wonderful thing that has been restored by our Father? How many of us have stood in the grove with the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he beheld God the Father and Jesus Christ, the Son! Hoy many have followed the Prophet Joseph Smith to the hill Cumorah, where he received the Scriptures of divine truth, as revealed to the Nephites upon this continent? How many have learned the beautiful things contained in that wonderful book? 

Hundreds of thousands of Books of Mormon have been distributed in the last few years in the United States, and hundreds of people have the leaves of them turned down by valuable passages, all the way through from the beginning to the end. How many of your Books of Mormon are turned down, page after page, upon the gems written therein, upon/ the things that will bring comfort and consolation to your soul in times of sorrow, upon the things that will inspire you to go out and proclaim the gospel or prepare yourself to do these things that God has laid upon our shoulders ? How many of you know the value of this great and wonderful record that has been given to us today to prepare ourselves for the preaching of this great and glorious work? O, you say, we are not out in the world. 

I told the missionaries of the Northern States mission, last night,  there is a better chance here at home, than there is in the world, for real missionary work. How many of you have sought to visit your neighbor? and make a friend of him, until you have won his confidence? After you have won his confidence, how many of you have sat down and asked him to read the Scriptures with you? How many of you have won the love of your neighbor, so that you can put your arms around the man of the house, or around his sons, and tell them in all soberness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth that will save him and his family and bring them peace and happiness and salvation if he will obey it? 

The winning of the soul of your neighbor will bring just as much joy, just as much peace, yea more, because you will have him with vou all the time for you will not have to go and leave him. All you who have been upon a mission know how hard it is to leave your friends out in the world. But if you can convert your neighbors, vou could live with them and enjoy their society and companionship, and grow together in the knowledge of God our Father; so I appeal to the elders, and especially all returned missionaries, to continue their labors at home, seek as many opportunities as you can, to get into the homes of the people and teach them the restored gospel. 

My brothers and sisters, every part of my body burns when I hear men testify of the restoration of the gospel, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that he was an instrument in the hands of God in establishing this great work; for 135  is no greater work in all the earth. The building of the great cities of the world, the highways, the great bridges, all the wonderful inventions for the comfort and convenience of man, and all the things that have been done in any other division of God's work, cannot be compared with the great work of salvation that has been established in the earth. You may not be called upon to build bridges, neither to build railroads, neither airships nor telephones, but all you Latter-day Saints are called upon, by God our Father, to preach this gospel of his kingdom to your neighbors and to the world, and woe be unto those who preach not the gospel! 

I would to God that all the young men and young women of Israel could be touched by one-hundredth part of the Spirit of our Father that touched the heart of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as he prayed in the woods of Palmyra. O that all of us could feel what Joseph Smith the Prophet felt when he was in the presence of the angel Moroni; then we would feel a little of the responsibility that he felt, all the days of his life; -then our sons would go into the mission field better prepared, having had more opportunity to sing the songs of Zion. ' Some day, the world itself will hold us responsible for the great truths that we have. Doctors, in their code of etiquet, require every man to give the truth that comes to him to the medical world free. Scientific men are anxious to give their knowledge to the world, and all big men are happy to add all they can to the world for the good of their fellow men. We have something, as Latter-day Saints, that will do more good to the world than any other  in it, but hundreds of us are holding it locked in our bosoms, being too close-fisted to let it out, feeling too stingy to open our hearts and teach it to the world. O that Zion could be touched with the Spirit of our Father in heaven, and take upon her the real mission of teaching every one concerning the restoration of the plan of salvation, given by our Father through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

God bless Zion. May he give us power to hold up the hands of his prophet, Joseph F. Smith, for I testify to you, my brothers and sisters, that he is a prophet of God, a real, genuine leader, a mighty man, and a father in Israel, filled with love and good will toward all mankind. I wish that all you young men, if you cannot come in touch with an angel of God, might come in touch with the President of this Church, and those associated with him in the ministry for they are men of God, and have the welfare of Zion at heart. Their souls are filled with a desire that the young men and young women in Israel should arise in their strength and in the power of God, go among their neighbors and associates, and to thd world when they are called, and give the world a chance to become associated with the work that our Father has established in the earth. God grant that Zion may grow, that the young men and young women of Israel will not go seeking the pleasures that will mar their souls, and close up their hearts, but will open their hearts to the Spirit of God, and prepare themselves to be among the migfhty men who live in this day and time; and I pray for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we have had a good time. We will not prolong this meeting. 

I would like to emphasize the good things, if it were possible, that have been said in this conference, in our lives, that we may go from here better men and better women, more determined to be beneficial to our Father's children, wherever we meet them, and with a determination such as was manifest by the great Israelite, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." God help us to do so, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The authorities were sustained, as in the Tabernacle meeting, the names being presented by Elder George Albert Smith. 

The chorus sang: "God be with you till we meet again." 

The benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Daniel McRae. 


