Afternoon
08 10 1916

The choir sang : "Author of faith, eternal word." 

Prayer by Elder Nephi L. Morris, president of the Salt Lake stake of Zion. 

The choir sang the hymn, "O awake, my slumbering minstrel." 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

(President of the First Council of Seventy.) 

A visit to Jackson County — A good word for "Liahona the Elders' Journal" — Meeting with the old soldiers of the Civil War — -Meeting with the Saints and Elders in Independence 

— Civil War veterans dying at the rate of five hundred per year — Annual gathering of the Hand-Cart veterans in Salt Lake City — Blessed are the believers — Note on the Black Hawk War veterans. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I realize more fully possibly than any of you can, the responsibility that rests upon me this afternoon in occupying this position. I want to say that I endorse very heartily the remarks that have been made and the sermons that have been preached by my brethren, and the sentiment that has inspired them to give us the word of the Lord, as they have done during the former sessions of this conference. I hope and trust that the prayer offered by Brother Nephi L. Morris will be surely answered this afternoon, that all who may speak now at this time and in this session may be filled with the same spirit that has actuated former speakers. I rejoice with you in being here present at this semi-annual conference of the Latter-day Saints. I am glad I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that I have a name and standing among you, and that I am hailed by my brethren and sisters where I go, as a friend, as one who appreciates the society and the love of my fellowmen, my fellow workers in this great cause. 

I am reminded now of a recent visit that I paid to the center place of Zion, Jackson county, Missouri. It is more than twenty-five years since my former visit to that hallowed ground, for it is and has been hallowed. It has been dedicated by the Prophet Joseph Smith and by his prophetic utterances designated as the place where the temple of God shall be builded, in the 137 , upon which shall rest the glory of God as a pillar of fire bynight and a cloud by day. While there I had the privilege of associating with the brethren who are working there in the printing office, who are engaged in issuing Liahona the Elders' Journal and doing other works pertaining to the welfare of the Central States mission, and other missions of the United States. I must say a good word for the "Liahona," because I believe it is hailed with delight by the elders scattered abroad throughout this great Republic, and it is a means of introducing them into the society of people that their voices alone could not reach. But the literature of that little paper is exceptionally good, and sets forth in a very fair degree the doctrines and principles of our faith. And so I gave a little note to Brother Summerhays, as a visitor to that place, stating that I believed it would do good to the elders, help them in their mission labors, and otherwise advance them, if the Latter-day Saints generally, especially the memhers of the quorums of the priesthood, would invest a dollar or two every year in Liahona the Elders' Journal, and leave it for the elders to distribute abroad in their mission fields. 

The primary cause of my visit, however, was to meet with the old soldiers of the Civil war, in their camp fire at Kansas City. When I visited Kansas City twenty-five years ago, it was not nearly as large a town as at present. I am told, it has now some four hundred thousand inhabitants. It hasi grown much more rapidly than Independence, and I had to notice again the fact that the Latter-day Saints began to build Independence in Jack county as one of the central places of Zion, in fact, the real center place. They placed confidence, properly, in the word of the Prophet Joseph that they should build up that little town by locating there, and finally the word of the Lord also came that the Saints had to make the best of the fact that they were driven from their homes in that town. What I intended to say, and to call your attention to, is that the town of Independence is about what it was in thirty-three, when the Saints left it, not willingly but because they were compelled to. And twenty-five years ago, at my former visit, I found it just as I found it recently, not very greatly improved, in the number of inhabitants nor in the jgreatness of its buildings. We have, however, a very beautiful little meetinghouse on one portion of the temple block, which originally consisted of about sixty-three acres, and in that house I had the pleasure of meeting with the Saints, the elders and the young lady missionaries, and holding religious service with them, testifying of the gospel, of the truths that the Prophet Joseph brought to light, and the great organization which, under the inspiration of God, he brought to a fulness. 

In the march through Kansas City, the ranks of the old soldiers were not as well filled as in former years, for every year now sees them pass away, five hundred or more. This last year has reached beyond that mark, and the coming year will probably double it, and so on in the near future In a few years more, the ol.d soldier of the Union Army will be a memory of the past, as near as we can guess from present appearances and experience. As they marched through the citv of GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Kansas, headed by bands of music, led by the mayor of the city, by the governor of the state, and honored in any way that they could honor the old soldier, the people shouted many times "hooray for Utah." Some, however, did so in derision, for, you must remember that in that city of Kansas, right in that little town of Independence, there are other people who do not feel very friendly to Utah and her people, and the Latter-day Saints generally. So they expressed themselves, a very few, in jeering remarks, in regard to Brigham Young, and the people here generally. This, however, was only casually, not very common, but the greatest part of the reception there was friendly and cordial, and especially so for the old soldiers of the G. A. R. 

In company with two of the old soldiers we went up to Independence and, as I said, held meeting there. I was never more pleased in my life than I was to hear Comrade Kenard, an old soldier of the Union, and Comrade Westwood, another, bear faithful testimonies of the truth of "Mormonism." The gospel never found them, until after they had left the army, but when it did find them it fastened itself upon their hearts, minds, and thoughts, and from that testimony, that inspiring thought, they have not departed, and could not change. 

I recently visited the hand-cart gathering, which we usually hold on Saturday evening in the Fourteenth ward meeting house. After the Saturday session, of conference yesterday, at 4 :30, we met as usual. There were about between fifty and sixty of the old hand-cart veterans present. Our meeting was especially for a business which we . With the exception of the recitation of a poem, composed by the sister who spoke it, no program was instituted. The poem was beautifully rendered, and was a glowing tribute of a very warmhearted Latter-day Saint sister. I have to express my approbation, good will and fellowship for those old hand-cart veterans who endured so much to come across the plains, and to gather here with the Latterday Saints, in their early gathering years, in the days when President Young and his brethren of the apostles instituted the hand-cart system for the gathering of Israel. For three years the Latter-day Saints gathered in this way. They pulled hand-carts from the Missouri river, and in some cases from Iowa, two hundred miles heyond, making twelve hundred miles that the first companies, in 1856, traveled to reach Zion. They pulled their hand-carts all that distance, excepting that a few of the later companies, which were caught in the snow storms, along about the South Pass, and on the Sweetwater, were met mercifully by bands of brethren with teams and wagons for their relief, to bring them the remainder of the way through the snowy roads to Zion. But many of them, or quite a number, sacrificed their lives in that journey through the cold and hunger which they had to endure; but these remaining whom I met yesterday were glad that they were permitted to reach the land which they desired, in safety. They have always expressed their gratitude to those brethren who came so stoutly and so earnestly and so self-sacrificingly forth, to meet them and deliver them from their very painful experiences. I rejoice with you, my brethren 139  issters, that our fathers and mothers, the Prophet Joseph, the Prophet Brigham Young, and those who followed them and the pioneers of this great work, instituted means and plans for the gathering of the Saints from other countries, for soon it was found that there was a better way. Better means were established for the gathering of the people, and large companies of our brethren were sent back in the days of President Brigham Young, with their teams and wagons well fitted with provisions, sufficient for the journey to and from the Missouri river in the one season of the year. They met at the frontiers, the Latter-day Saints who had come up from other countries, and who were ready and waiting for transportation across the plains, — in comfortable wagons drawn by able teams and pioneered and captained by able men and drivers. And this was a very great improvement over the hand-cart system. But Brother Margetts composed a hymn on his hand-cart journey down to the Missouri river, which read something like this : 

"Cheer up, ye elders, you to the world 

will show That Israel must be gathered soon, 

and oxen are too slow."  gather to the land of Zion. The gathering spirit filled their hearts the moment they received the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The moment, my father testified, that he met the Prophet Joseph, he was inspired with the thought, with the great thought, that he had then the privilege of meeting and striking hands with a man that had stood face to face with his God, and who was in communication with him constantly by revelation. And this is the testimony of every Latter-day Saint, I believe, that they could bear, for as Jesus said to his disciples, and to doubting Thomas especially, "because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." I have echoed that thought in my heart, ever since I heard my father bear that testimony, "O blesed are the men and women who saw the Prophet Joseph and believed in him; but equally blessed are they who did not see him, but yet believed in his glorious mission." I testify to you that the gospel is true, and I pray God to help us to be faithful to every principle and to every duty, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

NOTE TO THE ABOVE. 

But we found that with all the vicissitudes that had to he met, the hand-carts were too great a hardship for women and. children to endure, as long as a better way could be found, -and it was found. 

My brethren and sisters, I testify to you that "Mormonism" is true. I testify, to you, to the integrity of our parents and of your parents who had the love of the gospel so in their hearts that they forsook all for their faith, and for the desire 

I desire to add a word in relation to the Black Hawk veterans, for, like the hand-cart veterans and their organization, and the civil war veterans in their organization, so in the Black Hawk war organization, I am deeply interested, and was present in the service of each. And I intend to exert myself in the future, as in the past, for their welfare; and shall especially bend my energies to help to secure a pension for those worthy men who served GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Black Hawk war, or for their deserving widows, who represent their husbands who have answered the final roll-call. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

We live in a momentous age — Estimates of the lives and fortunes spent in the Great War — -The relationship of the Latter-day Saints to the great calamity — Predictions of war to be poured out upon all nations — The warnings given in the word of God, contrasted with the statements of wise men of the world — Our duty to warn the inhabitants of the earth — The promise of the coming of God's Kingdom and the peace and safety to be found therein — The duty of our Nation in the establishment of future peace. 

Surely, no man can face this congregation and not be overwhelmed with a sense of his own insignificance, and only in the' belief that the Lord will give his Spirit and his strength, may one hope to discharge the responsibility of this position. 

It is a mere commonplace to say that we live in a momentous age. The world is now in the third year of the world's greatest and most destructive war. How great it is, is beyond the comprehension of man, but a few outline facts may enable us in part to grasp the greatness of this calamity that has come to the world. Of course, at present, there can only be estimates formed of the casualties in the war, but these that I present, in round numbers, are compiled from sources which I; believe the most reliable, by Gen. Hugh Scott, chief of staff in the army of the United States. He gives an itemized statement from each nation, but I shall merely report his totals. Of men  outright in all the armies, he gives as 3,522,327. Of those wounded or missing, 10,035,300; total casualties thirteen million — that is, dead, wounded and missing, 13,557,627. These figures were given out at the close of the second year of the war. There must be added to them the terrible losses since then at the battle of Verdun, and the recent great French and British offensive on the Somme. Those who have fallen in the great drives that have taken place on the southern end of the three hundred-mile battle line between Germany and Russia; the tens of thousands that have been killed within the last two months, since the opening of the offensive in Macedonia and Rumania, also in the battles in Asia Minor; so that it is safe to say that you would have of killed outright, more than four millions of men; of wounded and missing, more than twelve millions, and a total of casualties of more than fifteen millions of men! Of treasure employed in this war, some idea may be obtained from the fact that the warring nations have borrowed more than forty thousand millions of dollars ($40,000,000,000); they have spent from their own exchequers, more than ten thousand millions, that they had on hand, and that has come from taxes. This of course, takes no account of the destruction of property, and laying desolate cities, towns, and countries through which armies have surged back and forth, and by the destructive battles that have been fought. These figures are beyond our comprehension. W,e may be somewhat educated in thinking in millions, but thousands of millions — billions — are beyond us. 

My reason for introducing these matters to this conference is to sub141 

- mit to you this question : Does this Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints stand in any relationship to this great calamity that has come upon the inhabitants of the earth — upon the nations of Europe? Do we as a Church have any relationship to the great world movements ? I believe that we d,o, but I must needs point this out in headlines because of the limitation of time. We certainly do hold a relationship to these great calamities. We hold, for instance, the relationship of a fore-knowledge of them, for God has not permitted this calamity to come upon the inhabitants of the earth without warning. We have in a general way, a foreknowledge of the destiny of the nations that shall inhabit this choice land of America. We had read to us this morning by Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., the conditions on which nations may maintain themselves and their dominion upon this choice land, dedicated as it is to free institutions and to be the habitat of a righteous people. And they may maintain themselves here, whether of Israel or of the Gentile races; if they comply with those conditions — acceptance of the God of the land — who is declared to be Jesus Christ — and of his righteous law. The same message was delivered to the Nephites. They were told that both the House of Joseph — son of Jacob — and the Gentiles should have special inheritance in this land, and that the Gentiles should be great in the eyes of the Lord, but there should be no kings that should raise up unto the Gentiles in this land; "for he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish," said the Lord, "for I, the Lord, the King of heaven, will be their King." The land is consecrated to  institutions, then, and to a righteous people, and God, under these conditions, is pledged "to fortify this land against all other nations." It is the land of Zion, "and he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God" (II Nephi x). 

The great calamity of the Civil war was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith, as is common knowledge among you. twenty-nine years before it began, and in great detail the circumstances of the Rebellion, as to its ending in the death and misery of many- souls; as to the Southern States being divided against the Northern States; as to the Southern States calling upon Great Britain, and Great Britain calling upon other nations, in order to "defend themselves against other nations," "and then" war shall be poured out upon all nations. It reads in the current print of the Doctrine and Covenants, "and 'thus' war shall be poured out upon all nations." But when revising the History of the Church some years ago, we found that in the manuscript, it read, "then," that is. when Great Britain shall call upon other nations to defend herself against other nations, "then war shall be poured out upon all nations." England for a long while, trusting in the greatness and strength of her navy, rejoiced in what her statesmen were pleased to call her policy of "splendid isolation"; that is to say freedom from entangling alliances with continental European powers. But finally, under the stress of rising circumstances, she departed from this policy of isolation, and united with other nations for selfdefense, with the result that soon afterwards — that is, in a few years — came this outburst of the world's GENERAL CONFERENCE. . "And thus with the sword and by bloodshed," continues the revelation, "the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn, and with famine and plagues and earthquakes and the thunder of Heaven and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath and indignation and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed, hath made a full end .of all nations." 

Thus the note of warning of this great world war was sounded. In another section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, the Prophet says: "I prophesy in the name of the Lord God, that the difficulties which shall cause much blood shed previous to the coming of the Son of Man, "will begin in South Carolina." "It may arise over the slavery question," said he, for "this a voice declared to me when praying upon the subject, on December 25, 1832." 

As stated here this morning, the general opinion prevailed that the world would not witness another great international war. Soon after the close of the secon,d Balkan war, the noted professor referred to here this morning, by Dr. Talmage, in a work of his called War and' Waste, said: 

"What shall we say of the great war of Europe, ever theatening and ever impending, but which never comes? We shall say that it will never come. Humanly speaking it is impossible. All Europe cherishes, is ready for the burning, yet Europe recoils and will recoil even in the dread stress of spoil division of the Balkan war." 

This was the universal feeling respecting modern war. I remember that several young men of our own faith who came to me to converse upon this very revelation and warn on war that the Lord caused to be written by his Prophet, and wondered if we would not have to find some interpretation that would be harmonized with continual peace among the nations; but the word of God proved to be true, and notwithstanding all the hopes and opinions of men, the great calamity has come; and we stand in the relationship of having fore-knowledge of the event, not by any wisdom of ours, but because the Lord was pleased to reveal the impending danger of the nations to our Prophet. 

There is another relationship in which we stand to this great event of the last days — one which grows out of our fore-knowledge of this calamitous event of the world's war, and that is the relationship of duty to warn the inhabitants of the earth of this calamity. If you will read that revelation which is called God's Preface to his Book of Commandments, you will find it stated there that God, "knowing the calamities that were to come upon the earth," of pestilence, and war, and famine, he had sent forth his angel to his Prophet and had commissioned him to teach it, to establish his Church, make proclamation of judgments to come, especially of this calamity of war, and proclaim also the existence of a place of refuge and safety in the midst of these calamities, even Zion, the land of America — f or such America is, the land of Zion, "And it shall come to pass among the wicked", saith the Lord, "that every man that will not take up his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee into Zion for safety, and there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another."143 

One other relationship we stand in to these great world movements, and to this calamity of war, particularly, and that is the relationship based upon hope, upon the assurance that notwithstanding the greatness and the fierceness of this cataclysmic war that has come upon the inhabitants of the earth, before they were aware of it, before they could avoid it, we know that beyond these scenes of turmoil, and strife, and sore perplexity of the nations, and this judgment, there is the promise of the coming of God's kingdom. In that passage, we often quote from Isaiah, referring to the time when the mountain of the Lord's house would be established in the tops of the mountains, and all nations would flow to it, that they would there be taught the ways of the Lord, and learn to walk in his paths— in that scripture it is also said that God would "judge among the nations and rebuke many people, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks." That nation should not "lift up the sword against nation, neither learn war any more." The revelations of God in these last days to his Church are replete with promises that after the world conflict, there shall come world peace, and the earth shall rest. It seems to me that it is at this point that we may be especially helpful to the inhabitants of the earth, first, by proclaiming the incoming of this era of peace, and second by the introduction of those instrumentalities that shall make it possible for the establishment of that kingdom. Indeed I believe that light will break in upon the present gloom and darkness of the world's great sorrows. Already men are beginning to take account of  shall be "after the war shall close." Unhappily, as was pointed out by Brother Hyrum M. Smith in his remarks on Saturday, there are those who preach a war of trade after the war of arms shall have closed. I am happy, however, to note that while there are those who are engaged in an agitation of that kind, there are statesmen great enough, in contemplating this prospect, to say that to indulge in revenue will be but to sow the seeds of future wars. Only a few days ago, on the third of the present month, there appeared in the dispatches in our daily press a most statesman-like word from Lprd Bryce, who, up to a year or so before the outbreak of the war, was Great Britain's ambassador to this country, and at a meeting of congregational ministers in Great Britain, he decried this trade war of revenge, and the agitation of the idea of so restricting trade and commerce with the Central Empires of Europe, as to work their injury, to humiliate them, and for the purposes of revenge. He decried that, and hoped that such a policy would not obtain, and advocated a league to restrain aggression and compel arbitration. "If there is to be," he said, "a re-occurrence of wars, becoming more terrible with the unceasing advance of science, we may well despair of the future." But instead of despairing, he called upon those before him to unite with all other forces that would look to the establishment of a permanent peace among the nations of the earth. He pointed to America, and called attention to the fact that both candidates for the high office of President of this Republic were committed by public utterance to an expressed willingness to forsake any GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of isolation, heretofore assumed by our country, to participate with other neutral nations, and with the beligerent nations, in seeking to establish the world's permanent peace, holding that both these candidates were equally pledged to such a policy, and he doubted not that they were both equally sincere; which, also, I believe. So that there are those in the world who will work for the world's peace. I hope that the Latter-day Saints — that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints — will be numbered among those who will engage in such work. I have confidence that our nation, the United States, is going to be an instrument in the hands of God in accomplishing great things when it comes to settling the world's affairs, now so complex and confused by reason of this terrible war. I look for the influence and power — the great influence and power — of our nation to be thrown in the scale on the side of justice and righteousness, and for the establishment of a permanent peace among the inhabitants of the earth. There will doubtless be constituted a league of nations that will, in a way, establish an em- , pire of humanity, with such instrumentalities created through which to exercise its just powers, that nationality shall be so far suppressed, that the intensity of national feeling shall not again be permitted to disturb the peace of the world. I see my time has expired. The Lord bless the cause of justice and of peace, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Two organ solos, "Nearer, my God, to thee," and "Andante Religioso," were played on the great organ by Prof. John J. McClellan. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the few minutes I occupy, I may be inspired of the Lord, that I may be assisted in relating to you conditions as they exist in our Mexican mission, and as they exist in the Mexican nation, among that people. 

I would like to call your attention, by way of preface, to the words of the Lord as spoken through the Prophet Lehi in regard to the conditions that should come upon his descendants, should they forsake the Lord. When Lehi was told of this land and told to bring his family and come here, he was also told upon what conditions his people might remain in peaceful possession of the land. He says : 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that they shall keep his commandments, they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever. 

"But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord; having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of the earth; having power given them to do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land of promise; behold, I say, if the day shall come that th«y will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold the 145  ,of hitrn that is just shall rest upon them; 

"Yea, he will bring other nations' 'unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them, lands of their possessions; and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten." 

Without going into detail, brethren and sisters, the Lamanites that inhabit the land have forsaken, in their past history, their true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, and as a result of such, they have brought upon themselves the fulfilment of this promise of condemnation, that the Lord made through their father Lehi. Contrary to general opinions, among a great many people that I come in contact with, I wish to state that the Mexican people are in the great majority the descendants, literal descendants, of Lehi, through his sons Laman and Lemuel, and they are the Lamanites. A very small proportion of the people who inhabit Mexico are of mixed blood; the great majority of them are straight Indian tribes, but they have been conquered at the hands of the other nations whom the Lord had said should come in among them, if they should disobey him and forsake the gospel as he revealed it unto them. The same is true in regard to all of the LatinAmerican countries, south of us here. The Gentile nations, as it is explained in other parts of the Book of Mormon, have come in, and have literally taken away from those people the lands -of their inheritance, insomuch that statistics given out in regard to Mexico, during the last days of the regime of Porfirio Diaz, state that of the fifteen millions of people, that there are in Mexico, there are only two millions of people who are property holders. 

My observation has led me to know that those two millions of property holders in Mexico are the descendants of the Spanish conquerors who came in. Hernando Cortez, in the year 1519, took away from the people of that land every part of their possessions, of the lands of their inheritance; and they did not only take away from them their lands, but they took away from them their personal liberties. They believed that the right of conquest was vested in the Holy See, and it was given to them to conquer this people, and they made them the vassals and the servants and slaves of their king. In recompense for the part that they took, they received enormous grants of land, and grants of the natives of the land, with which to till their immense domains. The whole valley of Oaxaca, a valley almost as large as the Salt Lake valley, was given to one man, and thirty thousand men of the Indian population were given to him with which to till his land. 

Now the conditions that were thus started by the conquest of Mexico, by the Spaniards, have been perpetuated right up to this date. In the southern part of the country, these immense plantations are worked by man-labor only. The rich hacienda owners have introduced very little machinery, finding it cheaper and more to their interest to work their immense domains at the expense of the natives of the land, because the labor there has been so accessible to them, and so cheap. Men have been literally worked to death on some of the southern plantations. 

Perhaps many people will be startled to know that a system of slavery existed in Mexico, up to the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that Madero started his revo. lution, a system of slavery that was in every respect as bad as the slavery that existed in the South. Members of our own Church have fallen into the snare there, the native members of the Church, and have heen sold into slavery. I recall, just now, one young man who was wiled away from his home, near the city of Mexico, and was sold into slavery down in the state of Oaxaca, to labor there. He was abused there for three years, and only when he had become absolutely so emaciated and so weakened by constant labor that he could no longer work, was thrown out in the jungle as dead. After recovery, near a stream, he made his way back up to his family and told the elders and myself many times of his experiences; and he related those of the several hundred people who were on the plantation at the time he went there. There were only a few of them left alive at the time that he came away. 

Now, there has been, in Mexico, revolutions from the time that the Spaniards conquered Mexico, and the conditions I have referred to are the cause of those revolutions. The people have never been conquered in their spirits, although they have been conquered and held down by a force superior to their own. They have been struggling for liberty, and it was this desire to participate in the ownership of the land, and in the government of the country, that made possible the revolution by Madero there, with which we are all conversant. Although! it may appear different to those who are not very conversant with it, it is a fact that the struggle has always been between the two powers that I have mentioned — the  people who are the descendants of the conquerors of the country; and the poverty-stricken part of the population comprising the very great majority of those who have nothing but misery, and who do not even own the clothes that they stand up in. And although there have been men raised up in their ranks who have been leaders, but have later led counter-revolutions against the very people that they tried to put in power, it has always been because of the lamentable fact, in human nature and in human kind, that there are very few men who have not a price, and such men as Pasqual Orozco, and others who have led counter-revolutions against the real struggle for liberty have been bought off by the millions of the privileged and wealthy classes of that country. My observations, and letters that I have received from our twelve hundred native Saints, the representatives of them that we have in and around the city of Mexico, teach me that conditions are no better now than they have been for the past four or five years. I have letters under date of only last month stating to me that the revolutionary leader of the south, Zapata, is within twenty miles of the capital of Mexico with his forces; and we learn from newspaper reports that the revolutionary cause is gaining ground in the north. 

Now, many people wonder why the man who is recognized as the provisional president of Mexico, cannot bring about the pacification of that country. I would like to give you my opinion in regard to it, brethren and sisters. It is simply this : General Carranza is by birth and by training, and in every other way, an aristocrat — one of the priv147  classes of Mexico, and he is a man who cannot inspire in the Mexican people any confidence. The idea that prevails generally, that the Mexican people would rather fight than eat, to me is erroneous. I don't believe it; but the Mexican people never again will lay down their arms until the people of the country have an opportunity to participate in the ownership of the country, and in the government of the country, in the politics of the country, something that they have never had up to this present time, since the country was conquered by the Spaniards. They have never had property, and they have never had political liberty, they have never had religious liberty, in that country" up until this time. Until the time comes that they get those things, the masses of the people, the thirteen millions of the people, will never lay down their arms, according to my belief. 

I had the privilege of staying in that country for three years of the present revolution, and I met those soldiers. Up on the cold sides of the Volcan, east of Mexico, I saw soldiers from the tropical parts of the country in rags, and I asked them why they desired to continue the struggle against such odds, and in the face of such great difficulties. They said: "It makes very little difference to us what sufferings we have to go through, but we are determined that our children, if it is possible on our part, shall inherit something besides the misery that we have had to live in, and we never again will lay down our arms until there is established for the humble class of Mexico liberty." 

In the city of Mexico today, there is greater suffering, according co the letter I received, than there ever  been. The money of the country is absolutely depreciated in the country itself, and they are not able to buy the necessary things to subsist upon, and those things are not there, even if they had the money to buy them. I had a letter from a very sober, good branch president that we have there, in whose word I have every confidence, in which he said that many of the people in the streets of Mexico are picking up today fruit peelings or any other thing that they might pick up and devour, to satisfy the pangs of hunger. He says that there are many of our own native Saints, good, true, consistent members of the Church, who have paid their tithing, when they have made money, who have attended to their meetings, and who have acted as teachers, as home missionaries, in the meetings, and as officers in the organizations of the Church, as we have them established in the mission, and that there are among those many who are not eating but one meal in forty-eight hours. 

Such are the conditions in that country, at the present time. Brethren and sisters, it pains me to have to speak about these conditions. They are conditions that I keep in my heart, and I constantly pray to the Lord that other conditions might come about, because I keep in mind the word of the Lord as it came to Nephi, the son of this same Lehi, about whom I have read, when the Lord showed to him the same things that he showed to his father. But he showed to him further, and said to him: "The Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed, which are among thy brethren, neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy GENERAL CONFERENCE.  seed of thy brethren." If I had time, brethren and sisters, I could cite you passages wherein the Lord has said that the gospel should be restored even among that same Gentile nation that should come in to smite them, and that it should he restored in this period, and that a book should come forth having the fulness of the everlasting gospel in it, and having a history of this same people in it, and that there should be many among the Gentiles who should believe the words of the book that should be written, and that they would carry it back again to the remnants of the seed of Lehi for their redemption. , I have just as great faith in the fulfilment of that promise, as I have in the fulfilment we have witnessed in their behalf today. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, an honor in being called to carry the gospel to that down-trodden people, and I wish to testify to you that you can feehwhen you get under the crust of the curse that rests upon them, by means of the key of the gospel that we carry in our hands, you can feel in them the true blood of Israel. They are a great people, and I have absolute faith in their redemption. I wish to invite the charity of the people of the Church toward them. They may have committed against us depredations, and if it were only a political issue, if it were only a national issue, if we were only Americans, we might have resentment toward them, but we have received the word of the Lord that they are our brethren; and we cannot scoff at the Jews, because through the Jews we have the Bible, and we need not scoff at the seed of Lehi, because through them, we have the Book of Mormon. We, of all peo in the world, should be the most charitable toward them; have the kindest and the greatest desire to lend our efforts for their redemption, and be numbered among those who believe literally in the words of the book, and have a desire to carry the words of the book to them for their conversion to the truth, and for their redemption in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Our Saints, I wish to say in concluding, are faithful in that land. The twelve hundred that we have there come together Sunday after Sunday, even in their poverty, and partake of the sacrament and teach each other. The Relief Societies maintain their identity, and the Sunday schools, and they are working for the assistance and for the help of each other; and they are praying for the day when the clouds of war will, roll by, and that the servants of the Lord will be permitted to come again and teach and belo them, and carry the gospe 1 to their brethren and to their sisters who are yet in darkness. I also pray for these things, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

Prosperity should remind the people that this is a good time to pay off obligations — Let the present not be to us the prosperity of fools — Surplus money should be invested at home where the investor is acquainted with conditions — Improve the home, the land, the cattle, where you reside — Save your wheat for local demand — Pay your debts now, not some other day — forget not the debt you owe to the Lord. 

I shall not take a great deal of your time this afternoon, as the time is already well spent. We have had abundance of instruction, admoni149 , counsel and advice given to us during this conference, and it has been given with the Spirit and ppwer of the Lord, so that it has reached our hearts, and we feel the better for having attended the conference. 

For the few minutes that I may occupy, I would like to emphasize what Elder Ivins touched upon in his remarks this forenoon with respect to paying debts and keeping out of debt. I give it to you as the best advice to myself and to you all; that there never was so good a time to get out of debt as right now. The people are abundantly prospered and blessed. Coming over from my home this afternoon, I noticed both sides of the street lined with automobiles. I suppose all around this block you will find it so. I am glad to see it; I am proud to see it. But I hope that those who are owing for their automobiles, or any part of them, will lay this counsel to heart, for it is mighty good gospel for all of us — that we pay off our obligations, and also that we lift the mortgages on our homes and farms. Everything that you produce in these times commands a good price. Everything in the way of food stuffs, beef, mutton, swine and cereals as well as fruits; they are called for in one form or another, canned or put up in different ways, to supply the armies of Europe. They are sent abroad by shiploads. The war has created a great demand for all that you produce, and still more and more is called for. 

A stream of gold is coming back into this country, so much so that our banks can hardly contain it, for I noticed that in the last few days the banks in New York have been sending seventy-five to one hundred million dollars back to London, to  it there, because there is so much here that they can't loan it. That stream of gold is pouring back because of these war supplies. Not only the munitions of war, but the supplies of food, clothing, and everything that your farms produce, are called for to feed those armies, and the prices are of the best. Therefore, now is the time to pay our debts and having paid them to keep out of debt. 

If we are prosperous to such an extent that we forget our obligations to each other and to the Lord, what kind of prosperity is that? You can read in the Bible a prophecy of Solomon; I wish I had time to read it for you, but these words are the closing of it : "The turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them." I have wondered if in this immense and unbounded prosperity it shall not be to us the prosperity of fools, which may destroy us. For if it takes faith out of our hearts, if it destroys the faith of our children so that they do not love the work of the Lord as they should do, and are given to frivolity and going the ways of the world, — if it does all that, then it is the prosperity of fools that destroys us! 

Now, if we are not in debt, and have no obligations to pay, and have a little surplus on hand, instead of investing that money in some "get rich quick" scheme away off, say in South America or Mexico, investing in land, timber, rubber, or bananas, or in sending our surplus money to invest in coal in Wyoming, sending it away to these investments that we don't know anything about, I advise you to keep your money at home, and invest it in something you do know someGENERAL CONFERENCE.  about. President Young used to tell the farmers in his day, and it is just as good counsel for us today as it was in Brother Brigham's time, "You tend to your farms, and let the mines alone." Why did he give this advice? Because, as he stated, you are farmers, and you are not miners. Mining is all right; it is a distinct and necessary business and a very good one, but as you are not miners but farmers and carpenters and builders and whatever vocation you have, therefore it is the best counsel that the shoemaker should stick to his last. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, if you have a little surplus, instead of investing it in things that you don't and cannot know anything about, these "get rich quick" schemes, let me advise you to invest in one acre or two of land that you do know something about; fix up the home; make your wife and family more comfortable; provide for them better; not to excess in dress or in luxury, but make good and comfortable provision for them. Add to your little herd of cows — you know something more about that — and what you get, let it be of the best kind of stock. If you are in the sheep business, get the best sheep that can be produced; if you are dairying, strive for the best cattle, and the best results. Try to make what you produce a little better than anybody else. We ought to be able to make the land produce much more than it does. 

I believe that our Agricultural College, under the direction of Dr. Widtsoe, now under the direction of Dr. Peterson, has done a great deal in showing us that we can make one acre of land produce as much as two or three have been producing. A man who makes ten  of land sustain twenty people, where it only sustained ten before, is a public benefactor; he has done something; he has accomplished results; he is somebody in the community, and I take my hat off to that kind of a man. 

Bishop David A. Smith and his brothers have a dairy herd, and they are proving to us that one cow will produce as much butter fat, and bring better results in the way of food products, than two or three cows of the ordinary kind would do, and there are others engaged in the same line of industry that are teaching us the same lesson. They are taking the forage produced on one acre of land and by putting it in a silo and making ensilage of it, and by properly and scientifically feeding, they have proven that they can get better results with one cow than you could from two or three cows in the old way of doing things. Now, all this is good. An acre of good land properly tilled can be made to produce $100 every year; that is 10 per cent of the valuation of $1,000. You can make such land worth $1,000 an acre just as well as not. 

Let me advise you in another point. Do not sell all the wheat you have, but keep enough for your local demands. It is good to have enough wheat on hand for bread, so that we will not be obliged to call on some other country to feed our own people. I know when I went on a mission, forty years ago — it will be forty years next April since I went with President Smith to Europe — that I provided a bin full of wheat for my wife and two children before I left. In those days we used to make it a point to have a year's bread-stuff on hand. That was President Young's coun151 , and it is mighty good counsel today. It will not hurt you to keep a little of your wheat at home and not sell it all. So be wise in these temporal things. They are small things but, as I said before, the counsel is just as good as in spiritual things, and we need to lay it well to heart. Don't send everything out of the country. 

The other day we had a call at the sugar company's office for 150 carloads of sugar to feed the troops in Italy. The Italian government called for that amount, at one time, and so the products go, and so the gold comes back, and so many of us think that this kind of thing is going to continue, and we will all pay our debts some other day. Pay them now. There is no time in the world for paying debts like right now; do it at once and don't put it off. For the war will be over some of these fine days and prices will go tumbling. 

Let me remind you also to pay your debts and obligations to the Lord. We owe him something and we don't settle these obligations, many of us, quite as strictly as we should. I know we are a mighty good people, the best in the world, good bishops, good presidents, good, faithful workers, good sisters in the Relief Societies, and in the other organizations. No better class of men and women in all the world than they. None any purer or more virtuous, or more honorable, or more desirous of doing good, or more desirous, of helping their neighbors, of blessing and being blessed, than these same Latter-day Saints. Let us remember the Lord with our tithes and offerings and not be niggardly about it. The Lord loveth a cheerful giver, one that can walk up and say, "I have been  so abundantly that I don't know howj to express it. Bishop, here is what I owe. Really, I wish I could do more, and next year I am going to do still better." The Lord loves that kind of a cheerful giver. God bless you. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to he voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators: 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen, and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Joseph S. Wells. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony' C. Lund, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, and B. Cecil Gates, assistant conductors; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; John Drakeford, librarian; and all the members. 

General Board of Relief Society: Emmeline B. Wells, president; Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor; Julina L. Smith, second counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, secretary; Susa Young Gates, corre secretary; Emma A. Empey, treasurer; Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical director; Edna H. Coray, organist; Sara Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McLelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Jeanette A. Hyde, and Sarah Eddington. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union: Joseph F. Smith, superintendent; David O. McKay, first assistant superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, second assistant superintendent; George D. Pyper, secretary; John F. Bennett, treasurer; Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, Seymour B. Young, Anthon H. Lund, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Charles W. Penrose, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, E. G. Gowans, E. Conway Ashton, Adam S. Bennion, and Edward P. Kimball. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association: Joseph F. Smith, superintendent; Heber J. Grant and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant superintendents; Moroni Snow, secretary; Francis M. Lyman, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi C. 153 

Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley, Richard W. Young, and Preston D. Richards. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association: Martha Home Tingey, president; Ruth May Fox, first couneslor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor; Clarissa A. Beesley, secretary; Joan M. Campbell, recording secretary; Alice K. Smith, treasurer; Margarejt Summerhays and Mabel Cooper, music directors. Aids : Maria Young Dougall, Adella W. Eardley, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, LauraBennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Sarah E. Richards, Lucy M. S. Carter, Charlotte Stewart, Lucy Grant Cannon, and Emily H. Higgs. 

General Board of Primary Associations : Louie B. Felt, president; May Anderson, first counselor; Clara W. Beebe, second counselor; Francis K. Thomassen, secretary; 

Mary F. Young, treasurer; Ida B. Smith, librarian; Adelaide U. E. Hardy, assistant librarian; Emma Ramsey Morris, chorister; Matilda W. Cahoon, assistant chorister; Ivy Allen, organist; Isabella S. Ross and Ann Nebeker, physical directors. Advisors to the Board : Hyrum M. Smith, and Anthony W. Ivins. Aids: Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion, Margaret C. Eastmond, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma P. Romney, Zina Y. Card, Laura L. Foster, Edith Hunter Lambert, Eleanor R. Jeremy, Ella S. Capener, Annie S. Milne, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers, Helen Davis, Florence Summerhays, Marion Belnap Kerr, Jeanette B. Dee, and Nellie A. Talmage. 

General Board of Religion Classes: Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, second assistant superintendent; Edwin S. Sheets, secretary; Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, Willard Young, James E. Talmage, N. Andrew Jensen, and Guy C. Wilson. 

General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, president; Charles W. Penrose, vice president; Joseph F, Smith, Jr., secretary and treasurer; Joseph Christensen, librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, Duncan M. McAllister, and Heber J. Grant. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Edward H. Anderson, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the people. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

A short sermon — Glorious destiny of the United States — An Opinion on the Mexican situation. 

I have just one little short sermon: Get out of debt, keep out of debt; never mortgage your homes nor your farms. Put down intemperance, and be a wise and sober people. Do not make war on, but love your neighbors. Keep the word of wisdom. Be wise and moderate in your amusements, and let your amusements be innocent and your enjoyment pure. Card-playing is an evil; pool playing is an evil, gambling is an evil; avoid every evil, and the waste of your time. Honor the Sabbath day and divine authority. Keep yourself pure and unspotted from the world. Let everybody, who can, raise his own bread and meat. Patronize home productions, and sustain home industry. Be not scoffers, but show kindness and sympathy to all, and especially to the unfortunate. 

I have a feeling in my heart that the United States has a glorious destiny to fulfil, and that part of that glorious destiny is to extend liberty to the oppressed, as far as it is possible to all nations, to all people. After hearing the remarks of President Rey L. Pratt, with reference to the condition of our people,  to the masses of down-trodden and oppressed people in Mexico, thirteen millions of whom are held under serfdom and slavery, by the descendants of their conquerors — who could not devoutly wish that some mighty and just power, equal to the task, would extend the hand of freedom to those oppressed people, even if it cost the lives of their oppressors. I do not want war; but the Lord has said it shall be poured out upon all nations, and if we escape, it will be "by the skin of our teeth." I would rather the oppressors should be killed, or destroyed, than to allow the op? pressors to kill the innocent. 

The choir sang a chorus from Beethoven's oratorio, "The Mount of Olives." 

Benediction was pronounced by Presiding Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith who in his authority as Patriarch blessed the vast assembly. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

It was announced that 15,064' people were in attendance at the meetings this afternoon. 

Prof. Anthon C. L un d conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tahernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses_ were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. "',! 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

SIX VOLUMES NOW READY COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per volume $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco — Gilt Top, per volume.. 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per volume 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per vol. 400 " 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG, FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH &== - if BOOK OF MORMON— Large print, full 

Morocco, extra gilt _$ 3.75 

DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS— Large 

print full Morocco, extra gilt 3.75 

PEARL OF GREAT PRICE— Morocco, extra gilt 1.50 

BIBLE — Full Morocco, extra gilt, finished to exactly match large print Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants..!... 6.00 

THE FULL SET, if ordered by a Ward at 

one time, postpaid... 12.50 

TWO BOOKS THAT EVERY L. D. S. FAMILY SHOULD HAVE 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price, $1.25 postpaid. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead, $1.25 and upward. JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH S fe-r: — , fli 







