Second Overflow
08 10 1916

A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., Elder Orson F. Whitney, presiding. 

The singing was by the Pioneer United Choir, under the direction of Tracy Y. Cannon, chorister, Edward P. Kimball, accompanist. 

The choir sang: "Ye simple souls that stray." 

Elder William Robinson offered the opening prayer. 

The choir sang: "As the hart that pants." 

Elder O. F. Whitney presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, as presented at the session in the Tabernacle. Each and all were sustained by unanimous vote in the positions named. 

A soprano solo, "Recessional," was sung by Martha Cottrill. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(Pesident of the Western States Mission.) 

I am keenly appreciative of the responsibility of this moment; and, to the end that I may be divinely inspired, together with those who shall follow in this meeting, I crave your indulgence and your faith, for  and of myself I am quite helpless to say anything by way of profit or edification to you. 

As I listened to the splendid tribute paid by President Smith to the mission presidents, at the opening session of this conference, I experienced a feeling of humility the like of which has seldom come to me, and when I realized from his remarks the confidence he has in those men, his faith in their integrity and in their loyalty to the work of the Lord and to the presiding authority of the Church, I felt entirely inadequate, even in a slight measure to fulfil the mission designed and the duties and responsibilities devolving upon me as one of those men; and I determined in my heart to continue to do all that I could for the advancement of God's purpose in the earth and to maintain always a prayer for those who stand in responsible positions in Israel. 

And when President Smith referred to the responsibility upon the. Latter-day Saints, speaking of our obligations to the Church, he said it was a "terrible reality," I thought, where do we lack in appreciating the positions that we should occupy as men and women who have taken upon ourselves such obligations and covenants to serve the Lord? and I wondered if our faith is what it should be. I instinctively thought of the great encouragement that is 'vouchsafed to all, in the words of James, wherein he says : "Is any sick among you, let him call for the elders of the Church, and let them pray over him anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick." I then recalled a conversation I had recently at the home of a friend of mine in one of the Eastern cities, where I met a 107  man, a professor of education, who himself broached the subject of miracles. After he had given the company his views and told instances, some of which he seriously questioned, I ventured the suggestion I had every confidence in the word of the Lord, and when he or his servants said that the prayer of faith would heal the sick I believed what they said. "Well," he replied, "under ordinary conditions I would believe it, but I cannot believe all things pertaining to it." He said a personal friend of his came to him one time, and related the following incident : His little son had broken his wrist, and he started with him to a doctor, but the boy having implicit faith, which undoubtedly was taught him at his mother's knee, said : "Father, if you will pray for me, my wrist will get well without going to a doctor." The father anointed that injured part with oil, and blessed his son, and the wrist went into place, and the bones knitted together. "Now," my friend said, "I do not credit that, and I cannot believe that statement." He enquired, "How would you view it?" I said, "If I thought the man's word was to be relied upon in other things, I would take his word as quickly for that as anything else. "Well," he said, "there was nothing to work on. The bones were broken, do you think that the Lord is going to make two bones grow together when they are broken apart?" I said, "I believe that he can make bones grow together, and I know of cases where he has not only restored flesh, but he has restored bone that has been taken out of a hand which was mangled." 

I told him of a case that occurred in Denver recently, where a doc, an old man, had invited our missionaries to his home, and they had held a few cottage meetings there. This man was injured by being thrown off a hone when he was a lad, fifty years ago, and as a result one of his hands was crippled seriously, not having been properly set, and aside from that his feet were badly crippled from rheumatics. One evening after a meeting was held, he said to the conference president who happened to be there, "if you elders would come and administer to me I would get well, I would be healed." And they made an appointment to go to his home the next day. A ' new elder accompanied the conference president, a young man from this city, who had been there only two or three weeks upon his mission. They anointed this man and prayed for him and blessed him. He sat for fully five minutes, looking out of the window, not saying a word. Finally he commenced to feel of his hand, and then realizing it had been healed, he called his wife, and she came in and attested to the fact, and then the conference president, knowing that he had been healed thus miraculously, said unto him, "Why don't you arise and walk, and see if your other trouble has not been benefited also ?" And the man arose like a boy, and walked across the room, and then accompanied the elders to the car line, half a block from his home, enthusiastically talking and testifying until they parted. This man gave me his testimony to the same effect, and said, among other things, that he had been accused by his neighbors and friends as being fanatical and crazy about some things : but, he said, "I have been teaching 'Mormonism' for a long time, and did not know what GENERAL CONFERENCE.  was." And so I told my friend of this case. "Well," he admitted, "I agree that perhaps if there was a dislocation without a break, that that might be healed, that the prayer of an individual might have the desired effect. But, I cannot believe if two bones are broken that any kind of power other than the power of science can unite those bones together." I thought of this today as Dr. Talmage referred to one phase of activity that we ought to be careful about, that is, when educated men pretend to place themselves above the word of God, when they undertake to say that they can readily judge between things of earth, and heaven, and that they, through their scientific investigation, aver that the scripture is a fraud, that the lives of the old apostles and the life of the Savior were but a story or myth. I fear that too often young people who go to colleges throughout this land and in the world, imbibe false doctrines and theories, and they sometimes lack faith enough to withstand the arguments that are brought to bear, on this tremendously vital question. 

We have, aside from the Bible, the words of Moroni, when giving his final testimony to the world he said : "And Christ truly said to our fathers, if ye have faith ye can do all things which is expedient unto me." I like to dwell upon that thought. I like to believe that this system of ours teaches us to pray to a personage, to a living God, to one who will hear and answer prayer when it is expedient to him. There are times we know when the power of the priesthood is brought to bear, and we see no results. We know that men and women must die, their lives cannot be prolonged indefi, and yet we would pray for them, and we do pray for them when they are upon their deathbed, that they may be restored to health, and still they die. It is expedient in the Lord, because he has said that all must die. But if our faith is such that we can rely absolutely upon him, then we are entitled to go to him with an undying faith, with a simple faith, and he will hear and answer prayer. And if at times he fails to answer our prayers as we think they should be answered, then we should acknowledge his almighty power and realize that it was not expedient in him that such prayers should be answered. 

that we might have a living, abiding faith in God, above all things to realize the responsibility of life, to recognize the duties and the requirements that are made of us from day to day, to pray that when our young men and young women, boys and girls, go out into the world to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they are to get the best training that can come to them in life. The knowledge that will come to them, that Jesus is the Christ, that God lives, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God is above and beyond any other thing that can come to them. That is the kind of faith I like to have, and try to exercise. My faith in this work is simple, but it is absolute, and I hope to continue in that way, the Lord being my helper. 

1 recall, frequently with much profit and encouragement, the words of the great philosopher, Emerson, one who is looked upon perhaps as the greatest philosopher of our time, wherein he said, "I delight in telling what I think, but if you ask me how I know a thing I am the most helpless of mortals. 109 

What I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for what I have not seen," and so I believe that the great body of Latter-day Saints have seen enough, have known enough, aye have felt enough, for sometimes it comes as a spirit that tecstifies to our souls, and we do not know how it comes, nor from where, but I believe that we have enough of the spirit of vision that if there are things that we cannot see through, if there are things that science cannot take and dissect, and analyze as they do material things, then our faith is such that we can look to God for the information, that in his own due time he will enlighten our minds and open our understandings and make us to realize that we are indeed his children, and that we are here in a probation of mortality, seeking to know the way of life and salvation. 

May God grant his eternal blessings to us, that we may serve him with full purpose of heart, that we may magnify our callings, that we may sustain in our hearts and in our actions the Presidency of the Church, the presidents of stakes, the bishops of wards, and all to whom we owe allegiance in this great work, and cultivate humility and faith, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. BAXTER. 

(President of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.) 

It is with felingsof timidity, my brethren and sisters, that I stand before you this afternoon. I most earnestly desire that you will support me with your faith and prayers the few moments that I may stand before you. 

While the general authorities of the Church were being sustained,  afternoon, I wondered in my mind if the Latter-day Saints sustain them merely as a form, by raising their hands, or if we do sustain them in our lives, in our homes, and in our families. This afternoon we have sustained the general authorities of the Church, the presidency of the Church, and the apostles, and patriarch, as prophets, seers and revelators to the people. It is through them the heavens are opened to us. It is the only source that we have as a Church of receiving revelation from God, our Eternal Father, and I feel, my brethren and sisters, that the children in our homes should be taught to # pray for these men, to sustain them in their prayers, and should hecomei acquainted with them, so that they may know who they are praying for. 

I well remember when I was a small boy, in this city, for I was born here, my mother took me to the tabernacle every Sunday of my life, and she pointed out to me the men in the stand that she had taught me to pray for. I well remember at that time, that the presidency of the Church were President Brigham Young, and his counselors, George A. Smith and Daniel H. Wells. Every night before retiring to my rest, I was taught to pray for these men, and the council of the Twelve, and name them in my prayer. And on the Sabbath day, my mother taught me to go with her to meeting, and when the speakers arose she would point them out to me and say, that is the man you are praying for — naming him to me, so that I would know him when I saw him in the stand. In that way confidence and faith in the general authorities of the Church were instilled into me as a child. That faith and that conGENERAL CONFERENCE.  until this day has never been shaken. I think it would be a good thing for mothers occasionally to point out, if they are unable to do so by the persons themselves, by photographs, the leading brethren of our Church. Have their photographs in your homes, and name the brethren, occasionally to your children. Teach your children to pray for the brethren, and as they grow to years of maturity they will grow in faith in our leading men, and their confidence in them will be increased. 

I am reminded this beautiful day of the commandment of the Lord, that we remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Reference has been made, during this conference, to a part of the Stake of Zion over which I have the honor to preside, the Fort Bridger country, and I want to relate to you this afternoon a little incident connected with that country, showing what I thought to be a perfect Sabbath day. I don't know that in all my life, in my experience, I ever before saw a perfect Sabbath day until that day. It was in the autumn, at harvest time. Myself and companion' were appointed to visit a small village between old Fort Bridger and Fort Supply on the Black's Fork river. We arrived on Saturday evening, and remained with the bishop over night. He lived at one end of the village, and the meetinghouse was at the other; perhaps two or three miles apart. In the morning when we started on our way to meeting, as we passed along the farms we beheld that the Sabbath day was observed by the people. We saw beautiful fields of ripened wheat, the binder standing as left the evening before. We saw the stacks of grain, partly built, and wagons  with bundles, as left by the side of the stack the evening before. Some ofi the grain was harvested and in the shock, and some was yet in the field. We saw the animals that had lahored all week, resting in the fields and yards. There was no sound of the hammer, machinery, or work heard from the bishop's home to the house of worship. But we saw people coming to the meetinghouse from all directions, from their farm homes. It was in the autumn, a beautiful day, quiet, no breeze blowing, warm and pleasant; up the Black's Fork, flowing down from the mountains, a beautoful picture met our eyes. The leaves were turning to their autumn hue, and the water came tumbling to the lower levels, over large boulders. On the slopes on either side of the water was the foliage of pine trees. Down along the river bottom were quaking asps and cottonwoods. The people had conrstucted a large flour mill, near the meetinghouse, which was run by water. The mill race was perhaps fifty feet above the river, and the water was flowing idly over the race and dashing upon the stones below. The mill was idle upon the Sabbath day, and as we entered the meetinghouse, I said to the bishop: "Bishop, I presume this is something unusual." The meetinghouse was crowded with people to its utmost capacity. I said, "I suppose your people were expecting visitors today. This is something unusual, is it not?" "O no," he said, "not at all. President Baxter, our people observe the Sabbath day, and keep it holy." He said later, that every family in that little village "was represented at the meetifighouse that day." All the members of every family were not Ill , but every family in the village was represented, and all of the members of many families were there in the meetinghouse. 

I thought, my brethren and sisters, that I would mention this little incident, for it impressed itself upon me, not only that beautiful example of the observance of the Sabbath day, but the thought of these grain fields being in the very locality where Col. Jim Bridger had told President Young that it was impossible for man to grow crops in this mountain country. Perhaps you are not all aware that the altitude of Fort Bridger is very much higher than in this region — it is nearly six thousand feet above sea level. There, in that high altitude, were beautiful fields of grain, beautiful homes of our people, a sweet spirit of contentment. The air seemed to be imbued, with the spirit of the Sabbath day, and I will never forget that beautiful picture. 

I believe we will be blessed of the Lord, if we observe the Sabbath day, and keep it holy. We labor six days of the week, but on the seventh it is the Sabbath day. Let us not labor on that day, but go up to the house of the Lord to worship, and take our children with us. There seems to be a tendency, on the part of some Latter-day Saints, to allow their children to remain away from the general sacramental meeting. They feel that if they attend the Sabbath school, in the morning, perhaps that is enough for the children. But I do believe that it is a good thing to have the children go to Sabbath meeting with their parents, and partake of the sweet influence, the same as the parents do. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters, help us to serve him  keep his commandments, and to remember the Sabath day to keep it holy, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORLEY S. STAPLEY. 

(President of the Maricopa Stake.) 

I bring you greeting from the Maricopa Stake, in Arizona, and I assure you that I feel my timidity in trying to address this inspiring congregation. I have listened with great interest to the testimonies borne during the different sessions of this conference. It makes me feel that I am well paid for the time which I have given to coming to conference. We live so far away from the headquarters of the Church, that there are only a very few of us who are able to come to the conferences. But we always try to have representatives here, so that they may bring back to us the words spoken by the mouths of the prophets of God, whose words may be thus disseminated among the people in our part of the country. We live in the south central part of the state of Arizona, near the capital. We have about 2,700 souls in the stake, and it takes us but a few minutes, less than an hour, to visit every ward in the stake except one, so that you can see we live very close together. A better people do not live anywhere. They are all full of the Spirit of the Lord, and feel to do their duties. 

There was considerable anxiety in our stake when the troubles commenced in Mexico; but at present one hardly hears of it, and yet we are within a hundred miles of the line. But there has been opened GENERAL CONFERENCE.  a good market for the products of the soil among our people. Hardly anything that we raise there but what brings fabulous prices, and cash in hand, so that the people are prospering in that land. When I heard Elder Ivins, this morning, addressing the congregation in regard to his observations in the different stakes in which he had lately traveled, in regard to the extravagance of the people, it carried me back home to my people, and I wondered if it was the same in all of the different stakes of Zion: whether extravagance is running rampant everywhere and men and women are following the fashions of the world. Whether men who have not a roof above their heads, still put their little money into automobiles, getting time, and then live on expectations. Of course, they must dress accordingly, but when the rent period comes they are compelled to move, generally speaking. This is not as it should be among the Latter-day Saints. The first thing, I think, that the head of a family should do is to procure a home, no matter how small, nor humble it is, and pay for it, as soon as he possibly can, and add conveniences or even luxuries to it as circumstances will permit. O how I used to like to hear men not of our faith come into my place of business and say to me, "Mr. Stapley, we know that the 'Mormon' people are honest, and pay their debts." It made me feel good. I was glad to be associated with and numbered among a people of that character. But since fads and fashions have been introduced into our communities I am sorry to say that there are many who do not live up to this reputation. We want to go back to where we were before, We should  ourselves of the opportunities that present themselves at present to pay our debts. Let it be said of us from henceforth, that we are an honest people. We are taught in knowledge, virtue, and all that will help us to build up character and make better citizens and husbands. These things I wish that we could i emember. 

President Herrick was tellling you of his testimony that signs do follow the believer. I remember an incident that happened when I was in the mission field. My companion and I were lost. We came to a home, after wandering around considerably, where we met a family who had never before seen a "Mormon" elder. The lady of that home had been afflicted with rheumatics, for five years, so that she was unable to do her work at all. After we had visited their home several times, I placed in her hands the Book of Mormon, and asked her to read it. We visited again, numbers of times. One Sunday afternoon we were invited to hold services at her home. She called me aside, and said, "Elder Stapley, What am I to do to become a member of your church?" I asked her if she believed that the hook that she had been reading was true. She said, "I believe it with all my heart." "Do you believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God?" "Yes, I do, with all my heart." "Is your husband willing that you should be baptized?" "Yes, he is." And I turned to her husband, and asked him, and he said he was. After the service, I announced that this sister would be baptized. There were a number of people who came to witness the baptism. She told me that she knew that as soon as she accepted the ordinances of the 113  she would be made whole. After the services her husband Helped me to take . her into the water. I baptized her and when 1 raised her out of the water, she let loose of my hand and said, "Elder Stapley, I will walk out," and she did so to the astonishment of her husband and all the people who witnessed it. I testify to you that the signs do follow those who believe and have faith in them. 

We live in a land once inhabited by the people of whom the Book of Mormon gives a history. It is recorded in the third chapter of Helaman, that they were great workers, canal builders, and agriculturists, no doubt. When our people went into that country, they asked for an engineer to run a line out for a canal to the river. He went over the land, and then said, "Gentlemen, it is impossible to bring this water up here upon this table land." Nevertheless, our brethren, with faith in their mission and in the call of those who were placed over them to go into that country, took a spirit level and went out to the river, and brought the water through the great, old canal constructed by that ancient people. The ancient inhabitants had their distribution of water two hundred yards below where ours is at the present time, south and west. That is another testimony to me, brethren and sisters, that the Book of Mormon is true. That book was brought forth in 1830, before ever this country was inhabited, in this age of the world, and yet that canal could he traced across the country, constructed by that ancient people, so carefully that it could not be done much hetter today. 

There is evidence all through there of great cities, fortifications  all sorts, and all that kind of thing, to be seen there at the present time. 

I trust and pray that we will always maintain the truth, that we will take the spirit of this conference home with us and give it to the people, so that they will be built up, and may be strong and able to uphold those who are placed in authority to conduct the affairs of the kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A duet, "Love Divine," was rendered by Mabel Kirk and James 

Montcar. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

Fifty years ago, today, there arrived in this city, from the mouth of Parley's Canyon, a company of "Mormon" immigrants, about three hundred, souls, who had crossed the plains and mountains in forty-nine wagons drawn by oxen, and who had left the Missouri river just two months before. It was one of ten trains which arrived in the Valley, that year, from the Missouri river with "Mormon" immigrants. It was the year 1866, the last year that our brethren and sisters from Europe, or from any other part of the world, crossed the plains and mountains all the way from the Missouri river, to these valleys with teams. It was nearly the end of that long period of pioneers experiences — twenty-two years — which is so closely associated with the early history of the Saints in these mountains. The year 1866 was a heavy emigration year with the Church. During the year, nine large sailing vessels, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with Latter-day Saints,' crossed the Atlantic ocean from Europe to America. Three of these sailed from London, three from Liverpool, and three from Hamburg, Germany. The total number of "Mormon" immigrants from Europe, in 1866, was 3,241. Of this number 2,069 came from the British Isles, and 1,213 from Scandinavia. Included in the latter were a few saints from Germany. These ships spent all the way from thirty-seven to sixty days crossing the Atlantic ocean. 

I know something about that year's immigration because I came over myself in one of the nine ships mentioned, _ and that is one reason why I delight, on this particular occasion, to refer to this matter. It happened that I crossed the plains in Andrew H. Scott's company which arrived in this Valley, Oct. 8, 1866, just fifty years ago today. 

I shall never forget my experience in crossing the Atlantic in the ship Kenilworth and the plains in Captain Scott's ox team. I have often thanked the Lord that I came that year, and not later. Had I come the next year ( 1867), I should have been deprived of the privilege of traveling three hundred miles on foot, because that year the railroad had been built that far westward from the Missouri river; and the year following, (1868) it was built more than half way across the plains, and mountains, or as far as Ft. Laramie, and later in the year Ft. Benton, on the upper Platte. The next year (1869) all the fun was over. After that all the immigrants had to travel all the way by rail (laughter), and the ox team travel then became a thing of the past. So I say, I am very thankful  I came when the last opportunity in this world was given the "Mormon" emigrants of crossing the plains with ox teams the whole distance from the States to Salt Lake Valley. As a fifteen-yea'r-old boy, I "hoofed' it nearly all the way from the little village of Wyoming, in Nebraska on the Missouri river, to the City of the Saints. 

Brethren and sisters, I speak feelingly, and with a degree of enthusiasm and satisfaction, of the pioneer period. A great majority of those who are present here in this assembly have not had the opportunity of crossing the plains with ox teams, and will scarcely have that privilege in the future; but you, or a majority of you, are undoubtedly sons and daughters, or grand children, of those noble pioneers who sacrificed so much to come to this land of Zion — to a place where the feet of their children could be planted firmly and where they could have the opportunity to learn more of the ways of the Lord, a privilege which most of you have had ever since you were born. 

The pioneer period will in one sense be forgotten soon, as the real actors are fast passing to the great beyond. Of the pioneers of 1847, only a few are left. There is only one left of those who came with the original pioneers, who with President Young, entered this Valley in July, 1847; namely, Brother Wm. C. A. Smoot, of Sugar House ward. He is the only surviving member of that noble band of pioneers who first entered Salt Lake Valle*y. There is, however, one more alive of those who came in the original pioneer company, although then only a six-year-old boy. I refer to Lorenzo Zabriskie Young who 115  in Cleveland, Emery co., Utah, and is now 75 years old. These are the last two survivors of the original pioneer company. 

Following in the track of the first company of pioneers, about eighteen hundred other pioneers, consisting of men, women and children, arrived in the Valley, in 1847. Among them were some of the members of the Mormon Battalion, who arrived in this valley from the west, after they had made the journey from the Missouri river to California the year before; they had served their term of enlistment and came into the Valley soon after the pioneers. Nor must we forget to speak of the so-called sick detachment of the Battalion, who, after wintering at Pueblo on the Arkansas river, arrived in the valley a few days after the original pioneers company. This was all in 1847, and that you will understand was the beginning of the Latter-day Saints crossing the plains with mule, horse and ox teams. The original pioneers had mostly horses and mules, but most of the companies that followed were fitted out with ox teams, as it was found that oxen, as a rule, though slower in locomotion, could stand the journey across the plains better than mules and horses. 

The year 1848 witnessed the arrival of about four thousand souls in these mountain valleys from the Missouri river; they were mostly  exiles from Nauvoo, who had been driven from their homes there in 1846 by a ruthless mob, and who had spent two winters at Winter Quarters, Nebraska. Some of them had also resided temporarily in Iowa, on the east side of the Missouri river. They all came here in the latter part of 1848. 

The next year (1849), about three thousand people arrived in this valley, and the following year about the same number. By the end of the year 1852, nearly all of those who had been exiled from Nauvoo had arrived in the valley, and we had a population here of about forty thousand, including some who came from Europe; for as soon as the pioneers got permanently settled in the valley, the immigration from Europe, which had temporarily been suspended, commenced to pour in. 

I do not desire to go into details; I will merely state that for a number of years our brethren and sisters, at a great expense, migrated to Utah from Europe and from the United States as far as their means would allow. The Church, however, at an early period — as early as 1849 — organized the so-called Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company, and by the operations of that Company a large number of people were assisted to emigrate to Utah. In 1856, a new and novel method of crossing the plains and mountains was inaugurated. President Brigham Young conceived the idea that the Latter-day Saints, who were generally men and women of good, moral character and possessed of good physiques and strong will power, could cross the plains without much assistance from either oxen, mules or horses. Hence,-' the handcart episode was introduced that year (1856), when five well organized companies of hand-cart immigrants crossed the plains. The first three of these companies under Captains Edmund Ellsworth, Daniel D. McArthur and Edward Bunker made the journey successfully; but the last two companies which, under Captains GENERAL CONFERENCE. . 

James G. Willie and Edward Martin, started too late from the Missouri river, encountered heavy snow storms in the mountains and suffered much. This handcart method of travel continued more or less until 1860. Thus two handcart companies crossed the plains in 1857, one company in 1859 and two companies in 1860. Captains Daniel Robinson and Oscar O. Stoddard's companies were the last that crossed the plains with handcarts. 

And I desire to call your attention to this fact: In all the overland travel which has been undertaken in America, or in any other country, the handcart journeyings by the Latter-day Saints stand out alone and unique, inasmuch as no such travel has ever been attempted in any other part of the world, so far as I know. We have heard of a man traveling from the States to California with a wheelbarrow — not in a wheelbarrow; he couldn't very well get himself to California in such a vehicle, but he traveled with a wheelbarrow. This man had not money to buy horses or wagons or any other kind of conveyance, so he carried his few belongings with him in a wheelbarrow. Of course he was an exceptional character. You might, perhaps, be tempted to call him a little cranky, but he was so anxious to get to the gold diggings in California, that he chose this hard and novel way of getting to his destination, rather than to be left behind. But when I speak of four thousand Latter-day Saints crossing the plains with handcarts, I do not speak of cranks, but of genuine heroes and heroines who, for the sake of their religion, exposed themselves to the hardships and  of the desert, in order to get to Zion; and I might say a majority of them arrived in these valleys in safety, while quite a number also died on the plains. 

In 1860, we again had a new experience in crossing the plains. It had been discovered that the cattle bought in the east — such cattle as had been raised on the luxuriant grasses of Missouri, Nebraska and Illinois — could not easily make the journey across the plains. They were not used to the bunch-grass ,or other grasses of the hills and therefore many of them succumbed to the hardships of the journey, while the rest as a rule got very tired and could scarcely bring the immigrants to their destination. Hence, in 1860, President Brigham Young conceived of another plan for bringing immigrants from the frontiers to Utah. It was this : he called upon the brethren who had already been comfortably located in these mountains, to send, or to take, their mountain oxen or mountain mules and horses that had been living on the bunch grass and other grasses here in Utah, to the Missouri river, and bring back the poor, those who had not the means to purchase their own outfit. This arrangement began in 1860. A little company was sdnt to the Missouri river that year under the leadership of Joseph W. Young, and made the journey successfully. After that, in 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, and 1866, from two to five hundred teams were sent each year down to meet the immigration. We who lived in Europe were instructed to raise the necessary means to bring us to Florence or Wyoming, Nebraska, as best we could, and there the Church teams would meet us and bring us across the plains and 117 . This extensive emigration business was carried out by the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company. 

I was speaking of the immigration to this valley fifty years ago. The nine shiploads of saints (three thousand immigrants) from Europe, added to the natives of the United States who joined them on the frontiers, made nearly five thousand people, who came to Utah in 1866, and I may add here that during the immigration years (1847-1868 inclusive) at least seventy thousand people crossed the plains in about two hundred twenty well organized companies. This will give you an idea of what was done in the shape of travel, between the east and this valley. Some, of course, but not many, came by way of California. 

Reverting again to 1866, I will state that the Church authorities, through the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company, sent from Utah that year ten companies to the Missouri river after the poor. There were ten captains — a captain for each company — four hundred fiftysix teamsters, forty-nine mounted guards, eiehty-nine horses, one hundred thiry-four mules, three thousand forty-two oxen and three hundred ninety-seven wagons. Sixty-two wagons fifty oxen and sixty-one mules were sent for or bought in the east. These teams or companies left here, of course, in the spring, and they returned in the fall under the leadership, of Captains Thomas E. Ricks, Samuel D. Wright, Wm. H. Chipman, John D. Holliday, Peter Nebeker, Daniel Thompson, Jos. S. Rawlins, Andrew H. Scott, Horton D. Haight and Abner Lowry. 

I do not wish to harass your minds by a detailed account of the emigrants in the last company. They arrived in this Valley Oct. 22, 1866, three weeks later than Andrew H. Scott's company. The immigrants in that ill-fated company were mostly those who sailed from Hamburg, in the ship Cavour and arrived in New York later than some of the other ships. The Cavour met with storms and contrary winds on the ocean and the hardships of the voyage and the inadequacy of the supplies of food caused them to contract disease; cholera broke out among these Saints as soon as they landed. I bring this matter to your attention just to show what some of the Latter-day Saints endured in their endeavors to come to Zion. Brother Elnathan Eldredge, who called at my office day before yesterday, drew my attention to this particular company and said that he helped to bury thirty-one corpses in one day at St. Joseph Mo., men, women and children, who had died in that company. The survivors continued the journey up the Missouri river and several died before they reached the village of Wyoming. It being so late in the season, the brethren in charge there had to load the immigrants into the wagons as best they could and start for the plains, at once. Time did not permit them to delay their departure. It is estimated that about one-third of the company which crossed the Atlantic in the Cavour, and the plains in Captain Lowry's train, died on the way, and never reached the Valley. But that was also the last of this overland travel from the Missouri river to Salt Lake Valley. Abner Lowry's emigrant train was the last of all "Mormon" emigrant trains to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  severely on the plains. Some of the emigrant trains, in 1853 and 1854, had also suffered from cholera, but the fate of Abner Lowry's company was perhaps as sad as any. Thank God it ended there. 

I may add that while the completion of the Union Pacific Railroad put an end forever to the long overland, journey by oxen and wagons, about the same time the crossing of the Atlantic Ocean by Latter-day Saint emigrants in sailing vessels was also stopped. From that time until the present nearly all "Mormon" immigrants from Europe have crossed the sea in comfortable steamships, and have come in comfortable railway cars across the American continent to these mountains. 

By way of' conclusion, I will say : How thankful, my brethren and sisters, ought we not to be, that we are here in Zion, that those pioneer fathers and mothers of ours came here at that early day and caused most of us to be born and raised here under the droppings of the sanctuary in this beautiful city and the other settlements of the Saints. I have seen nearly all the large cities of the world, and let me tell you, there is only one Salt Lake City — only one city like this in the whole wide world. And I may be pardoned for believing that our beautiful city was founded by men who were favored with inspiration from on high. I believe the Lord inspired Brigham Young to locate this city just where it now stands, to make the blocks as large and the streets as wide as they ar,e, and to do what was done on general principles, not only in this city, but throughout all the settlements of the Saints in the Rocky Mountains. 

The lessons we learned in crossing the plains were lessons of experience for which we thank the Lord. We had a good time as a rule. It is true that some of our dear ones fell by the wayside, and now rest in lonely graves on the plains and mountain slopes, but the remainder of us lived to reach the Valley and to make our homes here. On the journey across the plains and mountains we also learned valuable lessons of order and discipline. We had our prayers and devotional services morning and night. Our leaders spoke comforting words to us every day, and when we sometimes became weary and somewhat discouraged, we would sing, "Come, Come Ye Saints no toil nor labor fear," and then renew our exertions. Sometimes, after a long and dreary march, we felt like lying down, never to rise again, but when some of our musicians and vocalists began to sing or play, we frequently found ourselves, in spite of fatigue and tired; [limbs, dancing on the grass in the midst of the camp enclosure. By the blessings of God who gave us strength and courage sufficient for our day, our lives were preserved, and while many died on the plains, many others who were sick nigh unto death, were healed by the power of God, through the administrations of the elders. I have in my mind at this moment scores of instances where the elders laid their hands on the sick who were struggling between life and death, and they were raised up by the power of Almighty God; and their children are here today to praise the Lord for their fathers and mothers. 

May God bless you. May we not only honor the pioneers, but honor the God of heaven who inspired our 119  and mothers to do the things they did in bringing themselves and us to these mountains. May God bless us and help us to be faithful and true to our calling as Latterday Saints, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang : "We thank thee. O God, for a prophet." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Rulon S. Wells. 


