Morning
07 10 1916

The assembly was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

Prayer was offered by Elder William H. Mendenhall. 

A solo, "Lead, Kindly Light," was sung by Amelia Margetts. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

The word of the L,ord quick and powerful — Impressive sayings of the Savior in blessing and denouncing — Blessings upon those who have come up to Zion — Five important commandments on what the Saints shall do — Also others warning what they shall not do — How to observe the Sabbath — The freedom of the Saints to be used in keeping the commandments of God. 

Brethren and sisters, we have come up this morning, as we did yesterday, to hear the word of the Lord, and whether he speaks by his own voice or the voice of his Spirit or by the voice of revelation, his word is plain, simple, direct and emphatic, and he invariably speaks in the language of the common people that all may understand. It is said of his word that it is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow. The Lord never indulges in idle talk but his sayings are deep with meaning. As an illustration, it is said of him, when he was upon the earth, that he went up into the mount and his dis gathered around him, and he taught them, saying: 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven; blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted; blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth; blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled; blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy; blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God; and Messed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God." 

I submit to you, brethren and sisters, that these words of the Savior are impressive, far-reaching and comprehensive in their character, and if they were closely followed, would be a sufficient guide through life. On the other hand, the Lord was terrible in his denunciation of the wicked. He said upon one occasion : "Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for ye neither enter in yourselves, neither suffer ye those who are entering to go in. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocites. For ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretense, offer long prayers. Therefore, ye shall receive the greater damnation. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites; for ye compass sea and land to make one convert, and when he is made ye make him two-fold more the child of hell than yourselves."- Now, it would seem from this that the Lord despised a hypocrite, one who pretended to be one - and yet was another, and he pronounced against all such a woe. 

The word of the Lord in these latter days, my brethren and sisters, as it has come to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith — and he was a great prophet — is plain, simple, direct and emphatic, and given in such language as formerly used that all may understand. I refer you for a moment to a revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, in Zion, in Jackson county, Missouri, August 7, 1831 : "Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up into this land with an eye single to my glory according to my commandments; for them that live shall inherit the .earth, and them that die shall rest from all their labors and their works shall follow them. They shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them. Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel, for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth and it shall bring forth in its strength. They shall' also be crowned with blessings from above; yea, and with commandments not a few; and with revelations in their time, they that are faithful and diligent before me." 

Brethren and sisters, what a comprehensive saying is this. There are two things connected with these words that impress me deeply, and that is this, blessed are those who have obeyed the gospel and, secondly, who have come up to the land of Zion — Missouri was the land of Zion. I take it that this is also the land of Zion, and we are here in the midst of the stakes of Zion, and the word that was given to them might well be given to us. I think it was intended for us. It mattered  whether they lived or they died. If they died, they were to be blessed and were to enter into the mansions that were prepared for them, and if they lived, the earth was to be blessed for their sake, and it was to give forth in its strength; and, moreover, and what is of far greater importance, they were to receive the revelations of the Lord not a few. But now, it would seem from a further reading of this revelation, that it was not alone sufficient for them to have obeyed the gospel and to have come up to the land of Zion, for the Lord gave them a further commandment and in it he told them five important things that they should do and he told them at least three very important things that they should not do. He uses the word "shall." It was not that they may not do those things, or that perhaps it would be wise that they should not do them, but he says thou shalt not do them. Theni again he says of the other things : Thou shalt do them. These were the things they were not to do : Thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. Now, it sometimes happens that when a person finds a thing, he may pick it up on the street, he may pick it up in a building, but he has found it and he assumes that it is his by right of discovery. It is not his; he has stolen it, and the Lord has commanded against this sin, whether he finds a thing that does not belong to him or whether he has taken it of his own accord. It does not belong to him, and it ought to be returned to the owner. Adultery is the deadly sin of this age, and was the deadly sin of other ages. This great evil has led to the separation in thousands of instances of husband and wife, and it is perhaps the great cause, and the greatest of all causes, leading to divorce. The Lord has said to his people, Thou shalt not do it. You know that in early times, in the days of the Pilgrim Fathers, if it were reported throughout the country that a murder had been committed, great was the sensation among the people; it caused a shock to all who heard it, but now, the account of a murder hardly arouses attention, and we give to it but passing interest, showing how things have changed since this great country of ours was first settled. Killing is very common today and particularly in those nations that are at war, when thousands and tens of thousands — well, shall I say hundreds of thousands? yes, are being slain, and really it would be difficult to find a just cause for it. The Lord has said to his people, Thou shalt not kill, and he said it with a voice of authority. These are the five things, brethren and sisters, that the Lord has said we shall do. He commands it. Thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind and strength, and in the name of Jesus Christ, thou shalt serve him. What a glorious doctrine is this the first great commandment. If we could accept it, if we could carry it out in our lives, if we could only do it, the way would be easy and the burden would be light. And the next commandment is like unto it, and given in the same strong, emphatic language: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Oh, if a man could only do that. If it were possible — and I take it, it is possible, because the Lord has commanded it — but if we could only love our neighbor as we love ourselves, what a splendid victory would he achieved. We always  ourselves, we are always very charitable to ourselves, we are quite willing to forgive ourselves when we are in the wrong. Well, that is the way we must be towards our neighbor. We must be kind to him, we must be charitable to him, must be forgiving, and, must look with mercy upon his weaknesses and imperfections. I take it to mean just that much at least. Thou shall thank the Lord thy God in all things. Blessed is the man or blessed is the woman that has a thankful heart who does not murmur nor complain nor find fault with the Lord if some little trouble comes, some little misfortune, something perhaps, that will benefit him in his after experience, yet he does not find fault. He takes life as it comes; he meets it fairly and squarely, and thanks the Lord. The revelation further says : "Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day. For verily, this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors and pay thy devotions unto the Most High." 

How direct, how exact, how perfect, is the thought expressed, regarding the observance of the Sabbath day to. keep it holy. Now, here is the people of the Lord the Latter-day Saints, and this command; ment applies to them even if others reject it. It is not supposed that they will remain at home upon the Sabbath day, even to read, or to read good books, or to read the scriptures, when they ought to be in the house of prayer, in the house of worship, in the house of the Lord,  they are commanded to go. It is not supposed that they will rush off into the canyons to hunt and fish; it is not supposed they will go off on pleasure excursions, or go to various resorts, and I am sure it is not supposed, never intended, that they should go to the theatres and to moving picture shows on the Sabbath day, and thus desecrate it. 

I remember once upon the Sabbath day while in the city of London, the biggest, the mightiest city on earth, I found it to be perfectly dead. There was not a thing doing, there seemed to be no life there at all, hardly anybody upon the streets. The buildings were all closed up and it was difficult even to get a meal of victuals. In Canada, under the English government, if a man is seen) traveling along the highway on the Sabbath day with a loaded wagon, his team struggling, sweating, and fuming, the, man is immediately arrested for desecrating the Lord's holy day. How different that is from what we see in free America. Yes, it is a great free country, and the Latterday Saints, the people of the Lord, are supposed to use that freedom by observing his word and keeping his commandments. 

The Lord bless you, brethren and sisters, the Lord bless our president and prophet, and his counselors and the authorities of the Church, and all, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

A tendency among the people of our country to live beyond their means — The evil of such a tendency — The work of the Relief Society along the lines of home economics — Churches give little attention to  temporal welfare of the people — The example of the Latter-day Saints in this respect — Temptations that beset the young people behoove parents to look carefully after their children. 

I pray and I crave the blessings of my heavenly Father for what few moments I stand before you today, that I may have the same spirit of testimony, of admonition, that has manifested itself with all of the speakers during this conference, so far. It gives me great joy to be able to testify to my brethren and sisters upon this occasion that I know that the gospel of Christ is true. I know that in the end it will accomplish all that God intended it to, and I know that if it were put in force in all the world, we would have a better world to live in. i am thankful to my heavenly Father that I was born of goodly parents. I never forget to thank him that I was born under the covenant of the holy priesthood, and that my parents taught me in my early life all the principles, the doctrines and the teachings made manifest to the people of God through the revelations to his prophet in this dispensation, the Prophet Joseph Smith. I never tire of testifying to this fact wherever I go, and I never am ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. No person, no matter to what position he attains, can ever be successful in this world if he loses his own soul, and it seems to me that the way the world is drifting today and the conditions of many of the people of our own beloved country are such that care must be taken or else there will be less of the love of God among the people than exists today. 

We find for the last fifteen years or more there is a tendency of the people of our country to live beyond their means, to indulge in practices that cannot help but have the effect of making them unworthy of the blessings of our heavenly Father. We read, once in a while, a warning through the press, and hear occasionally a protest in the pulpit, but it must of necessity be more widely called to the attention of the people or there will be sorrow and trouble come to them. I noticed the other day an editorial, in one of the New York papers, calling attention to this age of luxury and what it means to the people of the United States. I am going to take time to read it to you, my brethren and sisters, for I notice there is a tendency among our own people of living faster than they should live, and indulging in luxuries that do them no good whatever, and only bring trouble upon them and upon their loved ones. The editorial is as follows : 

"An age of luxury is always an dge of decadence. When the simple life is given up, temptation begins. When a man or a woman sacrifices thrift for the love of luxury, it is a Jay of evil foreboding, for the love of luxury puts a premium on discontent. A taste for luxurious food and drink is followed by a desire for expensive garments, silks, satins, laces and jewels, things that add nothing essential to comfort or the joy of living. The story of the decadent nations is always the same. When the simple life was abandoned, an era of luxury set in and extravagance drained the nation's resources. Right living went the way ( of plain living. Luxury, extravagance and vice follow each other in natural sequence. A luxurious nation finds its resources swept away, its patriotism sacrificed to effeminacy, and its physical wellbeing to the common vices of mankind. Thoughtful men in this day are endeavoring to impress the lesson of thrift on the American people, but the drift is all the other way, here and everywhere. It is a situation  of danger and the oft-repeated warning is given again in the hope that some may listen and profit, though many scoff and suffer. Don't blame the prosperous worker if he apes the opulent drone. When the latter spends a hundred dollars a plate for a dinner, bedecks himself with gaudy jewels, bestows a one hundred thousand dollar necklace on wife, daughter or favorite, let no one wonder that the flagrant examples of extravagance exert an evil influenec on those who toil for their daily bread. The influence of a bad example is proverbial. Rich as well as poor need to be taught the lessons of right living and right doing." 

My brethren and sisters, I know there is a tendency among the people to live beyond their means, and indulge in extravagance. I delivered a speech in the Senate, at this last session of Congress, upon home economics. I called attention to the waste that is going on among the people of our country, and asked Congress to make an annual appropriation for research work by all of our agricultural colleges, for the purpose of bringing to the homes of the people the proper way of preventing waste of foodstuffs, and the proper care of a home. I have not the time now to go into the details of this subject, but I may say to the brethren and sisters that I have received thousands of letters commending in the highest terms my calling attention to the American people on the floor of the Senate, to this pressing question, and I know that if it were more generally called to the attention of the people of our country, it would be better for the American homes. I understand our Relief Society is doing a great work along this line, and I pray to my heavenly Father that they will have success. I predict that it will not be many years before necessity will compel a change in the mode of liv today, that it will have to be brought to the homes of all the American people. 

I notice in my meeting peoples of the world, that many of them are very much interested in the principles of "Mormonism," and particularly in the organization of our Church, and I know that they are anxious to learn of our beliefs and learn of the work of our organizations, and what is accomplished by them. One fault of most of the religions of the world today is that they are not interested in the temporal welfare of their people. They preach, it is true, sermons from the Bible, and many times in a most learned way, but after the people leave the services, there is very little thought given them until the following Sabbath. When I call attention to the wonderful work of the Felief Society and how they visit the homes of the people every month, how they assist in caring for the sick, how they help the helpless; when I call attention to the work of the teachers, visiting all of the homes of the Latter-day Saints every month, learning of their condition, temporally and spiritually, and make a report to their bishop every month, ready and willing to assist all who need assistance; when I call attention to our fast-day meeting, and the offerings of the people there, and the purposes for which those offerings are given, and when I speak of the old folks and the reverence we pay to them, irrespective of creed or color, all express surprise and even approval. I have expressed myself as surprised that the world generally has not followed the examples set by this people in honoring the aged. We are interested in the temporal welfare of our people. We are looking out  their welfare in this life because we believe in doing so, we assist them greatly in living the principles that will lead them to a greater life beyond. I want to acknowledge to the brethren and sisters that my obedience to the laws of the Church has never been a drawback to me in my life; and I want to testify, upon the other hand, that it has been a strength and a power to me, and I have never lost a friend that was worthy of being a friend, from living as near as I could to the requirements of the gospel. I plead with you, old and young, to live strictly to the requirements of the gospel of Jesus Christ, its teachings, its admonitions,- and I promise you if you do, you shall receive the blessings of heaven, even greater than you have received them in the past. 

Mothers and fathers, I am a little alarmed over our young people and the temptations that are besetting them daily. Twenty years ago we used to think there were many temptations, and there were, but today there are many that we never thought of then, and I think they are even more deadly than the temptations that we, as middle-aged members of the Church, had to withstand. At that time we had no automobiles, there were no moving pictures, and there are hundreds of other temptations that we knew nothing about. I believe that the moving pictures could be, and in many cases are, made a great agency to educate the people of this country. I have not attended many exhibits; in fact, until this year, I had never entered a moving picture show, with the exception of twice, in my life. But the last few months I have attended a few, and I want to frankly say that some of them were unfit for young people to attend. No good could come from seeing them; the story as told by the picture was one that no father or mother would allow repeated in their home or at their fireside. You cannot tell me that it has not made an impression upon the minds of the young people, and Well may we, as parents, if our children are to attend them, know beforehand what the picture is that is going to be presented. There are many of them, I admit, that are clean and they are worthy of the people seeing because of their educational nature, but a great many of them, my brethren and sisters, ought never to be shown, particularly to the young people. I plead with you that you be careful and watch over your children, for they either bring great joy or great sorrow to the parents. God intended that every man and woman who enters wedlock should bring children into this world. Children are precious in the sight of God, and to the father and the mother. I trust that all Latter-day Saints homes will be such that our children can obtain wholesome pleasures without seeking them outside. I pray my heavenly Father that he will instil in the hearts of the mothers and fathers of Israel a desire to look more carefully after their children. We must understand that it will not be many years until they will be the men and the women bearing the responsibilities of this great work, and if they are unspotted from the sins of the world, they will do so, with honor. I want to say that there never was a man who lost his virtue, there never was a woman who lost hers, but what it was detrimental to them, no matter how humbly they repented of it. 

I ask God's blessing upon his people, and that they may be humble  prayerful, that he may bless them, with a testimony which I know most of you have, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Greetings from the European mission — Terrors of the Great War — Failure of the Churches to influence the hearts and minds of men — Reasons therefor — The efforts of so-call'ed Christianity to feed the people the bread of life have failed — The devil is stirring the minds of men to hatred and bloodshed — Only the gospel of Jesus Christ in the hearts of men will bring lasting peace — Duty of the Latter-day Saints to uphold God's ensign of peace, and bring a knowledge of his gospel to the children of men. 

I thank the Lord, this morning, for the privilege I have of meeting with the Saints upon this occasion. A long time has passed since I had the opportunity of attending a general conference of the Church and of meeting with multiudes of the Latter-day Saints here in the tabernacle. I have been laboring, as you know, as a missionary abroad, and I bring to you a greeting and a message of love and fellowship from the Saints of the European mission. The Latter-day Saints throughout that mission are like the Latter-day Saints here, in the valleys of the mountains, devoted to the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are full of the hope of salvation, and they place their trust in the Lord and in the gospel of Jesus Christ for that salvation. They are generally faithful and obedient to the laws of the gospel, and next to their desire to endure to the end, next to their hope of eternal salvation, is their desire and hope, sometime to gather with the Latter-day Saints in the land and the place appointed for the gathering of the Lord's people. 

In the countries comprising the European mission there is at the present time, great ' disturbance, great sorrow and anxiety, and the Latter-day Saints have their portion of these untoward things; yet they are enduring them in patience. They are going through these trying times trusting in the Lord and endeavoring to keep their hearts free from the spirit of hatred and animosity that seems to fill the hearts of the children of men in those troubled lands. I don't believe there is any spirit of anger or hatred in the hearts of the Latterday Saints of any one of these countries against the people of any other. We have endeavored at least to instil into the hearts of the Saints a spirit of brotherhood and love, and a willingness to pray even for those who are called their enemies, and I believe they have succeeded and are succeeding to a marked degree in keeping their hearts pure from these defilements. I have been pained to learn that here at home Latter-day Saints who have emigrated from various countries in Europe, or whose fathers came from those countries, have taken a very active part in the conflicts now being waged in the world . They have taken sides with the countries at war, and they have upheld as right and just the cause of their own lands or the lands of their fathers, and have become more or less angry with each other in their discussions and arguments upon those questions. This seems to me to be quite wrong and altogether out of keeping with conduct of the Latter-day Saints. The Latter-day Saints who have been gathered out of the world and planted in the valleys of the mountains have in a sense been born again. When they  taken their citizenship in this goodly land they should have foresworn allegiance to foreign lands, and to the dominion of corrupt kings and princes, and they should hold themselves aloof and apart from the quarrels and the wars that the nations of the earth engage in. It would be just as consistent for the Latter-day Saints, who have come out of the Protestant churches or the Catholic church, or for the children of men and women who came out of the Presbyterian church or the Baptist, or the Methodist, or the Congregationalist, to take sides with those corrupt and apostate churches in their contentions and their quarrels among themselves. We, or our fathers who received the gospel of Jesus Christ, as it has been proclaimed by divinely appointed and authorized men in this dispensation, have been born again. We have forsaken the corrupt religions of the world, and we have foresworn all allegiance to these false churches. We have no interest in their contentions. At least the only interest we have in them is a desire that the adherents of these various churches may also see the light, come to a kowledge of the truth, and forsake evil and error and falsehood, and receive the gospel of Christ which is the power of God unto salvation. The only interest which the Latter-day Saints have or can have in the contentions of the nations of the earth, political or otherwise, is that the time may come when peace may be restored, when men shall cease to make war upon each other, and live in peace and love and in a desire to make every land a^ blessed land and all men brothers. 

You have been called out of goodly lands; but we have the word of the Lord for it that this land where the Lord has brought you and planted your feet is a land, choice above all other lands, a land held in reserve by the Lord upon which should be gathered the righteous, among his children, even all who would hear his voice and obey his commands. It is indeed the land, also, upon which Zion is being built and where the pure in heart shall dwell. Our only interests in other countries is, that out of Zion shall go forth the law that shall make all men lovers of God and friendly among themselves. 

Christianity, as it is known in the world today, has fallen far short of the accomplishment of what might have been expected of it. It has failed in establishing those principles which Christ taught among the children of men. The great Catholic division of the Christian world, the Catholic church, is a national liability to any country. It wields a great power over the minds and the hearts of the children of men, but it is a power for evil rather than for good. It brings countless thousands regularly to confession; it rarely brings a single man to repentance and the abandonment of his sins. The power wielded by that organization is one that does not promote civilization, nor advancement morally or spiritually, but it binds its adherents in the thralldom of superstition and ignorance and fear, and denies them the liberty to make an openminded investigation of other questions; and the nations and the people governed and controlled by that power are the least advanced intellectually and morally and industrially of any people in the world called Christian or civilized. 

The Protestant division of 

Chrstianity has practically ceased to exert any influence whatever over the hearts and the minds of the children of men. Mankind has largely ceased to be very much interested in Protestantism, as one promiment official in the British Government told me when I had occasion to visit him, that all professors of religion and particularly the ministers of religion were narrowminded and that no broad-minded man. no thinking man in this day paid any attention to the religions of Christianity, or other religions for that matter. That was his view. My observation confirms, that view. What is the reason for this? Why, my brethren and) sisters, even the dumb brute will not answer many times to the call to the crib or the lick, when no food or salt is provided. They will soon cease to come, when they have learned that nothing is provided for them, and it is the same way with Protestant Christianity. Are men less intelligent than the lower animals ? The call is made to the people to come, and when the people have come they have been given, too often, the empty husk or the blighted ear, therefore many have ceased coming. Yet I would not have you understand me as believing all mankind, Christian or otherwise, have turned away entirely from thoughts of God and from the hope of salvation. The very image of God is impressed upon the children of men. They belong to him; He owns them, and he will never rest until he has brought them into a condition where they gladly and voluntarily render unto God that which belongs to God. They have been deceived and are deceived by corrupt professors, corrupt ministers. 

Let me explain, when I use the term "corrupt" with reference to these ministers of the gospel, that I use it in the same sense that I believe the Lord used it when he made that declaration to Joseph Smith, the prophet, in answer to the prophet's prayer. He did not mean, nor do I mean, that the ministers of religion are personally unvirtuous or impure. I believe as a class they, perhaps, in personal purity, stand a little above the average order of men. When I use the term "corrupt" I mean, as I believe the Lord meant, that they have turned away from the truth, the purity of the truth, the beauty of the truth, and have turned to that which is false. A false doctrine is a corrupt doctrine; a false religion is a corrupt religion; a false teacher is a corrupt teacher. Any man who teaches a false doctrine, who believes in and practices and teaches a false religion is a corrupt professor, because he teaches that which is impure and not true. That is the trouble with Christianity today. It is not true. Christianity is, perhaps, no truer or falser than any other religion, than Mohammedanism, Confucianism, Buddhism or any other ism or philosophy. In fact, my brethren and sisters, if 'the falsity of a religion can be measured in any degree by the amount of trouble and turmoil and strife and bitterness and hatred that it has engendered in the hearts of men, if it can be judged by the number of wars it has carried on and the rivers of blood it has shed, the amount of misery and sorrow, it has caused, or the extremes of impurity, found among its adherents, then Christianity, that which is known as Christianity, is the falsest of all religions in the world. For in these  sixteen hundred years, if not longer, the small minority of the population of the earth known as Christians, have carried on the great majority of the wars in the world and have destroyed the greatest amount of life and of property and have inflicted upon the world the greatest degree of misery. And, so far as my observation goes — and I have tried to observe some of these things — there is less of piety, genuine sincerity and honesty in living up to their professions among Christians, than you will find among the confessors of any other religion whatsoever. The trouble is, as God declared to Joseph the Prophet, mankind have gone astray. Their religions are an abomination in his sight, and their professors are corrupt because they have turned away from the truth and have turned unto fables. When men go to church nowadays they do not receive that which satisfies the soul, which the soul longs for; they are not instructed in the ways of life and of purity and right. They go away empty and disappointed. 

I look over the congregations of Israel, as they respond to the call made by the Presidency of the Church, from time to time, to come up here, to gather in our general conferences. For many years .the call has gone forth, and each call seems to be answered by ever increasing numbers. When we come, my brethren and sisters, we come hungry; yes, hungering and thirsting after righteousness; and we are not fed as the world is generally fed, in their religious assemblies, upon platitudes and glittering generalities and sophistries and false philosophies and science, falsely so called, or empty eloquence, but we are fed the very bread of life. We go home again having been instructed, in sound doctrine, having been built up in faith, having been filled with the Holy Ghost, as the Lord promised to those who would hunger and thirst after righteousness. We are sometimes reproved, sometimes admonished and rebuked, but we realize and understand that even reproof is sometimes essential and is acceptable to the man who really desires to be corrected and instructed and taught how to overcome his own weaknesses and more fully do his duty. So we go home, rejoicing in that we have been reproved, that God has shown us some of the weaknesses that we failed, ourselves, to see, and we go away determined to strengthen ourselves and try to overcome these weaknesses. 

Well, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as established by the instrumentality of Joseph, the prophet, through the personal ministry of God and the revelations of God to him, is the truth; it is +V>° rhurch of God and the only one which he recognizes as his, the only organization where his authority obtains, where the ordinances of the gospel may be performed efficaciously in behalf of those who seek to obtain them, and where the gospel is preached with power and authority, by men recognized by the Lord.. 

It is the word that if heeded will bring salvation to all who obey it, and that will bring condemnation to those who reject it. 

We stand in the world for peace among men and not war. We detest war; we love peace. Does the world love peace? No. Do they want peace ? It is not apparent that  do. The devil reigns in the world, and he has stirred up the hearts of men to anger and to hatred and to bloodshed. It is terrible to contemplate that in certain nations, among millions of the inhabitants of this earth today, infants are drawing from their mothers very breasts the poison of hate of their fellow men. Hatred is being engendered in the hearts of innocent children by the placards posted upon billboards, in streetcar windows, in the newspapers and by cartoons and on moving picture screens. By picture and inscription, the teaching of parents, and even sermons in the church, the people, old and young, are being taught and pledged to the policy of the "absolute and permanent extirpation of all enemies and enemy gfoods from their countries." After this war is over will there be peace ? No, there (will be no peace. It will take generations to outlive the impressions of hatred and animosity that are now being made upon the hearts of the children against their fellow men. The nations, while looking forward to a cessation of hostilities in this great war, are laying the foundations right now for another war which they call an industrial war, pledging themselves to make war upon other nations industrially, to cease to trade with each other in a friendly, brotherly manner. What must be the outcome of it? Peace to be permament must come from within as well as to be seen externally. Man must have peace in his heart arid love in his heart both for God and man, else there will be no peace. It is as President Smith expressed it yesterday, the decision of the court, the decision of a battle that goes in favor of a man or a , fills that man or that nation with jubilance, with joy and even arrogance, and it fills the man or the nation against whom the decision goes with bitterness of hate. Externally he may appear to be at peace, but in his heart there lurks that hatred which but waits an opportunity to get even sometime in the future; and the peace that shall be established after open warfare has ceased, it seems to me, will be but the seeming peace that may be seen in the graceful coils of the rattler as he rests in that position which is the best one to strike the deadly blow. Not until man humbles himself before God and repents of his sins, acknowledges his guilt, asks forgiveness for his own wrong doing and stands ready to forgive those who have injured him, when forgiveness is sought; only when God Almighty is recognized as the Father, and Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother and Redeemer of men; only when those glorious principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of salvation, shall be believed in and accepted and obeyed, will there be peace on earth. Not until the kingdom of God is found within us as well as outside of us, can we hope for peace on earth and good will for men. To accomplish this God has spoken in the latter days; for this God has raised up prophets in the latter days; for this he has put his Spirit upon men, and inspired their minds and their hearts and brought them in humility to repentance; for this the priesthood of the Almighty has been restored to men, that priesthood which must be exercised in love and kindness and charity and mercy and patience for the salvation of men, and never for the oppression of men. For that  has the gospel been preached in the world by men called of God, who speak by the power and demonstration of the Spirit of God and exercise their authority as God has given authority for the bringing of peace on earth, for the preparation of the gospel of peace, for the preparing of the world for the coming of the Son of God who shall dwell upon the earth and who shall execute judgment in justice and mercy and love among men and nations. My brethren, for this reason was the gospel restored, and that is what this Church stands for. It is the destiny of this Church and this people and this priesthood to stand for these things and uphold these standards, to uphold the ensien which God has raised to the nations of the earth — an ensgin of peace — a welcome to all men to come to a place of refuge, a Zion for the pure in heart, where the oppressed and the downtrodden among men may find rest and peace to their souls, and teachers after God's own heart to lead them in the paths of truth and salvation. 

Are we doing our duty? There is a little law among the boy scouts which is admirable, but to no organization or people is it more applicable than to the Latter-day Saints. The scout law declares that a scout is clean, a scout is honest, a scout is truthful, a scout is kind, and so on and so forth. Now that is what Latter-day Saints are. A Latter-day Saint is a man of God; a Latter-day Saint is a man who loves the Lord first and foremost; a Latter-dav Saint is a man who loves his neighbor; a Latter-day Saint keeps the Sabbath day holy; a Latter-day Saint honors his father and his mother; he revernces the priesthood, he honors it in himself and performs his duty in it; a Latter-day Saint is pure, he is virtuous, he is an honorable, upright, virtuous husband, and she is a pure, noble, motherly wife. Latter-day Saints are good fathers and good mothers; they are good brothers and sisters; they are good neighbors, and they are good citizens. Latter-day Saints are everything that God desires them to be; and it should not be said that Latter-day Saints ought to be, should be, might be, may be, or can be, what God wants them to bje — Latter-day Saints are the chosen of God and the salt of the earth by whom the whole world will be salted and whose destiny, as we have said, is to bring the knowledge of God unto the children \of men, until truth and righteousness shall prevail in the world and cover the earth as the waters do the mighty deep. Let us then arise to the great and glorious position and work that the Lord has placed us in and called us to perform, and let it be performed in humility and to the glory of God, the Eternal Father, and to the eternal salvation of his children, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Kedeemer of Israel." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Edward H. Anderson. 


