Overflow
08 10 1916

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., presided over by Elder Hyrum M. Smith. The singing was by the Pioneer stake United Choir, under direction of Tracy Y. Cannon, chorister, Edward P. Kimball, accompanist. 

The choir sang: "Come let us ," page 151, Latter-day Saints hymn book. 

The prayer was offered by Elder Richard Lambert. 

The hymn, "Come, dearest Lord" was sung by the choir. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I desire to be guided and directed by the spirit which has characterized this splendid conference thus far. When occasion requires me to stand before a congregation to instruct them in the gospel of our Redeemer, I feel very keenly the prayer that was offered by Jeremiah : "O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself. It is not in man that wajketh to guide his steps." Not only do we need the spirit of this great work, when we are called upon to address a con^ gregation, in order that the words we say may be the word of the Lord unto those who hear, but also that that spirit may grace our every-day 'abors. 

President Smith, in his opening address, said that this religion is not for Sunday operation only, but it should be carried into the lives of the Latter-day Saints, in their daily labors, that thereby they might be guarded and protected from the evils and the temptations that beset them in their daily lives. There comes to my mind a passage of scripture, wherein instruction was given to a man of ancient Israel, which, had it characterized the people of the world today, would have made it less necessary for the principles of eternal truth to be carried into their lives. 

"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, See, I have called by name 

Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah: and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, to devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in cutting stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship." 

Such was the qualification of this man Bezaleel, upon whom rested the responsibility of building the ark of the covenant and the tabernacle of our Lord. I wonder if, in our everyday labors, we think of this great manifestation of God's goodness and kindness to this man, and if we, as members of modern Israel, when we are employed in cutting or setting of stones, or working in brass or in iron or in gold or silver, whether at the jeweler's table or the blacksmith's forge, or at the lumber camp, if we feel the necessity of the Spirit of God to guide us. 

The gospel to me means service. "M-ormonism" spells service. I cannot think of a good, consistent Latter-day Saint who is lazy. The very spirit of this work is that of activity. It is said that idleness is the devil's workshop. When the curse or punishment was pronounced upon our father Adam, by the Lord, that he should eat his bread by the sweat of his brow all the days of his life, it was given to him for his development rather than for his detriment. Every individual who has found the love of Christ, who has a desire to develop according to the pattern that was laid down by our dear Savior, understood and annunciated before the foundations of the world were laid, will never consider work a curse. One of the greatest blessings that God has given to his children is work. There is nothing that the Lord has done without a purpose. He has a purpose in the organization of this splendid Church, which is commanding the admiration of thinking men throughout the world. Some of the most intellectual men that I have met in my life have paid very high tribute to the splendid, effective organization of which we are a part. It is designed on the part of our heavenly Father that in the work of saving souls each one shall have his portion of the ministry to perform. It is not for an aristocratic, self-appointed priesthood to perform the work for the living and for the dead, and I might add further that this Church knows no aristocracy outside of the aristocracy of righteousness, but he who is righteous will have conferred upon him the priesthood of the. Lord to effectively work in his name, not for his own aggrandizement, but for the blessing of those unto whom he is appointed to labor. I cannot think that the Latter-day Saints hold the priesthood in order to exalt themselves above their fellow men, though the calling is an exalted one. There is no position in all the world that I would prefer to the calling in the priesthood which has come to me, and I would rather be a faithful deacon in this Church than] to be the pope of Rome, or the king of any nation, or the president of this great republic, for I feel that the power that is delegated to God's children upon the earth, when operated according to the spirit of that calling, may result in far greater good, more eternal and lasting benefit, than that which can be performed bv the application of the old law of Moses, which is spread upon the statute books of every civilized nation of the world, or by all  laws and institutions of man in the civilized world. 

It is not within the province of one holding the priesthood to exercise the authority thereof in one's own behalf. It is true w.e pray to our heavenly Father to bless us. But if one is sick, howsoever high the authority he may hold, he is under the same rule that was left on record by James, that he should call in the elders, who should anoint him with oil, and the prayer of faith shall heal the sick. It does not follow, either, that a person can ordain himself to the calling in the priesthood or baptize himself. And so thoroughly was this shown at the time when John the Baptist came and restored the keys of the Aaronic priesthood to Joseph and Oliver, in Harmony, Susquehannah Co., Pennsylvania, at which time he conferred upon them the priestly authority of Aaron, which holds the keys of the preparatory gospel and the ministry of angels, that the instructions were given for Joseph to baptize Oliver and Oliver to baptize Joseph. Had Joseph announced to the world, that the priesthood had been conferred upon him by John the Baptist, and that he went into the Susquehannah river and there baptized himself, it would have exposed the cloven hoof, so to speak, of his claim. It was shown in the earliest organizing of this work, even in the method in which the Church was organized and established, that the priesthood was only operative in blessing our fellow men. That a man could confer upon himself the priesthood was the error into which the world had previously fallen. They have arrogated or appropriated unto themselves vestments of authority and assumed to labor in the name of the Lord  having that right and authority conferred upon them in the regular order of the Lord. Let me call your attention to an incident in the life of the Master which illustrates very beautifully this principle of the priesthood being a calling to service and not one for glory in one's self, though it is through the priesthood that we shall obtain our glory as we magnify the calling therein. After the baptism of the Master, we are told that he was led into a high mountain to be tempted of the devil. When the adversary appeared to him in his emaciated condition, for we are told that he was an hungered, he tempted Christ to "turn these stones into bread. ' Why? He realized that our Savior v/as hungry, and he invited the Son of God to exercise the priesthood in his own behalf. Jesus answered, "Man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." "Why," the adversary is assumed to have said, "if thou art the son of God, do these things." Think you not the devil stood on the bank of Jordan when Jesus was immersed by John, and on his coming out of the water, saw the heavens open, and the Spirit of God descend upon him in the form of a dove, and a voice from heaven say, "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased"? Forty days after, the adversary of men's souls said, "// thou art the Son of God, cause that these stones shall be- turned into bread." I would have you remember that Christ entered upon his ministry with the temptation to exercise his priesthood in his own behalf, which he refused to do. Also at the last agonizing moment upon the cross the same temptation was tauntingly hurled in his face. "He saved , let him come down  from the cross and save himself." He would riot exercise his authority even to save his own life, though he exercised that authority that we might live. Note the difference between these instances and that of the hungry crowd of 4,000 who met on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, where with seven loaves and a few small fishes he fed the multitude who, after three days' fasting were going to send to the city to buy food; but the Savior exercised his authority that others might be fed, but he exercised not the authority for himself, and the miraculous feeding of the multitude followed. Thus was seen the example of the Master. Then it is our duty as Latter-day Saints upon whom has been placed the garments of the holy priesthood, to warn our neighbors, to labor for the salvation of others, and not settle upon our farms and sit in our work shops and say, "the Lord has required no special calling of me." Every son of Adam who bears the priesthood has accepted it with a promise and a pledge before Almighty God that he will magnify his calling in the service of others. The efforts and effects are so beautiful, considering that we have no standing ministry after the pattern of the world, but that each individual member who is blessed with a testimony has a right to arise and instruct his fellow men and commit into their hearing his testimony and his instruction, lest he he found with the stain of his brother's blood upon his garments. I trust the time will never come when a Latter-day Saint will even entertain the thought, much less let the word pass his lips, that was uttered by Cain when the Lord asked him, "Where is thy brother Abel," who said, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Such persons, I tell you, are descendants of Cain, if not literally they are in spirit, and we as Latterday Saints, we who have been warned have been taught to warn our neighbors thus hecoming our brother's keeper. 

When we are called from the congregation of the people, we should always be ready and willing to give a reason for the hope that is within us. "The Lord," it is said, "cannot play a good tune on a poor fiddle." It is our duty to be well informed, to be always ready and willing to give a reason for the hope that is within us, and instruct our fellowmen. 

We are told by the Apostle Paul in the 12th chapter of Corinthians: "Wherefore I give you to understand that no man, speaking by the Spirit of God,calleth Jesus accursed, and no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost." Then if we are to know that Jesus is the Christ by the operation of the Holy Ghost, what manner of men and women ought we to be, that that Spirit might dwell in our hearts, on Sunday, and on every day of the week ? It matters not what our employment may be. 

We are told in the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants that when the Spirit of the Lord is withdrawn, it is amen to the priesthood and the authority of that man, and if we do not exercise the authority that is given unto us according to the spirit thereof, we will come far short of the glory that we anticipate receiving, and which the gospel so beautifully depicts before our mental vision. 

The Latter-day Saints, upon whom the priesthood is conferred, have opportunities that are not en by the people of the world. It is always a source of strength to me, and I am sure it is to every one who is called to occupy a position of this kind, to express his desires in the hearing of his brethren and sisters, committing himself to his public utterance. When a Latter-day Saint has the privilege, seldom enjoyed by the people of the world, to stand up and instruct this people, it will have a tendency — it does have a tendency — to guide his feet in the paths of virtue and peace, and he will live circumspectly before all men. Also before one is called to speak, and a Latter-day Saint never knows when he will be called upon, if he has not the Spirit of the Lord to direct him, he is afraid that he will expose his own nakedness of spirit, and therefore it has a tendency to enforce him to be a more righteous and virtuous man. 

I believe that the meetings thus far in this conference have been conducted according to the word of the Lord. I think the testimonies that have been borne have been borne by the power and influence and dictation of the Spirit of the Lord, as was intended, as shown in one of the revelations contained in the Doctrine & Covenants: 

"Revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Hiram, Portage Co., Ohio, November, 1831, to Orson Hyde, Luke Johnson, Lyman Johnson and William E. M'Lellin. The mind and will of the Lord as made known by the voice of the Spirit, to a conference concerning certain elders, and also certain items as made known in addition to the Covenants and Commandments. 

"My servant Orson Hyde was called by his ordinance to proclaim the everlasting gospel, by the Spirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land, in the congregations of the wicked, in their synagogues, reasoning with and expound all scriptures unto them. And, behold, and to, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose misssion is appointed unto them to go forth. And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation." 

Can you afford, my brethren and sisters, to part with his company, with that holy influence and Spirit that is given for the enjoyment of this people? 

"Behold this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants: wherefore be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come. 

"This is the word of the Lord unto you, my servant, Orson Hyde, and also unto my servant Luke Johnson, and unto my servant, Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant, William E. M'Lellin, and unto all the faithful elders of my Church." 

There are no elders, there are none holding the priesthood of the Lord, who should not be guided and directed, upheld and sustained in all their ministrations by this great gift and power which is enjoyed so abundantly by those Latter-day Saints who are living clean lives, who are upholding the truth and magnifying their calling. 

Now I pray that the blessings of the Lord might rest down upon Israel, that the spirit of this conference might be carried unto every home, every hamlet, and every village and! city of all the stakes of Zion, that those who are not for^  enough to have the privilege of attending this conference might partake with us of these inspirational blessings. I see no reason why they should not enjoy the same spirit through your ministrations at home as we have enjoyed it here through the ministration and instruction of the leaders of the Church, that they, too, might be benefitted by this plendid conference. 

I always enjoy coming to- conference, where I can compare the teachings of the prophets and apostles of the Lord with what I have been led to teach to the world, lest the labors of those called to the Eastern States mission should appear as a patch upon this great work, rather than an interweaving into the very fabric thereof. 

May God bless us, enable us to realize our true positions upon the earth, and help us to magnify our callings, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY. 

(Of the Presidency of the Liberty Stake, and Secretary of the Deseret Gymnasium.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am admonished that no poor word of mine will encourage you in the work of the Lord, but I am sustained with the thought that no word, be it ever so humble, spoken under the impress and power of the Spirit of God. is forgotten or falls fruitless to the earth. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there is no place for pride or vanity. 

As Elder Monson has well said, "Mormonism" spells service, and service in the Church cannot be effective save it be attended by the Spirit of the Master. I was very much impressed with the utterances in the prayer, which was offered here this morning. Brother Lambert prayed that the hearts of men might be turned to the Master, that peace might obtain in the earth. We live in a very great and important hour. The world has never been visited with such a devastating and cruel war as that which we live to witness, and on the other hand, there has never been a period in the history of this Church when peace and plenty have been more manifest than at this time. It seems to me that this should lead Latter-day Saints to reflect and rejoice in the fact that our Father has established us in these mighty hills, and has given us a proud place in the best nation of the world; has established us upon the hilltops that the world might see us, and has made us the depositary of faith, faith in Jesus Christ, the one element the Lord has said through his prophets in the Book of Mormon that would save this land from desolation and destruction. 

The great question of preparedness deeply concerns at this hour the people of the United States. When large and troubled questions confront me, I find solace in reference to the Book of Mormon, a book which is written in the third reader stvle, but a book which is saturated with the spirit and essence of faith in God. The Lord said repeatedly, in the Book of Mormon, referring to this land, that it was a land choice above all other lands, and that the people who should inhabit this land should be a free people, free from bondage unto all other people so long as they would serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, and that word has been  completely vindicated in the past. He has said repeatedly that whenever the people inhabiting this land become sufficiently ripe in iniquity,, they should be swept from the face of the earth. And the Lord said, through this book, that when signs and miracles cease among the people it is evidence that they have forgotten the God of the land and have forsaken him. 

The Lord has not said what agencies he would employ to consummate his purposes, but he has said that if the people would serve him, they would be prospered in the land, but if they should not they should be swept from the land. I thought while Brother Lambert was praying, if one could visit the homes of the people of the Church, he would find them to be sanctuaries of prayer, and if he were to listen to the instructions there given, he would find them filled with faith in God and his redeeming and exalting power. I am not a prophet, but I am not afraid to say that if the Latter-day Saints have faith enough, simple faith enough, to live the religion which God in his mercy has given to them, they will become the pride of the world; they shall become the tribunes of justice and righteousness among men. 

We are engaged in the great problem of race building. We believe that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has in it the elements of the best civilization the world has ever seen. I wonder if we will forget in the days of our opulence and plenty the simple principles that have distinguished us in the past? I wonder if we will run after the vain and foolish things of the world, forgetting the great and weighty things of eternity? The Lord expects us to be,  extraordinary people, because he has called us to an extraordinary work. We belong naturally to the plainj people whom Abraham Lincoln said the Lord loved, else he would not have made so many of them, but there is a something attached to this Church and this people that cannot be found among any other people or in any other organization. I think that it centers around the plain principle ,of faith in God. No man, he he ever so great intellectually, be he ever so profoundly learned, has power of himself in the exercise of his finite powers to comprehend the scope and power and capacity of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. But still there is somethins; about it so simple that the humblest can comprehend and accept it, and their acceptance works their salvation as completely as would its acceptance on the part of anybody else. 

I am proud of my people. I am proud of the heroic history that stands behind them. I look with confidence into a future, full of hope, for the Lord has said that he has set his hand for the last time to establish his work among the peoples of the earth, and he has called us to become the exponents of that great work among his children here upon the earth. 

May the Lord help us to live worthy of this high calling. I hope that the second, the third, and all coming- generations may rise full up to the stature of their fathers in their service to this great cause. I would like to have my own home a center of faith. I should like to engender in the hearts of my own children a love and reverence, not only for the principles of the gospel, but for the men who have been  in their establishment in this great day. The Lord has called us to a high place, and given us a great work, and may he enable us to perform this work after the grave and royal fashion which it demands. May he in his mercy overlook our weaknesses and sustain us in our honest efforts to glorify his name in the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder William Cook sang a solo : "How long wilt thou forget me?" 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission. 

Lest we forget the mission and the message which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has to bear to the world, it seems eminently fitting and proper that the membership of this Church, at least a very large number of the brethren and sisters, should come to these semi-annual conferences of the Church, to have that message re-stated, to be impressed with the mission which the Church has to perform to the world. From the beginning, I think it has been very clear to the mind of every individual in the Church, that there was no other organization in all the earth that was capable of doing the work which has been demanded of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Nobody else was nor is equipped to do the work which the Lord in his tender mercy has assigned to this Church. While many organizations are equipped to do good, and do much good, yet there is a distinctive, peculiar work that can be done only by this people. It is not because there is better blood in our veins. Nor is it because the Lord favors us more than anybody else; but he has at least permitted us to engage in this work, and it is the knowledge and acceptance of the truth that qualifies us. I think that the truthfulness of the statement which the Lord made to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when, in the very inception, it was announced that there was no organization in all the world acceptable to the Lord, norie qualified to do his work, and that it was the good pleasure ot the Lord that, he would reveal and restore the lost truth, the things' necessary to be known, the authority necessary to carry these instructions and that organization in its effectual use in the world, is more and more apparent. We do not stand to condemn our brethren and sisters because they have not done better than they have. Perhaps we, with the same amount of knowledge, could succeed no better than they have. It is not their fault that there has been an apostasy. The fault was with those generations that have gone before, who departed from the truth and left but a fragment of it, and that altered and changed and corrupted. When we think of the mission of the Master, how that it was necessary for him to devote three years of his life, extended purposely that length of time, in order to deliver that message which seemed to be important for the salvation of that generation, and when we think how little of that message has really reached us to this day, the wonder is that men have done as well as they have. 

I was reading recently an article written by an eminent divine, who was suggesting a revision of the scriptures and the elimination of those obsolete passages that have come down to us, and he concluded  we would have a book of about ninety pages left, and about seventeen pages of the very words of the Christ. That is all that comes to us, as he concludes, from the many sermons that He preached. I have often been impressed with the fragmentary character of our New Testament scriptures, and that the part that comes to us does not fully explain all points of doctrine relating to the gospel of the Son of God, and many things are left in such uncertainty, that it is a wonder that men have done as well as they have. I believe that every word that Christ uttered was essential to the salvation of men in that day, and I equally believe that every word he gave then is essential for the salvation of men today; and I believe that if we had all the words of Christ, in all the sermons dealing, evidently, with every act and thing that was necessary to be treated upon, that we would have complete instructions and knowledge as to that plan. I think that the Master must have told the people, for example, on what day they should worship. I do not believe there is any doubt that he gave instructions as to the manner of the administration of the sacrament, or as to the administration of the saving ordinances of the gospel. It was necessary to the people in that day. Hence the apostles, in numerous sermons and discourses and epistles, could freely say that "though an angel from heaven should teach any other doctrine than that which we have preached, let him be accursed." There was no division among the apostles of Christ as to principles and doctrine. Not until these inspired men were put to death, and not until the word of God was corrupted and part of it was lost, did  come to this state of ignorance and lack of knowledge concerning the things of God. And that we have a perfect knowledge of the gospel of Christ with its perfect organization, is not because we have learned it from the scriptures, or that we are wiser than anybody else, and have devised that system. You may, so far as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is concerned, destroy every Bible in the world, and that might apply to the time when the Lord condescended to speak to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Church would still stand forth if it were favored with the revelations that did come, just as strong, as clear, as definite upon every proposition as it stands today, for this Church was not built or its foundations laid because of any information that we have obtained from the scripture, and while we regard the scripture with all sacredness and take second place to no one in that regard, yet we say that the Church can produce a Bible at any time when that Church is actuated and inspired by the gifts and power of the Holy Ghost. The men who speak unto us the things of the Lord in our own day, I believe, give unto us that which is just as true as that scripture which has come to us from ancient times. I think that the evidences are appearing, and are multiplying very rapidly, to prove that the world itself is being forced to accept the" decision which the Master made, that the world could not be saved with the fragments of knowledge it then had. These decisions are being reached by learned men. 

You have all been impressed by the terrible war which is now being waged in Europe. We have heard  it in this conference. Is it not one of the greatest evidences of the statement of Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the world had but a form of godliness and not the power thereof? Is that power of godliness in the Roman Catholic church? Look at it today, with its hundreds of thousands of adherents in the war, represented in the soldiers of Italy, who are receiving the sacraments of that church and the benedictions and blessings of the priests of that church in opposing and slaying their Catholic brethren of Austria — no power within that church to make its adherents brothers, much less is there power in Protestantism to save those great nations from flying at each other's throats. But don't blame the poor soldiers, threefifths of whom are supposed to be Christian men. What is the example of their leaders? 

You will remember that an effort was made by one of our American philanthropists, who was actuated by high motives, to bring about an end to this terrible struggle, and so, in order to accomplish this he selected a lot of very fine Christian men and women who were also actuated by the best Christian motives, to go from court to court, and by their high standard and influence to impress the neutral nations with a desire to join them in a movement for the cessation of hostilities and a settlement upon a Christian basis of their existing troubles. We all know the result. 

One of the eminent divines of this country who was a member of the company, said recently of that movement, "We went to end the war in Europe, but we started more than one war of our own. We breathed the air of suspicion and jealousy, and we carried that feeling with us right to the court at Stockholm. The awful influence that had been at work was still with us. The strife in the trenches could not be more bitter, and its hatred more deadly than the strife and the hatred of our conference." And yet these were picked men who have had all the benefits Christianity has to offer, and yet this was the spirit that they manifested; and "as with the priest so with the people." So don't blame the people. I say were it not for "Mormonism," I would feel that the world had little hope to save itself and preserve faith in God and in Christ. There is a growing lack of faith on the part of the ministers and of members of the various churches in the world, a desertion from the old creeds. Now I do not say this to rejoice in their failures. God knows that I sorrow because the truth has been lost to the world, and I do not rejoice because my brethren and sisters of other denominations have failed, but thank God that inasmuch as they lack something they are coming to acknowledge it and they must go to God for it, even as Joseph did. And unless men will turn to him, all their speculations are in vain. One word from him is more precious than all the philosophies and theories of all the men in the world. Men, I say, are acknowledging that they are in need of something more than they have. I have here a statement made by one of the leading ministers in the city of Portland, and indeed one of the most eminent men of his day, a broad-minded and liberal man. I have listened to him on a number of occasions. He is a man of great experience and stands, I think, far in advance of the membership of  denomination. At a meeting which was attended by a number of the most prominent divines, held July 23, 1916, at the University of Oregon, the Rev. Dr. J. H. Boyd in the opening address at an international conference, said : "I cannot see a ray of hope for the present organizations that are attempting religion, though there is a big hope for true religion." 

That is true, for we have witnessed the hundreds and thousands of men who are turning to Christian science and other things, seeking for the truth if haply they may find it. "Having eyes they see not, and having ears they hear not, and hearts they cannot understand." And yet I believe down in their hearts there is a great hungering and thirsting after truth, and men are running up and down the earth seeking truth. They will find it some day, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This minister also said : 

"Already there are signs pointing to a broader movement, but they are not within the denominational lines. The old-time Presbyterians would rather see Christianity go down than give up a bit of their creed. There is no cohesive church of Jesus Christ in this state. There is no leadership to bring the denominations together. Little communities have been crowded with churches, and what do we find — ministers shifting from parish to parish m search of bread. No preacher can fulfil his mission when he is only in a community for a year or two years. Under our present system of creeds I cannot see a sign of anything that is going to help. Statistics are a failure in giving the situation." 

That is just what the Lord Jesus Christ saw and told the Prophet 

Joseph Smith in the very beginning of this work, and that is why "Mormonism" is in the world. O how my heart rejoices to see how men are beginning to recognize that there is truth in the declaration that the Lord Jesus has made, for there is hope when men begin to see. My heart goes out to them, for I have discovered hundreds and thousands who are honest and God-fearing; but while we stand upon the firm rock or the.unsinkable ship, where there is no danger of wreckage, out in the mealstrom are many millions who are driven hither and thither, and my heart goes out to rescue them, to save them, and to bring them to the knowledge of this glorious truth, for it is the thing that the world needs, and the world ultimately will receive it. 

I believe that we are but demonstrators and teachers. We have not been called here, my brethren and sisters, one of a city and two of a family, to enjoy all these blessings alone. We have only been brought here to be trained to carry this message to the world, to preach it by our lives, so that men might be attracted to it. And while I would not give up one of the young men who come into the mission field — I thoroughly enjoy them and appreciate them, but many are not prepared to meet some of the people in the world who are hungering and thirsting after righteousness. What about the lawyers, the doctors and the bankers whom our young men cannot reach? What are you lawyers going to do about your brothers of the fraternity in the world? What are you doctors and bankers going to do? I want to say to you that the responsibility of carrying the message of the gospel to the lawyers, doctors, bankers, and professional men  devolves upon the men of their class in this Church; and if they cannot go for long term missions they should go for short term missions, and if they should lose the opportunity of fulfiling these missions I believe a responsibility will rest upon their shoulders for failing to do their part. We want you out in the mission field. Of course it is proper to have homes, to be well provided for, even to enjoy the luxuries; but do not forget that all material blessings are but a means to an end. Do not forsret that the possession of the things of this life should not be the end, but a means to assist us to demonstrate to the world that there is power in the gospel of Christ, and assist us to bear this message to a sinking world who today need it worse than anything else. And I want to say to you that no family in this Church will ever stand secure in the possession of their privileges, nor in the realization of the blessings which have been pronounced upon their heads, unless they do their duty in carrying this message to the world. . So, you brethren who have been upon missions may take home the responsibility of preaching the gospel again, for the demands for laborers in the field will be greater than ever before. It is an hour of preparedness. It is an hour when the brethren and sisters should be thoroughly alert, not boastful, but feeling the consciousness of the responsibility that rests upon us, accept it, lest we should fall short and others come in and take our places. 

There is some objection on the part of the world to this Church, because they think we are dominated. I recall a statement that was made in the world's citizenship conference, a few years ago, by Dr. Coyle, with whom I had a rather heated controversy, and he finally, I am glad to say, deserted his position and refused to defend his attack. He said: 

"I hold, and shall show, that 'Mormonism,' by its organization, its claims, its teachings and its practices, is a menace to which, as America'ns, as patriots and as Christians, we cannot be indifferent. First of all, because of its system. It is the most completely centralized, the most compact and most unified religious body in the world. As a piece of ecclesiastical machinery there is nothing to compare with it." 

No less a person than the VicePresident of the United States said last year: 

"We insist on being efficient people, and we also insist on being free, but we cannot be both. We must take our choice. The German empire and the 'Mormon' Church are two of the most efficient organizations on earth, but in both the individual is subservient to the (Organization. I hope some way may be devised by which we can become more efficient and yet retain our freedom." 

I ask you, and you can each answer for yourselves: Do you feel that you are slaves? Do you feel you are dominated and dictated to by any one? Are the missionaries compelled to go into the field? Why, they are the freest men on earth. Yet here is efficiency. Some may say, it is not possible for us to have efficiency and yet freedom. But they know but little of the power of the Holy Ghost who gives a common understanding to all who receive him and he makes them one. This is a power that is lacking in the world. Men may even adopt the doctrines and the ordinances of the gospel of Christ, but still there will be something . You may manufacture artificial heat and light, but plants or animals, when made to depend upon that light will dwindle and die. For there is something else that comes from the sun in addition to light and heat. It also sends life forth into all things. So the organization may be ever so perfect, but still there is something more than form needed. There must be life. It is the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that has "touched the hearts of the Latter-day Saints that makes them do this wonderful thing. I say to you that I am absolutely free. No one has ever dictated to me. I go cheerfully into the world. I have done it with all my heart; freely I have done it. No man has compelled me. And I thank God that I have the good sense to use my will and my judgment to do that which I conceive is best for me, best for my fellow men, and in keeping with what I feel to be the will of the Lord. I have done it as you have done it, with my whole heart, with perfect freedom. We will continue to do it, my brethren and sisters, and we will yet demonstrate to the world that we can have the most efficient organization and still be free. If men can devise systems, that seem to be good, and that by the power and wisdom of men, then what should the kingdom of God be ? It should be more perfect than all, even as the heavens are higher than the earth. We should expect the Church of God to be the most complete and that nothing on earth can compare with it. This Church is that, even in the judgment of our enemy. . 

Let us live our religion. Let us recognize the fact that the work of God to be done in the earth is not yet finished. The greatest, the  part of it all lies yet in the future, and it affects every man, woman and child in the whole world. May God help us to see this, and prepare ourselves to be demonstrators of the word and preachers of it acceptable to God, and to the salvation of the souls of all of our Father's children, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

The only true Church established by God and not by men — Our duty to teach all mankind freely this truth — Compulsion not a principle of the gospel — Those who neglect to accept the truth must take the consequences — Later-day Saints are obedient to the priesthood, because, they are a part of the priesthood which exercises its power in righteousness — They are obedient to an organization, because they are the organization — No man since the great apostasy has been able to organize the Church of Christ; it remained for the Lord to do, through the Prophet Joseph — We must continue to teach these truths to our children. 

The things we have heard this morning are some of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are some of the things that must not be forgotten by the Latter-day Saints. They are truths that must be taught by the Latter-day Saints to their children, and their children must be trained in the knowledg of them, and prepared to go out into the world and proclaim them for the salvation of the world. It must not be forgotten by the Latter-day Saints that the Church to which they belong is the only true Church in all the world. It must be remembered by them that there is no other church on the earth that is recognized of God as his Church. 

Will he acknowledge an organization that he has not established? Will he recognize ordinances and ceremonies and sacraments that are performed; by those whom he has not appointed? I tell you he will not. The Lord recognizes only those whom he has called and chosen and ordained and sent forth to do his work and accomplish his will. While it is true, as Brother Ballard has stated, that the world, the people of the world, are not necessarily responsible or blamable for perpetrating upon the earth false churches or denominations or religions, nevertheless it must not be forgotten that the world of mankind will be held responsible if they continue to perpetuate in the earth these false religions that were introduced centuries ago by uninspired men or by the adversary of the souls of men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints did not come out of the Catholic church. It is not an offshoot of any protestant denomination. It is not a faction of any denomination or religion extant in the world. It is not something that has been established by men. It came not by the will of man, nor by the wisdom of man, but it came from God. God established it, not man. The truth of it came down from heaven, by the revelations of God, and is not founded upon the ideas nor the speculations nor the sentiments nor the will of men. The priesthood and authority of this Church is not a power that man has arrogated unto himself. It is not authority assumed by men or conferred by one man upon another; but it is an authority that came down from heaven and was restored unto men by the messengers sent from God, and those who received it are authorized to speak and to minister in tilings pertaining to the salvation and the redemption of mankind. These things are true. Therefore these things must not be forgotten; they must he remembered and taught unto our children and to our children's children to the latest generation, because these truths are what we must possess in order that we may come to an understanding and to the unity of the faith. 

I pray God to bless his people, and to make them able to accomplish the work he has called them to perform. As Brother Hinckley has suggested, because we are the chosen of God and have embraced the gospel of Christ and are members of the only true Church in the world, there is no reason why we should exalt ourselves and boast /ourselves as hetter than 1 others. That need not follow. We are what we are because we humbly accepted the word of the Lord, and did not reject the message of salvation when it came to us or our fathers. And some of you and many of your fathers were what the people of the world are now; and what we are now, multitudes in the world may he. All mankind may be numbered with the Saints of God, if they will forsake following the footprints as well as the will of the adversary, and submit their wills to the will of God. It is a matter that every man must regulate for himself. All men can serve God freely. All are invited to come and drink of the waters of life freely, and they may come if they will. No one will coerce them, nor compel them. Compulsion is not a principle of the gospel of salvation. The gospel will be preached to them. We will labor for them, and  will serve them. We will make great sacrifices for them, and endeavor to bring them to a knowledge of the truth, a knowledge of the salvation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and of the kingdom of God; but if they neglect that message, they must, of course, take the consequences. Some of these learned ones, quoted by Brother Ballard, express themselves in their ignorance concerning this Church. Are the Latter-day Saints subservient to the priesthood ? Yes in the sense of being obedient to the priesthood. Why, we the male portion of the Church are the priesthood. All men in the Church, those who are worthy, all are entitled to bear the priesthood, and do bear it, so far as we know. Each man exercises that power inhis labor among the Saints. We rejoice in being obedient to God and to his power, and the priesthood is his power, and he has delegated it unto men, and those who exercise the authority and power of that priesthood, how have they exercised it? My brethren and sisters, have they exercised it in harshness? Have they exercised it in unrighteousness? Have they exercised any unrighteous dominion over you and your children, or have they exercised it as the humble servants of God, and your servants, your helpers, your instructors, your teachers, your leaders, your fathers, your husbands, your brothers, your sons? All these hold the priesthood, and the exercise of that priesthood has been manifested in love and sacrifice and service and brotherhood and mercy and charity and patience and tolerance and in good will. We know that. And that is one of the causes that has made the Latter-day Saints united. 

Are the Saints obedient to an organization? Why, they are the organization. The Church of Christ as organized in the world is composed of the membership thereof, set in order according to the wisdom of God. 

If there has been one single man, from the very first pope down to the last, in Catholicism, who has known what the Church of Jesus Christ is, or what the gospel of Jesus Christ is, then I say it is very unfortunate that he has never made it known to the world. If there is any man in any religious, denomination whatsoever, from the beginning of it until now, who has known what the organization of the Church of Christ is, and how to organize it, or who knew what it consists of, then I say it is a great calamity to the world, and the world is suffering terribly in consequence, that he has never made it known to the world, and organized the Church for the benefit and the salvation of the children of men. Is it not reasonable to suppose that if any man, in any dispensation gone by, or living at the present time, understood the organization of the Church, and how to effect it, who understood the order of the priesthood, and how to set in order the quorums of the priesthood for the work of the ministry, for the preaching of the gospel, for the perfection of the Saints, for the purpose of bringing all men to the unity of the faith — 'I say is it not reasonable to suppose that he would have made it known, and set up that organization, and set in order that priesthood, and commenced a work for the redemption and salvation of mankind. The very fact, then, that no man has been able to  up the kingdom of God and establish the Church of Christ, with prophets, apostles, etc., and the divine gifts of the Spirit, and set in order the quorums of the priesthood, and assign the duties of the priesthood to the members who hold it, that fact, I say, is positive, irrefutable evidence of the truth, that no man since the falling away, since the great apostasy which followed the establishment of the Church by Christ, has known what the Church is, or how to establish it, nor what is the power of the priesthood, nor how to regulate those who hold it. These things have been made known, in our day, not by man, but by the Lord. They have been declared by the revelations of the Lord. And this organization and this authority has been established in the world by the wisdom and mercy and loving kindness of God, our Eternal Father, for the salvation of his children; and its destiny, as has been said time and time again and as we must continue to teach and declare to our children, is to bring about the salvation of the children of men who ever lived, and who do live, and who shall ever live upon the face of the earth. I know these things are true. I know it, not by the wisdom of men, nor the learning of men, but by the witness and power of the Holy Ghost. He has borne testimony to my soul, that these things are true, the very truths of heaven, and that Joseph Smith was an instrument in the hand of God through whom they have been given again to mankind in the world. 

May God help us to remember these things, and cherish them, and hold them up paramount in our lives, and in all our activities while we live in the flesh, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem : "Unfold, ye portals everlasting." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Louis Pond. 


