Afternoon
06 10 1916

President Joseph F. Smith presided and called the congregation to order at 2 o'clock p. m. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn "Now let Us rejoice." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Stephen L. Chipman, president of the Alpine Stake of Zion. 

Shanna Tout, of Idaho, sang a solo, "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is staid on thee." 

PREST. CHARLES W.PENROSE. 

A firm foundation — Definite understanding of Deity — Joseph the Seer — Our pre-existent state — Seek after good and you will find it — The spirit sphere — Resurrection of Sons of Perdition — Power and eternity of the Priesthood — Eternal judgment — 

Settlement of difficulties and disputes — Justice and equity to prevail. 

"Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee." Yes. If there are any people in the world who enjoy more perfect peace than do the Latterday Saints I have not become acquainted with them, either personally or by investigation. We certainly should put our trust in the Lord, and I believe we do to a very large extent, and in that we find peace. 

If we have had any doubts in regard to God, his personality and his will concerning his children, they were dissipated when we received the gospel revealed in the latter-days through the prophet Joseph Joseph Smith. Our feet have been placed upon the firm foundation. We know that God is the Lord, and we are perfectly satisfied, I believe, in the truth of the enunciation made by our President this morning, that the Father is a personage, not a mere spiritual imaginary breath, and that Jesus Christ of Nazareth, born of the Virgin Mary, is his only begotten Son in the flesh, and that we are made in their image, as revealed in scripture, both ancient and modern, and when we pray, we pray to him to whom Jesus Christ prayed, whom he taught his disciples to pray to as our Father in heaven, and to whom Adam prayed in the Garden of Eden and taught his children to pray to. This is made very clear in the book called the Pearl of Great Price, the word of the Lord given to Moses, also in the word of the Lord given, previously to that, to Enoch. These things are very clear and plain to us by the revelations given in the latter days through the prophet Joseph Smith; and while we do not worship Joseph Smith, we do worship, with him, the great Eternal Father, the great Elohim, that Being spoken of by the psalmist when he said : "God standeth in the congregation of the mighty. He judgeth among the gods." Paul had reference to him when he said, there were "gods many, and lords many, both in heaven and on earth, but to us, there is one God, even the Father, and one Lord, Jesus Christ;" and to them we pay adoration. We also! pay homage in a large degree, or should do so, to the man chosen of God in the latter days, when he was but a boy, to begin to lay the foundations of the latter-day work, to represent the Lord in the ushering in of "the dispensation of the fullness of times." My heart goes out to him when we sing "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that prophet and seer, Blessed to open the last dispensation, Kings shall extol him and Nations revere." While Brother Tony Lund, this morning, was singing the beautiful song, composed by President John Taylor, who partly suffered martyrdom with the prophet, "The seer, the seer, Joseph the seer!" every word and every tone went into my heart; and there is a peculiarity about this to me : From the very first time I read anything about Joseph Smith, when I was but a boy, there seemed to go from me to him a responding chord in my soul. When I have stood out in the world, in the streets and in the halls of the people, and borne testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, it seemed as though there was an awakening in my whole nature in bearing that testimony, an affinity between me  the prophet whom I never saw, with my natural eyes. I believe that Joseph Smith was one of the mighty that we read about in ancient and, in some places, in modern scripture. He was one of the mighty ones and was reserved to come on the earth ih the latter ^avs, in this last dispensation, to be the instrument in the hands of the T^athpr and of the Son, to re-establish the Church of Christ and to introduce into the world principles, the knowledge of which had been lost for ages, and to reveal the word of the Lord especially for this generation, that a people might be prepared for the establishment of the kingdom of God, the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that he is one of the great and mighty spirits that ministered before the Lord. 

The full history of our pre-existent state, any of us, anybody that has been living in the flesh on the earth has not been given to us. The Lord has not been pleased to reveal very much concerning it, but the fact has been made so clear and patent to our minds that we have become established in the faith that we lived before we came here, and, therefore, we shall live after we leave' here; that we are the sons and daughters of that great and mighty Being, who possessed the fullness of intelligence and was the greatest of all the intelligences that existed in that state. He is the Being whom we worship; to him we owe our personal, organized, conscious existence and condition. He begat us : we are his children, and, therefore, w.e owe full allegiance to him. And we have learned through the revelations of God in the latter days, particularly in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants,  the worlds that have been created have inhabitants and that they are "begotten sons and daughters unto God." No matter who may have been their immediate progenitors, they all center up to the great Eternal Father, Jesus Christ's Father, Jesus 'Christ's God, and our Father and our God; and when we pray, we pray to him, and to him we owe full allegiance because he is our God and our King and our Creator and our Father. Of course, when I use the term "creator," or "creation," I take the interpretation of the prophet Joseph Smith,who said the term meant organizer, or organization, as the case might be. The term "create" had been used to signify something made out of nothing, and the prophet Joseph dissipated that fallacy while he dwelt with us in the flesh. So we understand that when, the word "create" is used, it means to organize, to bring together existent, eternally existent atoms for the special purpose for which they are organized. Now these are among a great number of truths that the Lord has revealed to us through the prophet Joseph Smith, and we should keep that in mind and remember him, as we should always remember Jesus, the Savior, the Christ, as taught to us this morning by President Lund in his remarks concerning the form used in the Sacrament. We should always remember him, not that we desire to bow down and worship him, but we should honor him in his place, as we should all who are called upon to occupy a similar position succeeding him in the ministry. 

I was pleased to hear the testimony of President Smith, this morning, concerning his holding the keys which were revealed' to the  Joseph Smith and have been handed own to his successors; and Joseph F. Smith holds them today, as Joseph the prophet held them, and he stands at our head as the President of the Church, and we look to him as the end of controversy. We ought not really to have controversy in our Church, because the revelations of God are so clear and plain to us, if we will read them with an understanding mind and a desire to receive them as they are given. We should not read to find fault or to pick flaws or to make apparent contradictions, but receive them in our souls and not only "receive" but "conceive" the word of life as brother Heber C. Kimball used to teach. Some of our brethren get so anxious to make apparent contradictions that they will take passages of scripture from ancient and from modern writ, and I was going to say, invent, and put them in such a position that they appear to conflict, and then they want the President of the Church to expound the matter to them' and to search through the scriptures and point out to them where they can find support for their notions and ideas. 

The President alluded to some of these things this morning, and the counsel he gave to us is very pertinent and very necessary at the present time, and if our brethren, and some few of our sisters, perhaps, would quit this quibbling, when they search, when they seek, they will be sure to find. If they are seeking for contradictions, they will find them, but if they are seeking for the word of life, they will find it, and they will rejoice therein, and everything will be clear and plain before their minds. In that I delight, and I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been revealed to us in these latter days because of its plainness. I am one with the prophet Nephi in this respect. He said, "My soul delighteth in plainness," and this has been a joy to me ever since I first heard the gospel. 

When I first learned anything about such a person as Joseph Smith I read about him in a book written by a Frenchman, who was present when Joseph Smith preached to some Indians, and he related the circumstances and there was something in that narration that fascinated me before I heard the gospel preached in the latter days; and then when I did hear it, that same feeling and spirit entered my soul, and I desired to know more about this Joseph Smith. I thank God that I did learn about him; I thank God that when I heard the gospel preached, it found a place in my soul, I was prepared for it in that singular and simple way, and ever since that time there is something about the very name of Joseph Smith and his work and mission which thrills me in every part of my nature. I rejoice in bearing testimony, as I have done in many countries and at many times that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the living God, that he lived a prophet, that he died — that is, his spirit left his body — as a prophet, that he is still ministering in that capacity where he has gone in a sphere shut out from our gaze, like our former estate is shut out from our vision. But he lives and he will be troubled no more by the tyrants that followed him; he will be troubled no more with the false reports that were raised against his character; he is troubled no more  the conflicts of life, for he had to fight up-stream all the time as he struggled along from year to year. But he has gone from the gaze of the world and from our gaze, for a time, and now is working in the world behind the veil, in that vast sphere where there are so many of the children of God who have lived in the flesh and have gone before us. His work is there now, while our work is still here, for a time, on this earth; and he has left us a legacy in regard to those of our ancestors who did not receive the gospel. 

There is a great and glorious work given to the Latter-day Saints, not only to carry or send the gospel to all the nations of the earth, to every nation and kindred and tongue and people, but to labor for the salvation of their dead progenitors. What a mighty work is to be done for them, and how little we know of their actual condition behind the veil! No doubt what is revealed about the world of spirits is clear and true, so far as it goes. It is plain that when the spirit of man, which is the real personality, leaves the body, that spirit goes where it should go. There is a sort of preliminary judgment. We are told that we go home to the God that gave us life, just as we read in the old scriptures, "Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return to God who gave it." Not that that means that we go to heaven, as is taught in the Christian world, in the immediate society and presence of the Father, but, we are told, we are consigned either to one part of that spirit world or to another, to the Paradise of God where the good go, where they rest from their  and sorrows and labors and troubles, from all the evils that beset them through the flesh. Freed from the body they are able to receive further light and intelligence and to use the experience that they have gained for the benefit of one another, and also, like the Savior, for the benefit of those that go to the other part of that great world of spirits, the world where the wicked go and the corrupt. I have often thought it must be an awful time as well as an awful place for the corrupt and wicked and abominable who loved and made a lie, while they dwelt in the flesh, and who committed all kinds of iniquity and corruption, when they are thus gathered together. What a company! What associations! What misery there must be among them! The good are gathered in Paradise, and the wicked are in Hades together. Well, there is indeed a great field of labor for the sons of God, and perhaps the daughters of God, after they leave the body. They still are in the image of the Father and of the Son, and they have a work to perform in the great plan of human redemption; for the time is to come when all shall be redeemed who can be redeemed. God is a great economist. Everything that can be saved will be saved, and only that which cannot be saved will be lost. This is because of the operation of eternal principles. After defying the truth and loving lies, fighting against that which they once testified and knew to be true, being obsessed with malice and murder, justice claims them and because of that, they are not in the plan of redemption; they cannot receive the glory that shall come, even to the corrupt who repent and are raised  the telestial glory. They will not inherit even that glory. Quite a number of our brethren get tangled up about what is said of these "Sons of Perdition." In the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants we are told that all the rest but these sons of perdition shall come forth and be redeemed. That means they shall come forth in one of the three degrees of glory, the celestial or the terrestrial or the telestial. They have an idea that the sons of perdition will not be resurrected, because it says there that "all the rest shall be brought forth." 

I want to read to you just one verse from the Doctrine and. Covenants that I hope will set that little matter at rest so that there will be no misunderstanding or dispute concerning it. It is in the 88th section, which is a most glorious revelation from God to the prophet Joseph Smith. They are all good, they are all glorious, but there are some more especially so to me, and this is one of them. I regard the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants as the most glorious revelation concerning the future condition of mankind that has ever been put into print. I hope you have read it, all of you, and that you still will read it, and that those who have not studied it will study it thoroughly. Now I will not read the whole of this section that relates to the resurrection. You will find it from the 25th to the 31st verses of this 88th section about the celestial glory and the terrestrial glory and the telestial glory as you will also read about them in the 76th section. This is a later revelation. Now, after speaking of those that shall come forth and be quickened by the celestial glory, and then those that shall come forth, being quickened by the terrestrial glory, and the rest who shall receive the telestial glory, it says in the 32nd verse. 

"And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which thev might have received." 

This shows that there are four groups of resurrected beings, those that are quickened by the celestial glory, because they obeyed celestial laws, those who are quickened by the terrestial glory because they received not the gospel in the flesh and yet many of them were honorable people — they shall be quickened by the terrestial glory, and then the rest that remain, the corrupt and the wicked and the abominable, who, after having paid the uttermost farthing, of their debts of sin, are brought forth, they also shall be quickened and receive the telestial glory. But then those that remain, who are they? They are those that are not redeemed into one of these glories. In the due time of the Lord they also shall be ouickened, but they shall return to their own place, and that "own place," we are told, is with the devil and his angels, and the height and the extent and the depth and the end of their punishment no man knoweth, for the Lord does not reveal it except to a very few, and tb.en he shuts up the vision he says. So now, brethren, if any of you have got a little tangled up over these passages of scripture, in the 76th section let that pass and take this that I have just read to you, and read that with the other, and  will have the matter all straight. 

In these plain and simple things which we have received from God, from the great Eternal Father by revelation through his Prophets, and particularly through the great Prophet of the latter days, Joseph Smith, they certainly ought to place us on a firm foundation and give us rest and peace in our souls. Therein is one of the grand heauties of the Church to which we belong, the rioctrines that we have received. We know, we are convinced of them, we are not in any doubt about them if we have received them in the right spirit. They have established themselves in our very being, they are a part of us. We live in them, and they live in us, as ministers of the Lord, setting that which the Lord has revealed for us to do, first in all our labors and duties. I thank the Lord that that ideal was planted in my soul when I received the gospel in my boyhood, that this was the first thing under the sun, above father or mother or wife or children or houses or lands or possessions of any kind that is earthly, the kingdom first, the truth triumphant, the truth before all things, to learn it and to live it. 

This has been my desire from the very beginning, and I have tried to carry it out in my life, and therein I have had inexpressable joy and intense satisfaction. The confidence that I have and have felt in regard to this work has been a joy to me so that I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand on the earth in the latter days and bring glory and honor and full reward to all who serve him and keep the commandments which he has given to us, which are the com of the Father. I know that these things are true, I haven't any doubt concerning them. In that certainly there is peace, something to rely upon; something dependable, something thati doesn't need any quibbling or questioning or doubt or. uncertainty, but conviction, the full conviction in my soul of the truth. And I have been able to bear that truth to others and that very certainty that sounded in my voice has carried conviction, thank the Lord, to many others in my travels and labors in the ministry. And this is what we all need, my brethren, the firm and solid conviction in our own souls that we have received the truth and that this priesthood and authority which the Lord has sent to the earth in the latter days through the prophet Joseph Smith is a reality. It is that which the President talked about this morning, the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, which is without beginning of days or end of years, which existed ages upon ages before this world and others of its kind rolled into being. It is without beginning and without end. It is the power of God. It contains the light of truth. It carries authority to administer in the name of the Lord, and those ministrations, when properly observed and administered, are just as though the Father or the Son or some other great being had ministered them in person. That is the beauty of this authority which the Lord has revealed to us. Now in that we carry with us, wherever we go, the power of God to administer in his name, and it is effectual, and what we do on earth is counted for something in heaven, what we seal on earth is sealed in heaven; what we loose on earth, when it is properly done, is  in heaven; and what is recorded here is recorded there, although the manner of recording has not been told to us. 

There is another thing connected with this that we ought to understand fully in our minds, and that is that the time will come, according to the revelations of God, concerning the resurrection, that judgment will be given into the hands of men who hold that priesthood, so that what they do in the judgment will be as though done by the Father or by the Son. John, the apostle, in that beautiful revelation that is placed last in the New Testament, in the 20th chapter, 4th verse, says : "I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them; and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus,' 'and so on, "and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years." Judgment was given unto them! What does it mean? It meansi just what Jesus told the twelve apostles when he was with them in the flesh, that they who remained with him and traveled with him in the regeneration should sit upon twelve thrones and judge the twelve tribes of Israel; and what the Lord told his twelve disciples on this continent, and they also should receive similar power and authority. And the apostles of old, the apostle Paul particularly, wrote about the saints even judging angels. So judgment is to be given into the hands of men who have received this priesthood, and who have exhibited before God and angels their capacity and the justice and equity and righteousness of decision, when they have had to sit in judgment upon others. 

Jesus, the Christ, in giving that beautiful sermon that has been alluded to today, the Sermon on the Mount, in the 7th chapter of Matthew, you can read it, said to the multitude, "Judge not that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall he judged, and the measure ye mete out to others shall be measured to you again." But judgment, to a great extent, is given into the hands of certain quorums and councils in this Church. One body to exercise judgment is the bishopric, the bishopric of a ward] are appointed and ordained to be judges. A bishop is a common judge in Israel to sit with his counselors in judgment upon transgressors and upon those whose difficulties cannot be settled by the teachers who visit them in their hpmes. That arbitration power which is given to the teachers is a splendid thing, and it should be used 'when necessary. I was glad to hear President Smith say this morning he didn't have to call anybody in to settle his difficulties, he settled them himself. Thank the Lord, I have never had to call in teachers or a bishopric to settle any troubles that I have had. I feel like he does. I would rather give a little than want to take it all. I would rather suffer something than to do something that was wrong. But we do have difficulties in the Church, and the Saints should be willing to refer them to good men who go to their homes to teach them. I wish they always did teach when they go to the homes of the members, but we will pass that by. They should call in these good men if they have any difficulty they cannot settle with their neighbors, or with members of their own families, committing it to the judgment of these good, wise men and do  they say is the right thing, even though they may have to, what you would call, sacrifice something. But when this can't be done, satisfactorily, the bishop and his counselors can sit as common judges in Israel, and determine the rights of the conflicting parties, also the duties of men or women who are charged with transgression. 

Now, brethren and sisters, what the Savior meant was that you and I, in our capacity as individuals, as members, outside of any official duty imposed upon us, should not sit in judgment upon one another. And yet we do it, and sometimes we say things about one another that we are not justified in saying. Some of our people do sit in judgment, even upon the President of the Church, and find fault with him. Of course, they are only a few, comparatively, but it is annoying to hear anybody talk as some people talk concerning him, and concerning the president of the stake, or the bishop of the ward where they live. It is not our province as members of the Church, to sit in judgment upon one another and call bad names when we reflect upon the acts of people. We have no right, even if we are in official capacity, to form a one-sided judgment. There are two sides to every such question, if not more, always; and we should hear both, "hear defense before deciding, and a ray of light may gleam, showing thee what filth is hiding underneath the shallow stream." Hear the other side before you begin to find fault, and pass judgment. Do not let us pass judgment upon our fellow creatures, our brothers and sisters, or even people in the world. Let us look into our own souls and  out our own defects, we will find them there if we look for them. He that seeketh findeth, but it de^ pends upon what you are seeking. You can always find something that you are seeking for. If you are seeking for the good, you will find it; if you are seeking for the bad, you will find it, sure enough, if you keep on; but don't let us sit in judgment upon one another. Forgive one another of all our faults, as the Lord has commanded us, in our hearts, not merely with our lips, but in our hearts, and if we do not forgive one another, in our hearts, the Lord says we commit the greater sin. So when we are called upon to sit in judgment, either in a bishop's court or in a high council, (to which the decisions of the bishop's court may be appealed) if we are members of the high council, just remember what the Lord has said concerning such quorum or council. Every decision of these quorums that are organized must be given in justice, in righteousness in equity, in the fear of the Lord, and with the desire to do what is right, not out of personal feeling. Personal feelings ought to he banished from our squIs when we sit in judgment having the right to sit in judgment. The bishop's courts and the high councils have the right to sit in judgment, but it must be reached by testimony, not through any feelings or thoughts we may have in regard to the iniquity of some individual. Sit in judgment in righteousness, according to evidence! 

If we were to sit in judgment upon all the rumors that come to us in the President's office, we should have a very poor opinion of a good many men and women in Israel; but we have to hear both sides  then we don't pretend to take the place of the bishop's co.urt or high council. I want to say that for the benefit of my brothers and sisters who seem to think that the President of the Church should decide on all these little matters of difficulty that come ,up as in matters of doctrine, and that it is his job to sit in judgment on these matters, and give them a decision, and then back it up by Scripture. The President of this Church doesn't need to back up what he says by ancient Scripture. He has the word of the Lord to us in this dispensation, just asthe prophets of old had to the people among whom they lived. Now, brothers and sisters, if you have something against your neighbor, or your neighbor has something against you, try and settle it peaceably if you can, but if not, do not send it up to the First Presidency. Go to the bishop of your ward and get the matter settled by the bishop. But if you are so stubborn and selfwilled and so self-opinioned that you think the bishop doesn't know as much as you do, then appeal it up to the high council, and if there is any unrighteousness in the decision of your high council, that can be looked over and examined by the Presidency of the Church, and they can decide; what is to be done in the matter, in regard to having a new trial or whatever the case may be; that belongs to them but not till then. Do not keep writing up to the First Presidency about your little difficulties and trials that can he settled right in your own locality, but get the proper authorities, the, local authorities, to attend to them and save us a great deal of trouble. 

Now, brethren, men of God, holding the holy priesthood who have the right to sit in judgment, have got to do that in the way that the Lord has appointed. You are not to call names, nor to speak evil of your neighbors. It is right for them to give them a chance to speak in their own defense before you make up a decision in your mind, let alone anything else, and then always do what the spirit of the Lord and the judgment that you receive and the testimony that is presented make clear to you what should be done and do it fearlesssly, and in honor and in truth, and the Lord will be with you and good will be the result, and then when the time comes that judgment is to be given to men of God in the world to come, why, it will be the kind of men in whom judgment can be properly vested. They will represent the Father and the Son as they do here on earth. The great judgment that is to come will not be altogether performed by one individual sitting upon a great white throne and passing judgment upon the millions upon, millions of the earth's inhabitants. God's house is a house of order, and the Lord will have agents appointed as he has now behind the veil as well as in the flesh, and when the great judgment comes, all will be judged according to their works, and the hooks will be opened, and the Book of Life will be scanned and the man's acts and the women's acts upon the earth will be disclosed, and we will all confess in our souls that the judgment is just and righteous, because it will be uttered and delivered by one having authority and the seal of God will be upon it. 

Now, while we dwell on earth in the flesh, let us take the good counsel that we get from our brethren,  particularly that we had this mor'ning tfrom our President. 1 1 enjoyed his remarks to the people. I bear testimony that they were true, and if we will live by those words of God, that were delivered to us this morning, our path will be comparatively a path of peace; the sunshine of the Lord will beam upon our souls; we will have joy and satisfaction and contentment and full reliance, and we will not be shaken. We will stand firmly upon the rock of revelation and God will guide our footsteps in the way of life and by and by we will learn the things that we forgot when we came on the earth in the flesh, and we will retain all the light and truth and experience gained while in mortality, and if we are faithful to the last, we will shine forth in the presence of the Father like the stars of the heavens, and like the sun, forever and ever. And of the increase of our glory and our happiness and our peace and our dominions and our posterity, there will he no end. God help us to attain that great salvation, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

PREST. FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

There shall be no inactive Latter-day Saints — -Spiritualities as important as temporalities; people should be active in both — The authorities of the Church, the stakes and the wards, examples of thriving activity — Every member of the Priesthood should be active in like manner — Of what activity consists — The sisters should be also occupied in good work — Duty of stake presidencies to furnish employment for all officials and members of the Priesthood, and this  also a duty of the bishops for those under their care — How every Latter-day Saint may be kept busy — What stake of Zion will be first to report the Priesthood all active in that stake? — A strong injunction to stir up and look after the inactive members of the Church. 

I hope that you can hear me as we have heard our brethren. Their voices have been good, and I am sure that we have been greatly edified in listening to them. In looking over this body of Latter-day Saints, representing the various departments of Zion, I could not help thinking what a privilege is given us to come together to see and to be seen, to hear and to be heard. This body of people is not very large, considering the whole of the Latter-day Saints, but I take it for granted that all who are here and all who attend our conferences are active members of the Church, and not numbered among the inactive. This privilege we have of speaking to the representatives of the various stakes of Zion and missions in the United States, is a very great privilege, -for when we talk, what is said will be taken to all the departments of the Church in gathered Zion. 

I have had occasion latterly to draw the attention of the brethren in various stakes of Zion to the reports that we receive in regard to the priesthood throughout the Church. The numbers that are active, and also the numbers that are inactive, are reported to us, and I have taken the privilege of advising my brethren such as sit before me here, — presidents of stakes and high councilors, bishops and heads of departments, — how to correct, measurably, the reports that are handed in to the Presiding Bishop's office and that are submitted to us. 

The fact is, there should be no inactive Latter-day Saints, for inactivity tends to death and darkness, whereas activity tends to life and animation and salvation. We believe that it is quite possible for you brethren who are leaders in the communities where you live, as we are here where we live, to set good examples, and!not any bad ones, and that your good examples will be followed by the priesthood with whom you are surrounded and with whom, you labor. If we ca-n get you to understand and discover how to make correction of unsatisfactory conditions, it will be very profitable to you and to the Church, as well as to all who are brought into active service for the Lord every day. We are all industrious and persevering in regard to the things of this world, what we call temporal things, things of earth, which call for a good share of our attention; and it is just as important, and a little more so, that we should be industrious and occupied with the spiritualities, the religious side of our natures, and the service which the Lord requires of us for our salvation and the salvation of the children of men. There is no-inactivity with the Presidency of this Church; there is no inactivity with the council of the twelve; there is no inactivity with the council of seventies; there is no inactivity with the presiding bishopric; there is no inactivity with the presiding patriarch. So that the general authorities of the Church, I am prompted to advise you, in this regard are setting a proper example, and we are readily and easily found on all occasions when we are needed and we are at your service. Four times a year we go to every stake of Zion as nearly as we can. The general authorities of the Church are not very numerous, not a very large body of brethren, and we have seventy-two stakes of Zion and a great many hundreds of wards to give attention to, as well as to all the missions of the world. They must be taken care of and considered and kept supplied with officials. We must supply the world with missionaries by the hundreds and thousands to preach the gospel, and they go out from tinder our hands thoroughly advised, thoroughly instructed and taught in regard to their duties. So with the brethren who are selected to preside over the stakes and over the wards, we give special attention to every man, as well as in the missjons; and thus we are active, always. I believe that the presidencies of the stakes of Zion are always active. -We speak of them as active men. The bishops of the wards and their counselors are active men. I think the high councilors, as a rule, are active men. So that these brethren, standing at the head of the people, are thoroughly well employed. But we do think and we do ask you, my brethren, who sit before us here today, from the various stakes of Zion, we want to ask you to see to it that every member of the priesthood is brought into active service, that is, that they do something every day. They may not all be called to be ward teachers, they will not all be called to be bishop's counselors, or high councilors; but there is no reason why a man bearing the divine authority of the Lord should ever be inactive one day. He should be able to report, and it be reported of him by his bishop, by the president of his quorum, that he is active, that he is performing some service, that he is intelligent enough to find employ, and that he does not have to be told everything that is to be done. It is quite an accomplishment for a high priest or a seventy, for an elder, or any other person bearing the priesthood of the Lord, to learn the lesson of employing himself. And whenever m«n say something, whenever they do something that is worthy of imitation, and that sets an example in the community of virtue, of righteousness and of truth and of justice, they are entitled to be considered active. Whenever they say to a little boy, "The Lord bless you, my little boy, George, or John, or Joseph," or a, little girl, school children, anybody — or they have restrained a person that is inclined to be reckless and disobedient, a transgressor in any line, whenever they have restrained those who are going astray, whenever they give encouragement to those who need it, whenever they ,open their mouths and bless, as President Smith suggested this morning, ( he having the keys of the kingdom and the keys of authority and power to bless,) — that should be regarded as activity in the service of the Lord. We all have power to bless and to give instruction and to teach. I speak thus in regard to the brethren bearing the priesthood. 

I want to say also, although we are just a small representation of the Church here — yet it is a good congregation — not a large body of men, that the Church is well stocked with a numerous number of men bearing the priesthood. Almost all the male members of the Church bear the Aaronic or the Melchizc'ek priesthood, and how grateful these brethren should be! Then the wives should be as industrious and active as the brethren, and so far as 

I remember, there is no report in our official accounts and records, of the inactive women. Presumably the sisters are all active, they are engaged, they are active teachers in their homes and in their associations and organizations, and are performing their duties fairly well. I don't know whether the bishop is particularly favorable to the sisters, and does not tell us of those things, or whether he does not report that the sisters are inactive, but I presume that the sisters in this Church are, as a rule, very active, well occupied, their time well taken up and occupied in good things. I hope so; it should be so. But they need to labor, and their activities are just as much required with our sisters who are married and the young sisters who are not married. They are to labor among them and what they say and what they do and the good examples that they set in all the activities of life are just as important and valuable with their sex as the labors of the brethren are important and valuable among the brethren and the people generally. And I want to impress this upon my brethren: There is no one of us hardly that can visit all the brethren and teach them all the same lessons, but we give them the lessons here occasionally, twice a year, such as we have been listening to. 

I want to advise my brethren who preside over the stakes of Zion, seventy-two stakes, it is your duty to furnish employment for all stake officials and all men who bear the priesthood, that you furnish them occupation as far as possible and help them and devise means for their activities. Use the bishops, and help the bishops to bring about activity with their brethren, for I say that it is a reproach to the presi of a stake, to the bishops of wards, when they have to report inactive men, whom they have entrusted with the priesthood under the direction of the Lord, and have not found a way to give them employment and make them active men. You don't need to worry particularly about the officials. You .will find that the officials are pretty well occupied, pretty well employed, but the overwhelming, majority of the brethren who bear the priesthood could possibly make considerable improvement and increase their activities and take valuable lessons to the people. Those who are inattentive and careless in regard to the exhortations that have been given us today, in regard to their prayers, in regard to partaking of the sacrament, in regard to their tithes and offerings and so forth, they need to be aroused and stirred up, for their salvation, for their happiness, for their peace, their success and their prosperity in this life; for the Lord rewards us according to our works, I understand, and you will be rewarded, we will be rewarded according to our works, and it is important that we look after the salvation of the people, half of whom are compared to the foolish virgins by the Savior, — five wise and five foolish. We want to make more wise Saints and servants of the Lord. We do not want them to be hampered; we do not want them to be in questionable conditions and positions. We want them to be thoroughly established in the faith; we want them to so live that they can keep and do keep the commandments of the Lord, for that is the secret of their success; for when a man is inactive, he will not be saved. He must be occupied, he must be employed, he must work, he must labor, or he will be found delinquent and will be disappointed when the judgment comes. So I say to my brethren, these chief brethren in the stakes of Zion and in the wards and in all the departments, standing at the head of quorums of the priesthood, we expect you to be responsible and to be wise enough to provide means to employ the brethren and occupy them at home, when they don't go abroad, and we will find service for them abroad in the world, all that we can well take care! of. And so I desire to impress upon my brethren presiding in these positions that the time may soon come — you are telling us now every three months what is being done by the teachers and whether they are coming up to one hundred per cent of visiting, when we want one hundred per cent of activity in all departments. Look over the field and discover if your brethren are occupied actively, so that there will be no high priests that are inactive, no seventies inactive, no elders inactive. The presidency of the high priests is responsible to see that the high priests are taken care of. In some of these large stakes of Zion they have a very large force of high priests. Then the seventies have their quorums and the elders theirs, and it is the duty of the brethren who preside, to look after them and help them; as we help our brethren. You will find the Twelve will not complain that Brother Lyman does not find something for them to do. They are occupied all the time, regularly. You see they go to you and they help you, and we want you to be taking as good care of the department of the Church entrusted to you as w,e are taking of the department entrusted to us. We are always on the line, on the firing line,  to the front, as far as we can make it, and we want you brethren to do the same. We will be delighted with the first stake of Zion that can represent that the priesthood in that stake are all active, no inactive members; that the high priests and seventies and elders and the lesser priesthood under the direction of the bishops can be reported as all active. Give the boys something to do with the older brethren. Don't take all the rights and privileges of teachers away from the deacons and teachers and the priests and give it all to the high priests and to the seventies and the elders; but let the boys go with you. Prav with them, labor with them, teach them, so that when they come to the age of marriage, settling down or going on missions and receive the Melchizedek priesthood, that they have had some experience, that they know how to pray, how to bless the food, ,how to bless the sacrament, administer it properly, and so forth, well instructed, well informed, well read in the scriptures. Call a young man an active young man if he studies the scriptures, and do not call him inactive; for if he is studying and qualifying and preparing himself for future life, that is magnificent activity and his example will help others, and he will naturally incline and encourage others to follow his good example in the study of the scriptures. If all the Latter-day Saint boys and girls are well informed in scripture reading, if they know the testament and know the Bible and know the scriptures of the Nephites and the scriptures of latter-times, the revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and so forth, they are well fortified. But let the effort be made to make a better report than  have succeeded in doing in the past in regard to the activities of the priesthood and of the people. Let us do that. And we want the assistance of our sisters therein, as well as of the brethren. We want every one to have an opportunity, and I believe that there is no excuse for any member of the priesthood in this Church or any member of this Church being reported as inactive, because there is opportunity in every person's way, for activity to labor. And I want to say this, it will not tax you so much that you need to neglect your temporal affairs or your business affairs. It won't injure you in your business affairs to be prayerful. It won't hurt you at all to spend the time that is necessary on the Sabbath day to partake of the sacrament, and the sacrament should be taken by all Latter-day Saints'. There is an activity there and everybody who partakes of the sacrament should be considered an active member in the Church. Every one who attends to his prayers and responsibilities thereof should be counted an active member; every one who bears testimony in the fast meetings, and takes any part in praying or singing. I would not like to see the brethren and sisters who do the singing for us in this splendid choir, when it is here — I understand it is to be here Sunday — -considered as inactive, I think they are active members of the Church and should be so reported;- if they hear the priesthood or are only members of the Church, they should be reported and considered active and given all the credit that can reasonably be given to the members of the Church, for it is a nice thing for one to be patted a little on the back, a little on the shoulder, say, the Lord bless; glad to know of your activities; glad to know what you are doing; I am glad to know of your life as a husband, or your life as a wife and your life as a son, one of the larger boys, one of the larger girls; that your example, your labors and activities are very delightful and pleasing to us, certainly to the Lord, and profitable — profitable, for there is not anything that we do for the Lord that will not redound to our health and our happiness and our stability and security and safety. So I want to impress upon my brethren, as there are stake presidents here who have already heard my talk on this subject in their stakes, as I have not been able to get to all the stakes of Zion, but all that are here can hear the suggestions that I make at this time, and I want to impress them and want them impressed upon the minds of the leading brethren, that they will magnify their calling; for if they are active as they should be, they will furnish employment and find something, find some way to advise inactive men in the future, until every man shall be doing something. Men grow by activity, by their labor, their efforts and their work; not by inactivity. The more they work, the more they do, as I suggest sometimes to my brethren when we require something extra of them, and something extra is required of them occasionally, I always draw their attention to the fact that that is what you are to be rewarded for is the work that you are doing. Don't feel bad about it because you are doing more than somebody else. Do all that you can for it will take all that we can do to work out our salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God. You want to be busy, in order to be occupied. And these who are inactive, brethren, we want you to take care of them because they are in danger of being lost, losing the faith and losing their love of the truth and of the gospel. It is a great thing to enjoy the spirit of the gospel, for that brings peace, it brings security and life and salvation. We cannot accomplish these thingg without the Lord helps us, and he is ready and willing and generous to bestow upon us his spirit in just such abundance as we are ready and prepared to receive; for the Spirit of the Lord is as generous and as ready at our necessities and commands through our faithfulness, as the light of day, as the heat of the sun, and the cold and the warmth, and so forth. The Lord is near us by his Spirit and his Spirit is ready for our possession and for us to enjoy in our homes, in our labors, in our work, publicly and privately, at home or abroad. When we live under the inspiration and light of the Spirit of God, we will be happy wherever we are, and we will accomplish a world of good and those who are about us and associate with us will enjoy the spirit that we enjoy and will recognize it. Now, I have occupied my time as well as the other brethren. I thank you, brethren, for your attention, and I would like you to remember what we say — what the Presidency have said to us today. It is worth the time of coming here and spending a few days to hear what they have said, and the other brethren will have things to suggest that will refresh also and that we will intensely enjoy. God bless you, brethren and sisters, who are here, and bless those brethren just like you who are at home and bless those brethren and sisters who are at  that cannot come who need consideration and attention. It is the sick that need attention. Those who are always here, right up to the mark, we need not worry about them at all, because they know how to employ themselves and to be occupied and to be saved, but those who are not present and those who do not come to the sacramental table on the Sabbath day, whatever the percentage is in your ward, in your stake, those who are not there are the ones that need attention and consideration. Those who are always active will take care of themselves; they know how to employ themselves, well occupied, but look after those who need your attention and care, please, so that you can report that there is not anybody in your ward but what has attention and consideration and are in line, as near as it is possible for them to be. I bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Thankfulness for the plan of Life and Salvation — Willingness to labor in positions without thought of resigning — The greatest service men may render is to bring souls to a knowledge of the gospel — A plea for parents to look well after their children. 

I am very happy to have the opportunity of again mingling with the Saints at a general conference. I rejoice in a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Between the morning and afternoon meetings, I have had the privilege of attending the funeral of the mother of the President of the stake where I reside, Sister Margaret W. Young. I never attend a funeral of a faith member of the Church but I thank the Lordl for the gospel of Jesus Christ, and for the comfort and consolation that it gives to us in the hour of sorrow and death. I am convinced that the Latter-day Saints do not suffer as other people do when they are called upon to part by death with their loved ones. I never think of my own beloved mother without thinking of her as associated with those whom she knew and loved in Nauvoo, and with those whom she knew and loved in these valleys of the mountains. I never think of her as in the grave, but I think of her as one who has earned the greatest of all God's gifts to man, namely: life eternal. When I' attend the funeral of a faithful, true Latter-day Saint, as I did today, one who heard the sound of the gospel in a foreign land, and who came to this land for the gospel's sake and who lived all the days of her life faithful and true to its teachings, I am indeed thankful for the plan of life and salvation which finds earnest, true people all over the wide world who, when they have embraced it, are ready and willing to make any sacrifice in reason to fulfil the duties, the obligations and the requirements that devolve upon them as members in the Church of Christ. 

I thoroughly enjoy my labors, as one of the general authorities of the Church, in visiting the various stakes of Zion. I find, as a rule, integrity and devotion and love of' the work of the Lord in the hearts those who preside and a desire on their part to labor that is very pleasing indeed to me. I regret, however, that there is a growing tendency, as was referred to here by the President this morning, for many to desire to step down and out  occupy places of responsibility. I believe that the spirit which possessed the people thirty-six years ago to remain in office as long as wanted is not as strong as it was then. When, as a> young man, I was made the president of the Tooele stake, although I considered it quite a financial sacrifice to be president, and to have to leave my business here which was reasonably prosperous — it never entered my head but what I was to stay there all the days of my life. I never thought of anything else. I remember, however, saying to President Lyman : "Brother Lyman, I am willing to have you send me on a mission for ten years, with the understanding that when the ten years are up, I may go back to Salt Lake City where my business, my mother, my relatives, and my natural associations are." The thought at the end of ten years or twenty years, provided I was wanted and possessed the ability to continue as president of the stake, of asking for a release never entered my head. I felt this way because of the training I got in listening, in this tabernacle, to President Brigham Young, and others in my early days also in listening to my own bishop, the late Edwin D. Woolley and associates, in the Thirteenth ward. I felt that when the Lord honored any man with a place or positions in this Church, that the first thing to which he should be loyal was the magnifying of that position. I found this spirit in the mission field. I can say of those who were chosen to preside over the various conferences in the British Mission, while I presided there, that they gave their first thought to the magnifying of the office of conference president, and endeavoring 'to the very best of their abilities to direct the labors of the elders who were under their jurisdiction. They had in very deed the spirit of the service of God referred to in the revelation to the father of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Section 4, of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; 

'Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; 

"Therefore, if you have desires to serve God, you are called to the work, for behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence, 

"Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you." 

Today "the field is white already to harvest" because among the various stakes of Zion, there is growing up a carlessness and disregard for authority, a disregard upon the part of many for the advice, the counsel and the admonitions of the servants of the Lord. There is a running after pleasure, there is a diesire to follow the styles of the world, there is a desire for wealth, and not that same loyal desire which formerly existed in the hearts of the people, to work for the salvation of the souls of men. I plead with all those within the sound of my voice, the fathers and mothers, to take an interest in the welfare of their children, and to teach them to follow the admonitions of the Lord's ser which have been given to the people. To urge their daughters to dress in such a way and manner that shall stamp them as modest, and not as having a desire to appear immodest. I desire that the spirit of seeking after pleasure which is today growing among the people may be curtailed. I believe that the fathers and mothers, by taking a personal interest in the social affairs of their children, and in all their activities, will have an influence for good over their children. I believe that each and every person who is called to any place or position in the service of God in this Church, should feel the spirit of humility, the spirit of thanksgiving, and the spirit of determination to do their duty, to the full extent of their ability. 

Men seek for the honors of men. They seek after place and position in cities, counties, states, and in the nation, and they feel honored and lifted up when any place comes to them, and I do not know any of them who have secured a place of honor which they wish to resign. Why should we want to resign from any place in serving God, in laboring for the salvation of the souls of men? I remember that in revelation after revelation given just before the Church was organized, and in its early days, that men came to the man whom God had chosen as his prophet, and asked that he inquire of the Lord what was the most important labor for them to perform. Uniformly, the answer came that the greatest and most profitable labor in which they could engage was to bring souls to a knowledge of the gospel, viz., to the knowledge of the great and marvelous work which was about to come forth among the children of . If we have faith, and love, we will pay our tithing; we will keep the word of wisdom; if we have diligence, we will labor for the spread of the gospel at home and abroad. 

May God bless us and pour out his Spirit upon us through this conference, that we may have a time of rejoicing, and go home refreshed and with the determination more fully to sustain those who preside  the stakes and wards, and more faithfully to perform the duties which devolve upon us, is my prayer, and I ask it in humility, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." 


