Afternoon
07 10 1916

Conference continued at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith, presiding.  

The choir and congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Heber S. Allen. 

A tenor solo was sung by William Worley entitled, "Consider Me, O Lord." 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

"Mormonism" the gospel of Jesus Christ — The growth of the Church has come in spite of opposition — Responsibility of the Saints to proclaim the gospel — Need of preparation for the work — A great field for missionary work at home to teach our friends and neighbors the gospel — Let us do the work lying at our doors, and so qualify for the work to come. 

If I did not know that the Lord is able and willing to inspire men to teach the truth, when they are called to the work, even when they themselves are fearful, I can assure you I would not stand here this afternoon. 

I have experienced great joy in the testimony and instruction of my brethren, and am grateful that I am permitted to be here at this conference to rejoice with you. I know that we are identified with the Church that our heavenly Father has restored in this day and if we will do our part, we will gain exaltation in his celestial kingdom. Observing the lives of my brethren and sisters throughout the Church I see evidence of the divinity of this work in their conduct, and it gives me hope that the leaven of the gospel will leaven the whole lump of humanity. Reference has been made to the fact that this world is in turmoil and that those nations that are at war are among the socalled Christian nations. We realize that their pitiable condition is not because of Christianity, but because the people have departed from the teachings of Jesus Christ. Our heavenly Father knew what was  when in this latter day he restored the gospel in its purity. He knew of the apostasy in the world among his children, and that they had departed from the plain truth, and in his great mercy, he revealed this latter-day work. From the country he chose a boy from among the people, and inspired him to begin the work that was destined to revolutionize the religious world. He knew that the world was groping in darkness, and in mercy restored the light. There is no other way that happiness may be enjoyed by the children of men but by lives of righteousness, and people cannot live righteous lives and be out of harmony with truth. There was much truth in the world but it was so mixed with error that the Lord himself told the Prophet Joseph Smith that the men who were the teachers and instructors in the churches taught for doctrine the commandments of men, and warned the boy that he was not to he identified with them. He then restored the gospel, the power of God unto salvation, unto all those who will believe and obey it. The fact that our brethren and sisters of other churches believe much that we believe, is a source of satisfaction to me, and I discover that the various denominations are gradually absorbing the truth that has been revealed in our day, that had been forgotten by them. They are beginning to see the necessity of reform in religious organizations. The articles of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ are the same as promulgated when the Church was organized, the same principles are in force today. There has been no change in them, but many of the great churches of the world have changed their creed to conform to  demands of the members of those churches, and sometimes they have changed their creed repeatedly as new light has come to them. They have perceived the darkness they were in, and they have been groping for something that was more important than what they already had, and in that way they are gradually absorbing the doctrines of "Mormonism." It is a great claim that we make, and we make it without fear of contradiction, because it is the truth, that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. We may be few in number compared with the multitudes of the earth, but we have the truth and the authority of the holy priesthood, and this work will spread abroad until the decrees of our Father have been fulfiled. 

I feel today that w.e ought to be very grateful that our lot has been cast under such favorable circumstances. When we look around and see the conditions of our kinsfolk in many lands, when we see our brothers and sisters in the various portions of the earth without the truth, we ought indeed to feel that we are willing to dedicate our lives to the service of the Lord in return for the blessings that we enjoy. When we realize that from six members in 1830, this Church has grown to number hundreds of thousands, I see the hand-dealing of our Father with his children. The growth of this Church has not come because it was popular. It has been in spite of the opposition, of the wise men of the world; it has been in spite of the opposition of religious teachers, and it has continued to gather here 'and there choice spirits who have lived in such a way that they could comprehend the truth. The lack of faith in the world today would be appalling, but for the fact that the Lord has set his hand to redeem Israel. The condition of humanity today, their lack of knowledge that God lives, is not altogether the result of their desire to do wrong, but it is the result of having done wrong, of disobedience to the commandments of God. Throughout the world, those who have not faith in God have not complied with his teachings, have not listened to the whisperings of the still small voice, have not done their best, else the Lord would not have forsaken them. The Spirit of God continues to strive with men everywhere as long as they make the effort to keep his commandments. When men abandon the truth, refuse to do the right, the Lord of necessity withdraws his Spirit and men are left to the buffetings of the adversary. Today this body of people, this little handful of God's children have the responsibility of proclaiming the truth to the millions who are in darkness. This is a great labor. At present, we are excluded from many of the nations of the earth, but our heavenly Father in his wisdom has located us in a great, free, liberty-loving nation where we have the privilege of proclaiming the truth and teaching his gospel. He has led people from all portions of the earth, one here and another there, they have been pricked in their hearts, have investigated and received the truth and their anxiety has been for those from whom they descended, the people of their own race. Missionaries have traveled throughout the earth as a result, and the truths of the gospel of our Lord have been proclaimed in a convincing manner to many hundreds of thousands of our Father's . When I speak of the mission field, I realize the great work that is to be accomplished. I am impressed, my brethren and sisters, with the importance of preparing for the work. It is not sufficient that a boy signify his desire, because of his confidence in his parents, to do what they would have him do, go into the world and preach the gospel; it is not sufficient that he answer the call that our heavenly Father makes from time to time through his servants for mission service; but it is also necessary that he qualify for the work, search the scriptures, and learn what the Lord would have him know. It is important that our sons and daughters become established in their faith and know as their parets know, that this is our Father's work. 

If I, as a father in Israel, fail to impress my children with the importance of this work and later they are called to go into the world to teach, it seems to me that I will regret that I have not done my full part if I have neglected to properly instruct them. A dozen men qualified for the work are worth more in the mission field than a hundred who are ignorant of the truth and who themselves have to be taught before they are capable of explaining it to others. The opportunity to teach the gospel will increase after the war and preachers of the true gospel will be in demand. I know of no better field in which to qualify than right here at home. 

Do you realize, brethren and sisters, that in this city, the headquarters of the Church, there are approximately fifty thousand people, who know very little about the gospel of Jesus Christ? They are our neighbors, they are our Father's , they are identified with the other churches, or else they do not belong to any church, but I think I am safe in saying that ninety per cent of them have no idea what the gospel of Jesus Christ really is. I believe that the greatest mission field in all the world is in the valleys of these great mountains. If we, as members of the Church, were keeping the commandments of God, if we put upon the truth the value that we ought, if our lives conformed to the beauties of its teachings, so that our neighbors, observing our conduct, would be constrained to seek after the truth, we would be doing splendid missionary work. Within the last year, I have had the privilege of meeting and conversing on the gospel with some men who live in this community, not members of our Church. One man had resided here for twenty years, a man whose life is above reproach, a good citizen, a splendid business man, one who has kindly feeling towards our people. He told me that he had lived here twenty years, and lie had come to the conclusion that we were just as good as our neighbors who are members of other churches; he could not see any difference in us. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that is no compliment to me. If the gospel of Jesus Christ does not make me a better man, then I have not developed as I should, and if our neighbors not in this Church can live among us from year to year and see no evidence of the benefits that come from keeping the commandments of God in our lives, then there is need for reform in Israel. What I say of Salt Lake City is true of our other cities. Men and women take for granted that thev know what we believe. 

Many of them have come into our midst prejudiced beforehand, and for some reason, we do not seem to think enough of their souls to go out of our way to do a little planning to get into their homes, and to remove that prejudice, and teach them the plain truth. 

I might say, with reference to the one man, that after talking to him a couple of hours on the train, "Why," he said to me, "Mr. Smith, that is beautiful to me. I think you ought to send your missionaries to such men as I am, right here in Salt Lake City. There are hundreds of men here who would like to hear what you have told me tonight, and we would be better men for the teaching." He told me he employed members of our Church, some returned missionaries, and none of them had ever spoken to him about the gospel. I said, "You would not expect a man to ask you to give him time in your office to teach you 'Mormonism.' If you were to invite him to come in, he would be glad to explain his views. Then he said, "Do your missionaries who are in the world go only to the homes where they are invited?" That awakened a thought in my mind, are you doing your duty? are we performing the labor that the Lord has entrusted to our care? do we sense the responsibility that is upon us? or are we idly floating down stream, 'going with the tide taking it for granted that in the last day, we will be redeemed? 

It is my firm conviction, my brethren and sisters, that unless we stir ourselves more than we are doing, that when we go to the other side of the- veil, we will meet there men and women who have been our neighbors, and associates, and lived among us, that will condemn us because we have been so inconsiderate of them in not telling them of the truth of the gospel of our Lord. When a man is sick, if he is our neighbor, we minister to him gladly; if there is a death in his family, we try to comfort him. But year in and year out we allow him to walk in paths that will destroy his opportunity for eternal life, we pass him by, as if he were a thing of naught. That is, some of us do. I realize that there are many grand men and women among us whose hearts are warm with the desire to do good in the world. I believe that the mission field right here at home, right here among the Latter-day Saints, is the best that we can find anywhere. Many people here, if we will go to them and teach them the truth, will see the beauties of the gospel, because they see some of the fruits of "Mormonism" in the lives of its members, and I feel that we ought to sense the importance of this work. We spend most of our time, many of us, seeking the things of this life that we will be compelled to leave when we go from here, yet there are the immortal souls all around us whom, if we would, we could teach and inspire to investigate the truth, and implant in their hearts a knowledge that God lives. What treasure in all the world could be so precious to us, 'for we woiuld bave their gratitude here and their everlasting and eternal appreciation in the world to come. It is a most important mission. The Lord has prospered the Latter-day Saints. We are abundantly blessed, and now that we have been placed in a position beyond want, it is our duty to cease striving for the things that perish in this life, all the time or even most of the time, and think of  children of our heavenly Father who are in need of our ministration and who are our neighbors. 

One of the very first revelations that was given by our heavenly Father, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, reads as follows : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day."  

Now, I do not understand that we are serving God with all our might if we forsake his children, or if we spend so much of our time selfishly building up ourselves, ac-. cumulating things of this life, and leave his children in darkness, when we could bring them into the light. My understanding is that the most important mission that I have in this life'is: first, to keep the commandments of God, as they have been taught to me; and next, to teach them to my Father's children who do not understand them. It makes little difference, when I go to the other side, whether I have been a man of wealth in this world or not, unless I have used that wealth to bless my fellow men. Though I be a wanderer in this world, and suffer for the necessities of life, if by reason of the knowledge that my Father has given me, I devote myself to the instruction of his children, to planting faith in their hearts, to dissipating the errors that have come to them by tradition, I believe when I go to the other side that I will find there a bank account that will be beyond compare with what I would have, if I lived for the things of this  alone. I read a portion of the section 4 and I want to read that last verse again : 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work." 

It is not necessary for you to be called to go into the mission field in order to proclaim the truth. Begin on the man who lives next door by inspiring confidence in him, by inspiring love in him for you because of your righteousness, and your missionary work has already begun, 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you." 

Brethren and sisters, let us do the missionary work that is at our doors, preparing our sons and daughters for the missionary work that will be theirs when this awful war is over. It will not be long until there will be a demand for capable men and women in this Church to teach the truth in portions of the earth where heretofore we have been excluded; and if we would have eternal joy in the kingdom of our Father with those he has blessed us with here, let us be unselfish in our lives; let us prepare for the work, and go out into the world and proclaim the truth, when  opportunity comes, and be the means in the hands of our Father of drawing his children back to him by teaching them the beauties of his gospel. 

I pray that his Spirit may be throughout Israel, that the love of our Father's children may be in our hearts, that we may sense the importance of our mission in the world, while we are grasping for the things that are not ours, that are only loaned to us as stewards, that we may not forget the priceless gift, the priceless privilege, within our reach, of teaching the gospel and saving the souls of the children of men. I pray that this blessing may be ours, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

"A marvelous work and a wonder" — Tennyson's prediction of the airship and the Millennium' — Obsolete and modern methods — Miracles but improved ways of doing things — "New occasions teach new duties" — God's work progressive — No book presides over this Church — The principle of Revelation. 

Seven hundred years before the birth of our Savior, a prophet of God upon the eastern hemisphere predicted the coming forth of "a marvelous work and a wonder." "Mormonism," so /tailed, according to the faith of its adherents, is the fulfilment of that ancient prediction. And indeed it would be difficult to conceive of anything more marvelous, more wonderful, than the foundation facts upon which rests the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. What could be more strange, more unexpected, than the re-opening of the heavens in an age when it was believed and asserted that the heavens were permanently sealed, that God no longer spoke to man, that revelation had ceased, and that angels would never again commune with earth's inhabitants? But lo! the heavens are opened; angels come to earth; and not only this, but God himself descends from his glorious throne and appears unto man, opening the last and greatest of the gospel dispensations. An angel reveals the hidden past of the American continent — the Book of Mormon, containing the fulness of the gospel, a history of the Amercas in pre-historic times, and a prophecy of their wondrous future. An angel restores the Aaronic priesthood, which holds the keys of repentance and baptism; and other angels bring back the higher or Melchizedek priesthood; holding the keys of heavenly mysteries; and under this delegated divine authority, without which no man can lawfully represent God, or administer the sacred ordinances of the gospel, the Church of Christ is organized once more upon the earth. Truly, a marvelous work and a wonder — so marvelous, so wonderful, that most men reject it, deeming it a fable. And yet it is nothing more nor less than the plain fulfilment of prophecy. 

This Church was founded for a definite purpose. It is not merely one more added to the hundreds of religious sects with which the world is filled. It is the lifted ensign for the gathering of God's chosen Israel from the four quarters of the globe, for the purpose of building a Zion, the New Jerusalem, and preparing a people for the glorious coming of the Lord. It is an iconoclastic as well as a constructive work. Reference has been made by  speakers to the changing of creeds and breaking up of old traditions, as the result of the restoration of the everlasting gospel. I have no time for details; I can only hit the high places and throw out a few thoughts pertaining to this theme. I will call your attention to the fact that science, art, discovery and invention have been supplementing the work of preaching the gospel. Scholarly men, learned investigators and demonstrators have been following in the wake of the Latter-day Prophet, confirming the doctrines that he taught and virtually bearing testimony to their truth. We are living in an age of wonders, of miracles; for what are miracles, after all, but improved methods of doing things, accompanied, of course, by a greater measure of power than is usually possessed and exercised by man? You who are in attendance at this conference and the State Fair now in progress, saw, last night and on yesterday, what would have been deemed a miracle by people living less than a hundred years ago. You beheld an airship sailing through the heavens. When I saw it I recalled the words of the prophet-poet Tennyson : 

"I dipt into the future, 

Far as human eye could see; Saw the vision of the world, 

And all the wonder that would be; Saw the heavens fill with commerce, 

Argosies of magic sails, Pilots of the purple twilight, 

Dropping down with costly bales; Heard the heavens fill with shouting, 

And there rained a ghastly dew From the nations' airy navies, 

Grappling in the central blue. Far along the world-wide whisper 

Of the south wind rushing warm, And the standards of the peoples 

Plunging through the thunder storm. 

Till the war drum throbbed no longer, 

And the battle flags were furled In the parliament of man, 

The federation of the world. There the common-sense of most 

Shall hold a fretful realm in awe, And the kindly earth shall slumber, 

Lapt in universal law." 

In these beautiful lines the English poet describes the coming of the airship and the advent of the Millennium, a prediction that we of today have seen in part fulfilled. This prophecy was uttered sixty years ago and more. What will the next sixty years bring forth? Probably the complete realization of the poet's forecast. 

What would the first man — the first white man who ever entered this region, have thought, could he have "dipt into the future," and seen what we now behold ? Do you know who that man was? He was a Spanish priest named Escalante, and he came from Santa Fe, New Mexico, one hundred and forty years ago, starting in July, 1776, the very month and year that the Declaration of Independence was signed at Philadelphia, and a new nation was born upon Atlantic shores. The region comprised within the present states of Utah, Nevada, California, Arizona and New Mexico then belonged to Spain, and most of it was in the heart of what was designated upon the maps and in the school books of a later period as "The Great American Desert," a region infested by wild beasts and savages. At that time there 1 were but two towns of any consequence throughout this vast stretch of country. One was Santa Fe, capital of the Spanish province of /New Mexico; and the other was Monterey, on the California sea coast. Santa Fe was in the latter half of its second century, but 

Monterey was only six years old. Monterey had been made a port of entry by the Spanish government, for the transmission of troops and supplies to the New Mexican capital, and it was important that a road should be opened between the two places. Father Escalante, who had had experience among the Indians, volunteered his services to the governor of New Mexico to look for such a route — an old Spanish trail leading westward from Taos. With seven companions he set out from Santa Fe for that purpose. Pursuing a devious northwesterly course, they crossed Green River, ascended the Uintah, and came out upon the tops of the Wasatch Mountains, at or near the head waters of Provo river. Thence they descended into Utah Valley. The native "Yutas" received them kindly, but could give them no information respecting a route to the sea, or of white settlers in all the surrounding region. The explorers did not come any farther north, though they heard of the Great Salt Lake, and after christening some of the streams and giving them Spanish names, they proceeded southward with two native guides. Passing down the Sevier, and over the mountains about where Beaver now stands, they found themselves in the valley since called Escalante. There their food supplies gave out, and they reluctantly abandoned the expedition. Turning eastward they traveled toward the Colorado, crossed the Grand Canyon, and by way of the Moquis Indian villages reached Santa Fe, January, 1777. Those were the first white men who are known to have penetrated to these parts. 

Next came the British and American fur hunters. Great Britain had inherited the fur trade from the French at the conquest of Canada, and had established the powerful Hudson Bay Company, which for many years held almost undisputed sway among the Indian tribes of the Northwest. John Jacob Astor, the patriarch of the fur trade in the United States, proposed to break the British monopoly and make New York instead of London the emporium of that lucrative enterprise. In 1808-09 he established the trading post of Astoria, at the mouth of the Columbia river, intending to found similar stations along the Columbia and Missouri rivers. But the war of 1812 broke up his operations, and it was not until 1822 that the American Fur Company was organized at St. Louis by General William N. Ashley and others. They pushed their brigades .of trappers over the Rocky Mountains, and by the year 1825 were firmly established in the Green river country. One of these trappers was James Bridger, the reputed discoverer of the Great Salt Lake. He built the famous Fort Bridger, the site of which is now in Southwestern Wyoming. The so called "Fort" consisted of a few log houses surrounded by a stockade. General Ashley built a similar fort on Utah Lake, which was then known as Lake Ashley. In these lonely log forts lived the trappers and traders with their Indian wives and half breed children, baiting the bear, trapping the beaver, and acting as guides for chance travelers or occasional emigrant trains ota their way to the western ocean,. Most of this emigration was for Oregon, then jointly occupied by Great Britain and the United States; the remainder went to Cal, which was still possessed by Mexico, as an inheritance from Spain. 

In 1847 the Latter-day Saints, under the leadership of President Brigham Young, began to fulfil the prediction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had declared, two years before his death, that the Saints would "become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." In the book of Doctrine and Covenants there is a revelation entitled "The Word and Will of the Lord," to a people encamped upon the Missouri river, who had left civilization behind, who had been driven from their homes and were making preparations to cross the great plains and mountains and settle in this then empty and desolate land. That "Word and Will of the Lord" commanded the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to organize themselves into companies of hundreds, fifties, and tens, preparatory to the long and wearisome ox-team journey to Salt Lake Valley. 

And now I would like to ask a few questions : Would it be wise or sensible in anyone at this time to attempt to carry out the terms of that revelation? What would you think of a man, in a day of railroads and automobiles and aeroplanes, who would yoke up an ox team here in Utah, and make a start for the Missouri river ? What would you think of a man who would set a trap for a bear or a beaver out here in front of the Bureau of Information? You would think he ought to apply to the Bureau for a little up-to-date information, wouldn't you? The lesson I wish to convey is this : We are a progressive people, for we are God's people, and as such we have the right to use these modern 55 , these improved scientific facilities, which the Lord has provided and placed in our hands for the promotion of his marvelous work. 

"New occasions teach new duties, 

Time makes ancient good uncouth; They must upward be and onward, 

Who would keep abreast of Truth; Lo! before us gleam her camp-fires, 

We ourselves must Pilgrims be, Launch our Mayflower, and steer boldly 

Through the desperate winter sea; Nor attempt the future's portal 

With the past's blood-rusted key." 

Many years ago there came to Utah a learned prelate of the Greek Catholic church. You who are conversant with the history of the Christian church are aware that it divided itself, during the early centuries, into two parts, one with its headquarters at Rome, and the other with its headquarters at Constantinople. The Western church, with the Pope of Rome at its head, became known as the Roman Catholic church; while the Eastern church, with the Patriarch of Constantinople as its chief presiding officer, is the Greek Catholic church of today. This learned man — I believe he was the Archbishop of Athens — visited Salt Lake City, and I had a conversation with him. He had been to a "Mormon" sacrament meeting, and had much to say in criticism of our method of administering the Lord's Supper, particularly our use of water instead of wine on such occasions. He said it made him shudder when he saw the people sipping the water; and he pointed out the fact, for it is a fact, that according to the Bible the Savior, when he instituted the sacrament among the Jews used wine, declaring that it was his blood, or that it represented his blood. I  add that the Book of Mormon also states that the Savior used wine when he introduced the sacrament among the Nephites. 

My Greek Catholic friend, whether he knew it or not, had hit upon the great distinguishing feature that differentiates God's Church from all other churches under the sun — in this, that while they are founded upon books and traditions and the precepts of men, this Church is built upon the rock of Christ, upon the principle of immediate and continuous revelation. The Latterday Saints do not do things because they happen to be printed in a book. They do not do things because God told the Jews to do them; nor do they do or leave undone anything because of instructions that Christ gave to the Nephites. Whatever is done by this Church is because God, speaking from heaven in our day, has commanded this Church to do it. No book presides over this Church, and no book lies at its foundation. You cannot pile up books enough to take the place of God's priesthood, inspired by the power of the Holy Ghost. That is the constitution of the Church of Christ. If we use water instead of wine in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, it is because Christ has so commanded. Divine revelation adapts itself to the circumstances and conditions of men, and change upon change ensues as God's progressive work goes on to its destiny. There is no book big enough or good enough -to preside over this Church. 

In saying this, I speak with all due reverence of the written word of God, that which is printed in the books, part of which may be obsolete, having fulfilled its purpose and been laid upon the shelf, while the other part is virile, full of life, and applicable to our present state — our present degree of development. But even this part must be interpreted aright. No man ought to contend for what is in the books, in the face of God's mouthpiece, who speaks for him and interprets his word. To so contend is to defer to the dead letter in pref ernce to the living oracle, which is always a false position. What the Lord said to the Jews and Nephites, two thousand years ago, or what he said to the Latter-day Saints fifty or sixty years ago, has no force whatever at this time, unless it agrees with present-day revelation, with the Lord's most recent instructions to his people through his chosen or appointed servants or servant; and they who ignore this fact are liable to get into trouble. It is the latest word from God that must be heeded, in preference to any former revelation, however true. The same God who says do thus and so today, can repeal that commandment tomorrow, without being changeable or inconsistent. The legislature, meeting every two years, repeals old laws, or such of its former enactments as have served their purpose; but no one thinks of charging the law makers with inconsistency or self-contradiction. How then can God be considered inconsistent if he says one thing today, and changes it tomorrow, or next month, or next year, in order to suit altered circumstances? He commanded Abraham to slay his son, and 'Abraham was about to do so, when the same God said; "Lay not thy hand upon the lad." Abraham was under obligation to carry out the first command, until the second one was given, and then he was under obligation to obey the second command instead  the first; and he would have been a transgressor had he failed. 

I might continue the theme indefinitely, but will close now with this thought. God's work is progressive. It changes its appearance, but never its principles. The truths upon which it is founded are eternal, unalterable, but there are many regulations that change and change and change, as the work of God goes on. The everlasting gospel is something more than a fire-escape, the way out of a perilous situation. It is the divine plan for human progress, the pathway to perfection; and the spirit of the gospel is the spirit of improvement, of advancement. God's work will go on, but will you and I go on with it? "His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour," but will we ripen and unfold with them? That is the problem. Let us take it home to our hearts. How can we go along with the Lord's work? There is but one way, and that is to do the things which he has commanded, and leave undone the things which he has forbidden. There are two ways of losing the spirit of this work, and becoming non-progressive, barren and unfruitful. The quickest way is to trangress God's commands by doing the things which he has said we shall not do; the other way is to neglect and ignore what he has commanded us to do. O my brothers and sisters of the Church of Christ! Let us be awake and up and doing. Keep alive in your hearts the spirit of eternal progress, and go on to perfection. Do not be among those who weary of well doing, who fall by the wayside and allow the great rrocession to sweep on without them. Keep on doing something for God, that the spirit of his work may abide in you, and guide you  that path "growing brighter and brighter unto the perfect day." 

Lilly Shipp sang a soprano solo, "O My Father." 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY. 

Grandeur of the Church organization — Great responsibility of teachers therein — Every man should first take heed unto himself — Illustration of proper preparation for the work — No man can teach what he does not feel and know — What to teach, and how to prepare — Teaching should suit conditions and the needs of those who are taught — A word to bishops. 

At this moment there is just one supreme wish in my heart, and it is this : That the divine feeling experienced by all present this afternoon intensified just now as we sat in profound silence, listening to those inspired words so beautifully and impressively sung by Sister Shipp, might be felt in every home and in every heart throughout the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I rejoice that the Lord, in his wisdom, has so organized his Church that this wish might, at least in a measure, be fulfilled. As that thought came to me, just a moment ago, I saw in my mind's eye an army of approximately twenty thousand men on whom rests the great responsibility of carrying the gospel message of peace to every fireside throughout Zion. Those who comprise this army are the ward teachers. 

I never contemplate the organization of this Church in any least degree whatsoever, but I am impressed! with the divinity of the work. I can not see, for my life, why every honest man in the world,  gives even but little thought to this great organization and the opportunities it offers for producing men and women of character, can not get a testimony, even by reason and observation, of the divinity of the Church of Christ as established in this latter day. Why, the stamp of divinity is upon every feature of the work! All who labor sincerely in it can truthfully say that if any man will do the will of God he shall know for himself whether the doctrine is of God or whether it is of man. 

These twenty thousand men mentioned comprise only a very small portion — an important portion, however, — of the work of the ministry. 

It is said in Ephesians, fourth chapter, that Christ gave some apostles and some prophets, some evangelists and some pastors and teachers; "for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." The teachers, in the Church, holding the holy priesthood, have devolving upon them the great responsibility of perfecting the Saints, and of edifying the body of Christ; therefore, I think it is not too much to say that it is their duty, their duty, to carry into every home just such a divine spirit as we have experienced here in these sessions of conference. No greater responsibility can rest upon any man, than to be a teacher of God's children. 

When Paul said good-bye to the churches in Asia, knowing that he would never again come back to those branches among which he had labored so incessantly and diligently for several years, he called the elders of Enhesus to him one day, over to Miletus. He did not go over to the Church where he had recently spent nearly three years, because he wanted to hasten to Jerusalem; but he could not pass them without saying good-bye to them. He sent word to them to meet him over at the town of Miletus, where he gave them instructions. You remember that among other things he said : "Take heed, therefore, to yourselves, and to all the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the Church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood; for I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves .enter in among you, not sparing the flock." The admonition to these men — and among them were bishops, for the word that is interpreted there "overseers" is used in another place as bishops — was to take heed unto themselves first and then to the people over whom they presided. Associated with those bishops were elders, just as we have them in the Church. That same admonition is applicable to the elders today, who are presiding over the Church as ward teachers. Some of them feel that their calling is of little importance, that there is not much dignity attached to it, when the fact is, that there is no more important work in the Church. We can not say of any one calling in the Church, that it is of more importance than another, because all are devoted to the development, to the instruction, to the salvation of God's children. So it is with the calling of teacher; but if there be any preference given, because of superior advantages in winning these people to salvation, it will go to those men holding the priesthood of God, who come in direct contact with the individual members of the Church. The duty, however, of each  who has accepted this calling is to first take heed unto himself. 

The other day it was my privilege to drive through the fields in my old home town. I passed through two farms up near the mountain canal. I saw one that had yielded an exceptionally good crop of oats. Notwithstanding the drought, the cold in the spring, and other disadvantages, the farmer had thrashed an excellent yield. Just over the fence was another oat field, but a failure, comparatively speaking. I said to the man : "Why, what is the matter? You' must have planted poor seed." "No, it is the same seed that my neighbor has." "Well, then it was planted too late, and vou did not have enough moisture in the ground to bring it up." "It was sown the same afternoon that he sowed his." Upon further 1 inquiry, I learned that the first man had plowed his in the fall; then he had disked it carefully in the spring, making a mulch on the surface, and by such tilling had conserved the moisture of the winter. His neighbor, on the other hand, had plowed his late in the spring, had left the furrows unharrowed; the moisture had evaporated. Following the sowing of the seed came four weeks or six weeks of drouth, and there was not sufficient moisture to germinate the seed. The first man had made preparation, the proper kind of preparation, and nature yielded the increase. The second man labored hard, but his preparation was poor; indeed, he had made inadequate preparation. 

I now can picture in my mind twelve thousand divisions that may be compared in a way to these two fields. In each one are found — not oats, not wheat, not grasses, not things that perish, — but living be as eternal as the Father himself. Over each of these divisions in God's great garden have been placed overseers called teachers, and they are asked to nourish and to inspire God's children. I venture the thought that the Great Gardener in looking over his fields can see some that are thriving in righteous activity and others are starving because of the drought of neglected duty, of the chilling atmosphere of vanity, or the blight of intemperance. Why? Perhaps because the gardeners, the overseers, had not made necessary preparations, or performed their duty well. 

The first thing to do, my brethren, is to look to yourselves, to see whether or not you are prepared to teach. No man can teach that which he himself does not know. It is your duty to teach that Jesus Christ is the redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that to him in this last dispensation there appeared God the Father and his Son in person. Do you believe it? Do you feel it? Does that testimony radiate from your being when you enter into the home? If so, that radiation will give life to the people whom you go to teach. If not, there will be a dearth, a drouth, a lack of that spiritual environment in which the Saints grow. 

Second, Is your heart free from backbiting, from fault-finding, from hard feelings one to another? It is your duty, to see that there is no backbiting, that there is no iniquity existing in the Church. You can teach effectively only that which you yourselves feel. Part of the preparation of a teacher consists in freeing his own heart from those things. In doing so follow the advice of one good writer who says : 

"In the very depths of your soul dig a grave; let it be as some forgotten spot to which no( path leads; and there, in the eternal silence bury the wrongs which you have suffered. Your heart will feel as if a load had fallen from it and a divine peace come to abide with you." With that divine peace in your soul go into the homes and teach the people. 

But that condition is but the beginning. Three other things should be kept in mind for thorough preparation. The first is a knowledge of those whom you are to teach; the second, a knowledge of what you are to teach; and third, a knowledge as much as may be obtained at least by thoughtful consideration and prayer, of how you are going to teach. 

I have never understood just why we have limited our duties of teacher to a visit once a month. A visit is not teaching. Reading the outline as prepared by the bishop or the high council is not teaching. Just repeating some passages of scripture, or merely the telling of something to the members of the family in a home is not teaching. Teaching is the awakening of thought in the minds of those whom we visit, and the convincing of their souls of the truth of the message that we bring to them. There must be giving and receiving, a reciprocal condition. How necessary it is, then, to know those whom we teach! No two families in any district are alike. I call to mind now one group of six families, one member of which is a patriarch in the Church, living in the sunset of a faithful life with his daughter, a teacher in the public schools, and a grand-daughter, a student in the high school. On the same block next to him, reside a young couple, who have but recently joined the Church. The girl had grown up in our communities, but she had not joined the Church until recently. Two of their little children are also baptized. Across the street reside a widow and her daughter, the daughter a typist in one of the business offices of the city, and the other three families present conditions just as varying. Brethren, the message, and particularly the manner of presenting that message might not be the same when given to one who had spent his life in faithful labor in the Church, as when given to those who are newly converted. As each family is different from another so each individual in the family differs from others, so our messages and our methods, particularly our methods of presentation, might vary. I cite this just to impress us with this thought, that it is our duty to know those whom we are going to teach. That is one reason, I think, why the Lord says : "It is the duty of the teacher to watch over the Church always." Not just once a month but always a teacher; no hour in the day when you are free from that responsibility. There is no day in the week when you are free, and when you should not feel it your duty to do something, if possible, to make that group of memhers in the Church better and happier. 

What you are to teach is the gospel of Jesus Christ. When the bishop gives you any special message — tithing, for example, study that principle, first by "taking heed unto yourself" to see if you can teach it consistently. If it be prayer, "take heed unto yourself" in regard to prayer. Do you get down on  knees before you go out to teach that message? D,o you study some boy who is a little questionable in his life to know just what attitude he will take towards prayer? Do you pray for God to inspire you to say something to lead such a one to see the necessity of prayer ? 

O teachers, yours is an important calling! God help you to be true to it, to feel that part of the responsibility of carrying on God's work, in this the last dispensation, rests upon you. 

Even after you have studied your groups as indicated or just hinted at here, and presented your message in the most effective manner you are capable of, your duty is not ended. President Lund, I think, referred to the light attendance at some of our sacrament meetings. You carry the responsibility, teachers, of seeing to it that members of the Church attend to sacrament meeting. How can you teach that duty effectively unless you yourself be present, that you may be able intelligently to commend those in your district who are in attendance, and to teach those who are absent ? 

Just a word to the bishops. I believe that teaching will be more effective in the Church if you will call your priesthood to you, and point out to them in meeting, after prayer, in humility, what it means for them to go out from house to house as your representatives. Don't just call them somewhat indifferently from the pulpit, and make an asignment in an indefinite way; but rather there in your bishop's meeting tell them individually what it means to be a teacher, ask them if they will stand by you in your efforts to uphold the standard of  Church. When you have occasion to release them, do it in a dignified and honorable manner, by telling them how you appreciate what they have done, and why they are at present released. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of God. I know it, I know it. I know that God will help us in this work. I know that he is by us, if we will but call upon him and ask him to direct us, if we will live so that he can. He sometimes prompts us, and we go on headlong without heeding the prompting; but he is near to help us. I know that the happiest time of our lives is when we are devoted to his work. God help us to be true to it while we are in this life. There is only one life, and we shall pass through this probationary state but once: 

"Not many lives, but only one have 

we! One — only one. How precious should that one life 

ever be! Day after day filled up with precious 

toil, Hour after hour bringing in new 

spoil." 

May God guide us day after day and hour after hour in the great work of teaching, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Notices of overflow meetings on Sunday to be held in the Assembly Hall and under a tent near the Bureau of Information, were read by President Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang : "My country, 'tis of thee." 


