Outdoor
08 10 1916

In a tent seated and arranged for the purpose and located on the lawn, east of the Bureau of Information building, a meeting was held at 10 a. m., Elder David O. McKay, presiding. 

The singing was by the M. I. A. chorus of Ensign stake, John D. Giles, chorister, Henry Giles, accompanist. 

The chorus sang : "Our God, we raise to thee." 

Elder T. Samuel Browning gave the opening prayer. 

The chorus sang: "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

ELDER WILFORD DAY. 

(President of the Parowan Stake.) 

My brethren, sisters, and friends, it is indeed gratifying to me to see such a large audience here this morning, in view of the fact that both of the main buildings are crowded to their capacity. 

As has been stated, I am the president of the Parowan Stake of Zion, two weeks old today. I, who am the baby member of the Stake Presidents, did not expect to be called upon so early. Some few years ago, as a shepherd from the range, 

I received a call to fill a mission, 1 responded, and the burden of my prayer was that I would be called into service. While I have made this explanation, this morning, it is not in the nature of complaining — I thank God, again, that I am put into service, because to me, with the limited experience I have had in this work, it means good feeling. For the more we work, the better we feel, the more we appreciate the gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I feel in every fibre of my being that this work in which we are engaged is, indeed, the Master's work. The teachings and instructions I received from the brethren, the presiding authorities, when they set me apart and called me to that mission in a foreign land, was of such, a nature, as every man and woman should have in this world. They taught me to pray for those who despitefully use me, to have no malice in my soul, and to be at peace with my God, my neighbors, and all mankind. Today I am happy to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that there is not a touch of spite in my heart toward any living being upon the face of the earth. People there may be who do not like me; there are people with whom I do not harmonize — we do not work together just right, probably; but, nevertheless, I do not have a bitter spot in my heart toward any man upon the face of the earth. That is one of the principles of "Mormonism." One of the teachings I received was that I should keep myself pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. That is a doctrine of "Mormonism." Every teaching that I have received, under all circumstances, has been of such a character as to cause me to grow stronger, and to become  better citizen of this great Republic, and a better member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

I have occasion at times to come in contact with people who are not of our faith, and I recall now a conversation I had, only a few days ago, with persons not of our faith, and not of our state, who were coming through the country, evidently anxious for information pertaining to our people. They wanted to know the conditions — wanted to know how we stood politically, how strangers were treated who were not of our faith. My answer was that if they exhibited manhood and womanhood, we knew no difference in the ordinary affairs of life. I presume there are many here, probably, who are not of our faith, but I want to say this : I have served in various capacities in our stake, away out in the far country, nearly three hundred miles from Salt Lake, in a school board, for instance, and have employed teachers, not knowing their political or religious beliefs. This was done in an inland, isolated "Mormon" community. I mention it to show you the attitude of our people toward all mankind. That is the teaching that we receive : that is the teaching it seemd to me that we should receive. Ability, and good character are what we desire in people, honesty of purpose and righteous desires — let their religious or political beliefs be what they may. 

My brethren, sisters, and friends, I want to bear you my testimony. I know of a surety that God lives, that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet, and his teachings that are being taught today are such as will elevate and strengthen and make for better manhod and better wom; and stand for those things for which we need not apologize, nor be ashamed. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in heing a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know this, that if we will do the will of the Father, we will know of the doctrine, whether it be of man or whether it be of God. 

I pray that God, our heavenly Father, will bless us with ability to appreciate our position here in life, and our mission, and so be able to live in harmony with the gospel truths; and if we do this, we shall become even better citizens of this great Republic, better members of the Church, and have an influence for good among' mankind with whom we come in contact. May God bless us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President Southern States Mission.) 

It is written in the Bible, "Where there is no vision, the people perish." The other day, before I left the South to come here to attend the conference, I received a letter from one of our young elders. In this letter, he said, "I want to be the kind of a missionary that my mother thinks I am." That young man has vision, and while he walks in the light of that vision, he will be a missionary such as his dear mother is praying for him to be. 

In one of the suburbs of Chattanooga, there is a large mound. Recently a scientific association, sent two of its representatives to examine this mound and to discover its contents. They did so, and they found it to be a vast tomb, filled with dead men's bones. It revealed the fate of nations long since passed. The ministers of that city are wondering who these people were, and why they were buried in one vast tomb upon the face of the land. If these ministers had vision, they would know the source from whence this departed people came, and their minds would be enlightened and filled with knowledge. I presented one of them with a copy of the Book of Mormon, and told him that in that sacred volume he would find the history of those people, whose bones filled that mound in the southland. 

The fate of that people is written in the Book of Mormon. It was predicted by one of the prophets of God. He warned the people that if they persisted in committing iniquity, that if they continued in their rebellion toward God and disobedience of his commandments, "there hones should become as heaps of earth upon the face of the land." That mound in Chattanooga is a powerful testimony that this prediction has been fulfilled to the very letter. That tomb is a warning to the people: it is a solemn proclamation that "the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life, through Jesus Christ." The Prophet Daniel said that "in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed * * * anc j no f- be left to other people." That kingdom is here. The Almighty has established it in strength and beauty and power for the salvation of the souls of men. 

Why is it that many people do not see it? Jesus gives the answer. "Except," he said, "a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of God." And again, 

"Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God." And so, my brethren and sisters, when a man is baptized by immersion for the remission of sins, and receives the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands of the authorized servants of God, that man is spiritually born again. He receives the vision by which he recognizes the Kingdom of God, he sees it, and the gospel is the door by which he enters into the Kingdom, there to have exaltation and glory bestowed upon him if he continues faithful in serving the God of heaven. 

When the quorums of priesthood were organized, the Prophet Joseph said that these quorums were organized according to the vision. I testify unto you, as a humble servant of God, that the Prophet Joseph established this work, that he founded the Church, under the inspiration of the Almighty, and according to the vision that God did give him. When men talk of the beauty, of the strength, of the efficiency of this Church government, we do not claim the credit. It did not spring from the brain of man, it did not come from earth. It was organized according to the vision which God gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith; and herein, Latter-day Saints, is your hope, herein is your salvation; and in the power which the testimony that this Church was organized by the Almighty gives, we go to the world and call men and women to repentance, and invite them to become with us heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. 

Let us not lay the flattering unction to our souls that God is a respecter of persons. As ruin and  overtook the ancient people who lived on this continent, so wickedness today will destroy men and nations. Is it not appalling to think that many people will not learn righteousness until the judgments of God are in the earth? Do not we need to practice the principle of repentance in our lives, every hour, every day, and every year? for, as the prophet hath said, "There is not a just man on the earth that doeth good and sinneth not." Repentance is a total change of heart and life. Fear does not constitute repentance, sorrow for misdeeds is not genuine repentance; but a change of life, a change in the conduct of our lives, a coming to God and doing his will, that is genuine repentance, the repentance which will exalt a nation and bring it unto God. God sends sanctifying afflictions to produce repentance in the hearts of men. Of course, repentance is produced by the preaching of the Word, but God has seen fit in all ages of the world to send afflictions unto men that they might learn that there is a God in heaven, and that our allegiance is to him. 

In the thirty-second chapter of the Book of Alma, it is recorded that many poor people were driven out of their churches, and came to the servant of God for instruction; and Alma said, "Because ye were compelled to be humble, blessed are ye; for a man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble seeketh repentance * * * blessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble 

* * * and baptized "without stubbornness of heart." God declares in the Doctrine and Covenants, that after the testimony of the elders, he would send the testi of earthquakes, of pestilence, of war, of famine. Are not these words being fulfilled? The nations of the earth have turned deaf ears to the entreaties, to the persuasions, to the testimonies of the servants of God. In the pride of their hearts and the stubbornness of their souls, they have not received the Word of God sent to them in love and in kindness, and now the God of heaven is thundering his judgments in the earth, and out of the smoke and the dust and the terror of this awful war will stand out written in letters of blood, "The wages of sin is death." Shining clearly to the vision of all men, the justice of God will stand forth, his mercy will be there; and men and women by countless thousands will come to him, receive the gospel, and be blessed of him. 

I bear you my testimony, brethren and sisters, that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God. I know this to be true. I also bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Most High, a man who gazed into) the heavens, a chosen servant of God, who gave his life for the children of men, who, by the power of God established the Church, preached the gospel, that men might come unto God and be saved in the Kingdom of the Lord Jesus. I also bear you my testimony that the head of this Church today is a prophet of God, and that it is as necessary for a man to believe that the Church today is led by prophets and apostles as it was in the days of Jesus, as it was in the days of Joseph Smith. And when men forget this great truth, when they live too much in the past. It is a sign that their vision is blurred, that the vision to them is becoming dim. O brethren and sisters, let us keep the Spirit burning in our hearts, that the vision may be ever with us, that it may never be written of us that because we had no vision we perished in unbelief. 

God bless this people, God bless this gospel. It is flying abroad, it is filling the earth, it is destined to conquer, it will conquer, in love, in kindness. Its mission is to bless men and women, and to increase the glory of God in the hearts of men, by inducing his children to obey him and keep his commandments. I bear you this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of the California Mission.) 

My brethren have borne witness to you of the restored gospel that Joseph Smith, divinely chosen and ordained of God the Father, hath been instrumental in his hands to reveal again, the covenant which bringeth salvation to the sons of men. They have stated that any man may know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether it be of man, if he will do the will of the Father. We have been singing of these last days of salvation and grace, rejoicing in the fact that the testimony of Christ is ours, that all which has been spoken by the mouths of God's holy prophets, since the world began, has been revealed to man in this day and age. We have been admonished that it is essential to be born of the water and of the Spirit, in order that we should see and enter into the Kingdom of heaven. And we may know all this with just as great surety and certainty, as did the apostles of  times. When the Lord Jesus was ministering among the sons of men, and they had learned of the miracles which he had performed — and great crowds had followed him in his ministry — he asked of his disciples, "Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man am?" And they replied, Some say that thou art John arisen from the dead, or Moses, or some one of the ancient prophets. Then, said he, Whom do ye say that I am ? ye with whom I have ministered and labored in love, ye who have joined me in service, who know my private life, my thoughts my doctrines? And Peter, the senior member of his. quorum, replied, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This man, because of his sturdy character, because of his stability and evident immovability, had been called Cephas, a stone, or Petros in the Greek, Peter as it is rendered in the English. And the Master, ever quick with those illustrations taken from the home-life of the people, said, "Verily, thou art Peter," (or thou art a rock,) "and upon this rock," designating something other than Peter, "shall I build my Church — and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." That, to me is not only the rock of revelation, but the truth revealed in that revelation,, the testimony, the witness that Jesus is the Christ. For "flesh and blood," said the Master, "hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Flesh and blood, experience, association, did not give this knowledge to Peter, that Christ was the Messiah, but God revealed it unto him — and that witness of the Holy Spirit the gates of hell should not prevail against. 

We learn that he drew after  multitudes of people who came for the loaves and fishes, who came out of morbid curiosity to learn something of his doctrine, and see the miracles which he performed. When he discerned this at one time, he upbraided them soundly for their lack of faith, that they came for the bread, not of life, but of the earth; that, as their fathers had been fed with manna from heaven, so they had thought to be fed in that dispensation, but he said, "I am the bread of life;" and those who would be truly his disciples must partake of his flesh and of his blood. This was a hard saying to them, and they muttered over it, and turned away from him. When he beheld them departing, he said unto his disciples, "Will ye also go away?" Then Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." 

I would like to ask the Latterday Saints today, to whom else will you go? We are admonished that we need repentance here at home. We are told that we are lax in our obligations to keep the commandments of God, that we follow after the follies and madness of the world in seeking its wealth and pleasures. It may not be my part to criticise my brethren and sisters at home, if this; be true; but where else shall we go for salvation than to the Lord Jesus Christ? and "what shall become of us, if we neglect so great salvation?" If we are satisfied with the fame of the world, if we are content with its riches, if we fail to lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven, if we are selfish in our lives and do not live the gospel of service, of what moment is life to us? 

Where shall we find a reward? And whence shall come our recompense? 

I have been in the world long enough to know something of its philosophies, and I want to testify to you here, in all soberness, that they are vain, that they cannot give comfort to the soul who is tried and sorely distressed. I want to bear witness that the gospel of Christ, as it is understood by the Latterday Saints, is the only thing that will bring comfort and strength to the souls of men when tried beyond the things of mortal endurance; and there are times which come to us, one and all, I take it, that seem like Gethsemanes to us, things that are tragedies in our lives; and in it all, with the experience that I have, I have never yet found a man who could derive strength and comfort in the philosophies of the world, nor in the perverted teachings of the ministers of so-called religion. 

I have seen the expectant mother in the throes of travail, answering the end of her creation, as a cohelper with the Eternal One, to tabernacle one of the spirits of his children in the flesh. In the depths of her travail and distress, invariably she turns to God the Father for strength, for comfort and power to endure. Then, when happily delivered, she rejoices like Sarah of old, because a soul has been born. Again to the Lord does she turn, with a heart full of thanksgiving and praise, exulting in her motherhood. As she watches this little one grow and develop and approach maturity, unfolding its weetness as a bud into a flower in the garden of love, again I note that she seeks God, in her joy, for strength, for judgment, for wisdom, to guard wisely and well and direct aright the emotions of that living soul. When the dark angel of death comes and shuts down the sweet eyes in silence, stills the lips, makes cold the cheek and hand, again does the mother, aye and the father, too, turn to the Source of all light and truth and comfort, for from him alone can comfort come, and recompense. 

Nothing in what the world says of our lives beginning in this earth, of its ending with death, brings recompense, brings compensation for the trials of travail; nothing that the world philosophies can give us, even in all their breadth and depth of anticipating immortality, can bring compensation for the blasted hopes, the aspirations and ideals and desires cut short by death. We have builded in our very souls for eternity. We look for our children to perpetuate our names and honor in the congregations of Israel forever. Careless and indifferent, perchance, we may be, but we want our boys to be honorable, brave, and godly men; we want our girls to be virtuous, sweet and matronly in their lives; and in our hopes, we do not circumscribe them with the possibilities of this life, but only with that which the eternities can offer and bring to us. When these hopes are crushed and dead, because of the loved ones taken away, there is nothing that the world can offer to make recompense for our cherished ideals and hopes. We must rest our faith with God . We must look unto him, the Author of light and life and salvation, for comfort, for the renewal of hope and faith, and for the ultimate realization of all that our fond hearts have dared to dream of and desire. 

I have seen a people expatriated from their country, stripped and , foot-sore and weary, carrying in their hands their earthly possessions, come from the republic south of us, into this goodly land of freedom. I saw the spirit of faith and courage rest upon them and give them hope when all else in this world would have robbed them of trust in God and made them feel that their lot was mean and miserable indeed; it was because they, with Peter, had the witness of the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Christ, and that with him are the words of eternal life; that with God there is recompense and reward, and if men be faithful and true, though all things may be wrested from them in this life, in the world to come there are eternal riches — where moth doth not corrupt nor rust corrode, nor thieves break in and steal. When I went to visit some of them, /one in particular, the mother of half-a-dozen little children, and the husband away in the mission field, and I found her with more than a hundred others gathered into a great, vacant house, just completed, cement floors, no comforts, nothing with which to cook their food, no beds, and no food — I expected tears and lamentations, and, perhaps, from this fond mother and wife, a request that her husband might be sent to her. Her first words, after greeting me were, "Oh! sing for us; sing 'I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, I'll be what you want me to be.' " From whence comes such faith and courage under adverse conditions? Only from a deep conviction that God is over all, that his providences will not fail, and that they who trust in him shall have eternal life. 

I saw a city laid waste by earthquake and fire, and hundreds of thousands of people made homeless. 

No word from the outside world, except that rumor had said that even this our great city had fallen in ashes and ruin to the ground, and the Temple of God had been struck by lightning, and blasted — that the greater cities of the East had sunk into the sea. Many men believed it was the end of the world; and then, not only did I see the saint pray; the nun telling the rosary, and the priest with the crucifix — but they who had declared themselves infidel and unbelievers, came to their knees, and called onj God for deliverance — for in the hour of their extremity, they recognized the fact that aside from him there is no life eternal, and no safety in this world. I have seen the spirit of peace and comfort come to men under untoward conditions because of this faith. If you will indulge me, I will tell one incident. One of our brethren who had been bereaved of a sweet baby at home, a most promising little one, came with his wife and three other little children into the mission field, voluntarily giving his service as a representative of his quorum of Seventy, to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. The spirit of comfort came to them there in the midst of service. One day, returning from his work, he met the two litle girls, seven and five years old at the door, going on an errand for the mother. "Wait a moment, my swethearts," said he, "and I will go with you," and he went in, as the fond father, first to greet his wife after the day's labor. The little ones, in their excitement or zeal, had gone on without the father, and when he searched for them, a terrible feeling came over him that they had met with some sad end, and he turned around to see a great automobile run them both down,  when they were gotten out from under the wheels, one little one, the fairest, the oldest, was crushed almost beyond recognition — not an organ of her little body left complete, let alone a bone. The other little child was unconscious. It was hurried to an emergency hospital. The doctors labored over her, and felt there was no hope for her life. Five years old that she was, she had learned the lesson of faith and prayer, and opening her eyes for a brief moment to the anxious watchers and workers over he; , she asked for the elders; and they blessed her. She sank to sleep, and awoke the next morning entirely sound, so far as her limbs were concerned, though bruised from top to toe. She would never acknowledge that she was hurt at all. At the coroner's inquest, my good brother, this Seventy, was askedi what charge he wanted to make, and he replied he had no charge to make. They wanted to put the little one, on the stand to testify of the death of her sister, and the father said, "No! she is only a little child, she would not understand. Why should you perplex her with questions. Death has come to my family, I accept it, and I kiss the hand that chastens me." And the Judge said, "Do you not desire to establish some grounds for a damage suit?" "Why should I? Accidents come to all men. This was not a wilful one. The man who has done it suffers more than I suffer. I have the sweetness of my child's life to remember, I have the assurance that I will have and hold her again in the eternities yet to come, while he must go through this life ever haunted with the thought of this dread day.". And the Judge burst into tears, and said, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"Never in my life of twenty-five years practice have I heard such talk, or felt such a spirit." 

At the funeral services, next day, many strangers gathered in, and this fond father asked for the privilege of saying a few words over the body of his own babe. "I want you Saints," said he, "and you, my brethren and sisters in the mission field, to remember that God is over all. I do not want you to question his divine providence. I. do not want you, for one moment, to allow this to affect your faith, but see to it by your lives, by your ministry and service, that you set one niche higher the standard of truth and equity, that men, seeing your good works, observing your faith and your loyalty, shall be constrained to come into the fold of Christ and receive the recompense which God alone can give in times like this." 

Where else in all the world can such strength come from except from a knowledge that God is over all, and that Jesus is the Christ? And so, men there had to bear homage to the testimony of that man, and were constrained to feel that there was something in the faith of the Latter-day Saint that passed the bounds of earth, that reached out into the infinite, struck hands with the Eternal One, and had fellowship with him, because buoyed up under such circumstances, he would not repine; would not find fault with God nor think him harsh or unkind, but meekly submit and await for a time to, come when, comforted, they could pursue their alloted ways until their earthly life was finished, and then again, could claim and hold for eternity that sweet little one whose life was sacrificed. 

This is the same spirit that was with Peter, that was with old Job when he had wrested from him his family, his riches, and his home. Miserable companions or comforters perplexed him with the thought that it was something that he had done or had not done — that had made these dread calamities come upon him; — his own wife, turning, it seemed, against him, or at least so overcome with suffering and humiliation, suggested that he curse God and die. Crying out from his absolute weakness, sickness and humiliation, from the dust of a once happy home, he said, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. * * * For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter-day upon the earth; and though after my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God : Whom I shall see for myself and mine eyes shall behold and not another : though my reins be consumed with me." If we have this testimony, this faith, such courage as this, my brothers and sisters, we need not fear for the future of Zion. But if we are remiss in our obligations, if we are undutiful, unthankful, and unholy, we will come under the anathema of those who reject salvation and Jesus Christ against themselves Therefore, let us be faithful and true, that the promises made to our fathers, that the promises made unto us by God himself, through revelation, and the inspiration of his Spirit in this day, shall be ours, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The M. I. A. chorus sang: "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 101 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

We live in our posterity — Many young people love the faith of their fathers — Our religion is one of power and life — It causes men and women to testify and render service freely and willingly — We are all under obligations to do so — Evidences of the fulfilment of the promises of the prophets — Prayer that the young men and women may love the truth given of God to the fathers. 

My brethren and sisters, I believe we have all felt that it has been good to be here in the worship of the Lord, and that our Father in heaven has been mindful of us, and has blessed his servants who have given us the word of the Lord. We believe in the power of God to so inspire his servants, that they can speak to the people the very word that the Lord would have spoken. Some might think this presumptuous, but it is according to the scriptures that have been given to men, both in ancient and in modern times. 

I thank God for the gospel, my brethren and sisters. In looking into the faces of those who have assembled here in this meeting this morning, I have felt to rejoice in that there is present a goodly sprinkling of young people, who are the sons and daughters of those who received the principles of the gospel in days that have passed away. We expect to live in our posterity. Our fathers and mothers before us have sought God our Father that his blessings might be upon them in the rearing of their families, that they might have sons and daughters who would honor God and keep his commandments. That has been the cry of the fathers. I have very often come in contact with it in the labors that I have performed as a  in far-off countries. Missionaries very frequently hear the declarations of fathers and mothers concerning the anxiety they have in their souls about gathering with the people of the Lord. I know something of how they have labored and saved that they might come up to the land of Zion — not that they were desirous to increase their substance, so far as the things of this world were concerned, but they were anxious to plant the feet of their offspring in the country designated by our Father in heaven for the gathering of his people. Such parents had become convinced of the truth and into their souls had come the testimony of Jesus Christ. They saw very clearly the importance of the gospel message that had been revealed to men in this dispensation; and they were anxious that their children after them might be in the companionship of those inspired pastors spoken of by holy prophets of old who had been wrought upon by divine inspiration and foresaw the gathering of the people together in Zion, where they should be given pastors after God's own heart — pastors who should feed the people with knowledge and with understanding. 

It gladdens my heart, my brethren and sisters, to discover that the hopes of the fathers and the mothers who have lived in the past are not to be in vain. There is growing up in the midst of this Church many young people who are the offspring of those who have labored so faithfully in days gone by, splendid sons and daughters who love the truth, and who stand pledged to keep the commandments of God. We should be able to see today in this great gathering of the people of the Latter-day Saints, a very remarkable GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the truth of the work to which we have given our allegiance. I do not suppose that anything like it has ever been witnessed anywhere else in the world. Where else do such hosts gather together for religious purposes ? Our buildings are very commodious, but entirely too small to accommodate the people who desire to hear the word of God. Even in this overflow meeting, in the open air, notwithstanding the chilliness of the weather this morning, the people are anxious to come and hearken to the counsels that may be imparted. 

I thank God for a religion of this character, a religion of power and life, a religion that causes converts to labor for the uplift of humanity, and to feel that they are under obligation to give service to the work of God. 

I heard a young man, who is a superintenednt of a Sabbath school here in Salt Lake City, say just recently, that his school was visited a few weeks ago, by three ladies who were passing through the city. They saw people going into the little church, and supposing that a public service was going on, they entered, with others, and thus found themselves in a Latter-day Saints Sabbath school. The superintendent, seeing they were strangers, paici attention to them, and invited them either to join in one of the classes, or to visit the various classes as they might elect. When they expressed a desire to visit the various departments he escorted them from room to room. When they had gone through the school, one of the ladies said, "How on earth do you get the money to pay all these teachers ?" They had a host of little children in the kindergarten department; and quite a number of  engaged with that department; and of course the usual number of teachers engaged in the other departments. She could not understand where the money came from to pay so many teachers in the Sabbath school. The superintendent himself was astonished at the question. He said, "I never heard of anyone being paid for work in a Sunday school. These men and women give their service freely and gladly to those who have assembled together." The lady desired to know how it was possible, and the answer was, "Because into their souls has come an understanding and knowledge of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ; being converted themselves, they feel that they are under obligation to render service to their fellows and help to bring others to an understanding of the truth that has filled their own souls with surpassing peace." 

My brethren and sisters, that is what the gospel has done for men in all ages of the world, that is what the gospel is doing for men today. There cannot be found men or women who have received the truth understandingly and have been baptized by the Holy Spirit of intelligence, which Spirit takes ot the things of the Father and reveals them unto men, who do not feel within their souls that they are under obligation to lend a helping hand to forward the work of God. You all know they are made anxious to labor, to speak, to bear testimony to the truth as it has been made manifest. That is your obligation, that is my obligation, my brethren and sisters, and the obligation of every soul who has been made acquainted with God's plan of saving the human family. God himself has said in the revelations giv103  in our own age, that "He that hath been warned shall warn his neighbor." I hope we all feel this responsibility resting upon us. and that we feel under obligation to give that service for the advancement of the work of our God, that our Father in heaven demands of us and that we are all earnest laborers in his vineyard, and that not one of us shall be drones. 

I rejoice in the marvelous evidences of the fulfilment of the promises of the holy prophets — we see them in process of fulfilment upon this sacred square today, "a marvelous work and a wonder," as God declared over and over again by the mouth of his great prophet of the latter dispensation, Joseph Smith. "A marvelous work and a wonder is about to come forth among the children of men," — we could have read it frequently in the book of revelations, even before the Church was organized. When Joseph Smith stood as it were alone, among the great hosts of men living upon this earth, God said to him, under those conditions, that a marvelous work was about to be revealed to the children of men; and God made marvelous promises in connection with that work. 

I will read a promise or two that has been made : 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth, and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord, have commanded them. 

"Behold this is mine authority, and the authority ,of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled." 

These words sound like one speaking who has authority. There is no uncertainty, my brethren and sisters, in the words of the living God, as they were given to the prophet at the opening of this dispensation. The words I have read were given to be published to all the inhabitants of the earth, as the preface to the book of revelations that was to be published to the people. The purpose was that all the people might know — members of the Church and non-members of the Church — that the Lord God of heaven had said that his servants who had been chosen to carry the message of his gospel to the inhabitants of the earth in these latter days should go forth and none should have power to stay them. And here is one of the evidences before our eyes today, in these meetings. We are gathered from every nation, and from every people, according to the promises and prophecies of both ancient and modern prophets. Wherever the gospel message has been sounded, men have been found who have given their allegiance to the work as ft has come to them; and they have given the right kind of allegiance, the allegiance declared to be necessary by the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the lawgiver to the nations of the earth. They have been willing to forsake houses and lands, father and mother, wives and children, for the gospel's sake, and have been given, as our history abundantly testifies, power even to give their lives in attestation of the truth of the everlasting gospel. 

All praise to the name of Jehovah, who made such clear and marvelous promises, and who has so marvelously fulfilled and is fulfiling the predictions of the prophets. The work that is being accomplished, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the fact that God established it, that it is his cause, that it is the means and power of salvation to the peoples of the earth! God help us to love it! Young men and women, I say to you, love the truth that God gave to your fathers, and give that allegiance to this cause that has been given by the fathers and mothers of the past. God help us to be the class of men and women that the fathers and mothers who founded "Mormonism" have prayed for. If we are of that kind, we will bring honor to the cause of God, as well as honor to the names we bear. 

I bear record to the truth God has revealed. I know this cause has come from God, and not from man; and, as has been testified in this meeting, it will conquer, not in our might, or wisdom, or power, but in the might of God, who has so decreed. God help us to believe it, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID 0. McKAY. 

The Power of the Holy Ghost comes through those who have divine authority — Paul and the Sons of Sceva — A missionary incident — Our duty to prove, by our acts, that God acknowledges this Church as his. 

The power that has prompted the inspirational remarks of those who have addressed you this morning, was manifest in Ephesus, on one occasion, when Paul found twelve men there who had been following Apollos. He said to them: "Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed ?" They said unto him : "We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost." "Unto what then were ye ?" And they answered, "Unto John's baptism." Then said Paul, "John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, Christ Jesus." 

There were seven sons of one Sceva, who lived by pretending to the arts of the magician. When they saw that Paul, through the power of God wrought miracles, they tried it. They commanded the evil spirit in a man to come out in the name of "Jesus whom Paul preacheth." But the evil spirit said : "Jesus I know, and Paul I know, but who are ye?" And the man who was possessed of the evil spirit leaped upon the seven sons of Sceva, and they fled from the house, naked and wounded. There are men in this day who perceive this power is manifest in the Church, but they do not know its source, at least they will not acknowledge its source, any more than Simon who received the rebuke of Peter, or any more than the seven sons of Sceva, who tried to use it without the proper authority. 

I call to mind now a man who devoted several years of the best part of his life, and concentrated his talents in an effort to disprove the divinity of this work. He was out visiting the members of his diocese, on one occasion, and while there, he met the president of the stake, and in conversation said: "While I speak thus against your Church, there are some things In it which I think most acceptable, and which I shall work to introduce into our Church." "What' are they?" asked the president. "Well, there is your tithing system. I believe that that is the proper method of collecting church offerings. <I 105  it is the right way." "Well," said the president, "why don't you have your people pay their tithing ?" He answered honestly, "We would like them to, but they will not pay it." "What other feature is there?" asked the president. "There is your missionary work. I think," said he, "that the opportunity you give your young men to go out and preach what they think is the truth, is the greatest opportunity that can come to any young man." "Why don't you offer your young men this privilege?" "We would, but they will not go," was his answer. 

Contrast that with the experience of a young man who left this city about three weeks ago, the first time, practically, that he has ever been away from home. He was reared in the Church, trained in Sunday schools and other auxiliary organizations, with a course in our Church school, and two years in the University, scarcely twenty years old now. When his call came he accepted it without hesitation. When I said "good-bye" to him and his companions, as they boarded the Union Pacific, in Ogden, just three weeks ago, he could scarcely speak, and when I happened to mention his mother, he just broke down in tears and sobbed. But though he was going into an unknown world, to him, among strangers, he was glad in his soul — thankful that he had been considered worthy to represent his Church. He was sent, to the Eastern States mission, received his assignment to some litle town near Pittsburg, just out from that large city. When he arrived, there was nobody to meet him. He made some inquiry about the address which had been given him, and from which the elders had . There he was, alone in the city of Pittsburg. He went to a few houses in the neighborhood, inquiring if they knew anything about the "Mormon" elders who recently were there, and he chanced to meet a man who was conducting a mission there. The man looked at him, saw how young and inexperienced he appeared, and said : "Are you engaged in missionary work?" And the young elder answered, "Yes, I hope to be soon." Then followed a conversation of about thirty minutes, and the missionary of the other church said: "I would like you to come and speak at our mission headquarters next Sunday, if you will promise not to tell the people who you are." The young man answered tremblingly, "I will gladly come to your mission, but I must tell the people who I am." The minister evidently was impressed with the young elder's spirit, but could not stand to have it labeled "Mormonism." 

The power that is guiding that young man, today, and thousands of others throughout the world, in the mission field, and here at home, is the power of the Holy Ghost, which comes to those who accept the principles and ordinances of the gospel, administered by men divinely appointed in things pertaining to God. 

It is our duty, my fellow workers, to prove to the world, by our acts, that God acknowledges this Church as his, and is willing to bestow his Spirit upon those who diligently serve him. I rejoice in this service, in the testimony of those men who know, as you know, that God has poken again from the heavens, and that he lives to bless us, his children. May the peace of this meeting abide in our souls for ever, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

After the chorus had sung, "Count your many blessings," the meeting adjourned, benediction being pronounced by Elder George Stewart, of Malad. 


