Afternoon
05 04 1909


ELDER HYBTTM M, SMITH. 

Fulfillment of prediction concerning great and marvelous work. — Marked changes in sectarian doctrines. — Temperance and Sunday laws desired by majority of Utah citizens. — Disregard for wishes of the people shown by legislators. — Saints advised to continue fight for the right. 

While I address the congregation, this afternoon, I hope that I may have a good degree of the Spirit of the Lord, that we may continue to enjoy the inspiration of God, and through it be instructed and blessed. I have enjoyed the meetings of the conference thus far. I have rejoiced greatly in the remarks that have been made, and the testimonies that have been borne by the brethren who have addressed the saints. 

In the year 1829, prior to the organization of the Church, the Lord repeatedly said unto Joseph Smith and through Joseph Smith, to others, that a great and marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. If this statement would bear repetition, even by the mouth of God, prior to the organization of this great work, we can certainly be permitted to repeat it now, when we see such a wonderful fulfillment of these predictions. As I sat yesterday and looked over the vast multitude of saints, the passage kept recurring to my mind. How great and marvelous is this work that has come forth among the children of men, beginning, as we have heard, in the organization of the Church with six members, and growing until now — although it is only a few years since the organization of the; Church — it numbers its members by hundreds of thousands, a great many of whom have assembled in conference upon this occasion, and who for years past have been meeting annually and semi-annually in this capacity. Although a numerous people, filling many villages, towns and cities, yet they all see eye to eye when the principles of the Gospel of life and  are considered. They have been drawn from all the nations of the earth, from all creeds, all faiths, all churches, all tongues and peoples; and they have been united, by the Spirit of God, into one harmonious Church of Jesus Christ. This is marvelous, wonderfully marvelous; and it is not the only wonderful thing connected with this great work of the latter days. While we number the members of the Church by hundreds of thousands, who have embraced the truth as revealed through Joseph Smith, the prophet, there are still in the world other hundreds of thousands of men and women who believe in the doctrines of the Gospel of Christ, as revealed of the Lord through Joseph Smith the prophet, and as preached and taught by our people. The remarkable effect of the Gospel upon the world causes one, who is aware of the fact, to stand in wonderment, when he realizes to what extent the words of the Lord, spoken in 1829, have been fulfilled. 

"Another parable spake He unto them : The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." This little organization that was effected in 1830, has been the leaven in the hands of God which has been introduced in the world and is rapidly and most wonderfully leavening the whole lump. The ideas and views of the Christian world have changed to a marked degree. The doctrines believed in prior to, and immediately subsequent to, the introduction of the Gospel of Christ, were quite different in some respects from what they are now. The Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, has revealed the truth, and the truth has  its effect among men. I noticed, a short time ago, one little item that goes far in showing to what extent the Gospel of Christ has leavened, and is leavening, the religious ideas and views of the world. I clipped an article from the Deseret News editorial columns; it was orginally taken from th Montreal Star, and was then published and commented on by the Editor of the News, as follows : 

We have frequentlv remarked that the light of the Gospel is penetrating the world of thought today, and enlightening it gradually. Truth is rising and before its rays the shadows flee. 

One illustration of this is found in the attitude of Christians toward the doctrine of eternal punishment. We notice in the Montreal Star an article signed bv one Joseph Hamilton, in which the writer takes up the question of eternal punishment, as follows: 

"That doctrine is contained in the creed of both the Methodist and the Presbyterian churches, but do the ministers believe it? If they do, would they not preach it; yes, preach it morning, noon, and night? But, as a matter of fact, they do not preach it. I never heard a sermon on it, or any attempt to prove it, since I was a child. A few weeks ago in a large congregation in Toronto the preacher asked for a show of hands on the part of any who had heard a sermon on heli within the past ten years. Two hands were held up. Some time ago a noted Methodist minister told me that the Methodist ministers of Canada do not believe in everlasting punishment. The Presbyterian ministers seem largely to hold the same view. Is the subject mooted at all in any Presbyterian church?" 

This caused another reader of the Montreal Star, Thomas Albert Shackelton, writes: 

"Editor of Daily Star: Dear SirReplying to the letter of Joseph Hamilton, of Lindsay, Ontario. I would say, I think the definition of eternal punishment, or everlasting punish, is much misunderstood, and that the ordinary thought that it means an unending punishment is not taught in the Holy Bible. The Holy Bible teaches that the Author and Father of all life is eternal; is everlasting; hence the punishment meeted out to unrepentant souls is the punishment of the eternal or everlasting Father, and the words eternal punishment have no reference to time whatsoever, but simply refer to the punishment, as being God's punishment; hence is eternal punishment, or punishment by the Eternal One. As proof I refer to the Epistle of Peter in which he speaks of Christ whilst His body was in the tomb, preaching to the spirits of those who for some time during the days of Noah were unrepentant; showing there was a hope of final salvation for all through faith in Christ, and thus it's right to pray for cur dead." 

Where did our friend get this idea of Eternal punishment? Did he get it when he read Peter, and there learned that Christ had preached to the spirits in prison, or in the spirit world? If)' hte did, where did he get the idea that the doctrine enunciated by Peter referred to the salvation for the dead? That doctrine is very familiar to the Latter-day Saints We read in the Doctrine and Covenants a revelation given to Joseph Smith, in New York, in 1830; listen to it.: 

"I am Alpha and Omega, Christ the Lord; yea, even I am He, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the world. 

"I, having accomplished and finished the will of him whose I am, even the Father, concerning me — having done this that I mi°dit subdue all things unto myself — 

"Retaining all power, even to the destroying of Satan and his works at the end of the world, and the last great day of judgment, which I shall pass_ upon the inhabitants thereof, judging every man according to his works and the deeds which he hath done. 

"And surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless: "Wherefore, I revoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my left hand; 

"Nevertheless it is not written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written endless torment. 

"Again, it is written eternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men altogether for my name's glory; 

"Wherefore I will explain unto you this mystery, for it is mete unto you to know even as mine aoostles. 

"I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my rest; 

"For, behold, the mystery of Godliness, how great is it? for, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for endless is my name; wherefore 

"Eternal punishment is God's punishment. 

"Endless punishment is God's punishment. 

"Wherefore I command you to repent, and keep the commandments which you have received by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., in my name; 

"And it is by my almighty power that you have received them." 

Our friend quotes almost verbatim from the Doctrine and Covenants, and yet for proof of his views refers his congregation to the Bible, namely to the words of Saint Peter. And that is the state of the world. They have abandoned many doctrines which they formerly held; they have abandoned them, since Joseph Smith taught they were false; they have embraced many of the truths of the everlasting gospel, since Joseph Smith revealed them to the world. But no, not on any account would they give credit where credit belongs. If this man were an honest man, he would have said : And for proof of this doctrine, I refer you to the 19th section of the Doctrine and 

Covenants, a standard work of the Mormon Church, being the words of God to Joseph Smith the prophet; and for my knowledge of the doctrine of salvation for those who are dead I refer you also to Joseph Smith the prophet, who preached it to the world, and first made clear the meaning of Peter's words. 

No, we do not hear any more damnation, hell fire, and infant burning, or everlasting or never ending punishment. No more predestination, and total depravity of the human heart. The topless throne and bottomless . pit are things of the past. Those doctrines are done away with; they are not believed, or at least, if they are believed, they are not preached. I assure you, my brethren and sisters, they are not believed by hundreds of thousands of people whose minds have been enlightened by the preaching of the Gospel by the servants of God, the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Thus the leaven is working, and the people of the world are coming to see the truth. They are abandoning some of their false doctrines. They are preaching many of the truths that we preach and which were not. known to be true, in fact, they were looked upon as the greatest of heresy when Joseph Smith introduced them, and long after that time, even until the elders had preached the doctrines among many nations and tongues, and after the Spirit of the Lord rested upon the people, and made them understand and believe them As a result, while these thousands of men have, for reasons best known to themselves, not seen their way clear to join the Church of Christ and become members, they are falling away from other churches which have taught and  retain false doctrines in their creeds. It is marvelous, too, that there are many honorable men in the earth, good men, who believe Mormonism, and they wish us God speed; "but,' they say, "so far as we are concerned, we can't live it; we are not good enough; or for other reasons we can not accept membership in the Church." But the time is coming when many of them will join the Church. This great work is going on; the leavening process is at work; and as surely as the Lord likened the kingdom of heaven unto this parable, so surely will the whole be leavened. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I want to speak a word or two on another subject. I want to read another passage of Scripture, and with the discourse of President Lund, yesterday, as a precedent, make a few remarks: 

"And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king." 

'And it came to pass, when Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who was yet in Egypt, heard of it, (for he was fled from the presence of King Solomon, and leroboam dwelt in Egypt;) 

"That they sent and called him. And leroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake unto Rehoboam, saying, 

"Thy father made our yoke grievous, now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee." 

"And he said unto them, "Depart yet for three days, then come again to me." And the people departed. 

"And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, "How do ye advise that I may answer this people?' 

"And they spake unto him, saying, 'If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants forever." 

"But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, and which stood before him: 

"And he spake unto them, 'What counsel give ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, 'Make the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?" 

"And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, 'Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, 'Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, 'My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. 

" 'And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke, my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.' 

"So leroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day. 

"And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old men's counsel that they gave him; 

"/ind spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and 1 will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. 

"Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause was from the Lord, that he might perform his saying, which the Lord spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 

"So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, * * * *" (I Kings, 12:1-17). 

That reminds me very much of what we have passed through in recent days. I do not forget, and I need ask no pardon for reminding you of it, that at our last conference we spoke out in favor of the closing of saloons, and curtailing the sale of intoxicating liquors. As a people, as a conference of the Church, we spoke in the interest of prohibition. Not only did the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but a great many people who love virtue, temperance, and purity of life, who believe in the doctrines enunciated in the opening remarks of our conference, also desired it. Other churches and organizations of good men and women declared their will and asked that we be given relief from the bondage under which we are now suffering, that of open saloons and the desecration of the Sabbath day. We asked our legislature to kindly grant us relief from these yokes of bondage. More than 75,000 people petitioned for it; the time was rope to secure it. The Savior on one occasion said : "What man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?" We asked for a Sunday law; we were given a stone. We asked for pro^ hibition, and the lower house of the legislature, with a very few dishonorable exceptions, stood as a man, to the last, for virtue and truth, for honesty and sobriety, and would have gladly given unto the people what they asked : viz, lighten our yoke; release us from this bondage that now is destroying our sons and our daughters, and polluting our state. 

The senate was just the reverse, with a few very honorable exceptions. Their answer was practically this: We will defeat the House and deny the request of the people. If in the past they have been chastised with whips, we will chastise them with scorpions. We will not only not give them relief but, we will add to their burdens  fastening the whisky yoke more securely upon them. We will deliver the state to the liquor dealer, and the people to the saloon keeper. We will give those engaged in this dreadful business all the aid, comfort and support we possibly can, and greater license_than ever before. We have no respect, but on the contrary, only contempt for the will of the people. When they ask for bread we will give them a stone. And if they ask for a fish we will give them a serpent. And a serpent they gave us; and, a.& Solomon declared, "It biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder." That is what we got. They made a pretense of sincerity, by holding out hope of local option, with never a moment's intention of granting even that. Even a local option stone, when we asked for the bread of Prohibition, would . have been vastly better than the serpent they gave us. 

Well, so far as I am concerned, I still stand for purity of life, for prohibition, the closing of_saloons, the prevention of drunkenness, for every virtue and every good thing that will help the people. So far as I have authority to speak for the people of the Church of Christ, the Latter-day Saints still desire relief from this yoke; theydesire their burdens to be lightened. We desire the Sabbath day to be kept holy. We desire our children to grow up fearing God and keeping holy His Sabbath day; and we deplore the condition that prevails where legislators arise' and make light of, and ridicule the honest, sincere, and devout wish of a mighty people when they ask for relief from this desecration of the Lord's day. I fear for the peace and safety of our commonwealth   our law makers refuse to listen to the voice of the people, and follow the advice of the wicked and immoral instead. I say to you Latter-day Saints, do not lose courage; we have had to fight battles for truth all our lives, andjust as the leaven is leavening the lump with reference to some ol the doctrines of the Church and Kingdom of God, and as it will eventually leaven it all, so this will be part of it. We will live to see the day when we will find men who will not be like Rehoboam, the king, but men who will listen to the people. When the people say unto them: Give us relief, lighten the burdens that others have placed upon us, save our children from temptation 

- and ruin, they will hearken unto the will of the people : and. in God's name, we will then be freed from the bondage with which some of our pretended brethren would still shackle us. Then what shall we do? Why, to your tents, oh Israel! Back to your homes, increase your vigilance and watchfulness around vour own firesides, double and re-double your efforts to pre- serve your sons and daughters, and your fair name, from the hands of those who would drag from your thresholds the innocence and purity of your children, and sink it in the mire, for gain. 

Now, may God bless the people. May the Lord bless His cause, and may it continue to grow and work to the wonderment of the world, in a manner that shall cause all men to stand and declare: Lo, God must have spoken to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, because his words are fulfilled; a most wonderful and marvelous work has come forth among the children of men. God bless Israel, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Remarkable fact that Christian nations need to have the Gospel preached to them. — Wonderful extent of -Latterday Saint missions. — Miraculous evidences of divine authority. — Statistics showing great work accomplished. The brethren and sisters who have come to this conference have met with a rather cold reception; that is to say, the weather has been somewhat unfavorable. Last evening we had a light fall of snow, and today it has been quite chilly. It reminds be of a discussion that occurred between a Yankee and a Scotchman. They were talking about the cold weather in the north of Scotland. The Yankee said: "Your winters here are nothing to compare with the winters in the states. I recollect one winter," said the Yankee, "when a sheep, in jumping from a hillock into a .field, suddenly became frozen in passing, and stuck in the air like a mass of ice." (Laughter.) "My boy," said the Scotchman, "that could not be, for the law of gravitation would not allow it." "I know it," said the Yankee, "but the law of gravitation was frozen too." (Laughter.) 

Notwithstanding the, disturbance in the elements, the attendance at the conference and the interest in the meetings have not diminished. This is a splendid congregation, assembled this afternoon, but few seats in the house are unoccupied, and truly we have been having "a feast of fat things," a time of instruction, in which I have rejoiced exceedingly. 

We read in the Scriptures of a very remarkable thing that is to take place in the latter-days. You will find it recorded in the book of Revelation, called the Revelation of Saint John the divine. The opening words of the Revelation read like this : - "The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto His servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by His angel unto His servant John." 

In another place, when John was wrapped in heavenly vision, he saw a door in heaven open, and he heard the voice of an angel issuing, saying, "Come up hither and I will show you) what must be hereafter." So we would naturally conclude that the things which were written by John the revelator were things which must be fulfilled in the future, or in the latter days. Now, this is the remarkable thing to which John the revelator calls our attention; he said : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, and tongue, and people. 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come: and worship Him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Wonder of wonders and mystery of mysteries! Is it possible that in the latter days an angel should be seen flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to the enlightened Christian nations of the world? It is so recorded in the Bible. We believe, and claim as a people, that that angel has come to the earth and appeared to Joseph Smith, in the person of Moroni, who delivered to the youthful Prophet a record familiarly known as the Book of Mormon, a record containing the fulness of the Gospel, with a mes that said Gospel must be preached in every nation under the heavens before the end should come. Shortly after the visitation of this angel, following the organization of the Church, the Spirit fell upon the early elders, and they went forth into the regions round about, proclaiming the word. Thus the Gospel was introduced into the world in the nineteenth century; and it spread from town to town, from village to village, and from country to country, until in our day we have twenty-one missions established in the world. 

There are seven great missions in the United States: namely, the Eastern States, the Southern States, the Northern States, the Central States, the Western States, the Northwestern States and the California missions. We have a mission in Mexico, and six great missions in Europe, namely, a mission in Great Britain, one in Scandinavia, in Sweden, in Germany, in Switzerland,in the Netherlands and in Turkey; one mission in South Africa; one in Japan. Five missions upon the islands of the sea, namely, one in Hawaii, in Samoa, in New Zealand, in the Society Islands, and in Australia; making twenty-one missions in all. One December 31, 1908, there were 1,823 missionaries in the field. 

Now, the stranger might ask the question : That is a very good showing; you believe, then, that vou have the Gospel in its fulness; that with the Gospel you expect to regenerate the world? The answer is yes, most assuredly. Then the question might be asked, With a handful of people, with a very limited number of elders, how do vou expect to accomplish it? Well, th^re you are. It ia a g-ood deal like the President stated it yesterdav, and  have heard this afternoon from Brother Hyrum: It is the leaven which will leaven the whole lump. These humble missionaries are going forth into the world, bearing their burden and declaring the word. There will be some people who will hear the voice of the elders; others will hear the voice of the Book of Mormon; others, again, will hear the voice of the Doctrine and Covenants, others the voice of the Pearl of Great Price, others the Voice of Warning, and others still, the voice of a tract. Thus will a knowledge of the Gospel be spread to all nations and will be preached to every creature. But, it is not the fact that the elders are going forth into the world to preach that is so significant, as it is the power and authority which accompanies them. Let me remind you, brethren and sisters, of the parting words of the Savior to His disciples; He said : 

"Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned." Now mark it: "These signs shall follow them that believe: In my name they shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." 

That was the authority which was given to the disciples in the days of Christ; and immediately thereafter Christ was caught up into heaven and sat down on the right hand of His Father. The disciples went forth proclaiming the word; they were sustained of the Lord; and the word was confirmed by the signs following. So it is, my brethren and sisters, in our day and time; so it is in the Church of Christ. You heard the testimony  Brother Baliff, this morning. Let me also give you an example. In fact, it comes rather close home to me: I have a son now in the mission field, a boy about twenty years of age, who went forth with a limited knowledge of the Gospel, with fear and trembling, not knowing what he would say, not knowing what he would do, but, nevertheless, trusting in the Lord. Within a few days, I received a letter from him, and he relates to me a very remarkable healing — I say it was remarkable, and yet it was such an incident as often occurs in the mission field. He said that he and his companions were visiting with a friend, when a little girl came rushing into the house and asked the elders to go immediately to her home and bless a little child that was afflicted — a child of non-Mormon parents. The elders responded. When they reached the place they found the little one stricken down with bronchial pneumonia. There was the ma r k of terrible fever in its eyes, and it was at the point of death; in fact, the deathrattle was in its throat, and the mother was bending over the child expecting every moment to see its spirit depart for the spirit world. The two elders took the child in their arms and anointed it with oil, and blessed it, and rebuked the disease. Relief came instantly; the child rested and was comfortable through the night; and when the elders came to inquire the next dav thev found the little one seated at the t^ble. eating an orange, and fully recovered. My son goes on to say — and th; s is t^e point I desire to emph-siz° — "Father, I laid my hands, with mv companion, unoh that child, and I saw it healed. I know that this could have been done only by the power of God. My faith has been strengthened; and this is a testimony to me of the truth of the Gospel and he adds, "I would) not give it for millions of money." That is what missionary work does for the Latterday Saint boys who go into the field. 

Let me give you another example, which was related by the president of the Southern States Mission. He said there was a boy in his mission who had been afflicted with deafness; and under the administration of the elders, was healed, and he could hear clearly and distinctly thereafter. When he met the president of the mission, the latter said to him: "You have been healed; have you joined the Church?" The boy said, "No, but my heart is filled with gratitude to God, and I feel that I ought to belong to the "Church." "Well, then," said the president of the mission, "why are you not a member of the Church?" The boy answered. "My parents refuse their consent." This was an instance where the boy was absolutely converted to the truth; he had received a great blessing; he glorified God in his heart; he would have accepted the Gospel, and desired baptism; but his parents flatly refused to give their consent. The responsibility is upon them. These examples that Iam giving are taken from various missions, only one here and there; but they might be multiplied indefinitely. There was a man in the California mission, as related by the president of that mission, who became deeply interested in the Book of Mormon. After laying down the book, he turned to the Lord in fervent prayer. He asked the Lord if the Gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints was true, and in a vision of the night-time he saw  Salt Lake temple, which he had never before seen, and his deceased sister appeared to him and explained the ordinance of baptism for the dead. A few days later, when he came into the mission house to attend a meeting there, he saw over the pulpit a picture of the temple. He immediately said : "I know that building; it is the temple of God, for I saw it in a dream." He came to the elders and demanded baptism. The elders tried to put him off; they were afraid that he was not fully converted, that he had not had time to consider the matter, to know his own heart fully. But he said : "No. It is true I can't explain the principles of the Gospel, but I know by the power of God that they are true, and I demand baptism. The Lord has said that 'if ye will do my will ye shall know the doctrine, whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself.' " He felt that by doing the will of God and receiving baptism, he would have a greater claim upon the Lord for light and for understanding. 

Let me give you one other example. It occurred in far distant South Africa, among the Boers. You have heard of the Boers; you will remember the strong defense they made in the Boer war, against the English; and surely we must concede that they are an intrepid people, a people of courage and fortitude; and we believe that among them will be found the seed of Israiel. Two young elders werp laboring among the Boers. Thev came into a home where the wife could speak English, but theTiusband could not speak it, so these young- men engaged in conversation with the wife. All at once the husband snoke up, he spoke in Dutch, and addressed his remarks  the elders, who were "unacquainted with the language, and they both clearly understood what he said; and when they answered him in English, although he was not familiar with the English language, he understood them. But the remarkable thing about it was that when the Boer addressed the first elder in Dutch, the second elder could not understand him, but the fi r st elder understood; and when the Boer addresed the second elder and asked him a question, he understood him, but the first elder could not understand it. This was a very remarkable manifestation of the power of God in tongues, one of the signs that follow the preaching of the Gospel. 

I would like to call your attention, for just a moment, to some things that were accomplished by the eighteen hundred missionaries during the last year. Usually statistics are very dry, but I think> you will find these two or three items of considerable interest : Meetings held in halls in the world during 

1908, 38,582 

Cottage meetings 28,968 

Open air meetings .... 13,735 

Total number of meetings held 81,285 Total meetings and 

gospel conversations 1,865,214 Standard Church works 

distributed, mostly 

Books of Mormon .. 37,112 Other books pertaining 

to the Gospel 456,645 

Tracts distributed 9,862,728 

Total books and tracts 

distributed 10,356,485 

This is the work that is going  in the world. It is in this way that we expect to regenerate the world and to accomplish the mission that is put upon us by the Lord. The great message which the angel Moroni delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith is being carried into the world and distributed broadcast. In the Northern States mission alone, last year, there were over fifteen thousand Books of Mormon distributed among the people. I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Book of Mormon is the chiefest of all the tracts used by our Elders in the mission field. There is no tract published by the Latter-day Saints that is equal to the Book of Mormon, and why? Because the Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the everlasting Gospel as taught to the Nephites, and it harmonizes with the fulness of the Gospel that is taught in the Bible. 

May the Lord bless us. May the Lord bless our missionaries. We could use a thousand more missionaries today if we had them. We want young men and older men who are efficient; we want them to prepare for this work. In the early days of the Church, where men did not have opportunities of education and of study, the Lord made up the deficiency; but in our day, when these opportunities are abundant, the Lord expects the men of the priesthood, especially the young men of the Church, to take advantage of them and to use their time wisely. He expects both old and young to attend their priesthood meetings, their organizations and general meetings, to prepare themselves for missions to the world. The Lord bless us, and especially bless our young men, to that end, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Sister Esther Davis sang a soprano solo entitled, "Forever with the Lord." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MUKRIN. 

My brethren and sisters,I feel the same as other brethren who have occupied this position, that is I am very dependent upon the help of the Lord to enable me to say something- that will be of advantage to those who have gathered in this great building to worship before the Lord. My heart has been made to reioice in listening to the words that have been spoken bv the brethren who have been called upon to -speak in the meetings of the conference. I thank God, with all my heart, that I am numbered with the people of the Latter-day Saints. My experiences as a member of the Church have brought joy, and peace, and very great contentment to my soul. This joy has been particularly strong when I have carried out the counsels that have been given to me, and have most energetically endeavored to live in harmony with the principles of life and salvation, as revealed in these latter times. I feel, when joy is produced in the soul of man by the doing of things claimed to be revealed from the Lord, it is an evidence that the thing is right.' I do not suppose that any one has found any pleasure in the doing of things that were not right, things that they knew to be wrong. Wrong doing produces sorrow and not joy; therefore, I say I find joy and satisfaction in doing the things that are taught in the Gospel as presented to the world by the Latter-day Saints. This joy comes with such power and force to me, as to be a strong evidence of the  of the Gospel as taught to this people. 

I, also, have been impressed very frequently, my brethren and sisters, with the Scripture referred to by one of the brethren in relation to the promises made by our Father in heaven in regard to this work, even before it was organized, that it should be a work of a marvelous character. So far as I have become familiar with the principles revealed of God to the Prophet Joseph Smith, I am convinced that they are indeed marvelous. This work, in its organization and in many of its principles, is very different from the churches found in the world. We are a distinct people, different from all other peoples, who profess to be followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. One of these differences is that we take the position the Scriptures teach; that there is but one means of salvation given of God <to the human family, and but one church that is His Church. 

I will read in support of thia proposition a word or two from the Scriptures, from the writings of the Apostle Paul, a man who was filled with the Spirit of the Lord, and who wrote many very precious things in relation to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. He had been convinced of the mission of the Redeemer of the world in a marvelous manner, and he labored ever after with very great zeal for the spreading of a knowledge of the Redeemer's name among the children of men. But he discovered, during his ministry, that some men were very unstable, and inclined to turn away from the faith of the Gospel. To such men who had received the Gospel and had been numbered with the people of the Lord, but were making ship of their faith, he wrote, as we find in the epistile to the Galatians as follows: 

"I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel: 

"Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ. 

"But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed " 

Mormonism, as I understand it, is distinct and peculiar in this regard, it stands for this one doctrine, we do not believe that man can find salvation in any way that he may elect to find it. We believe the Lord of glory has pointed out the way, and that He came for that purpose. He volunteered to accomplish the work that was necessary in order that mankind might be saved. He laid down His life, gave His blood, to open up the way of salvation, that every soul who would believe in His mission and in His power to save — a power that was in Him by and through the accomplishment of the work that was given Him of the Father, — might be saved. We believe that He had the power and authority to direct men in the way of salvation, and that there is no other being in the world who can so direct. We declare that there never can be found, in all the future history of the world any other means of salvation than has already been found and pointed out by the Redeemer of the world. He has taueht the doctrine that if any man climb uo in any other way than the way appointed, he shall be counted as a thief and a robber; and so teaches Mormonism. We declare to the inhabitants of the earth  the plan of salvation has been revealed anew by the opening of the heavens, and by the appearing of the Father and the Son to this man spoken of so frequently, Joseph Smith. It is a very startling announcement that we make when we declare that the heavens have been opened, and that authority has been given to man by the sending of angels from the heavenly courts, who have conferred upon men in these latter times that authority which they, the angels, received, and exercised when they tabernacled here as mortal beings, — as we have heard from the speakers in this conference. 

As a people, we believe that we are living: in the latter days, in the day spoken of by the prophets — a time that seemed to be of very gre->t interest to them, for all the prophets, we may sav, have spoken of tbe latter davs, and of the wonderful things that would be accomplished amonp- the children of men in the last dispensation of the Gospel. As T have said, we believe that power and authority have he<=n civen afain to man — the authority of the holv priesthood, that authority bv which man ministers in the name of the eternal Father, and his ministry is recognized, sanctioned, and approved by the I ord of heaven. It is wonderful in the ears of those who know nothing- of authority, who do not believe in the necessity of being called of God as was Aaron; but there isn't anything very wonderful about it when we come to read the Scriptures, for men who operated in ancient times as the servants of the Lord, did so by appointment from God. We do not read that anv of the apostles, whose words should be so precious to the Christian peoples of the earth today, ever commenced to preach or minister in the name of the Master, or assumed to perform any of the ordinances looking to the salvation of the children of men, until they had first been selected by the Master. They were called from their various occupations; they received the laying on of the hands of the Redeemer, who taught them the doctrine that they had not chosen Him but He had chosen them, and he had ordained them, and He sent them that they might bring forth fruit. We believe that there never could have been any fruit such as the Master had in mind, when He spoke these words to His apostles, if they had not thus been called by His voice, and if they had not received this ordination that clothed them with power and with authority to speak and act in His name. The Scriptures are full of evidences that all of these men were brought into the ministry in this very manner. They did not call themselves; they were not called by the people, in any other way than has been taught here in this conference,God first indicating, through the proper channel, the men He would have,acting in His name, and the people accepting of the men so called. 

I say we are a distinct people in relation to these matters. We believe that there is an absolute necessity for men who speak and administer Gospel ordinances, in the name of our Father in Heaven, to have conferred upon them the same authority, and to be called unto that authority in the very same manner that men were called anciently. Before the opening of this dispensation men were attempting to act in the name of God without being called by Him. Because of this there ex the necessity of a revelation, and of the opening of the heavens anew; for men through unbelief had lost all divine authority. They did not know anything about it. Joseph Smith, himself, did not know anything concerning authority when he went out to plead with our Father in heaven, that he might be directed in the right channel. He expected, I suppose, that if answer was given to his prayer, that he would be directed to some religious denomination. He supposed, no doubt, that the Gospel of Salvation could be found in some of the churches; but the Lord revealed that men had strayed away from the plan that He had instituted, that they had broken the everlasting covenant, and that the time had come for the revelation again of the Gospel, and another bestowal of that precious authority. That authority came to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the ministrations of holy angels sent for that especial purpose. Men may ask the question, why should it come to the Prophet Joseph ? Did not men before his time ask God, with devout and pure hearts, to know the truth? I would say, yes, undoubtedly; there have always been many good men who have shown a disposition to seek God for information. Some one may wonder why they were not answered in the way Joseph Smith claims to have been answered, the reason is simply that the appointed time had not come. We learn in the Scriptures that Jesus of Nazareth was chosen long before He came to minister to mortal man. We also learn from the Scriptures that this was the case with some of the prophets; God speaks particularly of one of the prophets with 99.  He was acquainted. He said to the Prophet Jeremiah, "I knew thee before thou wast born into the world, and I had chosen thee and ordained thee to be a prophet." No man, no matter how devout, could prevent the call of Jeremiah. The time had come for Joseph Smith in his childhood and innocence, to go out into the woods and in prayer seek our Father in heaven. When that prayer was uttered it was from the lips' of the one who had been chosen to usher in a gospel dispensation, chosen like Jeremiah, before he was born naturally into the world. The answer was given, because the instrument that had been selected of God in the spirit world, had now cried unto Him. God heard and answered the prayer of His servant, and gave revelations through this great prophet, portraying the marvelous character of the work of the latter days. 

We might well ask today, of the stranger within our gates, Where else in all the world can there be found anything like this great gathering- of the people of the Latter-day Saints, who have come here from the east, the west, the north, and from the south, to serve our Father in heaven? It is wonderful. It is marvelous. I feel in my soul that when men gaze upon this great people in their general conferences, that there comes to them the feeling- spoken of in the revelations: and within themselves they say there is something wonderful about this people. This great gathering is of a marvelous character, when you think of how these masses have come from all the nations of the earth; and, yet. how  they are; how they see eye to eye; how they labor together for the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes! My brethren and sisters, and friends who may be present, what is it? It is the fulfillment of the Scriptures. It is the day of God's power. It is the day spoken of by the prophets, when the Lord God of heaven should set His hand to recover His people Israel again, when they should be hunted from the mountains and from the caves, from the dens of the earth, and all the earth should yield up, according to the decree of our Father in heaven, the honest in heart. Oh, friends let us understand; let us believe, when we see this wonderful accomplishment of the great work of the latter days as spoken of in the prophecies. Let us know assuredly that the Lord God lives, that He remembers His promises, and that He has planted His people here according to those promises, and He will be with them for evermore. May the peace of God be upon His people, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! 

What more can He say than to you He hath said, 

You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop David A. Smith. 