Morning
04 04 1909


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Man's insignificant individuality compared with God' great work. — Nothing to lose, everything to gain by faithfulness. — True Saints can not be- led by false shepherds. — Friends of righteousness are not enemies of Zion.— -"Whatsoever the Lord requireth of me, that will I do." — Christ's Church will stand, and its power increase henceforth. — Integrity of early members of the Church a worthy exany>le to the Saints now. 

It is with feelings of gratitude to the Lord that I stand before you this morning, at the opening of our 79th Annual General Conference. I thank the Lord for all His mercies and loving kindness toward all His people and, for that matter, for His continued mercy and kindness unto all men. I am very grateful that we have th( privilege of meeting togethei this morning under so favorable circumstances, possessing as we seem to do, many if not all of the blessings of life, health and strength, peace, and the desire in our hearts to honor the Lord by our presence, manifesting our faith by gathering here on this occasion. This is a witness of our devotion to the cause of Zion. My heart is full of gratitude to the Lord, and of love for the Latterday Saints, and for the Church of Jesus Christ throughout all the world. 

To me there is nothing in life that can compare with the great work that the Lord is doing in the midst of the children of men, in these latter days. While it may be said, and it is in a measure true, that we are but a handful in comparison to our fellow men in the world, yet we may be compared with the leaven of which the Savior , that will eventually leaven the whole world. We have ample assurance of the fulfillment of this thought in the growth and development of the cause from its incipiency until the present, for it has steadily and increasingly progressed and developed in the earth, from a mere half dozen of men 79 years ago, until today the members of the Church may be numbered by hundreds of thousands We have passed through the stages o: infancy and of irresponsible childhood, and are indeed approaching the condition of manhood and womanhood in our experience in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in all the conditions incident to, and that are connected with, the growth of the Church and the people of God, thus far in the cause of Zion, and also the necessity the people of God are under to uphold and sustain principles of righteousness and of truth against all prejudices of the world, as well as against their own prejudices, and individual likes, dislikes and preferences. We are learning the great truth that man is insignificant in his individuality in comparison with the mighty cause which involves the salvation of the children of men, living and dead, and those who will yet live in the earth. Men must set aside their own prejudices, their own personal desires, wishes and preferences, and pay deference to the great cause of truth that is spreading abroad in the world. 

To my mind there is nothing in all the world so great and so glorious as the work that the Lord Almighty is doing in these latter days. I feel grateful that I have been permitted as an individual to take part, in a humble way, in helping ^0 promote th'e interests of 

Zion, and to spread its cause abroad in the world, from the days of my youth until now. I sincerely hope and pray that I may be able to endure faithful throughout the remaining portion of my life. I have lived too long to think of faltering in the least now. I have put my hand to the plow and it is too late to turn or to look back; and, for that matter, there has never appeared to me to be any reason at all why I should look back, or why 1 should slacken my efforts or my earnest desire to spread the cause of truth and help to build up Zion. Everything has pointed to the great good that has been and will be accomplished. Everything has pointed to the justness and righteousness of the cause and made my duty clear to me, assuring me of advancement and growth in knowledge and understanding by pursuing the cause that I have been pursuing,- and that I still intend to pursue, by the help of God to the end. I see nothing to lose by following this course but I think I can see that everything is to be gained by it. I am determined, therefore, to go on and continue as faithful as I can be to my duty, to the trusts that are imposed in me. As far as it lies in my power, I want to be faithful to the work of the Lord, that at last I may be able to give an account of my life and stewardship that will at least be acceptable to the Great Judge of the quick and the dead. 

As it has been said many times in the past, "I am for the kingdom of God, or nothing." Zion, first and foremost. Seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, that all other thing's may be added in the due time of the Lord, and in accordance with His pleasure. These are principles that should  the minds and hearts of all the Latter-day Saints. We should have gained sufficient experience by this time to realize that no man, no individual, no clique, and no secret organization can combine with force and power sufficient to overturn, the purposes of the Almighty, or to change the course of His work. Many and many an individual has arisen in times past, and these individuals have been falsely impressed with the idea that they were going to work a wonderful reformation in the Church; they anticipated that in a very short time the whole people would desert their standard, the standard of truth to which they had gathered and around which they had rallied from the beginning of the Church until then. These persons thought the people would follow the "new shepherds," but the people of God Know the voice of the true shepherd, and the stranger's voice they will not heed, nor the counsels of him who assumes authority that does not belong to him. None such will they ever follow. The Latter-day Saints know the spirit of the Gospel; they understand the spirit of truth. They have learned their duty, and they will stand by the truth, no matter what may come. From the beginning until now, we have had to face the entire world; and the whole world, comparatively, is or has been arrayed against the work of the Lord, not all on account of hatred, not solely with the intent or desire in their hearts to do evil or to fight the truth, but because thev were ignorant of the truth, and because they knew not what thev were doing. Manv are deceived by the voice of false shepherds, and are misled by false influences. They are deceived; they know not the truth; they understand not what they do and, therefore, they are arrayed, as it were, against the truth, against the work of the Lord; so it has been from the beginning. From the day that the Prophet Joseph Smith first declared his vision until now, the enemy of all righteousness, the enemy of truth, of virtue, of honor, uprightness, and purity of life; the enemy to the only true God, the enemy to direct revelation from God and to the inspirations that come from the heavens to man, has been arrayed against this work. You have never found the friend' to righteousness, the friend to revelation, the friend to God, the friend to truth, the friend to righteous living and purity of life, or he who is devoted to righteousness and is broad enough to comprehend truth from error and light from darkness — I say you have never found such as these arrayed against the cause of Zion. To be arrayed against the cause of Zion is to be arrayed against God, against revelation from God, against that spirit that leads men into all truth that cometh from the source of light and intelligence, against that principle that brings men together and causes them to forsake their sins, to seek righteousness, to love God with all their hearts, mind and strength, and to love their neighbors as themselves. 

The soirit of the Gospel leads men to righteousness : to love their fellow men and to labor for their salvation and exaltation; it inspires them to. do sjood and not evil, to avoid even the appearance of sin, much more to avoid sin itself. This is indeed the spirit of the Gospel, which is the spirit of this latter-dav work, and also the spirit that possesses those who have  it; and the aim and purpose of this work is the salvation, the exaltation, and the eternal happiness of man both in this life and in the life to come. Will any man, or any set of men who really love righteousness, love God, love purity of life, and who are seeking for the truth, I ask, will such men array themselves against the work whose very object is that which they themselves seek? Those who fight against Zion, or against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, are fighting! against God, against His truth, againsl light and knowledge, and revelation from the heavens to man, which we know man has received of God in the day in which we live. What shall we do? Our plain duty — so plain that none should misunderstand it, none can misunderstand it unless they allow their prejudices and human weaknesses to prevail over their better judgment; our plain duty is to live in the spirit of forgiveness, in the spirit of humility before the Lord, in the love of the truth more than the love of ourselves and our personal interests. 

The Lord told the young man who loved the world, that if he desired to be perfect, he should sell all that he had and give it to the poor, then said the Lord, "Come and follow me." This may be a very simple manner of expression, but there is a great deal of truth in it, there is an essential principle involved in it. It is the putting of that which is sacred and divine, that which is of God, that which makes for the peace and happiness of the souls of men, before our riches, before all our earthly honors and possessions. The Lord Almighty requires this of the Latter-day Saints; and every man and woman  has embraced the Gospel ought to feel in his and in her heart today, and in their souls always, that "whatsoever the Lord requireth of me, that will I do," or that will I give, no matter what it is. To a certain extent we have reached'that point, to the extent at least that we can forego the pleasures of home, the opportunity of making means, of devoting our time to labors and industries that will bring great profit to us. We are willing to leave these things, and for years consecrate our time and our efforts to the preaching of the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and remain proclaiming the Gospel in the world until it shall be said to us "it is enough," and we receive an honorable release to return to our homes. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. Many of us can do this, and many are doing it from time to time. Occasionaly we come across an individual who thinks he could not do it. He thinks he could not sacrifice his home interests, and the profits of his business, which need his personal attention. He thinks he could not leave these interests to go out into the world to preach the Gospel, and he asks to be excused from being called to such labor as this. I fear that in such cases, if he were called upon to make a sacrifice of a portion of that which he possessed, of a worldly character, for the building up of Zion, or for the spread of truth, or for the defense of the people of God, that he would be found wantine in his willingness to comply with such requirements also. For my own part, T would like to so live that with open heart and mind, before God and all men, if I were required to go to the ends of the  and remain there proclaiming the Gospel of Christ, that I would be willing to do it; or if 1 were asked to give up what I possess in the world, for the building up of Zion, for some special necessary purpose, for advancing the cause of Zion in the world, that I would be prepared and ready to say, Father, here is all that I have; 1 place it upon the altar freely and give it for the benefit of Thy kingdom upon the earth and for the advancement of Thy cause. I would like to live so that this would indeed be my determination and that I would be able, if the requirement were made, to carry it out not only without regret but with pleasure. But this I earnestly desire — I want to live so that, no matter what any other man in the world may do or say, so far as I am concerned there is but this one thing for me to do, and that is to be true to the covenants I have made with God and my brethren, to stand firm and steadfast for the advancement of Zion and for the building up of the kingdom of God in the earth. I want to so live that I can have in me the spirit and determination to forgive my brother his trespasses, as I would desire him to forgive my trespasses against him. We should all live so that the spirit of reconciliation, the spirit of peace, the spirit of love and of union may rise above the passions and feelings of anger and resentment that may be aroused in the hearts of men, in consequence of circumstances which mieht arise from time to time. Our lives should be such that these worldlv thinp-s may sink into insignificance, and that the love of God in the hearts of brethren might rise above all other things, no matter what condition or circumstance may be brought to bear upon us to provoke or wound our feelings. 

There is no salvation but in the way God has pointed out. There is no hope of everlasting life but through obedience to the law that has been affixed by the Father of Life, "with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning;" and there is no other way by which we may obtain that light and exaltation. These matters are beyond peradventure, beyond all doubt in my mind; I know them to be true. Therefore, I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord God Omni" potent reigneth, that He lives and that His Son lives, even He who died for the sins of the world, and that He rose from the dead; that He sits upon the right hand of the Father; that all power is given unto Him; that we are directed to call upon God in the name of Jesus Christ. We are told that we should remember Him in our homes, keep His holy name fresh in our minds, and revere Him in our hearts; we should call upon him from time to time, from day to day, and in fact, every moment of our lives we should live so that the desires of our hearts will be a prayer unto God for righteousness, for truth and for the salvation of the human family. Let us guard ourselves so that there may not come into our souls a single drop of bitterness, by which our whole being might be corroded and poisoned with anger, with hatred, envy or malice, or any sort of evil. We should be free from all these evil things, that we may be filled with the love of God, the love of truth the love of our fellow men, that we may seek to do good unto all men all the days of our lives, and  all things be true to our covenants in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I know that this is Christ's Church. I know that the principles we have received are true, as far as I have been able to comprehend them. I need not 1 enter into a lengthy talk or discourse in relation to these principles, for you are familiar with them; but I do know that every principle of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has been revealed through Joseph Smith, the prophet, in these last days is of God and is true, and will stand for ever — that is, on its merit, as to its truth; it can never be overthrown. I know this with all my being. God has made me doubly assured by the presence and influence of His Spirit, and by the inspiration awakened in my soul to love that which is good, and to desire to forsake that which is evil. I know, too, that the Lord Almighty will accomplish His purposes; no matter about me, no matter what individuals may do or scores of individuals, for that matter or hundreds of them, or perchance thousands of them that may turn away from the truth, or who may fall by the way, stumbling over their own weaknesses as a result of the little strifes and bitternesses that arise in their hearts, one against another. Hundreds or thousands may fall by the way, but the kingdom of God will never fall. The work of the Lord will never stop, nor cease, for God has decreed that it shall continue to progress in the earth until His purposes are accomplished. This being true, no power beneath the Celestial Kingdom can hinder its progress. Tt can't be done, for God has decreed it. I see in the progress of this latter-day work, from  inception, that mighty, irresistible power, that wonderful Divine providence that makes for righteousness and for truth and for the advancement of the cause of Zion; working in and under and all around this Church, until it has brought it to where it is. That same power will become stronger and stronger and will work with greater rapidity and greater impetus in the future than it has done in the past, in proportion to the growth and development of the faith, knowledge and fidelity of the people of God in the earth. The kingdom of God and the work of the Lord will spread more and more; it will progress more rapidly in the world in the future than it has done in the past. The Lord has said it, and the Spirit beareth record; and I bear my testimony to this, for I do know that it is true. 

We believe in righteousness. We believe in all truth, no matter to what subject it may refer. No sect or religious denomination in the world possesses a single principle of truth that we do not accept or that we will reject. We are willing to receive all truth, from whatever source it may come; for truth will stand, truth will endure. No man's faith, no man's religion, no religious organization in all the world can ever rise above the truth. The truth must be at the foundation of religion, or it is in vain and it will fail of its purpose. I say that the truth is at the foundation, at the bottom and top of — and it entirely permeates this great work of the Lord that was established through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, the prophet. God is with it; it is His work, not that of man; and it will succeed no matter what the opposition may be. We look now at the opposition ar against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and smile, so to speak, with feelings of confidence doubly assured by th< experience of the past, in comparison to the feelings that possessed the souls of our fathers and mothers in the early days of the Church, when they were but a handful, with all the world arrayed against them; just a few poor, homeless people, driven from their possessions, cast out from the communities in which they sought to establish themselves and build their homes. When I think of our people, thrust into the wilderness, wandering and seeking for a place where the soles of their feet might rest, and see, then, the world arrayed against them, and think of the little chance that appeared before them for success and the accomplishment of their purposes, I wonder that more of them did not tremble and falter than did; but some of them were true in the midst of it all, even unto death. If it had been necessary for them to have been martyred for the truth, willingly would they have given their lives, as they gave all else that they possessed in the world, for the knowledge they had of the divinity of the work in which they were engaged. Are we as faithful today? Are we as devout as our fathers were Oh, my God, help me to be as true as they were Help me to stand as they stood, upon the pedestal of eternal truth, that no power on earth, or in hell, may remove me from that foundation. This is my prayer to  the Lord for my own sake, and it is my prayer to Him for every Latter-day Saint throughout the length and breadth of the world. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May He continue to prosper us, and help us to increase in righteousness and faith, in union, and in love, one for another and for God our Father, and for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom we owe the hope and promise of redemption from death and from the power of endless banishment from the presence of God. This is my prayer for you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A bass solo, "Fear God, Oh Israel," was rendered by Alexander C. Crawford. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Determination to be diligent in duties, notwithstanding advanced age. 

I am delighted, my brethren and sisters, to have one more opportunity of meeting with you in general conference. President Smith asked the question, "What shall we do?" Answering that for myself, what shall I do? I propose to serve the Lord with all my might, mind and strength while I shall be permitted to remain here upon the earth; this is my determination. Every day that I live I feel that I am under renewed obligations to my Heavenly Father for His continued mercies and blessings to me. I often think there is no person, that I know of, who is under greater obligations to the Lord than I am for the many blessings He has bestow-ed upon me during my entire life; and for extending my days until the present time. He has been so kind and merciful to me that I could not, for one moment, be so ungrateful as to fail to acknowledge the hand of the Lord. I expect to occupy only a few moments,  I am glad to have this opportunity of expressing to you my determination to continue in this work, and especially to keep sacred and holy the covenants I have made up to the present time, and seek to discharge and fulfill every duty that devolves upon me, with greater faithfulness in the future than I have done in the past. This morning, as I listened to the words of our President, my soul was filled with delist, and with a renewed determination to per.form my duties, just so far as I am able to do so. 

It may not be necessary for me to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the eighty-eighth year of my life. Do you not think that the Lord has been good to me? I certainly would be ungrateful did I not serve Him through the remainder of my days, with all my might, mind and strength. I expect to stand by my President, to be on hand to assist him, in my humble way, to the extent of my ability, and as the Lord will gbe me strength. 

While the choir was singing the hymn this "morning, this vcise attracted my attention : 

Lift up your hearts in praise to God; 

Let your rejoicings never cease; Though tribulations rage abroad, Christ says, "In rne ye shall have peace." 

May the Lord bless the people of Israel in all their abidings. God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and may He help me to carry out the determination which I hwe expressed this morning, to the fullest extent, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

The Church and Kingdom of God to be universal. — Saints should be zealous in God's work. — Encouraging progress in the missions. — Importance of Priesthood, and attendance at meetings. — Failure to pass Temperance and Sunday laws entails extra care. — Splendid work of Betterment Committee. — Gratifying results in Church Schools. 

I have been very much interested this morning in listening to the strong testimonies borne by President Smith and President Winder. I have also a testimony of the truth of this work. As far as lies in my power, it is my determination to keep the covenants I have made with the Lord and with my brethren, and try to carry out in my every day life that which I understand to be the will of the Lord. The Lord commenced this work, the Lord has sustained it, and the Lord will continue to uphold it until it fills its mission, until it shall become, as it is destined to be, the universal Church of Christ upon the earth, and merge into the universal kingdom of God. 

The President asked himself and us the question, "Do we feel the same zeal and enthusiasm manifested by our fathers, those whom the Lord used to establish this work?" I hope we do, though I find that there is more indifference and carelessness among us as a people than there ought to be. It would be well for all Israel to reflect upon their conduct, examine the condition in which they find themselves, and learn whether they have the same love for the truth as they had when they first received the Gospel. It should be greater by this time, for they have seen that the Lord has extended His hand to protect them,  have seen His hand-dealings with the people; and they know that without His help and aid this work could not have progressed as it has done. Besides, since receiving the Gospel the Saints have learned many things of which they were ignorant before. Light has been shed upon their path, and they have been able to see the way that leads to eternal life. Passages of scripture that were dark unto them before, have been made clear and plain through the Spirit of God. They have, indeed, reason to be thankful to God for what they have received, and they have reason to make the same declaration as Brother Winder, that they will try to show their gratitude in their lives, and be determined to live such lives as shall be in accord with the will of the Father. 

On next Tuesday it will be seventy-nine years since the Church was organized. How wonderful is the history of the Church! It is of great interest, and I would encourage our people to study it. It has been very remarkable, and on every page we see that the Lord has overruled for good what the enemies of the Church have devised for its overthrow. The President said that this work will prevail, that nothing can overthrow the truth. "Truth," it has been said, "though crushed to earth, will rise again." Another author says that truth is tough; it may be buffeted and kicked about all day like a football, but at night it will come out full and round, not having taken the least injury from the treatment it has received. The treatment of "Mormonism" proves it possesses the same qualities, for it has been buffeted, kicked and grossly misrepresented, yet it has passed through every ordeal unscathed. We thank the Lord that He has revealed the truth unto us. And now, my brethren and sisters, the Lord having done so much for us shall we be indifferent and negligent in regard to the duties that devolve upon us as His people? Shall we not feel that there is a great responsibility resting upon us ? We do not want to tear down the religion of others, we simply want to show unto the world What we have received. We believe in truth, and if others have truths, we believe in them; and we claim them also. We want to enlighten our fellow-men in regard to our faith, for we know that it is of inestimable value. 

What is greater than the salvation of souls? To each and every one of us our souls are worth more than all the world. We cannot afford to let the things of the world draw our attention away from that which is of greater value. Every one of us should feel that he must do something for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, whether it be at home or abroad. Our missionaries who have gone out to preach the gospel amongst the nations show their love for their fellowmen. They go without expecting temporal reward. They go because they feel it is their duty to preach the gospel unto others and let them know what the Lord has done, and what is necessary for them to do to obtain salvation. The Lord has been with them. During the past year we have seen more baptisms into the Church than for many years before. Our elders have been more energetic in reaching the people, and they have seen the fruits of their labors, and a great deal of prejudice has been allayed. As men become acquainted with us  see us in a different light. We hope the day will soon come when freedom, in regard to religion, will be given to the nations who are now under laws that prevent them from worshiping God according to the dictates of their conscience. We are grateful to learn that even in such countries the gospel is making great progress. 

Lately there has been an agitation in Norway to have the legislature there do something to hinder the Latter-day Saint elders from preaching the gospel to the people. They say that our elders are so zealous to spread their doctrines that something must be done to stop it. Those who were agitating this question wrote to the different bishops and priests of the country, and wanted their opinions on the question of passing a law against "Mormon" propaganda. I am pleased to say that a couple of the bishops answered that, while it would be a desirable thing to stop the propaganda of the "Mormons," no other than spiritual weapons should be used; and that they were not in favor of passing laws against the "Mor mons." But there were a great many who were in favor of doing this. I hope that the representatives of the Norwegian people will have independence enough to act in conformity with the spirit of freedom. There are many good people in that land, many have emigrated from there and have made good citizens of our state. In Sweden, as in Norway, they have not entire religious liberty; still, we have not been molested very much. Some time ago two of our Elders were cast into prison, and fined, but they appealed their case. When it was found that the appeal was from the priests' court to the Bishops' Council in 

Stockholm, they knew there would he no change in the decision, so they got the case into the civil courts, and it was appealed to the higher courts, but, while the fine was reduced, the case went against them. One of our brethren brought it before the king, who gave it as his decision that there was no cause of action. This, I hope, will give our brethren liberty to preacn what they know to be true, and give the people liberty to accept that which the spirit of truth indicates to them to he God's will and purpose. 

In Germany some of our brethren have been put in prison and banished, yet the work progresses there in a very satisfactory manner. In the Netherlands there is great progress; in Switzerland, likewise, and our brethren are working into the French-speaking parts, and are succeeding there also. In the United States the Elders have been very busily employed scattering the Word and bringing souls unto Christ. On the islands of the sea it is the same; and in Japan our brethren are seeing fruits of their labors; converts have been made and the Sunday schools are well attended. The Book of Mormon will soon be published in the difficult language of that land, and we honor our brethren who are laboring there. Brother Alma O. Taylor has been there nearly eight years. He and the Elders with him are working hard to reach the hearts of the people, and they are performing a good work. In Greece we are also making progress and will soon have the Book of Mormon published in the Greek language, and thus that people can have access to the great truths that it contains. 

At home our brethren in the Priesthood, who are laboring among  people, have been energetic, and they rejoice that the new movement to have all the quorums of the priesthood meet on Monday evenings has so far proved a success. It is hoped that all holding the Priesthood will help to make those meetings interesting. Summer is coming, and out in the rural districts it may be doubtful whether they can keep them up or not, but "where there's a will there's a way," I believe if the people would be determined to meet on that evening they can do so and much good be obtained from the Priesthood meetings. 

We must remember what an important thing it is to hold the Priesthood of God. We must not get cold and indifferent and think, "Let others go ahead in spiritual work, we will mind our own business." Our own business is to support the kingdom of God and build it ..up. The Lord did not give us life and being here upon the earth just to accumulate worldly things. He gave it to us, as we sing in the hymn, "for a wise and glorious purpose," and that purpose is that we learn His will and do that which we know He has commanded, and try to make others know it also; then this existence upon the earth will bring unto us eternal life — the great joy and privilege of returning to our heavenly Father. 

We want to be on our guard, not only for ourselves, but we must be on guard to protect others also and promote their salvation. Parents must look after their children. There are so many temptations, and we want, if we can, to put a shield between them and these temptations. If we know a house where there is smallpox we would not let our children enter there; and the law also steps in to protect us from the spread of epidemics, by quarantining infected places. For the good of ourselves and our children we ought to be on our guard. We should not go where there is moral infection, where the morals of ourselves and our children are exposed to corruption. We have tried, during the past winter, to have such legislation passed as might shield our youth from the temptations of intemperance. We want to get the liquor evil stopped, if possible. Our people should never be seen entering saloons or places where liquors are sold. This has been the teaching for years. Now that we did not succeed in getting such a law to help us, we are more urgently required to guard our children, our young people, that they shall not be exposed to temptations of that kind. 

We were also in hopes of getting a Sunday law passed, so that amusements on the Sunday evening might have been stopped, that the Sunday might have been what the Lord intended it to be — a day of rest and of worship. We did not get it, but let us fry to influence our children to keep the Sunday holy, and warn them against going to pleasure resorts and places of amusement on Sunday evenings. We should make our homes as pleasant and attractive as possible, so our children will feel that there is no better place than the home. We want them to go to the evening meetings. They are held early enough so that after meeting there is time to go home, or visit friends, and in social intercourse, in that which is upbuilding, spend the Sunday evening. We do not believe in the Puritan doctrine that you cannot smile on the Sunday. We  that serving the Lord gives joy, and that it does not take it away. We do not believe in the long-faced kind of religion, but we do believe that the Sunday should be used as the Lord has commanded, namely, to go to His house to be built up and strengthened in our holy faith, to go to His table, renew our covenants in partaking of the sacrament, and make our resolves to serve God so firm and so strong that they will carry us through not only the Sunday but every day of the week. We want the Sunday used thus, and then we are not opposed to our young people coming together and enjoying themselves in our homes; but we do object to their being in the street, especially after the curfew hour has been rung. They ought to be at home with their friends and parents, or at least their parents ought to know where they have gone. 

I want to say that the brethren who have been appointed by the different stakes as a betterment committee have done magnificent work on the streets, among our young people. Many boys and girls who were just starting out, and, perhaps, would have taken a wrong road, have been helped by these brethren, who have so unselfishly spent the evening hours, until late into the night, for the sole purpose of saving the youth. I say that all commendation is due unto them for their zeal and energy in this good work, and, like them, I hope that we all will feel an interest in this great work of stopping the flood of wickedness that is threatening to inundate the young. What a great work there is before us in this direction! 

The Church, during the past year, has done more for the church  than ever before, and we rejoice in the good work that the Church schools are doing in our midst; they build up the character of our young people, make them understand how valuable the Gospel is, and make them love it. When they go out from the schools we hope the Gospel influence will go with them, so that they may become a power for good among their comrades. I am also glad to see that our Sunday schools, our Primaries and our Religion classes have increased their enrollment during the past year, showing that these institutions are growing in favor with the people. Don't let us for a moment think that we have too many institutions, that we are doing too much in trying to draw the attention of our children to the saving principles of the Gospel, and to living a correct life. We are not doing too much in this regard. Our children, if they have the right opportunity, will love these things. Many young people, when they left home to attend the Church schools, thought that religion as taught there would be a most tedious course, but they have borne testimony afterwards that it is a most delightful study, and that they love it. They feel that here is something that they want to know, something that builds up and strengthens, and does not interfere with their success in school. Some have thought that if they studied theology they would not be able to keep up in their other studies, but they have found, as a general thing, that the study of theology inspires them with more energy and more diligence in their other studies. 

I am pleased that the Church has been able to do as much as it has in this regard, but there is a limit to  can be done, even in this. I believe that the Church, at present, has gone as far as it can in sustaining schools with Church means, as the Church members are also sustaining the State institutions of learning with their taxes. They feel, however, that the means so expended is bringing good results, for the work done in the Church schools is of great value, and it will make young men and women better able to bear the great responsibilities that will rest upon their shoulders in years to come. 

I want to say in regard to religion classes, which are a part of the Church school system, that they ought to be encouraged. We want our children taught the principles of the Gospel, we want to encourage them in living correct lives, according to the precepts given by the Great Master, and teach them to follow His example. That is all the object we have in the religion classes. Where there are Church schools, we hope that the Church school teachers will be interested in the religion class work. We cannot commend too highly the Brigham Young University Faculty for what they have done in this direction; and we hope that all our Church school teachers will feel it incumbent upon them to take part in teaching the religion classes, especially the higher grades of the religion classes. 

Now, brethren and sisters, my testimony to you is that this work will continue to grow; that the Lord will be with it, and that at last we will see it conquer. 

May the Lord bless the people, and bless His servants wherever they go, that they may find the good and the honest and be able to convert them to the truth; and may those who receive the truth be able to be faithful, and help to build up the work. God bless you all. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "I waited for the Lord." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Angus M. Cannon. 

Conference was adjourned until 2 p. m. 


