Overflow
04 04 1909



ELDER 0ES0N F. WHITNEY. 

Significance of an Overflow Meeting. — The Growth of the Church. — No building large enough to accommodate the Saints.— The Spirit of God in all their Assemblies. 

My dear brethren and sisters, it gives me great pleasure to meet with you this morning in general conference, and in this overflow meeting of the conference. There is something in an overflow meeting that suggests prosperity and increase, and it seems to me that the most appropriate hymns for such an occasion are those beginning, "Zion is growing," and "Give us Room that We May Dwell." There was a time in the history of the Church when its entire membership could have been accommodated  one little room, or we might almost say, upon one of these benches; for when the Church was organized,on the 6th of April, 1830, six humble men composed the membership, that is, six men participated in the act of organization. One of these was the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

It is true that there were others who believed in the principles of Mormonism, which Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery had been preaching — (the doctrines found upon the golden plates of the Book of Mormon, the principles of faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, some of which doctrines were entirely new to that generation. While there were many who believed in faith and repentance, the world had lost sight of the fact that baptism was for the remission of sins, and thjey had changed the mode instituted by the Savior and His apostles. They were practicing different kinds of baptism. Instead of immersing the whole body in water, as we do, some practiced baptism by sprinkling or pouring water upon the head, and none believed that baotism was anything more than "the outward sign of an inward grace." It was not regarded as necessary to salvation, and as having been instituted for the remission of sins. But the Book of Mormon, like the Bible, declared this to be its purpose.and Joseph and Oliver, while translating the plates, when they came upon this doctrine, which was new to them also, marveled over it, and they went into the woods and prayed, asking the Lord for light upon the subject. It was then that Tohn the Baptist, as an angel from .descended and laid his hands upon their heads, ordaining them to the Aaronic Priesthood,which holds the keys of the ministering' of angels. This ordination empowered them to preach faith and repentance and to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins. 

But this was as far as that authority extended. It did not empower them to bestow the Holy Ghost. They had to receive a higher ordination — to the priesthood of Melchisedek, before they could lay hands upon those baptized, and confer upon them the Holy Ghost. When they had received this higher priesthood,as they did some months later under the hands of Peter, James and John, they were authorized not only to baptize their converts, but to confirm them by the laying on of hands and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. It was under the authority of the Aaronic and the M)elcriisedek priesthoods that this Church was organized. At the time of the initial meeting, thirty-six persons, men and women, were all that believed in the doctrines that Joseph Smith had proclaimed. This was the number of the original congregation, and six of these organized the Church. The reason there were six was because the laws of the State of New York required no less than six persons to form a religious society; and doubtless it would have been inconvenient to have chosen any more to performi the initial act. 

At that time the converts to Mormonism, so called, could all have been gathered, and as a matter of fact, were gathered, in one small ro|om of a humble farm house in the little village of Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The membership of the Church could all have been seated on one of  forms, or in one of these stands. But how is it at the present time? Why, "Zion is Growing." Her children have called, and are still calling aloud, "Give us room that we may dwell." Today, in all the world, there are between 300,000 and 400,000 Latter-day Saints. Ten thousand of them are assembled in yonder Tabernacle at this moment, and still there is not sufficient room, and hundreds are gathered here in this overflow meeting who could not be accommodated in the Tabernacle. 

Never will all the Latter-day Saints be able to congregate at one time' in the same building. King Benjamin built a tower, it is written, that he might speak to all his people, and they came 'and pitched their tents around about the tower that they might hear his instructions. They held a great open-air meeting, because they had no building large enough for the purpose. It would have to be so today, if the -President of the Church should attempt to address all the Latterday Saints. They could 'scarcely be got together within a compass that would render it possible for him to make himself 'heard and understood by all. This is a good sign. I rejoice in the fact that the members of the Church cannot all get into the Tabernacle, nor into any other building. It is a sign of increase, of .prosperity. It is a sign of zeal, of interest and enthusiasm in the work of the Lord,wEen overflow meetings must be^held in order to accommodate His people. 

I rejoice in being with you today. There isl no reason why we should not have the Spirit of God in this meeting, the same as in any meeting where, true, honest, sincere pure-hearter! Latter-day Saints assemble. The Lord says that where even two or three are met together in (His name, there He will be in the midst of them. We claim this blessing. We have a right to the Spirit, just as if we were in yonder Tabernacle; and the Lord is ready, according to our willingness to receive, to bestow that blessing upon us, and to cause our hearts to rejoice, with the rest of the Saints, in this His glorious work. We are here to be fed — to be built up and strengthened spiritually; the Holy Spirit is here, and whoever rises in this stand and desires to voice the word of the Lord, shall have it, and the Lord will speak through him to the edification and enlightment of the people. May God bless us in the purpose for which we have assembled; v and I feel to bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALUS. 

(President of Southern States Mission). 

The remarkable growth of the Church is a splendid tribute to its leaders. We testify that our leaders are prophets, seers and revelators. The members of the church are entitled to be guided by the insoiration . of the Holy Ghost, if they live their religion. When men act under the influence of the Spirit of God they do not go astray in doctrine, or in their daily walk and conduct. I rejoice in the glorious truth that the work of the Lord is growing. It is being strengthened in the stakes of Zion, and in the world, in the missions. It is growing daily. Hundreds are being added to the Church, and are receiving the same blessings and gifts that you, my  and sisters, received and enjoyed when you entered the Church of Jesus Christ. 

The work of the Lord, which the world designates as Mormonism, is constructive in its nature. It is man only that has drawn the line between things temporal and things spiritual; all things belong unto God our Heavenly Father. Jesus said that God was not the God of the dead but of the living, for all live unto him. The Latter-day Saints are taught that in their temporal affairs they should serve the Lord, on the farm, in the mill, tn the mountains, and wherevei men are called to labor. By an exemplary life they can proclaim the gospel; their good works glorify their Father in heaven. 

Last year there were baptized into the Church, in the Southern States Mission, 842 souls. Many of the people in the beautiful south land are rejoicing in the work of God. School houses and churches are being thrown open to the elders, and people are calling for the messengers of life and salvation. We cannot furnish elders enough so that all may hear the glad tidings of great joy. Thus, you see, there is a great work mapped out for the members of this Church to equip themselves for the important mission to preach the gospel unto every nation, kindred, tongue and people. 

As I said, the gospel is constructive in its nature and teaching. In South Carolina, there dwells the remnant of a once powerful tribe of Indians, the Catawbas. But vice and wickedness which, unfortunately too often follow in the wake of civilization, invaded d eir peaceful abodes and, from a tribe of 6,000 they have dwindled down to 100 in number. Two-thirds of this remnant now belong to the Mormon 

Church, and we have established a day-school and a night-school in which to teach them, both old and young. We have organized a primary class, religion class, relief society, and Sunday school, in which those people and their children in whose veins flows the blood of Israel, may be taught more fully in the ways pertaining to life and salvation. 

I am reminded of a saying of Alma, which is recorded on page 319 of the Book of Mormon. It seems to foreshadow, as it were, the scope of the glorious work of this dispensation. It seems to indicate to the Latter-day Saints that their work is not to be confined to one city, nor to one country. It is true that the Prophet Joseph Smith was a descendant of forefathers who fought in the Revolutionary war; that the founders of this Church were patriots and Americans; that the gospel was restored upon American soil, and that this restored gospel may be called an American religion. But it is also true that it is more than American, it is worldwide, because our message is to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Alma says : 

"O that I were an angel and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people; yea, I would declare unto every soul as with the voice of thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto God that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. But, behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish: for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. * * * Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called? Why should I desire that I was an angel, that I could speak unto  the ends of the earth? for, behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations of their own nation and tongue to teach his word; yea, in wisdom, all that He seeth fit that they should have; therefore, we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true." 

It is the destiny of this gospel to be preached on the islands of the sea, and this is being done toda) on many of them, by faithful servants of Christ The Lord has de creed that of every nation there should be men who would preach the word of God in the nation's tongue, in language that their people could understand. We are living in the day of the fulfillment of prophecy, in an age when the glorious truths of the Book of Mormon are being confirmed and proven to be true. The Prophet Joseph Smith was only 25 years of age when the translation of this book was completed. How did he know that the gospel was to be preached unto every nation, in their own tongue? How did he know, except by the spirit of revelation, that you Latter-day Saints would raise up sons unto the Lord who would be instructed in foreign languages and, leaving their mountain home, would go forth and preach the gospel in Germany, Russia, Scandinavia, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and on the isles of the sea preaching in the tongue of the people to whom they are sent? This prophecy is being fulfilled. There are now in the Southern States Mission more than a dozen young men who were born in the sunny South, who, after they were baptized into the Church, came up to the "mountain of the house of the Lord " and after being more fully instructed in the words of the God of Jacob, they went back to the land of their birth, where they were received with gladness and their labors have been effective. They have preached the gospel with ability, and in faith, with great success. I believe that from Japan, Germany, Russia, and all countries on the face of the earth will come, forth men who, having obeyed the gospel, will preach the glad tidings of great joy unto the people of their respective countries, and bring many souls unto a knowledge of the gospel. This is a reason why the Latterday Saints have cause for rejoicing. We are living in the dispensation of the fullness of times. O how our hearts should rejoice to know that the divine mission of Joseph Smith is being proclaimed every day of our lives, and in almost every country on the earth. 

Now, have we something to do? Yes. I believe that the most precious treasures God has given unto us are our children. Without children life would be dreary, it would be deprived of one of its greatest pleasures and one of its greatest responsibilities. I believe that joy and responsibility are closely associated, they cannot be separated. The man and woman who shirk responsibility, are heedless to the call of duty and humanity, are not living up to the high ideals God has placed before them. 

I was reading an incident, a short time ago, of a woman who had been shipwrecked, and in the storm her two little children were swept away and drowned, and she was rendered unconscious by being struck on the head by a piece of wood. She was taken to a hospital, and when she came to consciousness, in response to the queries of her friends, she sent this telegram : "I am saved, but saved alone." She was saved alone. How will parents feel if they are  alone? If a man and his vviie are saved, and they have neglected to teach their children the principles of the gospel, how will they feel? Is it possible for a father and mother to enjoy the felicity of heaven when they realize that by their indifference, and neglect of parental duty, their sons and daughters, untaught in the principles of the gospel, and in some cases not baptized for the remission of sins, have taken a downward path? I repeat, can a lather or mother feel happy in heaven if their children are not with them? 

I rejoice in the glorious associations which the gospel brings to us. We hear people say sometimes that, if we love God we will be saved in the day of judgment. But, love is the fulfilling of the law. The truest evidence of loving our children is that we teach them the principles of the gospel, and bring them up in the fear of the Lord. The deepest anguish and sorrow comes when men and women see their children going astray. The saddest cry is that which is wrung from the hearts of many mothers in this fair country: "O where is my wandering boy tonight?" 

God is not going to be mocked. If He established the gospel for the salvation of men, as we testify, then it is the only thing that wili bring us unto eternal life. If a man fails to obey the principles of the gospel, how can he say that he loves God? Jesus said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." What other church teaches the glorious doctrine that man is made in the personal image of God ? What other church proclaims that faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, are essential unto sal? Jesus said: "It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." Man has no authority to cut off from the gospel the principle of baptism; he cannot deny the gift of the Holy Ghost. He has not the right to say to his fellow creature you may obey one principle of the gospel and discard another. The Redeemer said that we should live "by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." This is the gospel that the Lord enjoins us to teach unto our children, and that we are taking unto the nations of the earth. 

The Lord inspired Luther, Calvin, Knox, and all other great reformers, to teach the children of men that measure of truth which He designed they should have; but today the fullness of the gospel has been restored to the earth, and we are basking in its glorious sunlight. Some people say, "Is not the religion of my father and mother good enough for me? They were good people, and if I can live to be as good as my father and mother, I am satisfied." But, in that, men and women deceive themselves. Our fathers and mothers lived up to the best light they had before the gospel was restored. They obeyed God to the best of their ability, when they lived up to the measure of truth He gave unto them. But the Lord in this day hath spoken unto the. people and commanded thalt they should obey the fullness of the everlasting gospel. This gospel means much more to you and me. It teaches the eternity of the marriage covenant; that father, mother, and children shall be reunited in heaven, if they live pure lives and work for the salvation of their fellow creatures. And so, I say it is  to obey the gospel that has this glorious power. At the last day it will be well for us to be able to say that we belong to the Church of the Son of God, that has and exercises the power of uniting husband and wife for time and all eternity, cementing family ties so that they will exist for ever. When I think of these glorious blessings, I say, Thank God for the gospel. I want to live up to its teachings, so as to gain the exaltation which it will surely bring unto the faithful. 

Brethren and sisters, let us not be discouraged. Despair cometh from beneath, but hope cometh from above. The Lord is our Father. He is carrying this work on to a glorious consummation. God grant that you and I may not fall by the wayside, but that when the end comes, when we pass to that sleep from which the Lord, in Plis own due time, will awaken us, God grant that we may all meet together, firm in the faith, rejoicing in the true gospel and the reward of the righteous; which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be blessed with your sustaining faith and prayers, to the end that the purpose of this meeting, as suggested by Elder Whitney in his remarks to us this morning, may be realized. I experience comfort in the promise he made, that any one standing in this pulpit, sincerely desiring to sneak the word of the Lord, should be blessed to that end. 

I have been edified and instructed, with you, in the remarks that Elder Callis has just delivered to us. I feel proud of the disinterested service that such men as Elder Callis is performing. Winston Churchill, the rising- man in England, said some months ago to a congregation assembled: "We who are gathered here this afternoon know well, that no empire and no nation can long endure in power and fame in this world unless it labors not only for its own social interests, but is a faithful servant of high forces and works for the good of the whole human family." That, too, is the mission of Mormonism; and in the work that these elders are performing, they labor not alone for the welfare of the people, but their services are high forces and works for the good of the whole human race. One has but to visit one of our gatherings where nationalities are represented in costume and the like, as they sometimes are, to realize how cosmopolitan this people is. One has but to pick up one of our journals giving an account of our Sunday schools organized from Alaska to South Africa, from Iceland to Samoa, to realize that this religion of ours is world-wide. I have been impressed of late with the far-reaching consequences and effects of the labors of our missionaries. An elder sometimes returns home and expresses himself that he does not know what gDod he was able to accomplish, that he sowed some good seeds, perhaps, but there were no particular evidences of fruitage from his sowing. Yet I am persuaded that the efforts of these elders, no matter how humble those efforts may be. are by no means in vain. An elder may visit the tiome of an individual who will sourn him from his door, threaten him with the doe. or with his gun. The elder may leave feeling that  impression whatever has been made upon that individual, that his mission, so far as the visit to that home is concerned, was, wholly in vain. But not so. Other elders perhaps ten years later, may report that that same individual walked ten or fifteen miles to seek them, to explain the change that has come over him, and extend to them an invitation to go to his home and partake of his hospitality, saying th^t, during all those years since he had spurned the Mormon elders from his door, he had not had peace of conscience, and he desired an opportunity of cancelling, so far as generous acts to others of the same sect might, his unigenerous conduct towards thie other missionaries. The man who refuses to purchase a Book of Mormon from the elders, and on whom the elders may seem to have made no impression, may be the first to purchase the book when opportunity is presented, years later, by other Mormon elders. I have sometimes thought, in connection with the labors of those who had faith sufficient to look out over their hand-cart and face the setting sun and an almost trackless desert a thousand miles in extent, that the labor and sufferings of those people were not in vain by anv means. 

While traveling through Colorado, some months ago, a report was given by one of the missionaries that, in recounting something of the labors of these pioneers in- the hand-cart company, the expression of one rough cow boy was, after hearing the storv: "There must have been something to their d — d religion or they would not have undergone trials like that." T thought that there was a reward and a compensation to the parents who engaged in those expeditions  the impress it has left upon their posterity. I have heard individuals say, who were actively engaged- in the ministry, and had been many years endeavoring, as best they could, to accomplish good for their fellow men, that they felt that if they labored all their lives as diligently as they might, in the service of the Lord they would never be worthy of being the children of their fathers and mothers who had endured those hardships in connection with the handcart companies. So with the individual who may make only a single convert, he may feel that it is spending much of his time to go abroad, leaving profitable employment, his family and loved ones, and devoting years of his time abroad in the ministry, perhaps to realize that only a single individual has been. converted. But how far-reaching in its results upon the Church and upon the world, for good, may be the single convert that he is able to make. Some one, perhaps, had similar thoughts in making the early converts to the Church, some of whom became great characters in Mormon history, men like 1 President John Taylor, President P>irgiiam Young. President Wilford Woodruff and others of that type, who were able to leave such an impress for good upon Mormonism and upon the world. Perhaps , some missionary devoting months Or years of time in making such convert felt that his time was not very profitably occupied, yet subsequent results show how rich was the harvest and the fruitage of his labors. 

T have been impressed, of late, in reading the work of Dr. Paley on the Evidences of Christianity. How largely the arguments and reasonings that he presents in be of Christianity can be applied in support of the cause of Mormonism. He lays down one proposition, to which he devotes in support several hundred pages of his excellent treatise: "That there is satisfactory evidence that many persons professing to be original witnesses of the Christian miracles passed their lives in labors, dangers and sufferings voluntarily undergone in attestation of the account which they delivered, and solely on account of their belief in that account, and that they also submitted, from the same motives, to a change in the rules of their own conduct." He devotes, as I say, several hundred pages of his work in giving historical incidents and proofs in support of that proposition. The same may be said in reference to Mormonism, because Mormonism is, like Christianity, founded largely upon miracles; and the individuals who testified of those miracles passed their lives in labors, dangers and sufferings, voluntarily undergone, in attestation of the account which they gave of the divine origin of Mormonism and the ushering in of this Latter-day dispensation. It had an effect upon their conduct in the abandoning of ideas and ways of the world that they had been indoctrinated in up to that time, and in adopting new modes of conduct in conformity with the teachings of the newly revealed religion. Dr. Paley also lays down a counter proposition to the one just stated, that "There is not satisfactory evidence that persons professing to be original witnesses of any other similar miracles have acted in the same manner in attestation of the accounts which they delivered and solely in consequence of their belief of the truth of those accounts. Mormonism, which is not taken into account by him, would have to be excluded from that exception here made, for, as I suggested before, nearly all the arguments that he adduces in support of the proposition that I first stated, as being laid down by him, can be put forth in support of Mormonism. He enters into a consideration of socalled pagan miracles, or miracles othier than those in support of Christianity, and suggests that it is not necessary to accept 'the statements that can be accounted for on the ground of delusion or halucination or a diseased condition of the mind; and he points out the fact that many so-called pagan miracles will not bear the test of a close scrutiny. Many of them, for instance, are accounts given in one country of something that happened at some place far remote from where the account was written. In many instances it is the history of some anterior event, a century or more before the time. of the writing of the account. He says that, in most of these instances, it is upon the statement of only one individual, the hearing of a voice or the seeing of something by a single individual, and not by a group of individuals; and further, that generally there is an appeal to one sense only of the individual, as that of sight or hearing alone, and that the so-called vision scarcely ever consents or submits to being handled; that the reality or verity of the vision is in no wise substantiated by the sense of touch as well as of sight. 

You may apply all of the rules and tests that he lays down for considering and verifying the genuinness of miracles to the history we have of the coming forth and the institution of Mormonism, and you  find that the evidences we have, in support of the divine orgin of Mormonism, differ very largely and very widely from those so-called voices or visions that he speaks of as being recorded as coming from pagan lands, or given in support of incidents otherwise than in connection with the establishment and coming forth of Christianity. The fact that Joseph Smith received revelation in reference to there being golden plates is supported by the presentation of those plates, and there are at least eleven besides himself who saw the plates. Three of the number testify not only to seeing the plates but to hearing the voice declare that the record had been translated by the gift and power of God, and that the work was therefore true. Here is the sense of sight, supported by the sense of hearing. The eight witnesses not only saw the plates but handled them. There was also muscular sense of weight verifying the sense of sight and touch. Then again, it was not brought to a single individual, but to a group of individuals; and Dr. Paley points out the improbability of the senses of several individuals being diseased and deranged in the same way at the same time. So I say .you can apply all these tests in certification of the reality of these spiritual manifestations to Joseph Smith, and the early leaders of the Church, and you shall find that the evidences given to Joseph Smith bear the scrutiny and the application of those tests, and one cannot, in any psychological manner, explain away the attestation' of those truths to these men. It is equally futile to undertake to explain these miracles upon the ground that there was any fraud or collusion involved in them. If you reason that these things  be true because the sense of sight of twelve men would not be deluded in the same way, that their sense of hearing could not be deluded in the same way, and that their sense of touch could not be imposed upon or deceived in the same' way, all at the same identical time, you reach the conclusion that either those individuals saw, and heard, and felt what they say they did, or that there was collusion among them. Then, if you examine the account on the theory that there was collusion, your premises utterly fail, because there is not the slightest evidence of there being any connivance or collusion among these men to foist upon the world any false account. The very fact that some of the number departed from the fellowship of the Church, but never varied one iota in the account that they gave of these divine miracles with which A'formonism was instituted, sweeps away at one stroke the theory that there was possibly any connivance or collusion in connection with this account. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be upon you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER JAMES G. DUFFIN. 

( Former President of Central States Mission). 

Last evening, with many of you who are here today, I listened to a very interesting account of a naval journey that was recently taken by a fleet of battle ships of the United States. One of the facts that impressed me very much, in  speaking of Admiral Evans, was his relating the obedience of the officers and seamen to the commander of that fleet. He said, when the word came to him from the President that he was to get the fleet in order, and start upon that long cruise, he felt that they would not only by request, or command, of the commander in chief of all the forces of the United States, go to any possession belonging to the United States, any waters, but that they wee on hand, at a moment's notice, to go to any part of the earth where their ships could float. I thought, while he was speaking, that was the spirit of a true soldier. I thought also in connection with that, how like to it are the true soldiers of the cross. When those holding the Holy Priesthood speak by the voice of the spirit of God, and say to the true soldier of the cross, Your services are needed in Africa, Russia, or Asia, or some part of this great land in which we live, or upon tne isles of the sea, there is no hesitancy, he says at once, as did Admiral Evans, "Aye, Aye, sir, we are ready, when will you have us start ?" And this great army of young men, belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ, take their lives in their hand, as it were, not considering consequences to themselves, or the sacrifice of their earthly possessions, they leave all, and go to any part of the earth where the authorized servants of God call them to travel. 

While Brother Whitney was speaking concerning the growth and development of this great work, how the people had heard the gospel sound in various nations of the earth, had gathered to these mountains, and had been organized into stakes and wards, I was thinking of the responsibility that is placed upon us who have thus been gathered and organized here; and of the responsibility that is upon all who have been born and raised under the sacred covenant of the gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. As was stated by Elder Whitney, I had the honor, for a number of years, to preside over one of the great missions that have been established by the Church of Jesus Christ for the proclaiming of the gospel. During that period of time, there were several hundreds of young men who labored under our direction, and I had the opportunity of observing the results of home training, of the effect' the teaching and training of the father and mother had upon the lives of these young men. I take it that one of the most important duties we have to perform is that of rearing and teaching these precious souls that are entrusted to our charge, bringing them up in the wav of the Lord, that they may be fitted, while passing through this mortal probation, for earnest, devoted and efficient work, to aid in the progress and development of the work of our Heavenly Father, that their souls might be saved eternally. In the Doctrine and Covenants, there is a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the early rise of the Church, in which the Lord says : 

"Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes that art organized, that teach them not repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands when eight years of age, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. And the parents shall teach the children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord, and shall observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy." 

And there was an injunction  upon the parents that they should be an example unto their children of what they would have them become. Now during the time I was presiding over that' mission, as I have said, I had opportunity to study the effects ot home teaching and training upon the lives of your boys; and I have pleasure in saying to you here today that, during the years I was there, out of the hundreds of young men who labored in that mission, there was not one failure on the part of those who had been carefully taught and trained by parents at home. The failures were very few indeed; those few young men who weakened and gave up, who came home without performing fully and completely the work they had been sent to perform, were, without exception, those whose training at home had been neglected by their fathers and mothers. The responsibility here at home is not only that the young men ma} become efficient missionaries, but that they may also be good workers in wards and stakes, in the various organizations established by our Heavenly Father, and, that they may be honored citizens of the great nation of which they form a part, so that when we, as parents, give an account to our Father and Mother in heaven of the manner in which we have conducted ourselves toward the precious souls entrusted to us, how we have dealt with them, that we might bring them all with us, and be able to say to our Heavenly Father, Here are these sacred trusts that you gave unto me while I was upon the earth, I present them to You now spotless, full of faith and integrity, fitted indeed to be members of Thy eternal kingdom. To do this requires thought, work, care, and faith, to bring these children up in  way they should go. You know, it was the wise man Solomon who said : "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it." 

There is a difference between teaching and training. Teaching is causing the child to understand, training is causing the child to, : do. Every act performed is that much done towards fixing habits; repeated many times, the habit is established. If we train our children in the ways of the' Lord, in doing the things God has revealed for their salvation, every time they perform an act of obedience to the word and will of our Father in heaven their character becomes more firmly fixed in doing the things that God requires of them. Another thought in connection with this. In my business I have the privilege of meeting people from different parts of the United States, and even from foreign countries, some of whom come here to make their homes among us. There are several significant things said in my hearing by people who travel among us. One expression is this : "You can always tell the home of a Mormon by his surroundings." Another is: "You can tell the home of a Mormon by the size of his family." Now, what does this mean? Does it mean that our home surroundings are so beautiful, so neat, so orderly, so much in accord with the divine plan of growth and development, that when one of these strangers, driving through the country in his travels among us. sees a home of this kind, he can say at once. That is the home of a Latterday Saint? Or does he mean the opposite? What are the conditions surrounding our homes? Now, when he speaks of a Mormon family, saying "You can always tell  it is a Mormon family or not, by the size of it," does he mean that alone? To us it should mean that in that family we are developing faith, honesty, and integrity, that we are educating and training them, making them refined, genteel, courteous to the stranger. Does if mean that to us ? Now, my .brethren and sisters, I take it that in the divine plan of our Heavenly Father there is just such work for us to do in the family. The family is the foundation of the governments of the world, and it is the foundation of the government of the kingdom of God. 

May we give thought, attention, and care to all things that 'will cause Zion to grow and increase in strength and power, beauty and glory, I ask, in the name of Jesus our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

I have seen the day when I knew every man, woman and child in Salt Lake City. I was a year and a half old when I was brought into this valley. I had the rickets, so my mother said. I presume that meant I could not stand up, because I was so weak. On that day we landed in a desert, so desolate and still that it must have been appalling to the few hundred Latterday Saints who arrived here that year. On July twenty- fourth, 1847. the first company in advance of those that had been driven out of Illinois, by the rage and hatred of those who opposed truth, arrived in this valley; and President Brigham Young, wrapped in the visions of eternity, when he saw this country knew that it was the place prepared for the people of God. He put the point of his walking stick down in the dust, just over there, and said : "Here shall be erected the temple of our God, and around this spot shall be builded a great city." I remember many of the scenes through which we passed. We were little and weak, poor, desolate and destitute. With the growth of my body and intelligence, I saw mighty forces, such as the press, the lecture platform, and the pulpits, combine to calumniate the reputation of this people, and to destroy them by snares that were set for their feet. I have seen us delivered from those conditions. I have seen that notwithstanding all the powers that can be brought to oppose this work of our God on the earth, to stay the growth of His kingdom, we grow in spite of all, until today we cry, as Brother Whitney has said, "Give us room, that we may dwell." 

We are bringing a great emigration from the spirit world; and in my mission field in the northwest we are gathering more souls into the Church than we ever have since the mission was organized. We have the indifference broken down, comparatively speaking; and the hostility that was once manifest against us has come to an end, to a great extent, in the northwest. The presence of your sons, and the acquaintance that the people are making with them, and the influence of the Spirit of God upon the people has caused the feeling of hate and prejudice to pass away, and the people's hearts are being softened. I do not doubt that in all the missions of the United States it is going to be harvest time for a few years, to gather out the people that are God's,  that He intends to bring them with songs of everlasting joy into His Church, preparatory to His coming and the establishment forever of His kingdom. 

There are some girls and women who have come to us in my mission field and mourned because they had not kept the counsel of their parents, and lived up to the training they had received at home. The children of those women are unblessed and unbaptized, because their husbands will not permit these ordinances to be administered totheir children. When our children stray away from the home of their youth, Mormonism clings to them, and brings them to a sense of the awful loss they have sustained. I think it is better that a maiden should maintain her faith and virtue and never wear the crown of wifehood and motherhood in this life, than that she should wed an unbeliever. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy blessing." 
