Second Overflow
04 04 1909


ELDER THOMAS E. BASSETT. 

( President of Fremont Stake. ) 

I pray for your faith and confidence, brethren and sisters, in my behalf during the few moments that I attempt to address you; and I trust that all that shall be said by me may meet the divine approval of Him whom we have met this afternoon to worship. 

With your permission I will read a clipping from a paper that happened to come into my possession this morning,dated at Denver, April 3rd: 

"Lizzie Wertzell, aged 8, and Mary Wolf, aged 11, were shot and badlywounded tonight during a riot at Globeville, a suburb, between the two warring factions of the German Congregational church. A dozen men were arrested and thrown into jail. 

Trouble has been brewing in this church for the last four years. The churph is divided against itself, one faction being determined to oust the pastor, Rev. Adam Traudt. 

Recently, the anti-Traudites became the dominant power. Last night they determined to use force to depose the pastor. Traudt armed himself with a shotgun, as did several others of his friends, and went to the church, where they barricaded all of the doors and threatened to kill anyone who attempted to take possession. The police, assisted Traudt in holding the fort all night long. 

All day threats of violence were heard against him. Friends of Traudt came to his rescue. At 10 o'clock, the two factions came together, many children taking sides. Shooting followed, and when the smoke cleared away the two little girls were found lving on the ground, suffering from bullet wounds. An army of policemen was rushed to Globeville from Denver, in autos." 

I read this simply as an illustra of conditions that can and have been brought about by reason, perhaps, in a great measure, of the imperfect system of organization that has resulted from the various churches of Christianity seceding from the mother Church. We are well aware of the fact that, a few centuries ago, Catholicism reigned predominant throughout Europe, and it was universally conceded that the voice of the authorities of that church was absolutely the voice of God, without the necessity of approval by the people. It was generally recognized and understood that the supreme authority in that church was a substitute for the Son of God Himself, that he was actual successor to the Apostle Peter. From the clergy, in those days, the people had very little right of appeal, in fact they had no voice whatever. Occasionally, when some independent spirit would arise among the people, and assert a right to be heard in the expression of his views and opinions regarding religious doctrine, he was either put to death or tortured in the most severe manner, or perhaps imprisoned for life; so that the people dare not, under penalty of their lives, assert their manhood, or give expression to their thoughts or the dictates of their own consciences. By reason of this condition, such characters as Martin Luther, and other reformers, eventually arose in the world and courageously asserted their rights as men, saying that the voice of the people was the voice of God; and they had the fortitude of character to maintain their position in this direction, and their right of freedom of speech, even in face of the penalty of death. A sentence uttered by one of these reformers, when he was about to be executed, is one that will last as long as time endures. These are the words that came from his lips : "Here I stand. Recant I cannot; God help me." From these circumstances arose the condition that we see today throughOut the various Christian organizations of the Protestant world, the people asserting their rights to have their voices supreme in the organization and maintenance of their various churches and organizations. As an illustration we find the incident that happened only yesterday, or a day or so ago, wherein members of one of these organizations became divided among themselves, both factions nearly equal in number, each faction contending for the right to say who shall be the pastor of their church, and resulting in the loss of the lives of two precious little girls. 

Here we see illustrated the great contention between the mother church and her daughters; Christianity, as represented in Catholicism, insisting that the voice of the clergy is absolutely the voice of God regardless of the minds and conscience of the people, and the Protestant denominations asserting that the voice of the people, regardless of their pastors, shall be the voice of God regarding who should be their minister, or theological or religious trainer, preceptor or clergy, as the case may be. These things have impressed me with the thought that the beauty of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, stands, as I see it, a happy medium between the two conditions. It is not that the voice of God is necessarily the voice of the people, neither is it that the voice of the people must necessarily be the voice of God. I understand the organization of the 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to be a result of the voice of God and the voice of the people blending in perfect harmony, bringing peace and harmony in the church, throughout all its organizations. As I understand the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today, I cannot conceive of contention existing in it, such as is found in the church described in the clipping I have read concerning one of the churches in one of our neighboring states. In our church the most absolute right is accorded to all its members to have full voice, a fair expression of thought and opinion in all matters pertaining to the organization of the Church; but the right of nomination comes from the presiding authority, and when that nomination is sanctioned by the people, these two powers or forces blend in perfect harmony, and peace prevails throughout the entire organization. 

In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we find the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of the Church, who is its president; but he does not stand absolute and alone. Associated with him are two counselors, men who are high priests, and these three are sustained by the confidence and vote of the people, every six months during their term of office, which is usually for life. When any question of vital importance comes before this Presidency, it is the right of the President to ask for the views and ideas of his associates, and it is their duty to frankly respond in detail, as they are inspired by the Spirit of God. When' all has thus been freely expressed by these two counselors, the right of nomination, or taking the initiative, proceeds  the President. His decision is indorsed by his counselors, and is subsequently submitted to the body of the Church and then sustained by them as a whole. Not necessarily do all questions have to be settled in the manner indicated, but, associated with those presiding we find, in the organization of the Church and kingdom of God, the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. It is the right of the presidency, as I understand the organization of the Church, to confer with those twelve men, who also are sustained by a vote of confidence of the people, and have them express their views and ideas freely, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. But the initiative, after all is said and done, comes from the head, and then it is sanctioned by those who have discussed the proposition. Unquestionably, in every instance, so far as I know, there is unity of action; after these matters have been considered and sanctioned by the authorities who have been sustained by the vote of confidence of the people, it is then sustained by the vote of all members of the Church. 

I can see in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the most perfect system that is possible to be organized among men; it gives to mankind the utmost freedom that can be given, and still maintains absolute unity. There might be given, under the systems of protestantism today, the same absolute right to the people to say for themselves what shall or what shall not be; but I see in their varied systems of organization great aptitude to division into factions. We have had revealed to us, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, a system under which factions can not  in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I can see in this the infinite wisdom of God our eternal Father, not the limited wisdom of a boy 14 or even 25 years of age. I fail to see today, throughout all Christendom, the harmony in the organization of church government that we see existing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, as instituted through the instrumentality of a humble boy, and as given by the inspiration of God. The longer I live, and the more experience. I have in this Church, the more I appreciate the beauties of it, and the more I glory in the growth and development of the great latter-day work. And here, my brethren and sisters, I embrace the opportunity of testifying to you that, if I know anything at all in this life, I know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was instituted and is maintained by the gift and power of God. No power of man could have maintained it against all the opposition it has had to contend with during the seventy-nine years of its history. All honor be to our fathers and mothers, our grandfathers and grandmothers, who had the fortitude of character to stand up under all the oppression they endured, and maintain to the last breath the testimony that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired of God, and was the means in the hand of our heavenly Father of restoring the gospel once more to the earth. 

I stand before you today as a representative of one of the stakes that, within the last 26 years, has given birth to six other stakes of Zion. Twenty-six years ago its organization did not comprise more than 600 souls. That same section of country today embraces not less than 25,000 souls, members of the Church, and it is now divided into seven stakes of Zion, and the mother stake has a population of nearly 6,000. I am happy to report that in that section of country the work of the Lord is progressing rapidly. A splendid feeling exists among the people. I don't know any among the officers of our stake but who are observing the Word of Wisdom; and they are true and loyal to the president of the Church, Joseph F. Smith, as prophet, seer and revelator, and to the other authorities of the Church who will be sustained at this conference, including all the brethren and sisters who maintain positions of trust among the people. We are working together loyally and unitedly for the good of the people, and the development of our fair state of Idaho. We say that we will welcome any and all of you who desire to locate among us. We have a large and beautiful country. We have stakes of Zion well organized, and we are always glad to welcome the boys and girls of these valleys of the mountains, who have heen reared under the droppings of the sanctuary, in the environments of the Church. We want our young men and young women, to remain at home, in the various stakes of Zion. The longer I live the more I appreciate our organizations, and the good they are doing to our young people. I do not know how many of our boys and girls would he absolutely loyal to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, were it not for the environment thrown around them by the various societies and quorums of the Church, as we have them instituted today. I say, brethren and sisters, fathers and mothers in Israel, it is  right to scatter abroad, away from the organization of the Church. It is one of the tenets of Mormonism that this is a gathering dispensation, that we shall gather into the valleys of the mountains, and be reared under the guidance of the servants of God, under the inspired teachings that come to us from those whom we sustain from time to time. We ought not to allow our boys and girls to make homes in foreign states or territories, away from the environments of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That is not in harmony with the teachings of the gospel as revealed in the latter day. Let us bring up our boys and girls under influences that will shape their lives and make of them what they should be, children of the Saints of God. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May we be united together in the bonds of love, and not allow any dissensions among us, but maintain and sustain all those who are called to represent the Church and kingdom of God in the earth, that harmony may prevail, and that the will of God may be done among this people. May Zion grow and nourish in the earth, as it has done in the past, is my desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MTJRRIN. 

In standing up in your presence this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, I hope I may be led by the Spirit of the Lord to say something that will be beneficial to some of those gathered in this sacred building. My heart was comforted in the opening hymn. Ofttimes,  in the world, while laboring as a missionary, 1 have found a great deal of satisfaction in taking part with the Saints in the singing of this hymn. I do not intend to read much of it, I will however read a verse or two to this congregation. It may not be Scripture altogether, and yet, in my opinion, the poet has set forth the truth. There are many passages of Scripture that can be brought forth to support and sustain the views that are presented by the writer of this poem : 

"In every condition, in sickness, in health, In poverty's vale or abounding in wealth, 

At home or abroad, on the land or the sea, 

As thy days may demand, so thy succor shall be. 

The soul that on Jesus hath leaned for repose I will not, I cannot, desert to his foes; 

That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never, no never, no never forsake!" 

Mv brethren and sisters, many a soul has been made to rejoice, when far away from home, in taking part with the Saints in singing these precious words. Many of us have learned, bv our own experiences, that the Lord is perfectly able, under every circumstance, and in everv condition, whether it be at home or abroad, to give that help, succor, and strength that is necessary for the accomplishment of His purooses. He Qualifies His servants for the performance of the l-ifom that are assigned to them in the preaching of the Gospel and  accomplishment of all other work necessary for the building up of the kingdom of God. The words of the hymn indicate that our Father in heaven is a being of love, which is in perfect accord with the teachings of the Scriptures. The Scriptures jjproclaim that God is love; that He sent His Only Begotten Son into the world because of His exceeding great love for mankind that all men who would belive in His precious name might obtain salvation. Christ Jesus was not sent into the world to condemn the world, the Scripture says; but was sent into the world that men through Him might obtain everlasting life. 

I ofttimes think, that as a people, we ought to be able to discover, more fully and completely than any other people that God is indeed and of a truth, a being of love for there are doctrines that have been revealed to the Latter-day Saints that are not understood or believed in by the world generally, that show in a remarkable manner the mercy and justice of the Lord, that bear strong testimony to the love of God and that contain within themselves the evidence of divine inspiration. 

In conversing with a gentleman a few days ago, he made the remark that the cfoctrines of Mormonism, the fundamental doctrines of the Gospel, those that are spoken of generally as the first principles of the Gospel, annealed to him because thev are so much in accord with the doctrines that were tai<~'-' by the Redeemer and His Apostles. He made this statement: If vou could onlv leave out Joseph Smith, and the Book of Mormon, it would be a very easy matter for me to believe in Mormonism. But I cannot comnrehend, he added, wrn there should be any new revelation. or any new volume of Scripture. I asked hSm the question if he did not' believe that our Father in heaven was a being of love, and of course he answered that he did so believe. Then si inquired of him if it did not seem as though it would be necessary for a God of love to have in remembrance all His people? How could he reconcile belief in the love of God with the theory that prevails in the world, that half the people of the world had been forgotten by our Father in ages that are gone by, that He had revealed Himself only upon one hemisphere, and had overlooked the millions of men who dwelt upon the other hemisphere. I quoted to him the Scripture wherein the Savior, having, apparently the thought in mind that He was to accomplish the work of which He was speaking to His disciples, after His crucifixion, — referring to the necessity there was for the laying down of His life, — said unto them : "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must visit, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd." Where are the other sheep, or where were they, when they were spoken of by the Redeemer of the world? Mormonism makes answer, and so far as I know there is no other religious denomination in the world that makes such a reasonable explanation of the declaration of Jesus Christ, that He must visit other sheep that were not of that fold. His disciples were acquainted only wHth that fold in their own country. His apostles carried the GosoeVto the nations round about, with whom they were familiar, but there was, without question, some other people with whom those to whom he was talking were not familiar, a people  some other part of the world, they also were to hear the voice of the Redeemer, and have the opportunity of receiving the same glad tidings of good things, the same glorious Gospel that was the power of God unto salvation. 

Instead of men hesitating about receiving the doctrines of the Gospel as they have been revealed in the age in which we are living, and as contained in the Book of Mormon it seems to me that men should readily discover in the Book of Mormon additional evidence of the truth of the statement in the old Scriptures, that God is a being of love, and that He has had in memory in past ages, as well as at the present time, all His creatures. All men, as the Scriptures teach, have been created of the same flesh, no difference whatever, and God, their Creator, is no respector of persons, but He is the same yesterday, today and forever. The very fact that God revealed Himself through His Only Begotten Son to the ancient inhabitants of this continent, taught them the Gospel, conferred upon them the authority of the holy Priesthood, and filled them with the same joy and happiness that were given to their brethren afar off, is very strong evidence of the love of God and, in my mind, a wonderful testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon, and of the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith in translating the sacred record. 

So it is in relation to the great doctrines believed in by the Latterday Saints, that the Gospel is eternal, that the mercy of God endureth forever, and that men are not eternally lost who have not heard the Gosoel in mortality. How could Cod. the Father, be regarded as a God of love if the many millions of  who have inhabited this earth and who have passed away without ever having heard the sound of the Gospel, are to be eternally lost? That does not savor of love. That does not stamp the Creator of the world as being 1 possessed of the attribute of love to any very marked degree. But! when we apply the doctrine that has been revealed through the Prr^het Joseph Smith to all the peoples of the earth, whether they live now or in the past, or may live in the future, that there can be no condemnation, no real death, no such thing as damnation, without the rejection of the voice of the Lord, we commence to know something of the love of God. We learn that every soul must hear, and that those who have lived and had not the opportunity, in the flesh, to hear the glad message of the Gospel will be sought after in the spirit world until they are frund, and every soul will thus be left standing upon the same kind of foundation, exercising the judgment and agency that the Lord of heaven has given, either to receive or reject His message. That vindicates God as a being of love. To my mind, it tells a marvelous story of inspiration, and of the power of God that rested upon the young man Toseph, as he taught and revealed to the peoples of the earth the glorious message of truth. 

Another doctrine revealed by this same Prophet, Joseph Smith, that bears testimony of the love of God. is the salvation of the little children of the world. Men have believed thnt thev were lost, unless certain ordinances had been administered to them. It has been quite generally believed that the little infant at the mother's breast could not he s^ved without hantism, notwithstanding the fact that the great  of all the infjants that have ever been born into the world have gone to the grave without baptism. It is hard to understand the perfection or love of God in anything of this character; but, when the teaching of sacred truth is applied, as it has been given by the power of inspiration, and by the commandment of God, the wonderful, marvelous and glorious doctrine is revealed that all children, who have not come to years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of God through the atonement of Jesus Christ. In the law of God manifested in a revelation of this glorious character, who can be so dense as not to discern that the Gospel that has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is, as we declare, the power of God unto salvation? 

These principles are making their way among men, and they will contime to extend, they cannot be staid. Such glorious principles bear the stamp of divinity, and the decree has gone forth from God, in His majesty, power and strength, that the world shall know the truth. When the world comes to know the truth, among other discoveries that will be made will be the fact that Mormonism is not a delusion, or a myth, but a revelation from our Father in heaven, the way He has appointed for the salvation of men. 

May God help us ever to remember and hold fast to the truth, that we may save our souls, and be instrumental in spreading this glad news among the people, far and wide, until k .all men shall be left without excuse. This is our mission and our responsibility. We are under obligation to manifest before mankind that into our souls has come the love of God, by being willing to do our part in the pro clamation of the Gospel and the building up of His work. God help us to do it humbly, faithfully and well, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A duet and chorus, "Sweet will of God," was sung by Sisters Hardy and Winder, and choir. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

We certainly have been impressed, in the remarks that have been made, with the unbounded love which our Father in heaven has manifested towards His children. Are we not indebted to the Lord for every blessing that we enjoy? Is it not true that we owe to Him the very existence we have upon the earth, the power to live and have a being, to associate with each other, to communicate our views, our thoughts, and reflections, even the power to think and give expression to thought? Without these precious gifts there would be no joy, we could have no delight, we could have no happiness upon this earth. Our social intercourse would be interrupted; there would be no such thing to be experienced or enjoyed. It seems to me that it is wholesome for us to let our minds go out in contemplation of the wonderful gifts we have received from our Heavenly Father. It seems to me that it is wholesome to meditate (Upon these things until we can thoroughly and completely convince ourselves that all happiness, that every blessinf. flows from Him. We should be full of gratitude to our Father, acknowledge Him as the Giver of all good; and we should plead with Him to help us to appreciate 

His blessings even as they flow from His all-bountiful hands. We cannot say too much regarding the love of God to His children. "He sent His only begotten Son that whosoever should believe on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." In this instance, my brethren and sisters, we find the greatest manifestation of the love of God for His children. 

In the remarks that were made in the opening meeting of our conference, President Joseph F. Smith told us of his determination to devote his life in the service of God. I felt impressed thereby, and feel now impressed with the fact that there is an object lesson for the Latter-day Saints : while we are recipients of that matchless love which comes from heaven, what are we going to do about it? To use the words of President Smith, "what shall we do" to show that we appreciate the blessings which God is pouring- so bounteously upon us, His children? This same sentiment was followed up by his counselors, and it seems to me that it is an appeal to the Latter-day Saints to show gratitude unto their heavenly Father. 

We read in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants words like these: "In nothing doth man .offend God, and against none it His wrath kindled, save those who will not acknowledge Him in all things." The sin of the world is ingratitude to God. Against none is the wrath of our heavenly Father kindled excepting those who so far forget Him, that they will not acknowledge Him in all things, that He is the Giver of all good, that we are dependent upon Him for all that we receive. It seems to me that there should be a resolution on the part of all Latter-day 

Saints to express themselves just as President Smith did this morning, and show in their lives that they propose to give the Lord the very, best there is in them; in other words, that we should continuously serve the Lord, devoting our lives, our energies, our talents, whatsoever we have, and whatsoever we are, in the service of God. I wish to call attention to the fact that, if we do not serve God in all things we are liable to serve the adversary; and just exactly where we discontinue our service to God that is where such danger begins. Do what I may, every moment of my time is devoted either in the service of God or in the service of mammon; there is hardly any middle course. We must serve the Lord in everything we do, for the Lord requires constant service to Him. And is not that what is meant when the Lord commanded His children to "pray without ceasing" Is it not the condition of the heart, this ceaseless prayer; and are we not always in the attitude of praying. "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." What are your desires, my brethren and sisters? Do you desire the triumph of Zion ? Do you desire to see truth prevail? Do you desire to see the kingdom of God established upon the earth? If you do, and do it all the time, it is a prayer of righteousness unto the Lord. But if, for one moment, you lose that desire, then indeed have you ceased to pray to God but you have begun to yield to the adversary. Then ought we not to choose this day whom we will serve, God or mammon? Let it be our determination to serve the Lord with full purpose of heart, and make it; a real service nnto the Lord. 

What does the Lord require of ? Have we ever stopped to read the Scriptures and find out what it is that God requires of His children, in appreciation of the great blessings we receive from Him? "Son, give me thine heart." There is a good deal of meaning in that. The heart is the organ of vitality, the organ of life; and when the Lord said, "Give me thine heart," it meant, Son give me thy life, that it may be devoted in the service of God. That is what it means. It does not necessarily follow that, because we are to serve God continuously, that we are to engage, at all times, in what is commonly known as the Church work. O no; we have our avocations to follow. But in each of these we may serve God, and we ought to see to it that everything we do is in reality a service unto the most high God. He requires it at our hands, and will not approve any divergence from that path. We must not look upon sin with any degree of allowance. We find ourselves in mortality, in possession of weaknesses and imperfections, but let us struggle on, serving the Lord, keeping His commandments, and we will be cleased from sin. But if we let up for one moment, the adversary is gaining. Then let us fig-ht the good fight and keep the faith, rejecting evil at every turn, and never surrender. Every surrender is a service to the evil one. We cannot obtain permission at any time to serve the evil one; we ought not to have any such desire in our hearts. We can serve God, not only in our houses o£_ worship, but we can serve Him upon the field; at the bench, in the workshop; in every avocation of life, in our amusements, in all that we set our hands to do. Tf there be work assigned to us that cannot be done in harmony with the will of God, then do not do it. If there be amusements that are contrary to the spirit of rightousness, then do not participate in that kind of amusement; only in those occupations, pleasures and pastimes in which we can carry on our service of God should we engage ourselves. 

My brethren and sisters, I have an abiding faith in this work. I know the truth of Mormonism as it has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph, and I hope that every one present is in possession of that testimony, for it is the power of God unto salvation, if we will only be faithful and true. The Lord has done His part by us; let us see to it that we do our part, that we may be entitled to salvation and exaltation in His presence that is promised to the faithful, I ask it through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

I never like to preach to Latter day Saints who have already been over-fed with such spiritual nourishment and are not hungry; it seems like wasting effort. I have read somewhere that "Silence is golden," and I have been trying for the past year to think, and keep silent. I do not think I have ever made as great an effort during my labors in the ministry, and among the people of this Church, to look at both sides of every question. I am not speaking of the gospel; to that there is only one side, and that is the right side. But there are other things that I have been trying to understand, and see both sides and then keep still. I think some of you are very much like 

I am; I have said some things that I am sorry were said and printed. I never know just how I will begin nor how I will end. 

I have been thinking of late, and during my time of thought, I have hunted for scripture and something to convince me that I was thinkthing in the right direction, and that it was approved by those who are in authority. I will read some of it to you; it is not original; there is very little that is original : 

"I want to come to the hearts of the people. It is a blessed thing that the heart has an instinct which tells it who has a right to teach it. The world cares little for theorists and theories — little for schools and school men, little for anything a man has to utter that has not previously been distilled in the Alembic of his life. I come to you with shoes worn and dusty with the walk upon life's highway, with face bronzed by fierce sun, and muscles knit by conflict with the evils of the age. * * I do not knock at the human heart with gloved hands, and an attire borrowed for the occasion." 

You ought to know that, Latterday Saints. I want to say to you, as far as I am concerned individually, I do not live altogether for myself. Does your own heart tell you, after my pilgrimage and labors among this people, if I have a right to teach you. I haven't been raised with a silver spoon in my mouth. I am not highly cultured. From the day I was 15 years old I have fought my battles practically alone. I am not old yet. I will tell you a great truth which is "To know thyself, oh man," and then let the other fellow alone. One of the good sisters said to me, "Golden if you wouldn't talk so much about yourself, it would be a good thing." Well, I thought to myself, it would be a good thing if you would talk about yourself and let other people . I know more about myself than any other person on earth, and I am going to try to keep some of it quiet, if I can. 

I have read about the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have the story of the Prophet, and it is a wonderful story for a boy to tell. About those two personages that came to him, also John the Baptist, Peter, James and John. To me it is very wonderful. Do you believe it? If that is not true, Joseph Smith was the biggest fraud that ever came to a people on earth. There has never been a more sacrilegious thing uttered by man, if it is not true. Now, I say, do you believe it ? Do I believe it? I believe everything that has been revealed to the Prophet Joseph' Smith. If any principle that has been revealed to the Prophet is not true, then it is all wrong, as far as I . am concerned. There is no use of mincing over it. Every Latter-day Saint in the Church should receive every truth, or else none of it. I believe it all. I believe every word of it. I "believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and I believe the Lord will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." I believe all that God has reveajed, as fast as I can understand and comprehend it; and I believe that God will yet reveal many great and important things. I am not sure if we will be prepared to receive all or not. Joseph Smith said the Lord had revealed things to him which if he had repeated to the people they would have taken his life. It is a good thing he didn't; we have more truths and doctrine than we now live up to. 

"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." I accept  with all my heart. A man must be honest, and he must be true, and he must tie chaste and benevolent, virtuous, and continue doing good to all men. What can , God do for a man who is not honest? You may baptize him every fifteen minutes, but if he does not repent, he will come up out of the water just as dishonest as ever. What can God do for a liar who refuses to repent? Can the Lord save him? He can't claim salvation. Baptising him in water will not settle the trouble, unless you keep him under. (Laughter.) What can the Lord do with people who are not virtuous, unless they repent? You cannot change the laws of the Lord. Men may deceive men; they may deceive apostles; they may deceive the President of the Church; they may even get into the temple, but that would not make them virtuous. You may confer the Holy Ghost upon them by the laying on of hands, but the Holy Ghost does not remain with the unrepentant; it will not remain in an unclean tabernacle. To deceive men is easy, but I want to tell you in the name of Israel's God, and this thought should be burned into the souls of our sons and daughters, that unless they repent of all their sins and cease immoral practices, they cannot remain in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Holy Ghost will not stay with them; they will not have the testimony of Jesus. This doctrine is true. 

I have tried to be generous in my sentiments, and be on the right side; I have tried to be tolerant, not intolerent, I have tried to respect men's opinions, and I have discovered that we do not always see things alike. We may as far as the gospel is concerned, but we are a long way from it in other things. In temporal things we do not sufficiently respect each other's opinions. Are we going to sit in judgment upon men ? I am not in favor * of it. I am not in sympathy with men who are intolerant, I am afraid of them. What does the Lord say? They were trying to tempt the Savior just as they have tried to tempt the Latte-day Saints. We are being tempted and tested. We are being dazzled and bewildered by the things of the world, and some are trying to make men offenders for a word. The Savior said to those who were tempting him : — 

"Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation." We can talk about other churches that Brother Bassett has been reading about, but there is a division amongst other people than the Christian churches, even among the people of the Latter-day Church. It is a kingdom divided against itself, to some extent, on temperance and political questions, and they are considered weighty problems too. "A house divided against itself falleth." "If Satan be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand?" The Latter-day Saints must be united to be successful. It is a great warfare between Satan and the Savior, and to some men it would appear as if Satan was going to be victorious. Not so. Through long continued patience, the victory will be the Lord's. It may take years, yea hundreds of years, but, as Brother McMurrin so beautifully portrayed to you, God will save His children after all. A condition of antagonism puts me a good deal in mind of a spectacle analogous to that represented in the caricature called the combat of the two serpents; after having devoured every around them, the two reptiles attacked each other, finally there remained on the battle field but two tails. 

Now, brethren, let us repent, if we have got any bitterness in our 

hearts toward each other, let us be generous, and forgiving. No man has any influence or power for good when angry. It is "amen to the priesthood and the authority of that man when he uses unrighteous dominion," etc. It doesn't matter who he is. When a man has the Holy Ghost his heart is full of meekness, it is full of love unfeigned. He loves the souls of the children of men and he realizes how precious they are in the sight of _ God. May we as Latter-day Saints enjoy the fullness of the Holy Spirit, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

EIDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

God's Kingdom on earth to unite with the Heavenly Kingdom. — Conditions essential to admission into the Kingdom. — Faithful Saints sustained by the Hob' Spirit. — Evil is overcome by resistance. 

It is nearly time to bring our meeting to a close. I feel that we have had a good service. I can bear testimony to the truth of what has been said this afternoon. 

I desire, in the few moments that remain, to express some sentiments which I have in my heart with regard to this work. We have in the 65th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants a revelation on prayer, given through the Prophet Joseph, the Seer, in the year 1831. From this revelation I read the following : 

"The keys of the kingdom of God  committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which was cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth; yea, a voice crying, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the bridegroom; pray unto the Lord, call upon His holy name, make known His wonderful works among the people; call upon the Lord, that His kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down from heaven, clothed in the brightness of His glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; wherefore may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, for ever. Amen." 

Here it is very plainly set forth that God has established His kingdom upon the earth, and the time will come when His kingdom which is established in heaven shall come forth to meet His kingdom upon the earth. The Lord has made clear to us that no sinful thing can enter into His presence. He dwells in the celestial kingdom. The kingdom of God in heaven is most perfect, and all that pertains unto it. 

We have heard some remarks with reference to the perfection of the Church of Christ, organized on the earth in these last days, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This kingdom of our Father is most perfect, the Church and kingdom, so far as it has been revealed to us. We know not but there are some things pertaining to the perfection of the organization of the Church not yet revealed, for, as has been stated, we believe all that God has revealed, and we believe that He will yet re many important things pertaining to the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth, as well as doctrine. This Church, then, and embryotic kingdom of God, is typical of the kingdom of our Father in heaven; and as no sinful thing can enter the kingdom of God in heaven, go where our Father is and enjoy celestial glory with Him and with our elder brother and Savior, so we cannot enter this preparatory kingdom in our sins, but every man and woman must of necessity repent of sin, with broken heart and contrite spirit, or they cannot obtain admission. If they have been admitted under any other conditions, they are still in their sins even though they may have yielded obedience to the ordinance of baptism, and though that ordinance may have been performed in the way the Lord has appointed, by immersion in water, and by one who has held the authority, their sins are not remitted; and though hands may be laid upon their heads to confer the Holy Ghost, the Holy Ghost has not come upon them, and the testimony has never been borne through the Holy Ghost to their souls concerning the truth of the work and the acceptance by the Lord of their course of life. We must begin at the bottom. We must repent of our sins before we can obtain acceptable admission into the Church. Repentance comes through faith, through the hearing of the word, and we hear the word by the preaching of those whom the Lord has appointed. We learn of our Father, and of His Son, and of His gospel, the provision made for the salvation of the children of men, by searching the scriptures. As the Savior said, "Search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." If we close up our hearts and minds, give ourselves over to evil thoughts, disregard the will and wishes of our Father, and disregard the influence of His Holy Spirit, which actuates the soul of every man to know good from evil, and do not bend our energies in the way of doing good, cleave to the truth and eschew evil, the condemnation of the Lord will follow us. 

The Lord expects us to trust in Him; He expects us to seek after Him, and that we may have faith in Him, and having faith in Him and in His Son, our Redeemer, He expects us to yield obedience to His will, keep His commandments, forsake all sin, and be advocates of the truth. That is our mission. I bear you witness today, I do know, for I have yielded obedience to the law, that I have had a testimony from the Lord, through His Holy Spirit, that my course in so doing has been accepted of Him. I know that the gospel is the truth; and I know that His saving power is had by those who have yielded obedience unto it, who have rid themselves of sin and wickedness, who have received the Holy Spirit in their souls, and hope for a glorious resurrection and the blessings of eternal life. All such can look back upon their past lives and contrast their present with the former condition. They do know most positively that the gospel has been a saving power in their lives; they know that if they retrace their steps and resort to those evil things which were part of their conduct before this still small voice, these words of life came to them, it means their utter condemnation and destruction. The Lord comforts His faithful people all along the pathway of life. 

As we undertake to do what is right, to aid in His cause, and to bring souls to a knowledge of the truth, He blesses us with the manifestations of His Spirit in our work, by dreams and vision at night, by the gift of prophecy, the gift of tongues, and by the gift of healing. In numerous ways the Lord, all along the line of our life's work, gives encouragement, and faith, and knowledge, and the hope of a glorious resurrection; we are not left in doubt and darkness. Such is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters. We are not yet perfect in this earthly kingdom, though it is our Father's. Though we have repented of our sins, man is prone to do evil, even as the sparks fly upward. When we find ourselves overcome by that which is evil, the Lord requires that we will, with broken hearts and contrite spirits, undertake again to forsake those evils, return to them no more. With the Lord's help we will finally succeed and triumph over evil; just as he who was once addicted to the use of liquor, every time he passed the saloon going to and from his day's work, was tempted to go inside. After a time, by resisting that evil, remembering that intoxicating liquor was not good for him, the temptation passed away; the Lord strengthened him against that evil, and he became able to successfully withstand it. Such is our mission here in this life, to battle all the day long with ourselves; and as we obtain additional light and knowledge, to make known that light and knowledge to others, that they may participate with us in the joy of that knowledge, and the hope of obtaining everlasting life through fighting the battle faithfully to the end. 

May the blessing of the Lord be upon us all. Assuredly we all need the Lord's help; we need strength from Him. As we engage faithfully to overcome, to perfect within ourselves the attributes of our eternal Father, He will help us, and we will succeed and triumph. May the Lord bless us to this end, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

An anthem entitled, "Our God shall be glorified," words by Elder Richard S. Home, and music by Prof. Charles J. Thomas, was rendered by the Temple choir. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Josiah E. Hickman. 
