Morning
06 04 1909


BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

In the Gospel according to Saint John, you will find these words of the Savior: (John 10:37, 38.) 

"If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. 

"But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works." 

On the same occasion, He said, "Many good works have I showed you from my Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?" 

We know very well that it is difficult indeed for some people to understand our doctrine — those who do not put themselves in a condition to receive it, by doing what the Lord has said He requires  be done; by having faith, by repenting, by baptism, by the laying on of hands, and by doing those things which He has commanded. We know how difficult it is for any one not of our faith, to judge of our doctrine and of our system; but it is not difficult for men to judge of the works that are accomplished, the results that have been produced. 

Another passage of Scripture is to this effect: "The things of men are understood by the spirit of man. hut the thing's of God are understood by the Spirit of God." If I talk with my non-Mormon friend, a^out business affairs, we understand each other perfectly, because those things are understood by the spirit of man. the wisdom of man, while the Spirit of God, whHi the Savior said He would send to His followers, and which should lead them into all truth, and show them things to come — is not usually noticable in the affairs of men. I might talk business all dav, with friends with whom I do business — and I have manv friends with whom I am interested in business affairs, who are not members of the Church — and we would understand each other, I say, oerfectlv, because we understand these thines bv the spirit of man. But, if- T were to talk faith, if I were to talk baptism, or the lavinfr on of hands, or the work for the dead, or anvtbine of a spiritual nature, to the=e same men, it would be like talking Greek, I suppose, for it 101  be all Greek to the man who has not the spirit of it, and who does not seek the spirit of it. 

The Savior said, in substance, If you can not believe My doctrine believe the works. Now, I would like to point out a few of the works which the doctrines of this Church have produced. We read from one of the reports, o; it was stated in one of our meetings, that this Church had assisted poor people, many of whom were not members of the Church — giving assistance to over twenty thousand people during the year 1908. I ask mv friends who do not believe as we do, Is not that a good work? We have cared for our poor, and in doing so have expended a large amount of money to say notHne: of the amount of attention and wo'-k and faithful labor of our solendid organizations and efficient workers in the Relief societies, whose work has never been counted in dollars and cents, and, indeed, can not be estimated in dollars and cents. In addition to the preat work that they have done, dnrins? the past year, the Church has p-iven to poor people, as a matter of dollars and cents, an amount somewhere between $150,000 and $200,000. I submit to all candid minds this question, Is not that a good work? You would not stone a man for doinsr that. You would not pelt him with epithets, or abuse him in any way for eneaging in such a charitable work? The work is good; and if you can't understand the doctrine, there is the work, and it speaks for itself. 

Another item : Through their faith and desire to worship the l ord, to be instructed, admonished, counseled and advised, the Church brines to this citv everv year thousands and tens of thousands of its members. Not only is this true  respect to this city, but it goes on to a greater or less extent in all the conferences of the Church,, here and there, throughout this state and adjoining states and territories. Now, I submit to the railroad corporations and to the merchants and hotel men of Salt Lake City and other cities, is not this a good work — for you, any how ? We ought not to be pelted with epithets and be abused, and have contumely heaped upon us for putting money into your pockets this way, ought we? 

I see all the daily papers represented here. I would like the reporters to put that question, if they will — and I believe they will, as fairlv as they can; for they are usually very good fellows. Put that que?t; on fairlv to the people: Is the work the Latter-day Saints are doing in this direction worthv only of derision, worthy only of pelting us, if not with stones, at least with epithets, and hurling contumely and ridicule upon us? I ask, throup-h the press, ought not this to cease? Is it not about time that we should have done with all this foflv? T recall that in Oliver Cromwell's time, when he got tired of a certain crowd, in his stern, grave wav he said. "Leave off vour fooling, sir, and come down." I wonder, sometimes, whether it will be necessary for some modern Oliver to auiet these people who misrepresent and abuse and wilfully malign the Latter-day Saints. They not onlv will not believe the doctrine, but they refuse to believe the works; and yet the works are patent. I wonder if some modern Oliver will not have to say — though I am afraid not, for there is too much freedom in this age — Leave off your fooling, sirs and shut up! (Laughter.) GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

In the building up of Salt Lake City, look at the work that the Church is doing. Look at the meetinghouses that are everywhere being built. Think of the work the Church has done and is doing in redeeming the desert and building up the country. This certainly is worthy of praise. 

Who are doing most to bring strangers to this city and to entertain them? Right here on this temple block, with the efficient services of our workers in our Bureau of Information, there is more done every year, more done last year, and more will be done this year by our people than by all others combined, to entertain strangers. We give organ recitals, the most unique thing in the world, I suppose, because it is all free. I have traveled over Europe several times, and I know that wherever I went there was not anything free; but here a man is not allowed to give even a five cent piece in return for these entertainments and other courtesies extended. On this one block there is more being done and more money spent to entertain strangers and to draw strangers to this city than is done by all the other agencies, boards of trade, and chamber of commerce combined. These visitors help the railroads, help the hotels and stores; they spend their money here and help you, my non-Mormon friends, infinitely more than they help us, because we do not own the railroads or hotels and we own but few of the stores. And I repeat there is more done on this one block, and more money spent to do it, than is done by all other agencies combined, in Salt Lake City. My friends of the press, is not that a good work? And we have a right to ask, and do ask, the hotel men, the merchants, the rail managers, whose business is benefited in consequence of our good works, that they exert a united influence to put a stop to this everlasting contention and abuse. . 

We also help to build up the. country around ,us, in colonizing and helping poor people to secure homes. It is true other states adjoining are building up as well as ours, but let it be remembered that in 1847 there came here the poorest kind of poverty stricken people. There was absolutely no wealth among them. The first work done by the Anglo-Saxon race in the direction of irrigation was done right here, under the direction of Brigham Young, near the spot where the Salt Lake Theater now stands. From that little beginning there has grown the wonderful system which we now witness, throughout the west, as a result of the labors of the men of the west. That surely is a good work. 

Elder David McKay said, the other day, our people have been builders. We have not destroyed; we have not torn down. The Lord said long ago, that He would bring His people to the tops of the mountains, and He would make the wilderness like Eden, and the desert like the garden of the Lord; that therein should be joy and gladness, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. I say we have redeemed the desert and built up the waste places and there is more of joy and gladness, more of thanksgiving and the voice of melody and song, among this people here in their mountain homes than you will find among any other like number of people in all the world. This, too, is in fulfilment of the prediction of the prophet of old. Is not that a good work? If you can not be103  the doctrine, I say again, believe the works. We say, in business, "Money Talks." Well, works talk, and they should not need a tongue to speak for them. 

For which of these good works that we do, are we ridiculed and reviled? It ought not to be so. We are here, my friends and neighbors, to live together. This is our country; this is your country. We ought to cease our strife; we ought to cease contention and join together and build up the country. Our religion is a serious thing with us; it can not be changed, and it will not be changed. It has been repeated here many a time and oft, during this and other conferences, that this organization, this spiritual force which the Lord God Almighty has set in motion, and which He revealed to His servant Joseph Smith, the prophet in this dispensation, is a spiritual force and power which the world needs for regeneration. It makes for the establishment of ideal homes, as was said here, the other day, there is more sacredness of the home here amon" the Latter-day Saints, and there are more people who own their own homes here also than anywhere else in the world. President Smith does not own the homes of the Mormon people. I have heard non-Mormons enlightening their friends — this is several years ago, however — I have not heard it for quite a number of years; but several years ago, I heard one fellow enlightening his friends, and he said, "Why, everything these Mormons have on earth is owned by the Church, and the leaders of the Church tax the people and tithe them, and so on, all to build up the President of the Church." Now, everybody knows that is all nonsense; everybody, who docs not  to lie, knows it; and even the liar knows it is nonsense and not true. There are more people in the Mormon Church who have been helped, here and there in every way, by this wonderful organization, the Mormon Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, than by any other organization I know of; and there are more of our people who own their own homes than among any similar number of people in all the world. I ask again, is not that a good work? And in those homes there has been laid down, for the husband and the wife, the same law of righteousness; namely, that while the wife must be pure and clean, the same law applies with equal and binding force upon the husband. Under this law of the Gospel, there is not a whit more exacted from the woman than from the man. It is required that he, too, shall remain pure. Our people are building homes of that kind. Where there is impurity men are dealt with by the Church; and the women are labored with and dealt with, if there are lapses. Of course, it would be folly to claim perfection. We are not perfect; we are as other people — Only not quite so bad; that is all. (Laughter). I recall at this moment an incident in connection with the Reed Smoot investigation, when he testified, as thousands of men in Israel can testify, that he had been true to his marriage vow, and that he had never had association with any woman in the world, except only his wife. A very distinguished senator, I am told, facetiously remarked that he did not know but what he ought to object to Reed Smoot on that account, because he was afraid it would make class distinctions in the Senate. (Laughter.) GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

We are glad to have the thousands of our visiting friends come here. We will have, this year, probably two hundred thousand people register at our Bureau of Information. We give them, as I have told you, the best there is. We have provided for free organ recitals every day. These recitals bring many people into this city every year, and we are trying with our conferences and with other means, not only to build up the Church, as a church, as a spiritual force, but to build up the countrv. We welcome these people. We welcome the Grand Army and those who will pass through the city on their way to the Fair at Seattle. They will all be made welcome, so far as the Church can spend means and labor to entertain them. 

I say that all these things, and many more that I have not time to mention — are good for there are many good works that could be mentioned. This is not theory, it is not doctrine alone, it is works, and thev are grood and they should entitle us to something more than abuse. 

May the Lord bless this work. I propose, by His help, that we stand by it, and that we not only appreciate the works that are accomplished, but with all our hearts and souls and our faith in every way before the Lord, we say in our hearts, it is good to serve the Lord. This work is good. The spiritual part is better, infinitely better than the temporal part — but the temporal part, men can see and understand, but they can not understand the spiritual part. We who have tasted of that spirit know; we know of the doctrine. I know that this is the work of God, and you know it. I recall an inci — Brother Penrose relates that when he was about to leave England, coming to Zion the first time, he was around bidding his old friends goodbye. There was one old English lady, to whom he was attached, who cried and said she was sorry she could not go; and when he was going, she said: "Brother Penrose, when you gets to Zion, you tells Brother Brigham I knows Mormonism is true just as well as he do." Tha t is the foundation upon which Mormonism is built — this individual testimony that every one knows the spiritual side of it as well as the temporal side. My time has expired. God bless you. Amen. 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

The people enjoined to be true Latterday Saints.— Personal remembrances of early history. — Passing away of old friends. — Necessity for giving heed to Spiritual Monitor. — Properway to pay tithing. 

My Brethren and sisters: I was in hopes that this task would oass over; for preaching, as I have said many times, is not my forte. However, I trust that by your faith and prayers my memory may recc've strength, that something mav come to my mi"d that I may sav, which will benefit both vou and me. 

I have listened attentively to all that h^s been said, thus far, during this conference, and I can indorse every sentiment, every word, for I know all that h^>s b°en said has been inspired by our Fatber in heaven. We as a people shouH endeavor to be true Latter-day Saints; If we are not, we certainly should be. We should realize our duty and privileges and strive diligently to live in a way and manner that 105  Father in heaven will approve  so that He may be pleased to let His Spirit rest upon us, that those who adchess us may speak by that Spirit, by that intelligence, that we who listen may obtain wisdom and knowledge, and that we may remember and profit by what we have heard. 

In my reflections, my mind often goes back to early youth, to my childhood. I can remember back farther than many others who are here present, in regard to the travels of the Church. My memory goes back as far as Kirtland, Ohio. I remember when we were leaving there, our travels to Missouri, the persecutions through which we passed in Missouri, and being driven from there to Illinois. My mind is very vivid on these points. I remember our arrival in Quincy, Illinois, and proceeding to the place where was afterwards established the city of Nauvoo. I remember distinctly that the place where we settled, first n?med Commerce, but subsequently called Nauvoo, was a sickly place; many of us were sick for a year. There was a time there when corn was only ten cents a bushel, but ftisnv of us who had the ten cents could not get the corn, because so many were sick; and few were able to go out and purchase and take it to the mill, in order that we might obtain the food needed. My memory also goes ba<~k to the time we we r e crossing the plains; finally setth'ng here when this country was covered with sagebrush, and there were no houses to speak of. Often, in my reflections, I look around for tho^e whom I call, in my way of sneaking, the old boys of my youth. Thev are getting scarce and, in looking around, I oftentimes feel lonesome. For many years I have tried to get here to conference  early in. the day, that I might shake hands with old persons with whom I was acquainted in early times. But, they are getting scarce; it causes me to realize that time is gomg, and that the people are being gathered from the earth to the spirit world. 

I have been interested in the advice and instructions that have been given here in regard to closing saloons, and urging our people to live moral and upright lives; I realize that this is a necessity. As Latter-day Saints, we should strive to live in that way and manner that our Father in heaven can bestow His blessings upon us. We understand that it is our duty to pay our tithes and offerings; that we should attend to our prayers, and perform the many other duties that devolve upon us. I have said many times, every litter-day Saint has a monitor within him. If we will stop to reflect upon our duties and privileges this monitor will direct us in the true path. I believe there is no person who does a wrong but what that mon : tor within him will say that *'t is wrong, and that he should not have done it. If we happen to get under an influence which is not proper and rieht, and permit that influence to guide us, we will often err in judgment and do things that we ought not to do; but if we will listen to the promptings of that monitor, and take a stra : ghtforward course, asking our Father to assist and guide us in our labors, we will not so often make mistakes. 

I have learned by observation, and also by practice, in. regard to the law of tithing, to which some of the speakers have referred, that if we pay our tithes and offerings at the time we have the means, it is no hardship; but if we neglect payment one month after another the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  will be spent; and then, when we should pay tithing, taxes come upon us, and when we pay the taxes we have no moneyleft for tithing. If we will do our duty in this regard, and pay as we go, we will be all right. This reminds me of a little circumstance that transpired not long ago. I went into a store to buy something. The clerk said, "Shall I charge it?" I said, "No sir; if I can't pay now for what I want, I will go without till I have the money." This practice is the best. If we have not the means on hand to buy what we want, wait until we can pay for it. If we as Latter-day Saints will strive in this wise to live up to our duties and privileges, asking our Father in heaven to guide us each day, we will not often err in judgment. 

May the favor of our Father rest upon all Israel, and guide us in the true faith, qualify us for every duty, that we may be worthy of the blessings He has in store for us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Erma Pendleton sang a contralto solo, entitled, "The Lord is my light." 

ELDER SOREN RASMUSSEN. 

(Late President of Scandinavian Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very thankful for this privilege and opportunity of addressing this large assembly. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the various sessions of the conference, and in the spirit that has been made manifest in our gatherings. During the few moments that I shall stand before you, I desire that I may be filled with the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be able to say something that will be of benefit to you as well as myself. 

I have been away, laboring in the Scandinavian mission, for nearly three years, and I can assure you that I feel very happy to again assemble with the Saints of God. However, I must say that I have had a blessed time. The Lord has been with me; He has encouraged me in my labors, and I have rejoiced exceedingly in being a humble ambassador of Christ. 

I wish to say that the Scandinavian mission embraces, now.Denmark and Norway, there being three conferences in each of these countries. We have about 140 elders laboring there, and I may say, with Brother Baliff, that we could use more if we could get them. There is plenty of room, and we find that our elders are received very kindly on almost every hand. We are not persecuted as they are in some countries. The Scandinavian people are, as a rule, a good, hospitable, kind people. Our Elders are working hard in order to get the Gospel to the children of men. Our auxiliary organizations are in a very fair condition. We have twenty-two Sunday schools in tbe mission. We have eighteen Relief societies; and the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations are also in very good condition. We have a little over one thousand enrolled in the Sunday schools, one-third of whom are outsiders. Nearly onefourth of those who attend the Mutual Improvement Associations are non-members of the Church. Besides those who are members, we have a considerable number who come to the meeting's, who are also outsiders, and great interest is taken in these organizations. We have tried to encourage them along in these lines, having- been so instructed by the general authorities of the Church, realizing that it is of 107  benefit unto the young people to get them started aright in their youth. I call to mind an instance which came under my observation while laboring in that mission. I had made the acquaintance of a young girl and her parents, who were not members of the Church. I labored with this family, along with other Elders, while on my former mission, and we encouraged the parents to send their little children to our Sunday school. When I now returned to the mission field and visited this family, they were still outside the Church. The girls are now young ladies. I saw them and talked with them, and one day when I was talking to one of them, I said, "Would you be kind enough to answer me one question?" She said, "Yes, indeed." "Then I want to ask you, is there not something within your heart that draws you back to our Sunday school and to our people? Answer me candidly." She said, "Yes, there is! I do feel as though I want to mingle with you yet." She stayed away owing to the influence of her parents. Although they were friendly, they opposed her becoming: a member of any of our organizations; otherwise we should have had her a member of our choir and, no doubt, other organizations. Thus I have observed, in many instances, that the good seed sown in the heart of the child and young people does not leave them, but, if they are honest with themselves, it will in time lead them back to the pale of the Church — at least, such is my opinion. 

Our treatment by the officials of those countries is splendid. They are kind to us; and we have received no persecution. In the land of Norway we were able to hold funeral services in the chapels, just  same as their own members could do; for this we were thankful indeed. I may say that we had the Spirit of the Lord with us when we were congregated in these chapels; and more than once I have heard people exclaim that ours were the finest funeral services they had ever attended. As a rule, after we had held our little meeting or services at the chapel, we would congregate at the grave. We would dedicate the grave and sing one or two hymns. I may say that, as a rule, we had excellent singers; the Spirit of the Lord was with them, and they sang from the heart. The singing, and other parts of our services, seemed to have a good effect upon the people who witnessed the ceremonies. A short time before I was released^ we had a funeral in our own hall in Copenhagen; the president of the Relief society had passed away. There were in attendance many people who were not of our faith, people who were prominent in that city, and they told me that never in their lives had they witnessed a funeral that was so impressive. 

I have alluded to the free condition in Norway. I am very happy to state that the same condition ex ists in Denmark today. We are able to hold funeral services, to speak at funerals, to have singing, and to dedicate the graves. We are ver v glad for this privilege. I am also pleased to state that we have some influential people who are members of the Church. Perhaps there are many here who know Brother Samuelsen, who is a member of the Danish Riksdag. He has done his part in framing laws that have been passed. We have other prominent people in those lands who are members of the Church; and there are very many nice peoGENERAL CONFERENCE.  who are investigating the Gospel. The elders, as a rule, are performing a noble work. Of course, it may be said that we are not able to accomplish as much as they are in some lands, for the reason that our people are more scattered. For example, in Norway there are hundreds of inhabited islands, so you can readily understand that it is impossible to reach all tho;e islands. At our last fall conference, one pair of elders reported that they had visited forty islands, calling at every house, every family. Another pair reported that they had visited nineteen islands. There is great hardship attached to these visits, because many of the island boats make only one trip a week, so that when the elders go there they have to remain a week, whether there is much to do or not. As a result, we are not able to do quite as much as might be done if the people were closer together. I wish to sav, however, that the elders are working very faithfully and zealouslv. I congratulate the parents and the wives of those noble men who are performing such excellent work. 

My brethren and sisters. T do not wish to occuov any more of your ti^e. I rejoice in this treat and glorious work, and I hope I may be able to continue in the line of duty that will lead back to eternal life. I know for a surety that God lives, that Tesns Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith is indeed a prophet of the hving God. T know t^at the authorities who lead this Church todav have been called of God. My brethren and sisters, let us keep in line with the priesthood, and let us do our dutv : let us be workers in very deed. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Zeal and faithfulness of missionaries commended. — The Gospel imparts joy and peace to its adherents. — Enemies of God's work foiled and. forgotten. — Evidence of Hebrew origin of American Aborigines. — Intellectual advancement among young Latter-day Saints. — Difficulty experienced in refuting lies. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in this conference, and I have been pleased with the remarks that have been made. Many reflections have passed through my mind while listening to the words that have been uttered in our hearing during this conference. I have but one desire, and it is the desire I have always had, and hope I may always have while standing before the people, it is that I may say that which shall be for their best good. 

I have rejoiced, particularly, in the testimonies which have been borne by our brethren who /have been out preaching the Gospel. It always seems to me that when men return to us from foreign missions, if they have been faithful and energetic, there is a spirit that attends them in speaking to the people that is rather above the average. I rejoice in the burning testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which every faithful returned missionary possesses. When I think of the five years Brother Baliff has spent in Belgium, and in the Swiss and German mission, and the zeal he has manifested in this work; then, when my mind goes over to Japan and I think of the eight years, next July, since Brother Alma O. Taylor left us, and seven years in June since Brother Fred A. Caine left; when I think of their continued diligence, faithfulness and willingness to serve God my heart goes out in 109  to these young men. When I think of the far off land of Turkey and realize what a very difficult and hard mission it is, and think of Brother Wilford Booth and his companions, who have labored there for five long years, my heart goes out in blessing to them. And when I realize the joy, happiness, and peace that every faithful Latter-day Saint experiences, who has proclaimed this Gospel, my heart goes out in deep gratitude to God for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which you and I have espoused, and for the sweet influence of His Holy Spirit which ever accompanies us, which ever attends and strengthens us when we are in the line of our duty. Surely it does require the Spirit of God to understand, appreciate and feel grateful for the Gospel. The world knows not of the joy, peace and haopiness that is experienced by the humble elders who go forth with zeal and energy to proclaim the Gospel. Some of the sweetest moments of my life have been in the priesthood meetings of the elders, when out in the world proclaiming the Gospel, when tears of jov have filled the eyes of every man assembled in those meetings. As I listened today to the report from the Scandinavian mission, I remembered one of the finest, one of the sweetest spirited meetings that T ever attended in my life. It was held in Christiania, where our brother, who has just been speaking, was laboring at the time, this was before he was called to preside over the Scandinavian mission. Also, as I listened to Brother Baliff. I remembered one of the loveliest conferences of the Swiss and German Elders that it was ever my privilege to attend; it lasted two . davs, and was held in Zurich. T rejoice, beyond my ability to tell, in  partaken of some of the spiritual blessings that come to every man who is striving to serve God in this Church and kingdom. 

I rejoiced exceedingly in the remarks of Brother Nibley, because the test he gave is the one by which the world, as well as our people, will be judged, viz, by their works. The Savior laid down the rule that by your works shall ye know them. From the day that the Gospel of Jesus Christ was re-established upon the earth,through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, until the present time, the works of the Latter-day Saints have been above reproach. I have often remarked that while the reputation of the Latter-day Saints is bad — because of the lying, the misrepresentations, and the falsehoods of our enemies — I rejoice that the character and works of true Latter-day Saints are above reproach, and that the life of every true Latter-day Saint is a bright and shining light worthy of the imitation of all men. 

I find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants a very short passage which reads: 

"I the Lord am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." 

I wish that every Latter-day Saint would remember these few words How I wish that they were engraven upon our memories and upon our hearts, and that we would determine that God shall be bound to fulfill His promises unto us, because we will keep His commandments. There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven — so we are told by the Prophet Joseph — before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated, and when we receive any blessing, it is bv ohdience to the law upon which it is predicted. If you and I deGENERAL CONFERENCE.  the blessings of life, of health, of vigor of body and mind; if we desire the destroying angel to pass us by, as he did in the days of the children of Israel, we must obey the Word of Wisdom; then God is bound, and the blessing shall come to us. If you and I desire that the windows of heaven shall be opened, that God shall pour out such a blessing upon us that we will hardly be able to contain the same, then you and I must pay tithing; then God is bound to give us that blessing. If we desire that we shall have influence over our children, so that they shall grow up with a disposition to love God and keep His commandments, so that they shall have the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, we must remember this commandment: "And again, inasmuch as parents in Zion or in any of her stakes that are organizd, teach not their children to walk uprightly before God, the sin shall be upon the heads of the parents." If we desire the Spirit of God, so that we can teach our children and inspire them, we must obey that law. So with all the requirements that are made of us as Latter-day Saints. 

I listened with interest to the brief remarks that were made here by Brother Winder. He read to us one of the verses of that beautiful hymn by Sister Eliza R. Snow. As he was reading it, I thought to myself, the third verse impressed Brother Winder, but the fourth verse is the one that imprssed me; therefore, I will read it. 

'What though our rights have been assailed ? What though by foes we've been despoiled? 

Jehovah's promise has not failed, Jehovah's purpose is not foiled." 

Our enemies have never done anything that has injured this work of God, and they never will. I look around, I read, I reflect, and I ask the question, Where are the men of influence, of power and prestige, who have worked against the Latter-day Saints? Where is the reputation, for honor and courage, of the governors of Missouri and Illinois, the judges, and all others who have come here to Utah on special missions against the Latter-day Saints? Where are there people to do them honor? They can not be found. Where are the people to do honor to T. B. H. Stenhouse, who wrote a book purporting to tell all about the Mormons, and who did not have the courage to sign his name to the book, but hid behind the petticoats of his wife, by attaching her name to the book. (Laughter.) Where are the men who have assailed this work? Where is their influence? They have faded away like dew before the sun. We need have no fears, we Latter-day Saints. God will continue to sustain this work; He will sustain the right. If we are loyal, if we are true, if we are worthy of this Gospel, of which God has given us a testimony, there is no danger that the world can ever injure us. We can never be injured, my brethren and sisters, by any mortals, except ourselves. If we fail to serve God, if we fail to do right, then we rob ourselves of the ability and power to grow, to increase in faith and knowledge, to have power with God, and with the righteous. 

I rejoice in hearing the choir and congregation sing all four verses of Ill  great pioneer song, "Come, Come ye Saints." It has been a source of regret to me that we seldom if ever heard that fourth verse. I remember, on one occasion, while speaking in this halLI made the request that, whenever the choir or congregation should sing this hymn, that they sing the fourth verse. As I listened to the remarks of our prophet, I was deeply impressed. He asked the question, "Are we as faithful, are we as diligent as our fathers and mothers were?" While that hymn was being sung I remembered his words; and as we were singing it, I asked myself the question, Do I feel as did our parents? — 

"And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! all is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; With the just we shall dwell." 

Do we feel that, if we die, all is well? Are we living so that if the summons should come to us, that we are worthy to go back to our Heavenly Father, when we leave this earth, and be welcomed there? Are we so living that we are worthy of the blessings we have received? I ask myself the question, Am I doing all I possibly can for the uplifting not only of myself but of my fellows, am I in very deed a shining light to the people, by reason of the example I set before them? 

In our Sunday School Union conference in this building last Sunday night, we had one of the most glorious meetings I have ever attended. Several of the speakers were given four minutes each, and they were four minutes of gem thoughts, each and every one  them. The great burden of the remarks of all the superintendents who spoke to the subject — "the needs of our Sunday Schools," — was not the need of more system, more of this, that or the other, but the great need is more of the Spirit of the Lord in the hearts of the teachers, to give that spirit to the children. One of the speakers likened this Church, and the people working in it, to an electric monument, with lights all over it; and he asked the question, "Is each one allowing his light to shine?" and it came home to me. It has been said here, by some who have spoken, that we are not doing all we can. I do not believe that any man lives up to his ideals, but if we are striving, if we are working, if we are trying, to the best of our ability, to improve day by day, then we are in the line of our duty. If we are seeking to remedy our own defects, if we are so living that we can ask God for light, for knowledge, for intelligence, and above all for His Spirit, that we may overcome our weaknesses, then, I can tell you, we are in the straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal; then we need have no fear. I am not afraid of any individual ever injuring me, but I am afraid that perchance I may fail to do my duty, that I may fail to be as faithful and diligent as I ought to be; I am afraid I may fail to use all the talents God has given me, in the way I ought to use them. 

I rejoice in the work that is being accomplished both at home and abroad. I rejoice in the manifestations of the Spirit of God, that come to each and every one of our elders who faithfully perform the duties devolving upon them. I rejoice in the fact that God opens the way and prepares the hearts of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  honest in every land and clime, wherever this Gospel of Jesus Christ has gone. It is also a source of joy and satisfaction to me that, in all my journeys at home and abroad, wherever I go, wherever I mingle with people, I am constantly receiving additional evidence and testimony regarding the divinity of this work in wheh we are engaged, As I journeyed away from home, and as I mingled with people, I would feel sorrowful if I had constantly 1 een finding objections to the plan of life and salvation, that required exertion on my part to explain away. It would be a source of regret if I were constantly finding o 1 stacks in the path, regarding the divinity of the work of God, which we have espoused. But, I have never found any such obstacles : I have never found anything that needed to be explained away : everything points to the divinity of the work. 

While listening to the remarks of Brother Ivins, referring to a book that was written by one of our enemies, in which the statement is made that there is not a particle of evidence to show that there is any trace of the Hebrew arrons? t u e people who anciently inhabited this country, and that there is no evidence that would go to prove that the Book of Mormon is true. I was reminded of a little item of evidence that came under my observation while I was in the City of London. A gentleman there, to whom a very dear friend of mine, Col. Alex. G. Hawes, had given me a letter, kindly invited a number of newspaper men to his home to meet me. I am very sorry that the newspaper men declined the honor; but I had the privilege of meeting with this man and his family, and a few friends, and convers with them. One of his friends had been a member of the British legation at Constantinople, and had spent a considerable portion of his life there. He had traveled all over the holy land, and was familiar with the people and their customs. Among other things, he said: "Mr. Grant, I was astonished beyond measure, when I visited Canada, to find there oriental patterns woven in beads, by the American Indians. They were the same patterns that were woven in rugs, in the oriental countries. I have traveled extensively, and I had never seen those oriental patterns in any part of the world except in the holy bnd, until I found them among the North American Indians. Those patterns have been handed down for hundreds of years, from generation to generation; they are kept in families, and can be found no where else; and how under the heavens those Indians, who have no connection with the people of the holy land, should have the same patterns is a mvsterv to me." "Well, mv friend," I said, "if I were to inform you that the forefathers of these American Indians came from the city of Jerusalem, that would explain it, wouldn't it?" He reolied, "Well, of course, it would." I asked him if he had ever read the Book of Mormon. He said, "No." "Well, it will be my pleasure to send you a copy, and from it you will learn that the forefathers of the American Indians came from Jerusalem." "Well," he said, "that explains the mystery; I am much obliged for the book." 

Now, the one thing for us to do, as Latter-day Saints, is to be loyal, to be true, to be patriotic, to be honest with God; then we need have no fear of what the world may say about us. We have the 113 , and we know it, thank God; we know it, though the world may not know it. Let us follow the admonition of the Savior, and let our light so shine that other men seeing our good deeds shall glorify God. 

I rejoice in the great work that is being accomplished by the Young Ladies' and Youn- Men's Mutual Improvement associations. When I realize that there are more than fifteen thousand copies a year of the Young Woman's Journal subscribed for by the young ladies, and read; and when I think of the many fine articles I have read in that monthly masrazine, and know that they are read by thousands of people, I realize that it is doing a great deal of good. It is also a great satisfaction to me to know that twelve thousand copies of the Improvement Era are going into the homes of the people, and being read by perhaps three or four times that number of individuals, because in every home reached by the Era there are an average of three or four people who read part or all of the magazines. I rejoice when I realize that the Manuals that are issued from year to year, are studied by from fifteen to twenty-five thousand young men; and that the lessons in the Journal are also studied by a great number of young ladies. It is a pleasure to note the advancement that is being made among the people, from an intellectual standpoint. I am glad to note that members are increasing in the Young Men's Associations; and I have no doubt they are increasing in the Young Ladies' Associations; and a greater interest is being taken in the books recommended from time to time as a reading course. Our young people are taking advantage of these , and are reading them; I rejoice in this. God has promised many wonderful things regarding this people. We have a marvelous destiny before us, and are gradually fitting and qualifying ourselves for that destiny. When I stop to reflect upon the fact that when chosen as a boy, not twentyfour years of age, to preside over a stake of Zion, I had not spoken in public ten minutes at any one time in my life,— I rejoice to know that today there is hardly a boy or girl in their teens who can not stand up and preach on the principles of the Gospel, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Nearly all our young people can do this, if they have been faithful in attending the Mutual Improvement Associations. 

I rejoice in the natural growth of the people of God, and in the benefits that are coming to us. As I listened to the remarks of President Smith, in his opening address, I was reminded of some beautiful words that are contained in one of the little books recommended by the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. If any of you want a copy of it, it will cost you only twenty-five cents, and a postage stamp. Write to President Charles W. Penrose, Liverpool, England, and he will mail you a copy. Now, I realize that there is nothing more tiresome to an audience than to listen to a man read. I have often been guilty of that during the past year, because it has happened that men had been writing on the subjects about which I wished to speak, and what they wrote was better than anything I could say myself. For that reason I have been guilty of wearying my audiences by reading on many occasions. But, in the hope that by reading a page or two you GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be impressed with a desire to write to Brother Penrose for a copy of the book, I am going to weary you for a little while. Brother N. L. Nelson, of the Brigham Young Univeristy, to whom I sent a copy of the book with my compliments, was so impressed with it that he read extracts to a number of the students in his classes, with the result that they sent to Liverpool for one hundred copies. I have given away hundreds of copies of this book, because it has impressed me with its worth. I consider it worth ten — yes twenty times twenty-five cents, or the twenty-seven cents that it will cost to send to England for it. The book is entitled "Great Truths." 

"Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. It is loyalty to the right as we see it; it is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always — power. 

"Truth ever defies full definition. Like electricity it can only be explained by noting its manifestation. It is the compass of the soul, the guardian of conscience, the final touchstone of right. Truth is the revelation of the ideal; but it is also an inspiration to realize that ideal, a constant impulse to live it. 

"For the individual, there is no such thing as theoretic truth; a great truth that is not absorbed by our whole mind and life, and has not become an inseparable part of our living, is not a real truth to us. If we know the ruth and do not live it, our life is — a lie." 

"Let us cultivate that sterling honor that holds our word so supreme, so sacred, that to forget it would seem a crime, to deny it would be impossible. * *  * " 

"With the love of truth, the individual scorns to do a mean thing, no matter what be the gain, even if the whole world would approve. He would not sacrifice the sanction of his own high standard for any gain: he should not willingly deflect the needle of his  and act from the true North, as he knows it, by the slightest possible variation. He himself would know of the deflection — that would be enough. What matters it what the world thinks if he have his own disapproval." 

If you and I know the Gospel is true, if we know that God lives, if we know that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, what do we care if the world falsely accuse us ? If we are honest, if we are faithful, if we are diligent in keeping the commandments of God, we know our heavenly Father and our consciences will be on our side; and that is worth more than the praise of the world; if we are not worthy of that praise, then we are under condemnation before our heavenly Father. 

"Faith in Truth is an essential to perfect companionship with truth. The individual must have perfect confidence and assurance of the final triumph of right, and order, and justice, and believe that all things are evolving toward that divine consumnation, no matter how dark and dreary life may seem from day to day. No real success, no lasting happiness, can exist except it be founded on the rock of truth. The prosperity that is based on lying, deception, and intrigue, i? only temporary — it cannot last any more than a mushroom can outlive an oak. Like the blind Samson, struggling in the temple, the individual whose life is based on trickery always pulls down the supporting columns of his own edifice, and perishes in the ruins. * * * " 

While I was in Japan, articles were published against us. One was an extract from a sermon of the late President Brigham Young, in which he said. "We have in our midst the biggest liars, the meanest devils that ever walked on the face of the earth;" so on and so forth. That was quoted in the paper. 115 

When I sent home and secured a copy of the sermon in full, I went to the editor of that paper and showed him the sequence to those words — "But with God's help we will cast them out;" do you think I could get fthat paper to publish it ? Not a bit of it. Tracts against the Latter-day Saints are circulated all over the world, clear to Japan, with this extract from the sermon of Brigham Young, (and those circulating them know they are misleading,) without the following qualifications: "God knows that we have never sustained them, that I have never sustained them, that I do not approve of them, and that we will cast them out." And yet, this is one of the weapons that is used against us; but it will fail; it will fail as such weapons always do fail. Accusations like this, that are published all over the" world, must fail when the truth is known. I called on an editor in London, who had published about ten columns of the vilest kind of matter against the Latter-day Saints, and asked him to take one single column in refutation, and he refused it. I presented letters of introduction from leading influential men in America, stating that I was a gentleman of unquestioned integrity, and that my word was as good as my bond; but he would not take a word from me. He said, "We have published all we care to publish on the Mormon question." I said, "But all you have published is lies, and I know it, and I now ask you to publish one-tenth as much truth." He declined again. His name was Robinson. I arose and started as if to leave t'tie office — I did not intend to go but I put my hat on and pretended that I was going. I stopped, when I got to the door, turned around, and  took off my two-story hat, and said to him, "My friend, if I remember correctly your name is Robinson?" "Yes," he said, "that is my name." "Did you ever hear tell of Phil Robinson?" "Yes." "Is he an honest and honorable man?" "Yes." "At the time of the first great Boer war, was he the correspondent of the London Daily Telegraph, one of your greatest newspapers?" "Yes." "Anything he would write, would you accept as truth?" "Certainly." Then I said, "Spend a couple of shillings and buy his book, 'Sinners and Saints;' then you will find that everything you have published in your paper about the Mormons is a lie." He said, "You surprise me." I said, "You are not the first newspaper man who has been surprised, when it comes to the Mormon question." Then he said, "May be you better write us something, Mr. Grant; make it brief; don't make it more than half a column." Think of the liberality of a great newspaper, one of the great newspapers of London, that had published from seven to a dozen columns of lies, and then would give only a half column to answer. I wrote it — or to be frank, I suggested the ideas to Brother Richard Shipp, and he wrote it for me. I sent the communication to them, and I got it back — as has been the case with many things that I have sent the newspapers — with a printed circular stating that the editor was very sorry, but he did not have room for it. Whenever I get one of these circulars I always think of the little saying that, "Polite lying is a gentlemanly accomplishment; it lubricates business, varnishes unpleasant facts, and promotes friendship." 

Aeain quoting from "Great Truths" GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"No matter what price a man may pay for truth, he is getting it at a bargain. The lying of others can never hurt us long; it always carries with it our exoneration in the end" 

"Truth, is not a mere absence of the vices. This is only a moral vacuum. Truth is the living, pulsing breathing of the virtues of life. Mere refraining from wrong-doing is but keeping the weeds out of the garden of one's life. But this must be followed by positive planting- of the seeds of right to secure the flowers of true living. To the negatives of the Ten Commandments must be added the positives of the Beatitudes. The one condemns, the other commends; the one forbids, the other inspires; the one emphasizes the act, the other the spirit behind the act. The whole truth rests not in either, but in both. 

"A man cannot truly believe in God without believing in the final inevitable triumph of Truth. If you have Truth on your side you can pass through the dark valley of slander, misrepresentation and abuse, undaunted, as though you wore a magic suit of mail that no bullet could enter, no arrow could pierce. You can hold your head high, toss it fearlessly and defiantly, look every man calmly and unflinchingly in the eye, as though you rode, a victorious king, returning at the head of your legions with banners waving and lances glistening, and bughs filling the air with music. You can feel the great expansive wave of moral health surging through you as the quickened blood courses through the body of him who is gladly, gloriously proud of physical health. You *vill know that all will come right in the end, that it must come, that error must flee before the great white light of truth, as darkness slinks away into nothingness in the presence of the sunburst. Then, with Truth as your guide, your companion, your ally, and inspiration, you tingle with the consciousness of your kinship with the infinite and all the petty trials, sorrows and sufferings of life fade away like temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream." 

We have truth on our side; we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ. God lives; Jesus is the Christ. Joseph Smith is a prophet of God;  every man who has succeeded Joseph Smith has been God's mouthpiece. Let us be true to God, and God will sustain us. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

President Smith called attention to the severe storm prevailing outside, and requested the congregation to express, by vote, their wish as to adjourning now, or continuing this meeting until the Conference is closed. The congregation voted in favor of the proposition. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Tribute to strong, honest character of President Roosevelt. — prospect for continuance of good government — Integrity to trust in handling funds. — Laxity in discipline of children. — The young incited to acquire nobility of character. 

I have listened with intense interest to the remarks that have been made by our brethren, from the opening of the conference until the present time. It has been a joy to me to recognize the character of the spirit, as well as the nature of the words that have fallen from the lips of each of the speakers. I trust that the impress made upon our minds will remain, and be a joy to us while engaged in the performance of our duties during- the next year. 

In looking back over the past year, I recognize the fact that the bles=ines of the Lord have abounded in large degree upon this people, as well as upon all other people of the United States, and most of the nations of the world. While there have been calamities of a serious character that have fallen to 117  lot of some of our Father's children, enough at least to signify unto us that His providences are over all, and we realize that His judgments may be poured out in His own way, and in His own time, upon any of us; yet, as a rule, joy abounds in the hearts of the children of men. 

We have recently noted the change of presidents of the United States, the passing from the presidency of this great nation of ours one of the most heroic, earnest, devoted and thoroughly honest men. His efforts toward the reformation of our land should be a joy to every American citizen. While he may, in his zeal, have made mistakes, I believe that, in the writings of historians of the future, one of the brightest names in the history of the race will be that of the man who has served this nation so faithfully and well — Theodore Roosevelt. The coming into power of another man as the executive of our nation, fully equipped for the discharge of his duties, with extended experience, and a body of able men around him, I believe presages to our country continued glorious growth and development. While it is not my thought to dwell upon the question of civil government, it is a joy to recognize the fact that the nation in which we live, which we love, and which is our nation, has demonstrated power to carry itself unscathed amidst storms and tempests, amidst financial distresses, and make successful the ministry and labor of its noble and gifted sons. 

While I stand here I desire to speak briefly upon a subject that has not been spoken of at this conference, by any of my brethren — it is the question of financial integrity, sacred regard for trusts. It oc occurs, as we note in publications over the land, that men who are trusted with public and private funds go wrong. There seems to be a lack of understanding in regard to this question of the sacredness of these obligations. I hope that within each of the schools in our state, whether state or church schools, universities, academies, colleges, or grade schools, that there shall be an effort made by the faculties in those institutions to impress fully upon the minds of our young men the sacredness that attaches to public and private trusts. It is most desirable that the principles of honor, honesty, integrity, wisdom, and right shall be written in their souls, that moral principles may be so thoroughly implanted in them, through the training they receive therein, augmented by the efforts and ministry of Sabbath schools and the various associations that have been established in the Church, so that no young man of this Church or state, who shall be entrusted with the means of another person, whether it be private or public, shall be led to misuse those funds, and do that which shall bring discredit to his name, to his family, or to the people among whom he resides. I believe that more thoughtful and earnest labor is necessary in connection with these matters, in our homes, schools, and churches, and in the various organizations that have been established all over the land looking toward the betterment and uplifting of the sons and daughters of this glorious country of ours. 

In the priesthood meeting last night, President Smith briefly made reference to propositions involved in the stricter guardianship GENERAL CONFERENCE.  our children, calling attention to laxity in governing them, and a degree of recklessness that has deveioped,along certain lines,among some of our young people. From my own observation, I feel sure that we accord greater liberty to our children than is granted by a large majority of the rest of the world. 1 feel that this matter of the care and education of our children, needs consideration in every home, ward, and stake of Zion. As I remarked before, in one of the meetings in this Tabernacle, I am fearful we are becoming too much the lovers of pleasure, and too little the lovers of God; I believe that repentance and reformation in these respects are requisites among us as a people. I believe that excessive liberty comes into my own home; I know it does; and I believe it goes into the homes of too many of this people. While in no sense of the word would I curtail legitimate and proper liberty, proper enjoyment and recreation for the young, I recognize the fact that indiscriminate mingling of boys and girls in every place, and under every condition, without the guardianship of parents, is a menace to the morality, well-being, and good of our young, a hindrance to their development and growth in the cause of the Eternal Father. My brothers and my sisters, I ask you to think upon this problem of the proper care of our children. Let us instil into the minds of our young people, who are entering upon the duties of life a proper understanding and regard for the sacredness of those obligations, that they may duly recognize the principles of virtue, honestv, integrity, honor, devotion to the right, industry, perseverance and unyielding cour, with resolutions fixed upon the uplifting and upbuilding of the race, the betterment of the whole world. 

As my brethren have said before me, I testify to the mission of the Redeemer of the world, the Son of the living God. I testify to the truth that has been established through His administration. I testify to the greatness, and to the truth in its fullness, of the work of the Almighty that has been entrusted to these men and women who are under the sound of my voice. It is the grandest and truest mission that has ever been imposed upon mortal in the history of the world. 

I plead with my brethren and sisters to think of these matters, that we may understand the obligations that rest upon us in this great work; that we may understand our duties toward our children, that elements of the noblest character shall be implanted in the souls of our sons and daughters and that the country in which we live shall be uplifted through the purity and integrity shown in their lives and ministry. Amen. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Some who have the Gospel Spirit possess worldly spirit also. — Responsibility of parents, and instructors: agency of children. — U. S. has gathered_ best people of all nations. — Nation favored of the Lord; the people should be righteous. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly with you, my brethren and sisters, during this conference. It seems to me it has been one of the most inspiring and edifying conferences that we have ever enjoyed. The weather has been good, and the congregations have been large and 119 . I am sure that we have verily been fed spiritually, and instructed, and I am now quite prepared for the transaction of the remaining business of the conference, and for its adjournment. 

The work of the Lord is so thoroughly fixed in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, that it is secure among men. It may not yet have reached its majority, or become strong enough to be very remarkable among the churches and peoples of the earth, but it certainly is so strongly established that it will never be shaken, nor moved. It will not be moved out of its place, for the Lord will sustain it; and He will sustain each of us, individually, through our faith, and having done the will, of the Lord. We not only recognize the results in the works of the people, but we know of the doctrine. The Lord has favored us, as He would have favored all men if they would have received His blessings, if they had been willing to listen to the truth and receive it. Not that we have been any more favored, particularly, than the rest of the world would have been, if they had been willing, if they had opened their hearts and their ears, and had listened. They could have known as we know, and they might have realized the truth of the doctrine, as well as to have recognized the good works quoted here_ by our bishop. 

We would like them to be able to quote a good many more good works than we have heard, in connection with us individually and as a people, for there is ample room for our improvement. We must correct the troubles that we complain of in regard to our children, and that we find in ourselves. At times we have to acknowledge that we are a little like the world, that  stray from our professions and the doctrines of life and truth. Unless we are careful, we may depart, in some particular, from the straight and narrow path. 

Although we have to acknowledge these things, yet there is being established and is established now, in the hearts of a large majority of the Latter-day Saints, a clear understanding of the doctrines that are so difficult for the world to comprehend, for the reason explained by the bishop — that they have not the spirit of this work, but have the spirit of the world. We, too, have the spirit of the world in quite liberal amount, so that we understand, as the world understands, the things of the world; we comprehend and agree in regard to them, and, like the world, we participate more or less and are engrossed in that spirit more than we should be. We should be more thoroughly and entirely under the influence and inspiration of the Holy Ghost; but we are improving in this regard. I say that the Latter-day Saints are improving, and I am not sure but there is improvement also in the world. There are many good people in the world, who are righteous, who are humble and faithful according to their understanding of the truth. 

Our trouble is, much as others, we have our agency, and our children, fust like ourselves, have their agency; and although we mav possibly set before them reasonably good examples, and be solicitous for them, prayerful and anxious for their salvation, yet they take their choice — your boys and mine, and our girls, they do just about as they please. I believe it is generallv understood, and advocated, that if we were better parents, better GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and mothers, attended more faithfully to our duties in teaching our children and training them, we would have better children. I presume there is much truth in it; but sometimes good people, good parents, have bad boys and bad girls. I understand that the Lord has more bad boys and girls than anybody else; yet, He teaches, and instructs, and inspires, and is ready to do everything He. can for them; and aren't you and I ready also to do what we can for our children. Although we may do all that lies in our power, set good examples, give good instructions, take pains to observe the Sabbath day ourselves, and have our children do the same, yet a percentage of them may be reckless, and some may go to destruction, and as a result our hearts may be broken. Tender fathers and mothers are very greatly distressed over the waywardness, of their children. It is our duty to care for our children, to look after them, to do all the good we can for them, and when we have done all that, why some of them, no doubt, will be lost — at least they will not do as we want them to do. They will exercise their agency, and some of them may listen to the spirit of evil that is in the world. Notwithstanding these difficulties, it is our obligation to take every pains in our power for the salvation of our children, for they are the children of God. They are entrusted to us, and we are responsible for teaching them, training and leading them by our example and precept in the ways of righteousness. When we have done our duty faithfully, and have been perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect, as near as we can — which I believe we can fairly well be if we will— then the  rests upon the children themselves. Parents do not rest under condemnation when they have done their duty in regard to their children. The obligation rests first with the parents, but it also rests upon the bishops and presiding officers in the wards, in the stakes of Zion, and in the Church, the leading presiding brethren, and the leading and chief sisters in the associations — a great responsibility rests upon them as well as upon the parents; they must all do their duty, so that the young people of the Church may be thoroughly trained and instructed. 

Let us take care of what the Lord has entrusted to us. He has given us everything we enjoy, the Church, the people, our families, our country. Thank the Lord for this country, of which we speak so highly, and its government — a splendid government, a splendid country; and yet there are difficulties, and troubles in the cities, the states and in the nation. We have to struggle with great questions, great difficulties, but we have the finest part of the world, the best government, and the finest people— for we have the very best people of all nations; we have gathered in this country from all nations. Ours is a gathering nation, as well as a gathering people. I do not know that there is any other nation — I do not think just now of another nation that is gathering from all the other nations of the earth. All the nations of the earth seem to be contributing to build up this nation which the Lord seems to have held in reserve; that is, He seems to have delayed the establishment of this nation, the developing of this side of the world. He has reserved this country for the accomplishment of 121 

His purposes. They are gathering to this continent, and they are gathering to this people, as to no other religious denomination^ We have represented here nearly all the civilized nations of the earth — if they are not all represented now, they will be after a little while. The choicest element seems to be moving from the old world, from among other nations, to gather upon this new side of the world — although it is sometimes regarded as the old side of the world; it has been old so long it seems to have come young again. We are developing a nation, and we are developing a people, religiously, such as is not known on any other part of the earth. 

Being thus favored of the Lord, and being called as His instruments, it behooves us to be faithful and diligent. We have been called of God; He has inspired us; He has opened our eyes and our ears, and enables us to understand. It seems that He has been unable to make others of His children see as yet, though their eyes will finally be opened. Thank the Lord that our eyes have been opened early, and that we now have the privilege of helping to build up the kingdom of God, to spread abroad in the earth the principles of truth and righteousness, to take care of the foundations of this Church which the Lord has established in our day. 

It is a wonderful thing for us to be members of this Church. The brethren sometimes say how they appreciate their membership in this Church. Why, th/ere is nothing greater, nothing finer in the world, for we are associated with the counsels, the directions, and divine inspiration and authority off th/e Father, to whom all men are ac. He inspired His prophet Joseph Smith, to lay the foundations of this work, so securely that it will never be disturbed; that is, it will never be overturned; and the work will never be given to another people,for the people who now possess it, and their posterity, and those who come to our assistance, will sustain this work, and it will never be overthrown, for God has said it. He is sustaining and directing this great work. You and T are His instruments, and we will be wondefully honored and blest in our salvation, and the salvation of our posterity, if we are faithful. Let us do our duty; da it faithfully, thoroughly, and well, so that we. shall never be condemned, nor be ashamed — through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the following report of the Church Auditing Committee: 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 2, 1909. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors, 

Dear Brethren : Your committee, intrusted with the auditing of the books and accounts of the various officers having charge of the financial affairs of the Church, beg leave to report that we have completed our labors, having carefully examined all books and accounts, and have found them accurate, and correctly kept. We further certify that all receipts and expenditures have been fully accounted for, and the details thereof given with great particularity. 

We desire especially to mention and commend the intelligent and GENERAL CONFERENCE. -like methods prevailing at the offices of the Trustee-in-Trust, Presiding Bishopric and minor offices of the Church. 

Very respectfully submitted, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, W. W. RlTER, 

A. W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, Auditing Committee of the Church 

of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 

Saints. 

Elder Hyrum M. Smith moved that the report of the Auditing Committee be accepted and approved. 

Elder Joseph E. Robinson moved to add, as an amendment to the motion, that the members of the Church, present at this meeting, hereby express entire confidence in the administration of the financial affairs of the Church. The motion and amendment were sustained by the congregation, by unanimous vote. 

ATJTHOEITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George 

Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelator s. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Church Board of Education — Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools — Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 123 

Tabernacle Choir — Prest. John R. Winder, President; Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the members. 

Auditing Committee — Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, and Henry H. Rolapp. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Faithful Elders who have died recently in mission fields. — The blessings of heaven invoked on the Saints. — Admonition to serve God. 

It is with feelings of great sympathy, on the part of the brethren who preside, and the Saints everywhere, that I have to announce that since the October conference the following deaths have occurred in the mission field : 

Brother Charles Mortenson, of Koosharem, Utah, died in Scandinavia, on January 12, 1909; cause appendicitis. 

Brother George Edwin Morris, of Mesa, Arizona, died December 12, 1908, in Samoa; cause, sunstroke. 

Brother Oliver Hansen, of Bear River City, Utah, died November 28, 1908, in Scandinavia; cause, leakage of the heart. This brother died at Chicago while en route home from his mission. 

We felt that it was our duty to mention the names of these our brethren who have fallen in the ministry, while devoting their time and the gifts the Lord bestowed upon them, in the mission field. They were faithful and true, and their memories should ever be held clear by their kindred and all the Latter-day Saints, in that they laid down their lives in the Master's service. We pray God to bless and comfort those who are bereaved more especially by their loss; and their hearts may not faint, but that they may be buoyed up in the hope of the glorious resurrection awaiting them when they and their loved ones shall, be reunited in the life and light which will never perish or again grow dim. 

I desire to express my gratitude to the Latter-day Saints who have so faithfully attended this conference. I feel to give to you, my brethren and sisters, my blessing, and to ask humbly of the Lord to bestow greatly upon you all His favors, His blessings and protecting care, that you may be prospered in your temporal labors, and that you may also be prospered abundantly in your spiritual labors and efforts to build up the kingdom of God in the earth. I trust that we may all return to our daily duties rejoicing in the spirit that has been manifested during our conference and in the excellent instructions and counsels that have been given to us by those who have spoken. Let us bear these things in mind, and go home determined more than ever to serve God and to keep His laws; to work righteousness in the earth, that our light may indeed so shine that the world may see it, and that men may be led to glorify God. 

It was announced that Prof. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

John J. McClellan, and assistants, will give recitals at 12 m. daily hereafter, on the great Tabernacle organ, to which the public will be admitted free, as heretofore. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John G. McQuarrie, and 
