Afternoon
09 10 1910



AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

John Henry Smith, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant. Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins and Joseph V . Smith, Jr. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostle's and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and 115 

David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, and Heber Scowcroft. 

Tabernacle Choir: Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmeline B. Wells, President; Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor; Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. 

Deseret Sunday Schools Union 

Board : President Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; David O. McKay, First Assistant Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, Second Assistant Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : President Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant Superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent.; Moroni Snow, Secretary. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association : Martha H. Tihgey, President; Ruth M. Fox, First Counselor; Mae T. Nystrom, Second Counselor; Joan M. Campbell, Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Maria Y. Dougall. Honorary Member. 

General Board of Primary Association : Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Olive D. Christensen, Secretary; Vera I. Felt, Recording Secretary; Ida B. Smith, Librarian; Isabella S. Ross, Physical Director; Ann Nebeker, Assistant Physical Director; Emma R. Morris, Chorister. 

General Board of Religion Classes : President Anthon H. Lund, Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Superintendent; J. D. Cummings, Secretary. 

Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah : Anthon H. Lund, President; Charles W. Penrose, Vice-President; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Joseph Christenson, Librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister, and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Grant us Peace, O God;" the duet was sung by Charles Kent and Sarah Wood. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Positive character of testimony declared by Latter-day Saints. — A Christian minister's scathing arraignment of modern churches. — Divinity of Mormonism evidenced by Saints possessing Holy Ghost. — Spiritual gifts manifest in true Church today as in olden times. 

I earnestly desire that I may have the sympathy, the faith, and the prayers of this vast multitude of Latter-day Saints to assist me in speaking to you, this afternoon. 

I have had very many reflections, during this conference, while listening to the remarks w hich have been made. From the opening address of our President to the last speech I have thoroughly enjoyed all that has been said, and it meets with my hearty endorsement. I rejoice that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I appreciate this privilege, far beyond any ability with which I am possessed to express my feelings. To know that I am associated with the truth, to know that this gospel that you and I have espoused is in very deed the plan of life and salvation; this gives to me a peace, a satisfaction, and a joy beyond expression. I have not the ability to express the joy and the deep gratitude to my heavenly Father that fills my heart, for the knowledge that 1 le has given to me of the divinity  the work in which we are engaged. 

I was particularly impressed with the remarks made here today by Brother Hyrum M. Smith, and by those of Brother B. H. Roberts. If the glorious principles enunciated by the Prophet Joseph Smith are, in very deed, true, it does seem to me that every individual who has received a knowledge of them, should make up his mind that by and with the help of the Lord he will, in very deed, seek first the kingdom, so that all of the necessary things of life will be added unto him. 

Realizing that I would, undoubtedly, be asked to speak here this afternoon, I was thinking, while coming from my home, on what theme I might be able to interest the people. I remembered reading from the Brief History of the Church, by Edward H. Anderson, a footnote, some years ago, when I delivered a sermon in San Francisco, while there with the choir. I stopped at the Bureau of Information and got the history, so that I could read it to you here. It is said that Roge* Williams refused to continue is pastor over the largest Baptist church in this country, because there was — I now quote his language — "no regularly constituted church on earth, nor any person authorized to administer any church ordinance; nor can there be until new apostles are sent by the Great Head of the Church, for whose coming I am seeking." (From "Picturesque America," p. 502.) Joseph Smith, a youth, while reading in the book of James, was impressed w ith these words: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith. nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed." He went out in the woods, and prayed to God for light and wisdom, and he declares that an evil power seized him while he was praying. When it seemed that he was about to be overcome, God, our heavenly Father, and our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, appeared before him. He remembered the object of his prayer was to inquire which of all the various Christian denominations of the day was in very deed the Church of Christ, and which he should join. The Father pointing to the Son, said: "This is my beloved Son; hear Him." Joseph Smith quotes the words of the Savior as follows, referring to the various Christian denominations : "They draw near me with their lips but their hearts are far from me. They teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof." 

Xow, the Latter-day Saints do not have a form of godliness denying the power thereof, but they have in very deed the gospel of Jesus Christ, with all the power, with all the gifts, graces, and authority that were manifest in the day when the gospel was upon the earth, when fesus Christ committed it to His apostles. I rejoice in having the truth; I rejoice in having a gospel that inspires all those who go forth to proclaim it, with a love for their follows, and with a determination to carry the message of life and salvation to the honest in heart, nocwithstanding all the opposition that may be brought against them. Ninety years have passed since Joseph Smith, a youth, announced that the Savior had told him all of the  of the day were in error, that they had gone astray, that they were teaching the doctrines of men, that their churches were man-made institutions. Recently a divine, speaking up in Montana, bears evidence of the truth of what this youtn said, almost a century ago. I read from the report of his address : 

For a long time the following questions have been uppermost in my rhyid: 

Is the church anything but a mere social organization? Is the Christianity of today the true doctrine of the Christ of the Bible? Has the socalled Christianity of today anything in it that ought to attract more than any other creed that is supposed to help humanity? Is not the church of today being boycotted and that justly? Are we not today concocting questionable schemes to operate our churches? Are the leaders in our churches truly pious and sincere? Is not the real object of the minister personal aggrandizement? — [The Lord and Master, ninety years ago, said they were divining for hire.] 

I know that such interrogations will not be very savory to many people, but knowing something concerning the church from too to bottom, and as I fear God, and would rather be true than be esteemed, I fearlessly propound them. 

The Christian community of the present is loud in its claims of vast conquest and remarkable victories. We are invited to see its acquired wealth, its tremendous expansion and to hear the clang of its enormous and intricate machine'rv. But with all of this I maintain that the Christianity of the present is face to face with a lamentable loss. The Christianity of today has acquired much, but in its getting it has lost its own soul, it has lost the Holy Ghost. No true man will dare refute this argument, for go where you may in Christendom today you will find that our religion is void of the supernatural element which the Bible claims it must have in order to exist. 

There are periods in the Christian era we look back unon with wonder and admiration. In those days men GENERAL CONFERENCE.  convicted of sin and a judgment to come. Then the more than human element was visible in our creed. Holy men had heavenly visions. Sickness was cured by spiritual power. The dead were raised. Holy men spoke with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Prison doors were opened and Ananias and Sapphira fell lifeless at the apostles' feet for playing with this power. Is the spiritual element that so characterized those days an ancient relic of something worn out like a garment? The commission to the early Christian teachers was that they must be imbued with power from on high and then go and baptize all nations in the name of the Holy Ghost, and that power was alwavs manifested when they performed the deed. 

The Christian religion of the present is merely a social code and has nothing in it whereby it could claim a divine origin. It is truly pitiable to behold the church religion of today trying to save this sinful world. 

We have lost our magnet. The Christ who said He would draw all men to Him if He were lifted up is disobeyed and ignored in the multiplicitv of our present church life. Since we have presented many substitutes to the world for genuine spiritual power, but they are of no more value in the saving of the sinner than an artificial heart would be in pumping blood through the arteries. We are like men trying to run an engine without steam. 

The church of today is the church of man, not the church of God. I predict its crashing to pieces like a ship on the rocks before a heavy sea, in the near-by years, unless there is a mighty turning to God in our ranks. 

We have a great educated, schoolmade ministry, but an unconverted ministry. We have a great host on our church rolls, but they are, with but few exceptions, an unconverted host. 

It is time for churchdom to do some housecleaning and remodeling. Now, while I have fearlessly declared that our present Christianity is but a shadow of its real self, still I must truthfully say that when the church is compared with other social organizations, it is far in advance of the greater number of them in a moral sense. I am willing to grant the church first  on the social and moral calendar, but I do not believe that the church of today is the true church of Christ, because it is shorn of the Holy Ghost. 

It is time we read the second and ' third chapters of Revelation and apply it to ourselves. We stand to preach the marvelous gospel of the great Christ, but are conspicuous for our weakness. God help us to find the upper room and acquire the tongue of fire. 

How I do thank God that the tongue of fire is acquired by the humble elders who go forth to proclaim this gospel and that they are able, even as were the fishermen called by the Savior to follow Him and proclaim the gospel, to warm the hearts of the people and convict them of sin and cause them to repent. The Holy Ghost, the power of God, is with all those that £0 forth to deliver this message, in every land and in every clime. The authority of God has been restored to the earth. We have it. God is with us. The Holy Ghost is with us. God bless all who labor for the spread of truth at home or abroad. We have the Spirit which they acknowledge that they lack. Roger Williams says there was no authorized church on earth. This Montana minister confirms his statement, and says that the Christianity of today is the Christianity of men; he thus bears witness that the youth Joseph Smith, told the truth when he quoted the words of the Savior that none of the churches had the true gospel. I call to mind attending a conference at Bradford, England, of two hundred and fifty odd elders, many of them young men. without experience, some of whom had never stood upon their feet in their lives to proclaim the gospel, until they reached the Liverpool office; and the Spirit of God was so 119  poured out upon the men who spoke there, that tears of gratitude ran down the cheeks of nearly every one present. I recall being present, recently, at a fast meeting in memorial cottage at the monument erected to the memory of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, when many tears of gratitude were shed as the elders, about forty of them, testified of the goodness of God and the knowledge which they possessed that this gospel that you and I have embraced is in very deed the gospel of Christ. 

The Montana minister says : "There are periods in the Christian era we look back upon with wonder and admiration. In those days men were convicted of sin and a judgment to come.'' In these days men are convicted of sin and of a judgment to come, and they repent of those sins, and they reform their lives, as Brother Smith said here today. This gospel of Jesus Christ has lifted up many a man who was in the slough of despair, who was in sin and iniquity, and has made of him a godlike, godfearing, upright man, ready and willing to go forth and proclaim that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Josseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that he knows it. I testify that spiritual manifestations are present in the gospel of Christ which we have embraced. Reverend Martin says that, in early times, "this more than human element was visible in our creed." The more than human element is visible in our creed today. "Holy men had heavenly visions." Men and women by the hundreds, yes by the thousands, have had visions regarding the divinity of this work, and every honest soul who has embraced it has had the testimony of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Ghost, which Rev Mr. Martin acknowledges that they do not have, is possessed by all the Latter-day Saints who are serving God. "Sickness was cured by spiritual power." I bear my witness to you that if a record had been made of all those who have been afflicted, those who have been given up to die, and who have been healed by the power of God, since the establishment of the Church of Christ in our day, it would make a book much larger than the New Testament. More miracles have been performed in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than we have any account of in the days of the Savior and His apostles. Today, sickness is cured by spiritual power. In all humility, and with gratitude to God, my heavenly Father I acknowledge freely and frankly that God saw fit to heal me, and I am a living monument of the healing power of Almighty God, which is in this Church of Christ. 

"The dead were raised." The dead have been raised. My own brother was announced to be dead, but by the prayer of faith he lives and presides over one of the stakes of Zion. I know, as I know I live, that the healing power of Almighty God, that this man acknowledges is not in any of the churches, is in the Church of Christ of which you and I are members. 

"Holy men spake with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance." I testify that the gift of tongues is in this Church, that it has been enjoyed by men and women on very many occasions. I bear witness that there have been prophecies by the voice of tongues. I stand here in humility today and acknowledge that my wife, whose body now lies in the tomb, pronounced a blessing upon my head GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the spirit of tongues, all of which has been fulfilled. I testify, also, that the gift of tongues was manifested on one occasion, when I was a little child, playing on the floor in the home of the late William C. Staines, when Sister Whitney, Sister Eliza R. Snow, Sister Zina D. Young, my mother and others of those noble women were present, whose lives are a testimony to all the world, of the purity, and the uprightness, and the virtue that there is in the Church of Christ. They were holding a Relief Society meeting. There was some singing in tongues by Sister Whitney; there was given, by Sister Snow, through the gift of tongues, a blessing for all who were there. After the interpretation by Sister Young, and after Sister Snow had blest all the sisters, she turned and blest the boy playing on the floor, and Sister Young gave the interpretation. I did not understand it, but my mother made a record of it, and twenty vears after it was given it was fulfilled. What was it? It was that the boy should grow to manhood, tli at he should become one of the leaders of the Church, and that God would bless him in proclaiming this gospel in foreign lands. I say that the gift of tongues is in the Church of Christ. I say that I am a living witness that a prediction made on my head by the gift of tongues was fulfilled twenty years after the prediction was made. 

God lives; Jesus is the Christ; Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God; Mormonism, so-called, is in very deed the gospel of Christ. May the Lord help you and me to be faithful, to be true, to be upright, to be honest, to be virtuous, to keep His command is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

A loving brother's raithful testimony. — Faith and prayers of the Saints effective. 

It is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you on this occasion. I have been very much pleased with all that has been said thus far in this conference. I had thought that, probably, I might be called to address you for a few moments, and I have tried to think of something to say, but that something did not come. I can bear testimony, however, that I know this is the work of God. I know that we are His people, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God, and that his successors in the presidency of the Church have been strictlv in the line and discharge of their duty. They have all been servants of the living God. Their testimony has been borne to the people, and! bear testimony that what they have said and done is right and proper, and has been inspired by the true spirit of our Heavenly Father. 

I was interested in listening to the remarks of my brother, in the opening session of the conference. If the people had known him as I have known him, from early vouth, even from his birth, they would not say that he said one thing and meant another. I think there is no man living who knows him better than I do. While he was a child, I carried him on my back. I watched over him as a babe, and as he grew up to manhood I have known every feature of his life. I know of his sinceritv and the truth 121  what he has said. There are many things which I might say, if I could think of them here, and I trust that through your faith and prayers, my memory may have some strength, that I may say something. 

I have been pleased with the testimonies that have been borne here. As Elder Grant has just now borne his testimony, and related some incidents in his life, so I may say that I also have a testimony in this regard. Many times I have been on crutches through accident. Twice I have been broken down physically, through over-exertion and exposure. For two or three years, I was down, as you might say, with rheumatism. At the dedication of the temple, the boys had to lift me in a buggy and take me there, and lift me out. Through the faith and prayers of the saints, and my friends, with, also, the help I could give myself, for I have always tried to live in that way and manner that seemed prudent, I am now on my feet again. 

I know that there is a God in Israel. I know that He will hear and answer the prayers of the honest. I know that He has heard prayers in my behalf, and through these blessings I am here with you today. I trust that I may continue faithful and firm in the discharge of my duty. I ask the prayers and faith" of the saints that I may so continue; that I may live long to fulfill the mission which Father has called me to perform, that I mav be a blessing to the people. May God add His blessings and guide us all bv His Spirit; may He fit and prepare us for the events of His providence, that when we have finished our course here, we may be worthy f the blessings which He has  us; this is my prayer, and I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Knowledge of God possessed by the Saints. — Individual effort to conform to God's laws. — God's Church and servants guided by inspiration. — Some persecute the Church ignorantly. — Remarkable development of the Church in future. — Blessings invoked upon the choir, the congregation, the Saints, this Government, and all nations. 

I very greatly desire the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, which has been so generously enjoyed by the brethren who have occupied the time. In my heart there has been the same feeling, the same faith and inspiration that the brethren have enjoyed; and while I speak to you I trust that you may discern that we are united, that we see alike, that we have the same spirit, the same faith, and are indeed the servants of the Lord. I have not only discovered this fact in connection with my brethren who are the chief elders of the Church, but I have discovered the same in the chief elders of the stakes of Zion, the presiding brethren, and they discover it in all the quorums and associations of the priesthood and of the people, as I have felt it in the councils of my brethren. 

I am sure that this great multitude of people, including the overflow meetings, numbering possibly fifteen thousand souls, today, is an evidence that the Lord is pleased with His people as a whole. There may be individual instances and cases, as has always been, and no doubt will be to the end, of those who do not have the favor and apGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the Lord in their conduct; but, quite generally, the overwhelming majority of the Latter-day Saints enjoy a rich measure of His Spirit. You will remember that the Lord made the statement during His ministry, as you will find in the seventh chapter of St. John, that the work is the Father's, and that if any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God, or whether it is of man. I desire to make this impression upon the hearts of those who are before me today, that the secret of the success, and the measure of union enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints, is in consequence of their doing the will of the Father, and that all who have so done not alone know of the truth of the doctrines but they know the Father, they know the Son : and the Holy Ghost has borne record to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, and has established a testimony within their souls in regard to our heavenly Father, in regard to His Son, and in regard to the Holy Ghost. Every individual member of the Church has that testimony, so far as he or she has done His will and kept His commandments. If there is anything lacking of strength and faith in their hearts, they may be weak in that testimony; but the secret of the strength of this Church, with its less than a half million members, possibly, in the world, is due entirely to the faith of the people, the faith with which God has endowed them. The measure of that faith is just in proportion to their devotion and faithfulness; and it grows stronger with the people. 

There is permanent improvement and advancement among the Latter-day Saints, when you make allowance for our waywardness, our , and sins, and the like. The Latter-day Saints are a magnificent people, gathered together from the nations of the earth, choice men and women of an independence of character, and of stamina and faith, who are willing to labor for the building up of the kingdom, willing to make all the sacrifices that are necessary, which they have done up to the present, and will do to the end. So far as we have failed and are faulty, we believe in the principle of repentance and reformation, individual repentance and individual reformation which is attending upon our lives. I confess that every member of the Church has a struggle in this fallen world. We have trials; we live but just a little season, not very long, in this life, less than a hundred vears, and we find that it occupies our attention and our best efforts in order to subdue our weaknesses and inclination to go astray; but the Lord is merciful and patient with us. He has endowed us with a witness and the spirit that bears record of the Father and the Son. as the Holy Ghost bears record of the Father and the Son. We recognize the truth of that testimony; so do we know the spirit; we comprehend it, we feel it, and when we come together on occasions of this kind, in a multitude, as we are gathered today, there is a vibration in the heart of every member of this Church and a testimony in regard to the truth. We do know — we know individually; the father does not have to know for the son. nor the son for the father, nor the mother for the daughter, but each individual soul is entitled to know the Father, and to have that witness, for the Father is revealed by the Holy Ghost. That spirit which bears roc123  of the Father and the Son, also bears record to us of His own divinity, bears record to us of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, as we have heard the testimonies here, so strong, and so beautifully given in this conference. 

I have been overwhelmed with the inspiration of the Lord and the testimony of my brethren, and so have you. I know that this congregation, and all the people who have been here and have listened, have felt the overwhelming influence of the Spirit of God in their souls, and they have a testimony. If I were to ask the question here, how many there are who know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that we enjoy the Holy Ghost, the inspiration and revelations thereof to our souls, this congregation would raise their hands, as they have done today to sustain the authorities of the Church, unanimously, and there would be no opposing vote so far as Latter-day Saints are concerned. We have not reached perfection, but we hope to reach it. We are laboring for that end, to do the will of God and to be perfect as He is perfect. That is the design and object of our living and being, and to perform our duties faithfully and well. We are under the guidance- of the Lord. He has gathered the people and has established them. He has established this Church, and it will remain and abide here, its home is here. The Lord has brought us here, and has sustained us here. He has brought you as well as He has brought me; every individual member of this Church has been brought here by the Lord. His inspiration and Spirit have rested upon the people, and they have been gathered together. 

God's servants have been inspired;  have been guided by the inspiration of the Lord, and this Church has been directed by Him. He always has at our head, and will always have at our head, from this time henceforth, a man through whom He can speak. That man is faithful and true, he is reliable and trustworthy, and he is known. The people know him, the people understand and know the voice of the true shepherd. They are not mistaken; they are never mistaken, if they listen to the voice of the true shepherd; and we have the true shepherd. We have the man who represents God, whose words are as the words of the Lord, spoken for our guidance, for the guidance of the kingdom, for the establishment of the work of the Lord, for sending the gospel to the world, to open up His work throughout the earth. The Lord always has His servant, and He speaks through him; and we listen. When we listen, we are edified, we are instructed, we are then correct in the position that we take and the work that we perform either at home or abroad. I thank the Lord for this. This work does not belong to a few brethren; it does not belong to a few of the brethren who have presided over us. It never did belong to the Prophet Joseph and his brethren, nor those who have succeeded him. They have been the servants of the Lord; but the work is the Lord's; the kingdom is the Lord's; and the kingdom will be taken care of by the Lord, and He will preserve it, and He will not allow us to go very far astray, for we are surrounded by those who know and can understand the truth and comprehend the spirit. If we are inclined to go astray, we will soon be brought back. If we make mistakes, we will GENERAL CONFERENCE.  corrected. If we go wrong, if we transgress, we will be reproved, of course; and the Lord will regulate the kingdom, and He will use His servants in the various fields. 

At home our stakes are increasing — sixty-one stakes, all represented, I believe, with possibly one exception, all represented in this great conference — sixty stakes of Zion, and representatives of very many of the missions of the United States. It is astonishing to note the inspiration and spirit that we find among this people. The people of the world are discovering the fact that they do not possess the Holy Ghost; they are discovering the fact that they have not revelation and inspiration from the Lord. There are many men — thinking men, men of ability, men of judgment and experience, and scientific men — they are discovering that they are without God in the world; that is, that He is not with them, that they have not a testimony. I have this to say .»f the ministers of the gospel throughout the earth, I accord to every minister, so far as I am acquainted with them, or know anything about them, the belief that they may be honest in their efforts and in the doctrines that they put forth, possibly with the very best light they have. But, they arc blinded, conscientiously and honestly blinded, no doubt, as we have had experiences of that kind in the days of the Savior, as well as with nen associated with this work in modern times. You remember it was referred to yesterday, by one of the brethren, that Saul of Tarsus, afterwards Paul the apostle, was a conscientious man. an honest nan. but in the darkness of his mind, in his waywardness and lack "f information, his lack of the spir and understanding of the gospel, he delighted in the persecution of the saints, and he indulged therein. He encouraged the persecution of the saints until his eyes were opened and until he saw the light. That will be the case with us. There will be Pauls raised up among us; there v ill be men of just such experiences, and, no doubt, there have been already men with experiences of that kind, who have not known the truth, and have felt they were doing God -crvice when they were trying to destroy the saints, working against us and working against the 1'rophet Joseph. Many of those people who have persecuted us from the inception of this work have been conscientious and honest, and thought they were doing God's service. Of course, there may have I een others who knew better, men who were wilfully wicked : I do not care to say about that; but many have; in their ignorance, fought against the truth. There have been men with strong prejudices; they believed that we were deluded, and they are against us quite unanimously, because we have entertained the doctrine, the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph, that their creeds and doctrines were not pleasing but were really an abomination in the sight of the Lord. 

Now. these were not the words of the Prophet; but they were the words of the Son of God to the Prophet. He did not know- he could not tell anything, in his early life, in regard to these matters, but the Lord manifested to him that His church and kingdom were not upon the earth. The Lord gave the keys of authority and power to the Prophet Joseph; He revealed the truth, the plan of life and salvation and the Prophet Joseph laid 12b  foundations of this work, as Jesus told him to do; for, as the Father said, "This is my beloved Son; hear Him," and he listened to Him. He heard the Savior's voice, He saw Him and knew Him; and the Savior impressed Himself upon him, as did the Father, and he stood up in the midst of the world to declare the truth. He stood almost alone. Occasionally a man came to the rescue and helped him, assisted him in the translation of the Book of Mormon and the like; but even after the establishment of the Church and its organization, it was difficult for him to find men to stand by him, to be truthful, to be true and faithful. It may be said he trod the winepress alone, as nearly alone as was the Son of God Himself, so far as that is concerned, for the Savior had about Him men that were trusted and more reliable than did the Prophet Joseph. True, there was a Judas with the apostles of the Lord Jesus; but there were quite a number of brethren who fell bv the wayside, men upon whom you would have thought the Prophet could have leaned for support, Yet, he was faithful and true. The Lord was with him and sustained and preserved him until the foundations of this work were laid, and until men were prepared to take up the work and carry it along — Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, as well as the Prophet who is with us today. These men were developed under the inspiration of the Lord, and they have been surrounded by men that were trustworthy, honorable and reliable, men who have upheld their hands, and they have been successful. They will be successfull to the end. 

The Lord will take care of His  and sustain His work. He will send this gospel to all the world, and the world will receive the doctrines, eventually, and the Lord will inspire their hearts and prepare them to accept the truth. Great men will rise up and receive the truth that has been advocated and brought into the world through the inspiration of the Lord upon the Prophet Joseph Smith. Men do not now acknowledge or recognize from whence it came, but finally it will be known, and the Lord will manifest to them the truth. Strong men, great and powerful men will be found among the nations of the earth, who will sustain this work and come to its rescue. It will be magnified and enlarged and established among the children of men. It will never grow less. It has quite an appearance today  among the Christian denominations of the earth, but it will be still more remarkable in the future. The Lord will magnify us, and strengthen us, and establish His kingdom upon the earth. That is my testimony, and I wanted to bear this testimony in connection with the testimonies that have been' borne today and in the other sessions of our conference. From the opening address by President Smith, every man has borne testimony to the truth. These testimonies are reliable and they are in force in the earth among the children of men. We have had the doctrines of the gospel laid before us so splendidly and simply. 

Now, I feel to bless this congregation, and I think I had better bless this choir. President Smith. Oh, I love this choir, these brethren and these sisters here, Brother Evan Stevens and his assistants, and the organist, Brother McClellan, and his assistants. God bless you, my GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and sisters, every soul, every girl and every boy, every wife and mother, father and brother; God bless this choir. There is no such choir anywhere else in the world, and there is no such congregation anywhere else in the world. We are just a little people, not half a million; that is all there are of us; yet, there is nothing to compare with this on the face of the earth. You can't find such a sight anywhere as I see here today. Thank the Lord for'His blessings. 

The Lord bless these brethren, the members of the Twelve, the chosen twelve, faithful and true. They will endure and be faithful and true to the end. May the Lord bless the seventies, the highpriests and presiding brethren in the stakes and in the quorums and councils of the priesthood, at home and abroad; and the sisters of all the associations and societies; God bless them. God bless these brethren and sisters here and in this gallery, all around here, all Latter-day Saints, faithful and true. We have our weaknesses, but these are fairly faithful; these are the choice brethren among us, choice people; and yet. when you go into the stakes of Zion. President Smith, we find them by thousands — thousands, just as good as these. God bless the Latter-day Saints everywhere, and may He pour out His spirit upon them. God bless our friends and neighbors who live with us, who come in here and are helping us in the development of this great state and country. God bless them, and God bless the people of this nation that has preserved us and given us protection and allowed us such glorious privileges. 

It is wonderful that we have been allowed to establish the Church of 

Jesus Christ in the earth; it is wonderful; and this nation will be blest of the Lord, and the people thereof will be blest, for their generosity and goodness. Men in high places, as the president, and others that are legislators for the nation and are executors for the nation, and the judges and all will be brought to favor Zion, and God will bless them and preserve them, and preserve this nation. He will preserve this nation, and other nations that have given us recruits for we have come from all the nations of the earth, nearly all, everywhere; and we will yet come from Russia, and other parts of the world, and from South America and other parts that have not yet been proselyted. The Lord will move the obstacles, and He will send His" gospel; He will preach the gospel Himself by His Spirit and power among the children of the earth. May we live and be worthy of the trust confided in us. 

Brethren, be humble and faithful, and do not forget the Lord, and do not forget your prayers, and remember the prayers that are acceptable to the Lord. The prayers of faith will save us. The prayer of faith and the prayer that is the sincere intent of the heart will bring forth the blessings of the Lord. The reason we are not answered better than we are is because we are not as sincere, possibly, in our prayers, and our faith has not been mingled with our prayers as it should be. 1 pray that faith and the spirit of the Lord may abide richly in the hearts of the people, that the blessings of the Lord may be upon all the brethren, upon the Presiding Patriarch, the Presiding Bishopric, and the brethren who officiate among the people, and may He pour 127  His blessings upon the heads of the saints everywhere. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and keep you m the faith, and help us all to be true. God bless President Smith, that he may be healed from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. May He bless Brother George Albert Smith, and any others of our brethren who need the blessings of the Lord. May His Spirit and the healing power be upon them. May He bless the Presidency, President Lund and President John Henry; God bless these bremren, that they may dwell in the fellowship and favor of the Lord; and grant that Ave may always know the truth, as we know light from darkness, and heat from cold, I humly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Testimony of Church members equal to that of their leaders. — There are not and can not be dupes or slaves in the Church. — Our doctrines are truth and righteousness, demonstrated by; the Holy Scriptures. — Enemies of Mormonism set up and fight "men of straw." — Earnest invocation of blessings. 

I shall not attempt to address you at much length. The most that 1 could do, this afternoon, would be to emphasize and endorse, without recourse, every word and sentence and sentiment that has been spoken or expressed during the sessions of this conference, from the first to the last. I believe, with all my soul, in the testimonies that have been borne; and what pleases me most of all is the fact that there are present here today hundreds of men and, , thousands of them, and women too, in this vast congregation and others who have been in attendance at this conference, who can bear the same testimony that has been borne by the speakers who have addressed us during this conference. Some people in the world appear to have a great deal of sympathy for the poor, deluded, innocent, honest, deceived, down-trodden and misled Latter-day Saints, as they seem to regard them, and at the same time they have fierce judgment to pronounce upon their "wicked and designing leaders." I wish to say to our friends, here, that there is no man nor set of men on earth today that can mislead this people very far out of the path of rectitude, righteousness and faith in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It can't be done. Why ? Because they know the principles of the gospel, as well as their leaders do. They have borne testimony of this truth to the world, almost to a man. 

We send out to the nations of the earth two thousand elders every other year, practically, and they go abroad to the various nations full of faith and the spirit of this gospel, full of the testimony of Jesus Christ, which is the spirit of prophecy. They go out with the spirit of the gospel in their souls, to bear testimony to the world, and they do bear that testimony to the world, and they come home ripened in the knowledge of the truth, confirmed in their convictions, established in a knowledge of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and no power beneath the Celestial kingdom can turn them from it, except they transgress the laws of righteousness themselves. Other men cannot turn them aside; other men cannot conGENERAL CONFERENCE.  them. They know the truth for themselves; they have learned it in the school of experience, as well as by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost upon them. They know the truth, and the truth has made them free. There are no slaves, there are no dupes in this Church; there are no men nor women worthy to claim an honorable standing' in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who are not free men and free women in the highest sense of the word. What will be the result? The result will be that we will teach the principles of the gospel that we have received, that we have learned to be true, to our children, and we will endeavor to have them taught to our children's children to the latest generation, that our children may grow up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, in the knowledge and in the love of the truth as it is in Christ Jesus. We will teach our children to be pure in heart, to be honest and upright, to be virtuous and Godfearing. We will teach them to observe that greatest and most glorious moral law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which if men obey it they cannot look upon adultery or upon any deadly sin with any degree of allowance. We will teach them that God rides, of right in the hearts of the children of men, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and overrules in the nation of which we are a part, and in the nations of the earth. They are all subject to His power, and will bow beneath Llis rod when He shall determine to scourge the -wicked, to punish the ungodly, and to judge those that 'hear the truth and will not receive it. God will judge the nations of the earth and the people of the world, and He will mete out  and judgment and righteousness unto them; we do not have to do that. 

I thought it had long- ago been determined that our enemies, those who are fighting against the gospel, against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,had abandoned the thought that they could successfully contend with us on scriptural ground. With but very few exceptions, they have long- ago abandoned that thought. The poor unfortunate gentleman who made his binder, on this point as referred to by Brother Ivins, must have been raised somewhere in the backwoods, and had not yet awakened to the fact that his coworkers against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had long ago abandoned the hope that they could prevail against "Mormonism" on scriptural ground. They can't do it. I hey can and do contend against the Bible and the New Testament; they can and many do deny Christ; they can and many do deny His resurrection from the dead and the glorious redemption that He has wrought for the world through obedience to His word and law; they may do all that, but they cannot successfully meet us on scriptural ground. Why? Because we believe in the scripture; we are established upon the scriptures of divine truth; we are built upon the foundations of apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone. They cannot uproot us nor overturn us by the scriptures; it can't be done. 

Now, what means are they using and what means have they been using, for years, against the Church ? Ridicule, contumely, falsehood, slander, misrepresentation! Men that fight against the 129 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints build up "men of straw" and slaughter them. They advance ideas that do not belong to us, that we have never held, that we do not advocate, that are no part of our doctrine or religion at all. They conjure up these propositions in their own minds, and then proceed, with all the eloquence and fervor of their souls, to tear in pieces and destroy the images of their own minds. They do not fight Mormonism — they can't, without they fight God and the truth! The moment that men attempt to fight this Church they fight God, they fight the principles of His gospel and His truth; they fight faith in God, faith in Jesus Christ, faith in righteousness, faith in the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, faith in every principle that exalts and uplifts and ameliorates the condition of man in the world. If they undertake to fight us they fight these principles, because we have espoused these principles. They are our principles, and they are not principles of error, of injustice, or unvirtue, or of ungodliness. We do not espouse any such doctrine as that, neither do we teach it, when we are in the faith and fellowship of the Lord. 

I did not expect to talk so long. Why are you here today, my brethren and sisters? Why have you sat here and stood here, many of you, throughout the sessions of this conference? Because you know that the words that have been spoken to you, by your fellow servants and associates in the priesthood, have been words of truth and soberness, that is why you are here. That is why >' on came to this conference and remained here and kept the o-oocl. quiet order and paid the attention that you have. Who will  you away from the path of righteousness, from the testimony that you possess, from the knowledge that you have of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is, indeed, the power of God unto salvation? Who can do it? 

I endorse every word of blessing that has been pronounced by President Lyman, here, this afternoon. The Lord bless this people and all the people of the earth who desire righteousness and love truth. Especially, may the Lord bless these my brethren upon whom rests the responsibility of directing, guiding, and counseling the people over whom they are called to preside. May the spirit of presidency, of great wisdom, of fatherly kindness, of love unfeigned, and of charity brood over you, sink into your hearts, lead you to do good among the children of men, and to lift up your fellow servants and associates and the members of the Church among whom you labor, to the highest possible standard of virtue, honor, and righteousness. That is your mission, and you are qualified to do and fulfill the work required at your hands, if you will only seek the spirit of the gospel and abide in it and in the spirit of your calling. 

The Lord bless the fathers and the mothers in Israel, and their sons and daughters. May He keep our sons from error, from wicked ways and from temptations that beset them in the wicked world in which we live. May the Lord preserve the virtue, honor, and purity of our daughters, that they may be pure as the angels in the presence of God, and worthy to bear sons and daughters who shall abide in the truth, and who shall bear off, to the last, the kingdom of God, triumphantly, throughout the world The GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Lord bless our fathers and mothers, our brothers and sisters. May He bless those who preside, those entrusted with responsibility in the Church, that they may magnify their calling, honor their Lord and Master, honor the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for, as it has been said, if this is indeed the Church of Jesus Christ, then to be a member in it is greater than to be an emperor or a king. For in membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we have assurance of deliverance from sin here, and we have the promise of eternal life now and evermore, and if we are faithful to our covenants, there is no power beneath the Celestial kingdom that can take from us the crown of glory that awaits those who are faithful before the Lord. God bless you, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 





