Overflow
09 10 1910


An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, Oct. 9th, 1910. The services were presided over by Elder Anthony W. Ivins. Prof. C. T. Thomas conducted the singing exercises, in which members of the Temple Choir participated. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Lord, we come before Thee now, At Thy feet we humbly bow; Do not Thou our suit disdain; Shall we seek Thee, Lord, in vain? 

Prayer was offered by Elder Ferdinand F. Hintze. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, 

And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

All members of Church should be able to state good reasons for faithEnumeration of virtues inculcated by the Gospel.— Civil laws of this co^ntrv as binding as Divine laws. 

The Apostle Paul, among other good things which he said to the saints among whom he ministered, was that they ought always to be ready to give to any person who might ask them a "reason for the hope which was within them." In other words, every member of the Church of Christ ought so well to understand the doctrines of His gospel that they would be able to explain them, that they would be able to expound them,  be able, in case any one not a member of the Church should ask them why they were members of it, why they professed faith in Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world and had identified themselves with His Church, that they would be able to tell them. I believe that this congregation of Latter-day Saints — and it would apply also to the great congregation which is assembled this morning in the tabernacle, and to the manv thousands of members of the Church who are not in attendance at this conference — that, almost without exception, men and women would be able to give a good reason for their faith. In my opinion, in no other gospel dispensation, at no other period in the world's history, have the members of the Church at large been so well informed in regard to its doctrine; never before have there been afforded facilities so ample that men and women may learn by reading from books, and through the testimonv of the Lord's servants, what the fundamental principles and doctrines of the Church of Christ are, as in the dispensation in which we live. If there is any one of us who does not know why we are members of Christ's Church, if there is any one of us who does not understand the great work of the Lord which has been established in this dispensation of the fullness of times, it is our own fault. The Lord desires that every Latter-day Saint should have this knowledge. He desires that every one of us should enjoy the testimony of the gospel which comes to us through the gift of the Holy Ghost, by which we know that this is the work of the Lord. He desires us all to understand and be able, from our own experiences, t<>  witness to the world that the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ has in it the "power of God unto salvation." We have experienced the blessings which have come to us through obedience to those doctrines, every one of us, personally, and not because of the testimony of other men and women; I thank the Lord for this. I thank Him that this testimony is not confined to any particular class of people in the Church. I thank Him that it is not spoken in any special language, but that, wherever in the world men- and women repent of their sins, and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and go down into the waters of baptism and are immersed in similitude of His death, coming out of the water in similitude of His resurrection, the Spirit of the Lord does come upon them, and they know by the gift and power of the Holv Ghost that they have done the will of the Lord, and are engaged in His work. I bear this witness to you, my brethren and sisters, this morning; and these are reasons which I give to the world for my faith, and the hope of everlasting life which I have. 

I love the gospel of Christ, because it has taught me every virtue which men and women should aspire to. It has taught me that I must be an honest man. It has taught me that I must be a temperate man. It has taught me that I must be a virtuous man. It has taught me>that I must be a merciful man, that I must be a patient man. that I must be an industrious man; that I must love the Lord, my God, and seek in my weakness to serve him, and that as I love him so I must love and serve my fellow men. It has taught me that T must be a law-abiding man,  I must love law and order, that I must sustain and uphold and help to magnify, not onlv the law of the Lord, not only that law which is spiritual and which deals with my conscience and my acts before God, my Father, but the law of man. 

The laws of men, the civil law, is our only safe-guard and protection against anarchy, against confusion; and I thank God for civil law, by which society is controlled and governed and held together, by which the weak are protected against the strong, by which the strong are restrained, and by which the rights of men and women are protected and safe-guarded in this country in which we live, above every other countrv in the world. It is true that civil law is not always just what we think it ought to be. It is true that it does not always conform just exactly to our ideas. It is true that in the administration of civil law, administrators are not alwavs as righteous and just as they ought to be, and as the righteous would have them; but, my brethren and sisters, when we consider the complex questions which are involved in the administration of civil law, the wonder is that law makers have been able to evolve a system so just, so equitable and so nearly right according to the law of God as the civil law which exists in this country today. We must remember that civil law cannot be framed for special purposes. We must remember that in considering these cemplex questions, legislators must take into consideration the elements with which thev have to deal : that the law applies to believers and unbelievers, to saints and sinners, to Greek and Roman; to Englishmen and Scandinavian and German alike; that it applies alike to Chinese, Japanese, and East Indian who may come to this land, which has been made the land of refuge for the oppressed of all nations. So I say, when we think carefully, I believe we will agree that the civil law of our land is good. The gospel teaches me to be obedient to it, to honor it, to sustain it, and to uphold it, just as I expect to honor and sustain and uphold the laws of God. These things pertain to the gospel of the Lord^ Jesus Christ. They are fundamental, and they are good reasons to me why I should adhere to the Church for I do not find the ''power of God unto salvation," I do not find that which has in it power to redeem men and women from the sins of the world, outside of it. So I stand here and bear witness that it is true. 1 thank God that von who arc assembled know these things just as well as I do. 

May the Lord bless you and strengthen your faith, and His Spirit continue with you forever, that all of us may ne found worthy and may find our way back into His presence, 1 prav. through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President o£ Southern States Mission.) 

brethren and sisters, in serving the Lord we reap everlasting ioy. We are not striving for the praise of men, but for the praise and honor that comes from God only. We are told, on page six hundred and twenty-one of the Book of Mormon, "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." This is a great com to the Latter-day Saints. Our faith stands not in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. The testimonies we have received of the truth and divinity of this gospel do not rest upon delusions. Our testimonies rest upon the rock of revelation, ancient and modern. and r standing upon that rock we are secure from doubts, divisions and dissensions, if we give heed to the promptings of the Spirit of God, which every faithful Latter-day Saint is entitled to possess for his or her guidance. More and more, it becomes apparent that Joseph Smith spoke the truths for which the souls of men were and are yearning. We ourselves do not fully appreciate the benefit and the eternal riches that the testimony of the truth of the gospel brings to us. By the power of the Holy ( rhost we may know the truth of all things; and as John the Revelator said, "The anointing which we have received of him" (God) does not render it necessary that we be taught of men. But we are taught 1 v the inspiration of the Holy ( rhost, and led by God's servants whom He hath appointed to lead and to guide His people to edify them and to bring them to the unity of the faith. 

What has this testimony of the gospel done for us? A great many people in the world today are considerably exercised over the question whether there can be any communication from file spirit world to this world. Only a few weeks ago an eminent scientist and philosopher died. He had promised his friends that if it were possible for him to do so. he would communicate with them after his death. These people are now living in a state of expectancv. filled with  spirit of curiosity and doubt, awaiting- the fulfillment of that promise. Brethren and sisters, the inspiration of the Holy Ghost has given us an assurance l a knowledge that there is communication from the spirit world to the earth. But, it comes in an orderly manner. God does not do anything merely to satisfy man's curiosity; but the testimony He gives to us and the communications we are blessed with are for some specific and useful purpose. When Stephen beheld Jesus seated at the right hand of God that testimony was given to him in order that he might be able to declare of his own knowledge that Jesus was the Christ, and that He occupied His rightful and fore-ordained place at the right hand of God the Father. So when Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris received that glorious testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon, and with it the important truth that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, this testimony was given them that they might bear that testimony to the world, to the conversion of thousands and tens of thousands of the children of men to a belief in the divine authenticity of the sacred Xephite record. 

How do I know that immortality is a reality, and that heavenly beings appear at the proper time and for the proper purpose, to God's servants? Joseph Smith testified that he saw the Father and the Son. He beheld the God of our fathers and the Lord Jesus Christ. LJnto every man and woman that hath accepted this gospel, that have received the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God hath planted in their hearts this grand testimony, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. If Joseph Smith falsified when he de that he saw the Father and the Son, think you that God would reveal unto His saints that he was a true Prophet? No. The evidence then is sure, for God does not uphold a man who testifies falsely. Joseph Smith declared that John the Baptist, the fore-runner of the Savior, appeared to him and conferred upon him the Aaronic priesthood. He testified that Peter, James and John, who were "pillars" in the primitive church came and bestowed upon him the Melchizedek priesthood, which gave him the authority to establish the Church of Christ in the earth and preach the gospel to the inhabitants thereof, as well as to officiate in the ordinances of the plan of life and salvation. Do we know that Joseph Smith spoke the truth? Yes, for the Holy Ghost hath borne testimony to our souls that he was a Prophet of God. Nay, more : you who have felt the power of the priesthood, and witnessed the remarkable growth of Christ's Church, you who have felt the power held and exercised for good by the leaders of this Church, know that these divinely appointed beings did bestow upon the Prophet the priesthood of God, and that he worked and operated under God's guidance by that power in founding this Church that shall never more be taken away nor given to another people. 

Today as in the days that are gone, this hope, this testimony, is worth all the sacrifice that we are called upon to make. We do not need to be taught of men, for by the power of the Holy Ghost we may "Know the truth of all things." John the apostle said, "every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as Christ is pure." The Latter-day Saints, imbued with this living 1 , divine hope, this glorious knowledge, this wealth of testimony, will, by right living, purify themselves with this splendid hope until they rise to life eternal, heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

This is the first time I have had an opportunity of attending conference for some few months, and I have enjoyed the conference during the short time that I have been permitted to attend meetings, although I have had some duties that have called me away. I hope, the few minutes I shall speak to you that my mind may be clarified, and that such things may come from me as a message that will build you up, something of the message that has been given by the other brethren who have spoken to you. 

I was impressed with one remark that Brother Tvins made, in reference to the duty of the Saints of God to live up to law. for it is living up to law (which is always as just as man can make it) that makes a man free. Tt is obedience to the law of God that makes a man live his higher self every day, and it is obedience to the law of our country and of our state that makes good citizens at the polls, good citizens in our homes, good citizens on the street. Obedience to the law of God and obedience to the civil law raises the saints of the Most " High God to the highest types of citizenship. Tt is one. trait of Mormonism, that has alwavs been to me a leading ethical thought, that the more we live up to law in our daily lives, the more we live up to our  selves, the freer we become, the more intelligent we are, and the better interpreters of life are we before the world. And I believe that the Mormon people, the Latter-day Saints, have already become the best interpreters of the meaning of life, of any people who have been on the face of the globe. 

A few months ago a Doctor Pfleiderer, of the University of Berlin, lectured to the students in theology, and he declared there before his class, that the world had been seeking truth for hundreds of years, and he believed that gradually had the world been finding truth; but above all, what man needs today, said the learned doctor, is not so much of delving into mystic truth that rules the universe, but what man needs is to take hold of the common man, the common self, in the every day affairs of life, and teach him to live his best life. That is what is needed, it is the uplifting of the common man. It is the making of every human being to see the divinitv and the majestv of his own power, and standing up in that majesty and in that divinity, he respects himself as an individual, and respects all other people as well. In respecting himself as an individual, he respects his divinity, he respects his virtue, his honor, he respects all men; thereby he lifts himself into that grade and that standard of moralitv and of manhood and of very soul that makes him an ideal man — makes for the best, especially of Christian men and women, makes for the best type of citizenship. We often forget this point. 

It has been decreed of every one of us that we are divine, that our souls are divine, and the organized intelligence that we possess means  we should go on to perfection, adding- each day a little to our power because of our free will to act. It is the majesty and cleanliness of the soul that the gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us, that makes this gospel so great. It is not to be wondered at today that Mormonism has permeated the nooks and crannies of the world. It is only a few months ago that a poor monk in far off Austria wrote a thesis on the rise and growth of the Mormon Church in the United States, declaring it to be one of the forces of the world with which the world has yet got to reckon. Though we are in our youth, nay. in our in fancy, we will, as we live near to God in the dignity and majesty of our own souls, become a light to the world; and the world will question us, and try to make us out, in time. I have faith that the world will yet understand us. We must remember that over a billion five hundred millions of people now living are all God's children, and God is just as anxious for the Boer or the Hottentot, or the native of the South JSea Islands — just as anxious for the misguided girl of the underworld, or the pauper of the slums in the city, to have them all come back to Him as He is for us, or for any other people. He is a God of love and though we have been taught that we are the people of God, we are only the people of God as we live God's laws, and as we live our best selves. As we live well and in truth we become the people of love, people of honor, people of integrity and honesty, who, when we give our word as individuals, will abide by that word. When we arise in the morning we will dedicate our lives to God, because it is from communion with  Father that we derive the power that enables us to live that true life, that high life, that honest life for which every Latter-day Saint should contend, yea, every Christian of the world. And we obtain the testimony of the Spirit of God through our lives. Mormonism may become a mere shell that we lay upon the shelf, it may be a mere sounding brass to each individual. We are to see that with all the acts of baptism, the administration of the sacrament, with our prayers, with our fast offerings, with the offering of tithes to God, that behind it all there stands a cleanliness, a majesty, a power of our own ^ouls and intellect, the power to know and the power to love, to worship Him, for the truth that is in Him, and to worship God, and Him crucified. That gives us the spirit of Mormonism. We obtain that spirit, the truth of it, the sweetness of it, the very marrow and the vitality of it, by our every day lives. Not the life of tomorrow, but the life of yesterday and the life of today, which go invariably to mold our thoughts for tomorrow. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, in the revelations of God to man. I believe in my country, and in my people, and in fact, in all the race, for the race is to be saved. Mormonism is no condemning influence, it is a saving; influence for every individual child of the living God. And it is an influence, in the words of President Young, that "makes bad men good and good men better." It is an influence and power that makes men good loyal citizens each day. When we live the daily life of practicability, the life of practice, we are drawingnear to our Maker. The gospel of Jesus Christ is, after all, the gospel of the deed, the gospel of the act. When Christopher Columbus stood before the learned doctors and professors of the university of Salamanca, where he had decided to appear, one of the old priors of the convent near by said to him : ''How dost thou know that by sailing west new lands may be found?" Columbus tried to explain, but failing to do so he declared it to be the light of God to him, and that by sailing west he could find new land. "T know it," said he, "because my soul teaches me the truth of it." So it is with the gospel. It is the soulresponse to life; it is the spirit of truth that we possess it is the power to live every day our best selves that makes this gospel the gospel of Christ in the deed. Though all might drift from the Church, the gospel of Christ remains true. But it is the individual members who compose it, who bring to it their best selves, their manhood and their womanhood, and their sacred honors, that give to it the refining influence that goes out to teach the world. And so the question, I think, for us to answer in our own hearts is, are we living this gospel as best we know how ? I put the question to myself sometimes. I sometimes fear, for Mormonism is so great, so majestic, so tremendous a power, that with all the knowledge we possess we cannot grasp it all. So we today should ask ourselves, Are we living our best selves? do we know for a surety? We should be able to answer ourselves. We do know for a surety, we do know that it is our desire to live this gospel as best we may. Then it is for us from today, and as it has always been from the days that the Church was organized, to begin again, for "every day is a beginning, and  day is a day of judgment." And it is for us to add a little power, add a little knowledge, to our store each day, and to let the total of that knowledge and that power go out to the world, that we may convince the world through the purity of our lives. Let us remember that this is the gospel of the deed, the gospel of the act, the gospel of thought. 

It is these things which will convince the world "that God revealed Himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith in these the last davs, and has revealed Himself since to men, to each individual heart, magnifying and manifesting to the souls of all the children of God the truth and verity of our divine birth. God wants all His children to come back to Him through the door which he has opened, and that door the principles of the gospel, the living of the gospel, which means the kindly, the loving, the goodly feeling of ourselves towards all men, toward the earth, and above all toward God. That we may sense this keenly and feel the majesty and the beauty of it, as we go from here, as we go on down through life to the end of it, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

( President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

The sweetest joy that has ever come to my heart has been in attending the general conferences of the Church. I remember from a child being anxious to come, and having made strenuous efforts in the days of my early youth to save means with which to come to this city for the purpose of attending confer. It has been to me a joy and a pleasure such as I have never found anywhere else in all the world; and for the past twenty years, nearly now, I have been to almost every conference of the Church, and have attended the meetings thereof. It has been an education to me in the doctrines of the gospel, and I cannot see how a Latter-day Saint can keep pace with the mighty progress of this work who does not occasionally at least, frequently I will say, attend the general conferences of the Church. And now that I have the privilege of coming to bear a message to you, my brethren and sisters, to help to increase your faith and to tell you of the good things of the Lord to His Church and to His servants, not only in the stakes of Zion but in the world, it becomes even a more pleasant and easy, and a sweeter task, to come to this conference. I have to tell you that the Lord has been merciful and kind to us in our ministry, and is helping us in our work to such an extent that we rejoice to inform you that in the Northwestern States Mission of the Church, comparing our record for the past six months with the same six months of a year ago, with an increase of ten per cent in the number of elders, we have shown an increase of 100 per cent in our sales of the Book of Mormon, 200 per cent in the sales of other books of the Church, and almost 100 per cent in the distribution of tracts, and also 100 per cent increase in baptisms to the Church. Our hearts rejoice in the splendid spirit manifested-among the elders and in the kindly feeling of the people towards us. 

In the United States there are perhaps five millions of the eighty millions of inhabitants who do not have or hold any association or re with any Christian church. The latest statistics show that of these eighty millions only thirty millions profess Christianity in any sense. I know the majority is rather greater among those who do not lions profess Christianity in any west than, perhaps, in any other section. Indeed as we go irom house to house, it is so common, so frequent that we find those who have no regard for the scriptures. They would just as leave we should teach them from the Book of Mormon as they would that we preach to them from the Bible, because there is a lack of confidence, and a lack of interest and reverence lor the scriptures; and we have found it necessary to assume to some extent, a new line ot procedure in preaching the gospel. Indeed, I have noticed since I began fourteen years ago in the Northern States mission to preach the gospel, that there has been a wonderful change. Many people who then would have been willing to listen to the explanation of the gospel from the scriptures will not do so now; and there are many who, though you may convince them by scriptural argument, still they are unconverted because they do not believe in the divinity or sacredness of the scriptures. 

It is taught to us as elders of the Church, and I want to emphasize it to vou as we do to the elders, that the' work did not begin with the effort of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates to find what the scriptures taught with reference to baptism. In fact, as we tell our friends, we do not teach baptism by immersion for the remission of sins because the scriptures inform us that it was the practice of the apostles. Not so; we teach the doctrine of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins because no less an individual than John the Baptist came to earth, and standing upon the- banks of the Susquehannah river, said to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as he laid his hands upon their heads: "Upon you. my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels and of the gospel of repentance and of baptism" by immersion for the remission of sins," and then commanded them to go down into the water, and the one to baptize the other by immersion, and that for the remission of his sins, and he who had thus been baptized to perform the ordinance for his companion, in the same manner. Upon this we have founded the doctrine, or the practice, the doctrine and the ordinance, of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. We care not whether these scriptures have been substantiated as divine — it is a matter of little concern, perhaps, or at least not vital, that that was the doctrine and the practice of Christ and His apostles. We lay our hands upon the heads of those who have been baptized, not because the ancient apostles did that, but because the heavens have been opened and messengers have come from God and bestowed the right, the authority, and given the divine command; that no less personages than Peter James and John, those who held the apostleship, came and laid their hands upon men's heads and conferred upon them the gift of the apostleship and the power to confer the Holy Ghost upon others. We likewise do not have to refer to those scriptures to learn or to testify that Jesus was the Son of God; for we know that He was the Son of 

God though the scriptures had never spoken of Him. Though Isaiah and Jeremiah and the prophets had not spoken in a plain and unmistakable manner concerning His coming and mission among the children of men, he was still the Son of God. In the days of our Savior, there were some that said of Him : "We do not know who you are; we do not understand you. Moses we know and the prophets we know, but as for this man Jesus, we know him not." Then He said to them, "I will not - condemn you, but vou shall be condemned of those in whom you profess to believe." And then He opened to them the scriptures and read to them the words of the prophets in whom they professed to believe, how He should come, how the people should receive Him, the manner of His doctrine, and how the world should reject Him, how He should be condemned and lifted up, and He convinced them from the scriptures that they professed to believe, that He was the Christ. But He was the Christ even had He not been able to do this. And so, while we can tell the world these things, and they might to receive them on the statement, proven as we are able to prove them as these things have existed and occurred, still they say "we do not know of these wonderful manifestations, but, James we know, and Peter we know; they were witnesses of God and prophets and authorized servants." And we have to reply, like Christ said, "We shall not condemn you, but you shall be condemned by those in whom you profess to believe." And then our elders have turned to the scriptures and proved the doctrines to be sustained by the teaching and practice of the apostles, baptism by immer for the remission of sins, and so on, substantiating it by holy writ. 

We have been laboring to establish these things from the scriptures, in which many people profess to believe. But that is not the reason we teach them. Thank God, His truth is always in harmony with itself, and has been indeed in all ages of the world, when it has been properly stated, and not obscured by false interpretations. We regard, nevertheless, these scriptures with all sacredness. There is no people in all the world who have more reverence and love for them than do the Latter-day Saints. We take second place to no people in the work! in our regard and reverence for the scriptures; and yet it has not been upon these that this, God's Church has been founded. They are witnesses that we have the truth. It is in harmony with the truth as revealed anciently. But though those scriptures may be undermined by the scoffers among men, though they may ridicule them; though professors of religion may repudiate and deny the scriptures, and cast odium upon the doctrines of Christ and His apostles, and show lack of confidence in the commandment of God, that "except a man be born of the water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven" — though all these things be repudiated in the minds of men, yet it does not destroy or undermine the foundation of God's Church, or of God's truth. It is founded on the revelations of the Lord to men in this age of the world, and it will stand although the scripture may stand or fall. But the scripture will not fall, it will stand. God has given evidences to the world of the divinity of that scripture, and these evidences are in the hands of the 

Latter-day Saints. I expect to see the day when the missionaries of the Latter-day Saints will find one of their greatest labors to convince the world that these scriptures are true; and there are no people upon the face of this earth that have such an amount of evidence to substantiate the truth and the divinity of the scriptures. 

They may laugh and scoff at Mormonism all they please, yet, let me tell you, Mormonism is doing more in the world in establishing confidence in the good old Bible than all the religious denominations combined. They have not reached the point of those who refuse to believe in the miracles of scripture, to believe, for instance, that God led Israel through the Red Sea dry shod, that Christ fed the multitude with a few loaves and fishes, or that the dead can be raised, or that angels can visit the earth; but they have duplicated and demonstrated these things, in almost every instance, in this age of the world, and it is a reality, established by good and undeniable evidence. And through and by reason of that, we are proving by our lives, and by the practice of this Church, that the claims of the old prophets concerning the miracles of God, and His goodness to them are true. And then we have the witness of the Spirit to us, convincing to our inner selves, of the statements made by the founders of this Churchy that they were not mistaken or deceived, but that they actually did see and know what they declared. I have not seen with my own eyes a heavenly being nor the Son of God, yet I believe with much confidence this day, that Jesus Christ does live, and that He did speak to the earth by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is recognized in the world that what knowledge men obtain in this world is obtained through the physical senses. The eye conveys to the intelligence of man that which it sees. So with the ear. There is something within that interprets all these sensations. It received its knowledge through the physical instrumentality. The physical instrumentality is not absolutely perfect. It may be that we have been deceived by the eye or the ear. But there is something which understands and interprets the impressions that come to" the eye or the ear. When brought into direct communication with the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, knowledge being received both by sight and by hearing and by feeling, that feeling or sensation that comes without the physical senses, and that which is received is not injured, nor weakened or made ineffective by the physical instrumentality, for it is perfect and guides into all truth, and I understand more certainly and more perfectly when the truth can be spoken to my soul in this way. 

When Jesus was raised from the dead, some doubted, as you will remember. But the Savior said to Thomas, "Thrust thy hand into the wounds in my hands and in my side." Then Thomas said, after he had done so, "Now I know that thou art the Christ, and that thou hast not deceived us." Jesus said unto him, "Blessed are thou, Thomas, for thou has seen and heard; but more blessed is he who believeth and yet who has not seen." Is it possible that I can know and believe as surely as Thomas did, and yet have not seen ? Yes, it is possible; I can know that he lives, and I can trust him. 

O, my brethren and sisters, when 

I think of what God has done for us, in this daily temporal life of ours; in this being that we have here, the clothing that we wear, the air we breathe, the food to eat, and all are daily given as manifestations of the munificent gifts of God. We tli ink it was a wonderful thing that He sent manna down to feed Israel; but every day we have as wonderful a miracle in the things that we have to subsist upon in this world as the result of God's munificent gifts unto us. I rejoice in the many things that He has done. Many people ask how they can trust Him, and how they can believe in the Lord Jesus Christ when they have not seen Him, or seen a miracle. You do not need to see Him. There is one thing, if He had done no other, that ought to bring forth such confidence in our hearts, and trust in him, that we could not doubt His love for us. T refer to His most precious of all gifts. I do not diminish any other gift of God to man, but I do value above all other things the gift of His Son Jesus Christ to the world. Which one of us fathers or mothers could stand, with the power to save your dear son from being tortured, and not exercise that power. But let me tell you that you cannot love him like God loved His Onlv Begotten Son in the flesh; He who had been with Him, closely associated with Him in His exalted state for ages past, who had been selected as the lamb slain from before the foundations of the world, whom He loved as we know nothing of, and then stand by and see Him in the garden of Gethsemane, weeping over the sins of the world and trying, if possible, to find some other means, that He might escape, and praying, "O Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass." Which  of you could stand and listen to the pleading of your son, "O spare me, your son," if you had the power to save him, and you would not save him? O, I am not strong enough. Under similar conditions I could not be trusted with the power to step forth and save my loved ones from death. God has not seen fit to give me the power to wield it. When He strikes our loved ones, we could not be trusted with it. We would be tempted to exercise it, no matter what the consequences might be. But here, the Father had the power, and yet He listened to that Son : "O Father, let it pass, if possible. Is there not some other way? Can I not do the work acceptably to Thee without passing through this?" But He answered Him not as to any other way; and the Son pleaded until, we are told, the blood coursed down His face, so intense was His agony, and He reached a conclusion — "Let it pass, if possible; but, Father, not my will but Thine, O God, be done." 'When He had done this, He reached the height of His achievement, after He had submitted Himself absolutely to the will of God, and became in that a pattern to all men. The Fathstood by, and watched that beloved Son dragged forth from the garden. Christ was able to withstand the help that was offered. Peter struck off the ear of one of the soldiers, and the Savior said, "Put up thy sword, Peter. Thinkest thou that I cannot even now call legions of angels to my help." But He did not. The Father could have sent multitudes of angels, but He did not. Fie was God; that was His beloved Son. God saw the crown of cruel thorns put upon His head, and pushed down till it lacerated His brow. He saw, the next day,  faint and worn from physical exertion, the cross was placed upon the back of His beloved Son. He saw His Son, fainting, fall in the street under the pressure of that cross. He saw that Son next stretched upon the cross, and the nails driven into His flesh. He saw the quivering flesh, wounded and bleeding, of His beloved Son. Aye, He saw the life blood of His beloved Son streaming and gushing out, and He stopped it not. He saw Him next extended between heaven and earth, on either side of Him a malefactor, and listened to the taunts of those who said, "If thou be the Son of God, come down; thou hast saved others, why not save thyself." I imagine that He had looked upon that Son until even the Father could not stand it, and He turned to some secluded spot and bowed and wept for the suffering of His Son, until, in the last agonizing throes of terrible suffering He cried, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" O I am so thankful in my heart that whatever doubts may have risen in His heart as He looked noon the suffering of His Son — "Shall I save him, or shall I allow him to suffer and die for the world ?" O, I thank God that He decided in your favor and in my favor, and by that He has redeemed us. made it possible that the grave shall not hold us, and that we can come back into His presence. OJ rejoice in that. And for that manifestation of His kindness and of His love, I shall trust Him. Yes, like Job of old, "though He slay me, still I shall trust Him." He may not answer my prayers in all things that I seek. He may deny me when He sees that I would not profit by the things that I seek. Shall I doubt Him? Shall I fail to love Him and to call upon Him, because I do not get what I want. Or, shall I feel that He loves me not? No; for this kind manifestation of His loving kindness to me I shall trust Him^ though He slay me. I shall still believe in Him, for He has given a manifestation of that love that will last me through all time and all eternities to come. I know, my brethren and sisters, that though I may, and you may, be disappointed in some things, in the end we shall all be satisfied with that which the Lord has done for us. I rejoice in these things, and rejoice in the testimony that I have. It makes me feel that after the sacrifices we have made, and through the earnestness we exhibit in helping to carry this message we will be given a hope and that fullness of love that we cannot help loving the world, or loving the souls of the children of men. 

I sometimes think that, if some of our brethren and sisters who have been upon missions could just think a little more of the spirit that possessed them, when they went from door to door seeking the souls of the children of men, to save men, that we would not pass by some of those that we can help here at home. O, how we walked across mountains and through rivers, in stormy weather and under all conditions, seeking for some one to listen to us. We find some of those out in that country where I labor who have been offended here at home. Some one has not treated them just right. Thev perhaps have been themselves in the wrong; but no helping hand was reached out for them. Thev were allowed to be abandoned, and to drift away. Two weeks ae"o, I saw such a familv, that had been wandering out in the Northwest for  years, offended because of the action of some of their neighbors, and no helping hand stopped them. After I went through the house with them, and administered to a Avoman that was sick, O what joy came to my heart as I saw their joy; and they promised me that they would do their first works over again and begin anew. I can point out, all over the country there, people who could be saved and brought into the fold if we would only exercise our own energy a little more. It takes some of our best energy to bring back some of those that we carelessly allow to drift away. Here is a boy, and there is a boy, whom you could save if you sought him enough here at home. I have stood and gazed upon some of the wonderful works of nature, and I could not rejoice in them alone; I had to talk to the stranger by my side as I have looked at the beautiful waterfall. I have had to speak of them, or my soul could not contain itself, in enjoying these alone. So I feel when I contemplate the glorious truths of the gospel, I must give expression of them to some one else, I must find some of the children of men who will listen to me, and if possible get them to see the beauties that I examine with so much pleasure, that have given me so much ioy. But, brethren and sisters, I hope that the spirit of love and of seeking for the kingdom of God, not only in our own interest but in the interest of our brethren and sisters and friends at home shall orevail in our hearts. And those of us who have been upon missions, let us ask ourselves if it is not possible to aid somebody in our own neighborhood and do some good in this direction. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that it will give you the sweetest . As you know it gave you joy in the mission field, so it will give you joy at home. 

I bear witness to you that the leaders of this Church are standing in the right place, and that their counsel and advice to the Latter-day Saints is true, and ought to be followed. I am willing to stand bv the revelations of God and the teachings of His servants of this Church, though it may take me within the jaws of death. I will stand up before the world and defend the leaders of this Church in their attitude and in their counsels and instructions to the people. I have confidence in them, that they have not deceived the world. I would rather die, yes, and give my life over and over again, than become a traitor, or be untrue to men in the pledges and the promises that I make, and I know the integrity of these men, that they are true and faithful before God and this people. 

May God bless us, that we may have confidence and love for each other, and the fullest confidence for our brethren who are called to preside over us; and may the spirit of this glorious work grow in our lives and hearts, until we become firmly established, eventually, in the Church and kingdom of God. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH JOSEPH E. TAYLOR 

I have no doubt whatever that this large congregation of people would have taken great satisfaction in being seated in the large tabernacle, and yet I want to bear testimony to you this morning (and I think I shall find a universal response to that testimony) that the  of this conference has made itself manifest in the utterances of the brethren who have spoken to us. I have attended, if I am not mistaken, one hundred and twenty-six conferences of this Church, in Salt Lake City, every conference and every session of every conference in that large number, the times that I have been to conference, with the exception of the occasions that I have been away filling other appointments. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, the burden of the testimonies that have been borne and the remarks that have been made, can be couched in a very few words. I am reminded of the counsels that have been given to the Church many times by the servants of God in relation to this matter, and especially the counsel President Young gave on the banks of the Missouri river in 1848, just before he returned to the valleys of the mountains, "Get the Spirit of God and keep it." 

Let me bring one thing to your attention to emphasize the remarks that have been made, and to give, to you an idea of the necessity of your cultivating within yourselves this Holy Spirit. How many are there today to be found in all Israel who can say to you, "I listened to the voice of a prophet of this dispensation, and my heart was elevated, my mind was rested, and I felt influenced and expanded under the utterances that he gave and truths that he declared to us." You cast around and ask yourselves, how many are there who can testify to the choice words and gems that fell from the lips of the Prophet of this last dispensation? Pardon me if I go into the quorum of the presidency of the Church, and then to the quorum of the twelve apostles, and follow down through the organizations of the holy priesthood. How scarce indeed are those who can be found who can say that I saw Joseph the Prophet and heard his voice, and quote to us some of his choice sayings and instructions. And in this connection. I am reminded of what occurred with the Savior and with Peter, when they were challenged as to what the outside world said of the Savior of the world; and when this representation had been given, the Savior turned to Peter, and he said to him : "Whom dost thou say that I am ?" Peter replied, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona," was the answer He gave, "flesh and blood hath not revealed this to thee." You have seen me with your natural eyes; you have heard me with your natural ears, you have felt me with the natural sense of feeling that vou possess; you have listened to my voice and instructions, but all this experience has not given to you that testimony that you possess, that knowledge that you possess, that I am the Christ. Hence the correctness of one of the speakers today in relation to these natural senses of ours. Now the body of this Church, the tens of thousands of it, in the midst of the organized stakes of Zion, as well as those that are scattered abroad among the nations, are largely if not entirely dependent upon the power of the Holy Ghost to give to them the assurance and the knowledge that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, and to give to them the assurance and the knowledge that Joseph Smith, God's choice, and by appointment, became the prophet, the seer and the revelator of the last dispensation. I am aware that Joseph is on the other  today. But, as we sing in our hymn every once in a while, "he holds the keys for ever;" and if we could see him on the other side of the veil in the councils of the just, you would hear his voice lifted up in behalf of this people, the keys for whose salvation and resurrection are in his hands.* 

Now we come to those who have followed Joseph. Those of us who were acquainted with President Young and his ministrations among the people, and those of his successors. President Taylor. President Woodruff, President Snow, can we not testify that those men in their ministrations to us reflected the Prophet Joseph ? Did we not give reverence to their counsels and to their instructions? Did we not sustain them as we should sustain them, as the representatives of our Father, as the representatives of the Prophet Joseph in the midst of the people? Yes. And while my heart was made to rejoice in the testimonv tint our present President, Joseph F. Smith, bore concerning his labo among this people up to date, and especially since he occupied the position of President, yet I want to follow him still farther. Do you know that the inspiration of God is in that man and dwells there? Do I know that he has the word of the Lord to deliver to this people, exactly suite' to conditions and circumstances as they present themselves? Do I' know that the true inspiration of heaven rests upon him? Yes, I know it. I make my deposit bv mv confidence in that man. as I would make my deposit of money in the bank; and I go to that place of deposit to draw therefrom that which I have placed there, together with the interest that accumulates because of that deposit. This is the  that I wish to bear concerning our present President. The strength of Brigham Young, let me tell you, consisted largely — shall I say entirely — in following along the line closely and persistently, all the days of his ministry among the people, that had been marked out by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had treasured his sayings in his heart concerning this people and their future, and he was prepared to act upon those suggestions of the Prophet, in order that there might be fulfilled in the life of the people and in their experience, the words of the Prophet. And all those other? that I have mentioned that have followed him have walked in the same path. Our Prophet today, Joseph F. Smith, has certainly reflected that Prophet of the last dispensation; and he himself, and his actions, and . his ministrations in the midst of the people, I want to say, are acceptable to our Father. Our observance of the words that come to us, let me tell you, is our strength, our power, our deliverance, our advancement, and will be eventuallv our glory. God, the Father, is essentially a creator. God, the Son, as Brother Ballard has beautifully shown today, is essentially the Redeemer. God, the Holy Ghost, is essentially the witness of the Father and the agencies employed by Him, ministers to all those who are willing to listen. That spirit talks to your spirit; it passes by your body. It desires to bring you all in subjection to its teachings, to its counsels and suggestions. It will confirm your faith in the gospel, and no matter wheth er you have all confidence in the world in the Testament, in the Bible, or in any other book, all th 1 principles that have ever been revealed from heaven will be con in you by the power of God, and you will never get an assurance of these truths short of that. 

Will you and I cherish that spirit that has been spoken of so much this morning, the burden of the remarks that have been made? If we will, we will find ourselves taught of God. When we become acquainted with the whisperings of that spirit, they will become as familiar to us as the voice of any of our earthly associates, our dearest friends: 

That God may bless us, give unto us power to seek after,^to possess, and cherish that spirit, that we may be led in the path of life and truth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Harvey H. Cluff. 


