Second Overflow
09 10 1910

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Orson F. Whitney presided, and the Temple choir furnished the singing, under direction of Prof. C. J. Thomas. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

What wondrous things we now behold, By prophets seen in days of old, Whose visions the Almighty Lord Confirmed by His unchanging word. 

Prayer was offered by Elder J. M. Sjodahl. The choir- sang the hymn : 

1 lappy the souls who first believed, To Jesus and each other cleaved, Joined by the unction from above, In mystic fellowship of love. 

ELDER LEWIS ANDERSON. 

(President of South Sanpete Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters. I can say that I feel very thankful to my heavenly Father for His blessings to us, for the great privilege that we have of assembling here in this grand conference of the Latter-day Saints, to worship God our heavenly Father. I feel thankful for the inspiration of the Holy Ghost that has rested upon my brethren, the elders of Israel, in their testimonies and their counsels unto us as His people. 

I have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ for myself. I know the truth of the gospel that has been revealed in these the latter days. I am thankful that 1 enjoy the fellowship of the Saints of the Lord, and for the opportunities that we enjoy as His people, that we can listen to the instruction of inspired men of God, filled with wisdom and with knowledge, that we can learn of His ways and walk in His paths. I was very much affected by the testimony of our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, at the opening session of this conference, and the words that he spoke, the powerful influence that attended him in speaking of himself, that he had been true to the cause of God. to his brethren and his sisters, and all the children of men. I feel, in my very soul, that those words were true and faithful. I know by the spirit of God that our leader is a prophet of the Lord, that he is a  endowed with the revelations of Jesus Christ. I feel this strongly, and I assure you that I feel to uphold and sustain him in his labors, and ask God that He will bless him and support him. When I am in the presence of men like him, the presidency of our church, the apostles that God has chosen, and other servants of the Lord, I feel that I am' in the presence of men endowed with the Holy Ghost. I am thankful for them. I thank God for His mercies unto us as Flis children. 

I have greatly rejoiced in the splendid instruction which was given this morning,- and in fact during the entire conference, and in the progress of the work of the Lord in the earth. I can discern that there has been no better time than the present for Latter-day Saints. The work of God is spreading in the nations of the earth, and I believe there is good progress made in Israel, in all the stakes of Zion. among the Latter-day Saints. There is a greater tendency to live up to the requirements of the Almighty today than there ever was in the church. There is a spirit or desire among the Latter-day Saints to more fully walk in the paths of the Lord, and keep His commandments. 

The last hymn that was sung here this afternoon, I felt to say, was an inspiration. Possibly many of the Latter-day Saints, when they received the gospel of the Son of God, felt those words burning in their souls. The gospel has taught us to be one. to be united. I take it that a great many of the Latterday Saints who have come from various parts of the earth, who received the gospel in foreign lands, have experienced that great love  their bosom when they went down into the waters of baptism, and had hands laid upon them and received the Holy Ghost. I am sure they felt that oneness and union with each other. As was testified of this morning, wherever you go, in every land and clime, wherever Latter-day Saints are abiding, there you find the same spirit. They are of one heart and mind, the spirit of love exists among the Saints wherever they are found. 

When the elders of Israel came unto us, bearing the message of life and salvation, we felt in our souls that they were the servants of the Lord, because their lives were clean, their hearts were pure, and they lived the gospel in their every day walk and conversation. That appealed unto us. And so among the Latter-day Saints today, we feel that spirit when we have the testimony of Jesus with us. We feel the same in relation to the brethren who stand at the head of the Church of Christ in the earth. As a rule all Latter-day Saints believe in the first principles of the gospel. We all believe in the principles and ordinances of faith, repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost; we all feel that they are essential to salvation, and that gives joy and consolation unto us. But it is necessary that we continue onward, that our works may be in harmony with our faith, and while these outward ordinances are kept in remembrance, we go on unto perfection, improving every day we live. Every blessing that is promised unto the Latter-day Saints is predicated upon faithfulness and endurance in the observance .of the laws that God has given unto us, being honorable in our lives, pure in our , upholding and sustaining the work of the Lord upon the earth. 

I rejoice in being able to testify that I know the gospel has been restored unto the earth, and by yielding obedience unto the same, all the blessings pertaining thereunto have been given to the Latterday Saints. The signs that were promised unto believers are enjoyed by those who live in accordance with the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We are engaged in a great work, not only preaching the gospel abroad unto the children of men, but we are also engaged in the work of redemption of the living and the dead at home, in our temples. We have a great work to perform, that we might perfect ourselves, that we might be one with the dead who are our kindred, that they might be one with us, according to the gospel that has been revealed unto us. 

I have had the privilege of laboring for a great many years in the temple of God, and I rejoice in seeing the earnestness of the living in behalf of hundreds of thousands of the dead that are being officiated for in the temples of our Lord. The number of the dead that have had the ordinance of baptism performed for them in our temples is now nearly approaching the two million mark. Temple work is not for the living only, those who are now in this earthly existence, but it is equally essential for those who have gone behind the veil and our hearts go out to them in love. The latterday Saints are obtaining the genealogies of their kindred, ferreting out their connections and relations, so that they may be able to do this. The spirit of Elijah is working upon the children of men, not only upon the Latter-day Saints but upon the children of the world, as has been testified to during this conference. Hundreds of books and many thousands of names have been printed, containing the genealogies of the people in various nations, and the Latter-day Saints are obtaining these genealogies. I know also that a great many men of leisure and of means have been wrought upon by the spirit of God to compile pedigrees and gather together the names — for what purpose they know not, but the Latter-day Saints understand that it is the working of the Spirit of the Lord upon the hearts of the children of men, that His  people may be able to obtain the names of their kindred dead, and thus be able to do Temple work for their salvation. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of the Lord that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God and that those who bear rule at the present time. President Smith and his brethren, are servants of the living God that they are faithful men in the right place. May we as Latter-day Saints uphold and sustain them by our faith and prayers and good works, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WM. H. SEEGMILLER. 

(Late President of Sevier Stake.) 

I realize it is an opportunity that should be valued by any of our brethren or sisters, to stand before the people and to testify concerning the work of our Father, in which we are engaged. I know it is the work of God. I learned it when I was a youth. In 1861, I first heard the Elders of Israel preach the gospel. My heart was pricked with what they said. I  an investigation of the truths that they taught. I found they coincided with that which was taught by the Savior and His apostles and disciples in the meridian of time I had, although young at the time, read some of the lying literature that was published in the magazines against the Latter-day Saints. I read in Harper's Weekly of Vie Mountain Meadow Massacre. I read of the killing of the "dummy" over here between the Big and the Little Mountain. I read some other things, all calculated to prejudice one against the Latter-day Saints. I did not know what kind of a people they were. But when I heard the elders preach the gospel, I wanted to know. The elders promised us that if we would obey the Gospel we should know. I thought that was a wonderfully fair proposition and, in the spirit of putting the matter to the test, my brother and I offered ourselves for baptism, and. thanks be to our heavenly Father, as I was being raised up out of the water by the person officiating in the ordinance of baptism, my Father in heaven gave me a testimony. I knew that my sins were forgiven. I knew that the gospel was restored, and the priesthood, and I knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. And O, how pleased I am to make the statement here today, that from the moment I received this testimony, I have never doubted it. It came to me with such force that all doubt was cast out, and I felt there was but one thing for me to do, during my life, and that was to labor to advance the cause of God in the earth. I have been engaged in that labor since that time, at home and abroad. 

Elder Whitney stated that I have lately been released from the presidency of the Sevier Stake of Zion. 

I was associated with the presidency of that stake for 37 years. I enjoyed my labors. I have rejoiced in seeing the fruits of my labors and that of my associate brethren and sisters. In the district of country that I have lived in great changes have taken place, from the time of first settling there up to the present time. The people settling in that country were poor people. Some of them had abandoned their homes because of Indian troubles, and they were returning, poor people in search of other land and places to make homes. At first most of our people lived in dugouts. A great change has come, and today most of them are enjoying comfortable homes. Our country there is what is known as a greasewood country, a forbidding looking part of the world. When President Young and his brethren were passing through that district, in an early day, around the camp fire he asked the brethren what they thought of the country. Some of them said they would not give a lot in the "Big Field," in Salt Lake County, for the entire country. Others, living on the Cottonwoods, in this county, said they would not give their farm there for all they had seen. The soil was red, and its appearance was forbidding. They did not know the value or fertility of it. President Young, after listening to them, made the statement that he could see facilities there for sustaining 150,000 people. I believe he was correct. I believe that when the facilities of that country are developed — and we are making good success in the development that 150,000 people can be sustained in Sevier county- God has blessed our efforts. We have been able to get the waters out upon the land, though at great cost. 

One canal that we built in that country represents an outlay of over $80,000, a reservoir that we constructed, close on to $100,000. Now the State has taken hold of another enterprise in the establishment of another reservoir, and in the enlargement of our $80,000 canal, building and extending the canal, so that it will reach a distance of about 50 miles. 

When President John Henry Smith was talking this morning about the facilities that abound in, the Uintah country, I could not help but think we did not need to go off quite so far as that. People can find homes closer than that, if they want to have homes of their own. But you know some of us are wedded to the city. I could not help but think, last night, as I was moving around your city here, what wonderful attractions you possess. Why, I could not count all the theatres and places of amusement that you are provided with. When we settle in the outlying districts, if we have anything of this kind, we must provide it ourselves. But this can be done. It is being done, and the Latter-day Saints are rejoicing 'in the prosperity that attends their efforts in the establishment of komes. 

This is the work of God. His name is written upon it. We can assist Him, but the honor and glory of achievement that will be brought about in the due time of our heavenly Father will be His. All of our labors and efforts to accumulate means, to improve our surroundings, to make them inviting and pleasant should all be made or per formed with the feeling that we are striving to advance the purposes of God in the earth. » 

The prophet Joseph Smith made known this eternal truth, that man cannot be saved in ignorance. Then, what intelligence is necessary to salvation ? Why, that intelligence that will lead to an understanding of the gospel, to living its principles, and to devoting our lives, our time, our talents and the means that God may bless us with, in the advancement of His purposes in the earth. Nothing like it has ever been established. In it is a mighty destiny, and we will triumph with Him. But if we do. it will be because we live up to the gospel that we have embraced. It 'wont do for us to persuade ourselves to doubt the Savior, as did the young man who had lived so noble a life. He had kept the commandments, but one thing he lacked. The Savior said to him : "Sell all thou hast and give it to the poor and follow me." He could not do it. He was an idolater. He loved money more than he loved the Savior and the righteousness of God, and he turned away sorrowfully. O, I hope that we will not turn away sorrowfully. What is the price to be paid for eternal riches? It need not be money, but it must be -faithful service rendered to our heavenly Father. All will receive the blessings that our heavenly Father has prepared for them, upon conditions of their faithfulness. Eternal life is the greatest gift of God, eternal life associated with eternal riches, eternal intelligence, eternal everything that is desirable, may be secured but it can only be secured by rendering faithful service to our heavenly Father. 

God grant that we may do this, that we may never become weary in well doing, but that we may avail ourselves of every opportunity that is opened before us for assisting in our Father's work, for they are opportunities leading to eternal riches. 

When we get through with this life we cannot take anything temporal with us but if our lives have been devoted to the service of God, even if when we die we go to a pauper's grave, yet are we the children of God, and will inherit eternal riches. Which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE H. BRIMHALL. 

(President of B. Young University.) 

My brethren and sisters, this is a very unexpected circumstance in my life. I shall need your faith and prayers for the few moments that I stand before you. 

I have found that one of the great ills that comes to humanity is through the incapacity to judge motive. It appears that there were intelligences in the heavens before this world was made, that were incapable of comprehending motives. There were at least some spirits there who could not judge the motive of the great Father. I fancy that there must have been a tremendous unheaval in the realm of the spirit world when that brilliant spirit — brilliant as to some forms of concepts, brilliant as to expression, intelligent, keen, active in certain lines, and yet he could not understand the motives of his Father. It would appear that he looked upon what the great Master was doing, what Jesus Christ was doing, as something calculated to rob men, or rob spirits, of their freedom. He could not comprehend that the work of his Father had been one of sacrifice, one of toil, one of labor, mental and physical, for the good of the spirits there. He could comprehend his Father only as one who used His children as instruments to enhance His own glory, regardless  the children. Now why was that? Well, it is because intelligences are bound by certain laws of the mind to measure the motive of others by the motive that would actuate themselves under similar circumstances. And I today pity myself, I pity my fellow men, when I consider or know of either myself or my fellowmen indulging in criticisms that question the motives of my brethren whom God has honored with a position of leadership in the midst of this people. They are not about questioning my motive. I have often thought, in my close communion with my brethren, that they have been daily hoodwinked. And when I study these problems that thev are working with, I can plainly see that what to me seems emphatic trust, or mis-placed trust or credulity in the honesty of men, comes from this great law that permits men to judge the motives of other men by the motives that would actuate them in similar positions. It appears sometimes that our brethren, in trusting the saints, in trusting the stranger, know no bounds of confidence that they repose in them. And why is it? Why, the laws that govern the human intelligence govern them in a consciousness within their bosoms of unselfishness in their work, honesty of purpose, nobility of character in their communion with their fellow men. I say to the world, there is no greater proof of the integrity of men than the fact that they do so trust their fellow-men. 

My brethren and sisters, I came here to this conference for one thing more especially than any other, and that was to vote. O, I think so much of my franchise, my franchise as an American citizen, to be able to speak and pray as any man; and 

I no less appreciate my franchise in this Church. I have today voted to sustain my brethren, and I hope before the Lord and His angels, that I shall not be in my household with a desire to criticize, or be in the assemblies of our University, in the class-rooms with such a feeling. I hope the walls of no other place shall echo the sound or voice of a negative criticism of my brethren. I hope it will not be heard in the home. Do you know, there are plenty to do these things. It is not our mission. I read here in the revelation of John where it says, "He is fallen, is fallen, he who accused, the accuser of our brethren before God day and night." I would not be able to go before the Lord in my prayers with any spirit of fault-finding with my brethren. I would not be able, with any spirit of fault-finding, to meet my fellow-men. I desire to sustain and support my brethren by my spirit. I want to support them. I don't want to have to say good things about them without feeling them. Is there a Latter-day Saint here today, is there in yonder building (the tabernacle) under the influence of the spirit that has dominated this meeting, the Spirit of God, that is not filled with the spirit of supporting the brethren and sisters we voted for today? This spirit should be taken to our schools, to our home meetings, and right into our own household. 

It is a splendid thing that in the economy of the gospel there is an adversary. That very adversary, will not let you nor me receive one iota of exaltation at the hands of our Father that we are not entitled to. He would stand there and say: "Stop, I demand that the law be executed here." But for all that the debts that the Savior pays for us he cannot stop, he cannot prevent us getting a reward for what we have done, for ourselves, if the Lord will, through our Savior, forgive us. Now I want to be, not simply forgiving to my brethren, but I want to be loyal. May the Lord help us to be so loyal to our brethren, loyal to their priesthood. May the Lord help me to be loyal, loyal to the covenants that I have made in raising my hand, in your presence, to sustain and support my brethren, that I may not even feel like criticising my brethren before men, any more than I would feel like denouncing them before high heaven. 

May the Lord help us to stand by our covenants, and He will ^tand by us; and He will redeem us. He will forgive us, and blot out our sins that we cannot blot out ourselves, and we will stand before Him in the eternal worlds as being one with Him, and we will not be in the attitude of fighting against the Lord, but always working with Him; which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder Orson F. Whitney presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, and they were severally sustained in positions named, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Sister Eliza R. Snow's beautiful hymn, "O, My Father." was sung as a tenor solo, by Robert H. Siddoway, to music composed by Prof. C. T- Thomas. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON. 

(Of Pioneer Stake Presidency.) 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity of adding my testimony to the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken this af. While I realize the responsibility that rests upon every one who is called to speak to the Latter-day Saints, and to testify of the hope that is within him, I do feel to rejoice and bear my testimony to the divinity of this work. I rejoice in the opportunity of attending this conference, and of listening to the sound instructions and counsels which have been given the Latter-day Saints for their welfare. I rejoice in the prosperity that is being enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints, and in the many evidences which are manifest of this prosperity, of the manner in which the Lord is blessing the Latter-day Saints, both in a spiritual and temporal way. 

I have felt and realized that while the church is growing in numbers and increasing in spirituality, there is evident also a tendency on the part of some of its members to grow cold and to fall into paths of temptation. There are so many allurements and temptations in the way of our young people that there are many who are being tempted, both in this city and in other parts of the land, some of whom are being led astray by those things which tend to lead them out of the path of truth, and to make them indifferent to the truths of the gospel, and to the importance of living in accordance therewith. 

I have had the opportunity, recently, of visiting various parts of the state, and I was struck with the remarks made here this afternoon by Brother Seegmiller, and also this morning by Brother Smoot with regard to the opportunities which are before us as Latter-day Saints and before the people generally. I feel that the Lord has blessed the people. When we consider the pro that has been made in this country, in this state of ours, in the last fifty or sixty years, we have occasion to be doubly thankful to the Lord for His blessings which He has given to us, that He has given to our parents and to those who have gone before, who have come here as pioneers, and established this people in the midst of this land. Recently I stood upon one of the foothills overlooking the Utah Valley, and the thought came to me this morning, while I was listening to Brother Smoot, of something that occurred to me there. I looked over that valley, and I can assure you, it was one of the most magnificent sights I ever beheld, to see the many manifestations of the prosperity that is attending the people generally in that section of country. While I saw the people cultivating the land and gathering the fruits thereof, I saw also that there is ample room for very many more to settle in that part of the country, as there is also room to settle in this county, and to settle in many other places in this state. There are many opportunities for us, as Latter-day Saints, of which we can take advantage to introduce industries in the midst of the people. These things, I believe, are being realized to a great extent by the Saints, and they are in line with the spirit that was manifest through President Brigham Young when he brought the people to this country, to organize the elements, to improve conditions; and while they are improving their temporal condition, to improve their spiritual condition also. 

I believe that we have great opportunities before us; and among the greatest opportunities is the improvement of the young people, the improvement of the home, the pow to draw around us the children, and to teach them those things that are for their welfare, that will establish them in the truth, and that will enable them to remain true and faithful in after years. It seems, sometimes, in looking over the conditions which prevail within the city, that the temptations and trials which our young people have to undergo, the tendency to be led away from the truth, to indulge in the pleasures of the world, and to become indifferent to those things which are considered sacred, are greater today than they ever were before, that the tendency among the people to follow those things, to be led away in youth, has increased. At the same time, I believe the opportunities which are before the Latterday Saints for the improvement of their children are such that they can have greater control and greater influence with them in their homes and families, and in their surroundings, if we exercise the spirit of the Lord, the spirit of wisdom, in our dealings with our children, and undertake to train them up in such a way that they will be a source of joy unto us. 

I have had the oDOortunity of being in the mission field. On various occasions I have partaken of the spirit of the Lord there to an even greater extent than I ever enjoyed in any other part of my life. I have rejoiced in the spirit that is manifested by the missionaries, and I feel that this spirit comes through the elders willingly taking upon themselves the labor to which they have been called to work in the service of the Lord, a willingness to make sacrifices and to go out into the world to meet persecution and pros  ecute this work in humility and!n faith. I realize that in this way our young men are strengthened and broadened in their comprehension of the truth, they obtain a reason for the hope that is within them; they can testify of the truth, declare it in plainness and substantiate it by the scriptures. Sometimes here at home, through not having had the experience, these things are, in a degree, lacking, because they have not had occasion to meet and benefit by these experiences nor be subjected to the temptations that are met with in the world. 

I believe every one of us who will endure in the truth, will be tried and tested, as the Prophet Malachi said, as by fire. He says the time will come, when the messenger (the Savior) will come to His temple, and shall sit and purify the sons of Levi, even as gold and silver are purified in the fiery furnace. We realize from this, partially, the manner in which the sons of Levi will be purified and sanctified. I believe that every one of us Latter-day Saints will be tried and tested as gold is purified, that the dross will be removed from us. We will be refined and purified through the trials that we undergo, and we will thus be developed and draw nearer to the Lord and seek to serve Him. Now, I believe that one of the things that is going to test the Latter-day Saints is the test of prosperity, the prosperity which we are enjoying and which we have enjoyed, and which the people will enjoy to a greater extent in the future. I believe this is going to be one of the strongest and severest tests to the Latter-day Saints. We find that people, generally, who are prosperous become indifferent to the things of the Lord. This has been the case in history, both sacred and profane. We learn from the Book of Mor that while the Lord has blessed the people, and has promised that if they would be faithful, He would bless them in temporal as well as in spiritual matters, when the time has come that they have been blessed in almost everything they could desire, they have become indifferent, they have lost the spirit of humility, and have reveled in the pleasures and luxuries of life, forgetting the Author and Giver. This has been the case in the history of the nations, when the people have been humble, poor, industrious, and had to labor for their living, labor earnestly and hard, they have developed those characteristics and virtues that have tended to make them great; but when they have enjoyed luxury and prosperity they have become indifferent to principles of virtue, humility, and uprightness, have been led away and have fallen. This has been the history in very many cases. I believe that while we as Latterday Saints are enjoying prosperity, through the blessings of the Lord and our own efforts, we should continue to bear in mind the importance of training our children in such a way that they also will labor for that which they obtain, because they will then appreciate that which their fathers and mothers have done to secure these things. President Roosevelt has made the statement that there are two classes of parents to be condemned those who are too strict with the children, and those who are too indulgent. Of the two, he said those who were over-indulgent were the worst, that in indulging their children, in getting them things that they did not appreciate, they were hurting them in such a way that it would redownd to the injury of the community at large, and to themselves as individuals. I  that, as Latter-day Saints, there is nothing- that will tend so much to our joy and happiness hereafter, and in this life, as to train up our children so that they will appreciate the blessings they have, and to do this they should learn to labor, and comprehend the importance of working every day, both in a spiritual and in a physical way. 

My father has expressed himself on one or two occasions publicly, I believe, that he would rather that his children should die than that they should depart from the church; and I desire to bear my testimony to this effect, that I would rather die than lose the testimony of the gospel; I would rather die than become so affected in any way that I would lose the spirit of this work, because I know that it is true. I know this work is true, and that it means the salvation of every human being who will remain true and faithful, who will covenant that he will, in humility and faith, endeavor to live up to the commandments of the Lord and the revelations that He has given, and comply with the instructions and counsels of those who have been placed to lead the people. 

I rejoice in the spirit that has been manifest in this conference, and in the testimonies that have been given to us. I rejoice in the integrity of the servants of the Lord who are called to guide this work and direct it. I know they are men of God, and that they have been blessed in those positions, that they have been placed there by proper authority, that they have received revelations from the Lord to guide them and to guide this people; and I realize that this work is progressing. The only fear I have is as to whether I will be able to remain true, as to whether you will  true, and as to whether we shall be able to exercise such an influence with our posterity that they will be true, because our salvation here and hereafter depends greatly upon our children as well as upon our fathers. As plainly stated in the revelations of the Lord, we are bound to one another, the children to the fathers and the fathers to the children. Through the revelations of the Lord concerning the sealing ordinances, we are made to realize that our salvation depends largely upon those who have gone before and upon those who ' shall come hereafter. 

I pray that we may be true, and that we may carry with us the spirit of this conference, and seek to put into effect the instructions imparted, that in going to our homes we may seek to introduce in our families and homes and communities such things and influences as will tend to develop our young people aright that they may grow in those things that are for their welfare and betterment, that they may not spend their time idle on the street corners or anywhere else, telling vulgar stories, forming vicious habits that will be fixed upon them for life, but that they will do those things that shall tend to their progress and development in all that is good in this life and in eternity. I pray that the Lord will bless us unto this end, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ARNOLD H. SCHULTHESS. 

(Of Liberty Stake Presidency.) 

I shall not detain you, my brethren and sisters, but during the very few moments which I shall occupy I desire, above all things, that I may have the attention of every person in this house and the help of the Spirit of the Lord, to bless me and to bless you. With my brethren, I rejoice in the blessings of this conference and the spirit which has characterized the various sessions of the same. While listening" to the brethren I was thinking what a variety of good things we are receiving at each conference. I venture to say that not one man or one woman has attended any or all of the sessions of this conference, who came desiring to hear the word of God, who has not been impressed, if not with everything that has been said, with some certain thing, or some certain instructions along a certain line. When we sum it all up, we come to the conclusion that whenever we come together in the name of the Lord, hungering for the word of the Lord, that the Lord always has something for each of us. 

I was very much pleased to hear the testimonies of the brethren concerning those who are our leaders. I love to hear the brethren speak well of them, because I know that that which they have said, and do say, is true. I think very often that as a people who are blessed with so many good men and good women, we are altogether too slow and too backward in speaking well of the good noble qualities of the men and women with whom we are blessed and associated. We have, in every ward, and in every stake of the Church, men and women who are devoted to God and to His work. Think of the bishops who devote so much time in an unselfish way for the good of the people, and many other brethren associated with them. Think of our sisters in the Relief Society organizations, who are called out frequently at almost any hour of the day or night — it  no difference to them when the call comes — who are always on hand to minister and bless others. And when I think of their unselfish, loving service in God's work, I feel that we do not bear testimony often enough of their goodness. You know that the Savior, when He was upon the earth, found fault with the Scribes and Pharisees, because they did honor to those who had lived long ago, and decorated their graves, but those that were sent of God into their midst they did not receive. They did not appreciate them, but even sought to put them to death. The Savior was crucified, the apostles were put to death, all except one. I do not mean to compare the Latter-day Saints with the Scribes and Pharisees to whom the Savior spoke, but I sometimes think we are too dilatory in speaking well of our brethren and sisters, as though we would say, "Yes, that is a good man, but don't you tell that to any man until he is dead, and then we will say all the good things we can about him." Let us say all the good things we can about our brethren, and our sisters, our good men and women, while they live, and thereby strengthen their influence among the people in the earth. I want to tell you that when I witness the unselfish and faithful service of our men and women in the various organizations of the Church, I lose sight of their weaknesses, no matter what or how many they are. 

I have thanked the Lord, and I do thank the Lord today, that we have men in our midst who are called of God, prophets and apostles, who hold the same authority as did the apostles and prophets of old. While Brother Penrose was speaking this morning upon this subject.  of authority, and the difference that distinguishes the Church of Christ from the various churches of Christendom in the world, I was reminded of something which I recently read in the Deseret News. I will relate it to you very briefly. The article reported the wonderful accomplishments of some of the students of a certain university in the East, in the laboratory. It reported that young men students had extracted sugar from an old piece of cloth, a piece of an old coat. They extracted sugar also from a piece of wood, and other things of such character. But the point I want to call your attention to is this : They took some wheat as it came from the field. It was ground up and separated into different substances, the bran, the flour and other elements. Then they took those various substances and put them together again, and made complete kernels of wheat, just as they were before; so that no difference, at least in their appearance, could be detected. But when they took that wheat, which they had ground, separated into its elements and put together again, and planted it in the ground and nourished and nursed it, gave it to the sunlight and shade and water that it might grow, and watched it every day, it did not grow. Life was crushed out of it. It was made up of substances which made up the kernel of wheat as it comes from the field; but by their handling it, by the grinding it and separating its elements, life was crushed and extinguished, and when they planted it that it might grow, it did not grow. It did not have within it that life-giving power. So I thought what a striking comparison it is with the religions, manmade doctrines in the world as com with the doctrine of Jesus Christ. We do not wish to say anything against the religious denominations of the world, as Elder Penrose stated this morning. We very cheerfully and gladly acknowledge all the good they do, and they do a great deal of good; but when it comes to having the truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ which is, as Paul said, the "power of God unto salvation unto all that believe," they do not possess that. That life-giving power is not within them. But in the gospel of Jesus Christ as we are blessed with having it revealed again direct from heaven, we have that life-principle; it possesses that life-giving power unto salvation unto all those that believe and obey it. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the Lord will bless the Latterday Saints, that we may learn to understand and appreciate, more and more, the truth as God has given it to us. While listening to Elder Brimhall this afternoon, I was reminded of the testimony, or at least of the words, of a very wealthy lady whom I met on my last mission in the city of Berlin. An elder succeeded in expounding and preaching the gospel unto her, and I heard her make the statement, more than once, "If I knew that this thing that you are preaching to me is of God, all my wealth and my possessions would be nothing to me. I would gladly forsake it all, if I only could believe, if I only knew as you know that it is the truth." Now, Latterday Saints, we bear testimony that it is the truth. Let us feel, as this good woman did, that when we have the truth, all other things are secondary matters with us. The truth, the gospel, is the greatest and most important thing that we possess in this life, the only thing GENERAL CONFERENCE.  will bring us temporal and spiritual salvation. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to be faithful, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON P. WHITNEY. 

Criticism of the Authorities— President Kimball's Illustration.— Why Men and Women are Promoted. — The Lord has no Favorites.— Exhortation to Charity and Loyalty. 

Before we dismiss. I wish to thank this congregation for the unanimity of the vote given to sustain the General Authorities of the Church. My heart has been touched by the appreciative remarks that have been made, and I presume I am to be excused for feeling this way, owing to the position I occupy. I am aware of the criticism and censure that are often expressed toward men in authority. There seems to be a propensitv in the human heart that leads men to find fault with their fellows who are placed in high positions. President Heber C. Kimball once illustrated this propensity thus : while conversing with a friend, he stooped and picked from the ground a twig encrusted with mud, for it had recently been raining, and holding it up, said, "As long as this little twig remained upon the ground it attracted no attention, although it had as much mud clinging to it then as now, but you did not notice it. When I lift it from the earth, however, and hold it aloft, the mud is about all that vou can see; it is with difficulty that you perceive the twig at all." 

This is human nature. It seems to demand from men in office greatter virtues, greater qualities than other men possess, and is never  of pointing out their imperfections. Of course, men in office should strive to be exemplary, but if they are not perfect, it should occasion no surprise. Who are the men and women that have been selected to hold general authority in the Church, or authority in the stakes and wards? Who are the brethren and sisters vou have sustained this day? Thev are Mormon boys and girls, of no better material than you are; yet some people seem to think a hign position ought to transform a man completely and convert him into an angel. 

Some imagine, too, that it makes every man proud to give him office and authority. I found very quickly, after being called into the quorum of the Twelve, that I had to be far more careful to recognize people than ever before, lest they should charge me with being lifted up, with "having the big head," etc. T never dreamed of such a thing. It had never occurred to me that F could be given an office that would turn my head. I never received an honor that made me feel one particle different toward my brethren and sisters. But some seem to think so. They are on the lookout for such things. They expect to be slighted; they go half way to meet it; and think they have found what they were looking for. How easy it is to find fault. 

I don't believe God ever chose any man to hold an office in His Church, that he might shine for his own sake, or because he was any better, in a general way, than hisbrethren around him. I believe there are just as good men down in the ranks as those who hold high positions. There are men serving as bishops, as high counselors, as stake presidents, who would honor 101  apostleship if called to it. The Lord does not give men and women high office because they are His pets or* favorities, or because He wishes to honor them or their families above the rest of the people. Rather is it because He can use them in those places better than anywhere else, for the general good. He needs bishops as well as apostles. He needs good, strong men out on the frontier as presidents' of stakes. All cannot be in the same place; where a man is needed, there is his proper place, and we must go where we are sent, and come when we are called. 

And brethren and sisters, if your turn should come to preside, it would be our duty to sustain you. We are asking no more from you than you would expect from us. Our duties are not always pleasant. They are sometimes very painful. We have to do things that we would rather not do; and we need the sustaining power of your faith, and the help of the Lord at all times. I thank you again for your hearty vote and unanimity of expression, whereby you agreed and covenanted this day that you would sustain these men and women, not only by your uplifted hands, but by your faith and prayers and good works. 

Now go and do it. Don't pull down the authorities of the Church. Remember what you have done this day, and also bear in mind that your turn may come to stand in high and responsible places. Your turn may come to do things you would rather not do, but that you must do in order to be true to your covenants. We ask you to sustain us just as we would sustain you, were the positions reversed. 

May the Lord bless us all with the spirit of loyalty and love for  other, and for our brethren and sisters upon whom rest heavy and solemn responsibilities, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Hark! ten thousand thousand voices 

Sing the song of jubilee! Earth, through all her tribes, rejoices — 

Broke her long captivity. 

Benediction was pronounced bv Elder Rodney C. Badger. 


