Afternoon
07 10 1910

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., in the Tabernacle. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the congregation to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! 

What more can He say than to you He hath said, 

You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled.? 

Prayer was offered by Elder William A. Moody. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that "Prophet and Seer"— 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

ELDER DAVID 0. MCKAY. 

Inestimable importance of a testimony of the truth. — Reputation for good standing in Church inspires confidence. — Truthfulness of individual testimony oroven by life. — The world arraigned by reverend gentleman. — True Saints will manifest they are governed by truth. 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah!" And praise to the people who know that he held that communion. 

The testimonies that have been 1x>rne throughout this conference Tiave been most impressive. When one thinks and realizes that the thousands of Latter-day Saints who listened to those testmonies can bear the same kind of testimony truthfully, one realizes what a blessed people we are. No greater gift or blessing can come to man in this life than a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Savior of the world, and that these two personages did actually appear to the Prophet Joseph and restore, through him, the gospel of Jesus Christ. I say that no greater gift or blessing can be enjoyed by man in this life. He who knows these things possesses the keys to the true philosophv of life. He who knows God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent, has eternal life, the greatest gift that can come to man. 

It is not my purpose to dwell upon the gloriousness of the testimony of the truth of this gospel. I want to add my own to those testimonies which have been borne in other sessions of this conference. I know that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and I thank God, this day, for that testimony. I know that the men who have been called to lead this, Christ's Church have been servants and are servants of God; and you know it, my brethren and sisters; and I rejoice in your fellowship and in your brotherhood. God belp us to be true to this testimony. 

I am reminded that when Christ was on the earth, He said to some men who also knew of His divinity, that there was an obligation upon all such who possessed the knowledge of the existence of God and of the truths of the gospel of Christ. "He that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be  with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required; and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more." So with this knowledge that the Latter-day Saints possess there comes a mighty obligation. God's people are spoken of in scripture, ancient and modern, as a chosen people, as a royal priesthood, a peculiar people, as a light set upon a hill. "Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. -Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your father which is in heaven." 

There are two virtues, I will call them principles, that I wish to emphasize, this afternoon, as worthy of our thought and our increased effort to establish them among men. The first is truth. Recently, while visiting a stake of Zion, established in a neighboring state to Utah, I listened to one part of a conversation carried over the telephone. The president of the stake was called from the dinner table to the 'phone, and this conversation followed I was told that which I did not hear, so can give it to you in full. "Do you know," said the stranger, a nonmember of the church, to the president of the stake, "do you know Mr. So and So?" "Yes." "Is he a member of your church ?" "He is." "Well, is he in good standing in your church?' "Yes.' "All right; thank you. He is here in our office desiring to borrow some money to make an investment. He referred us to you, and said he was a member of your church. If he is in good standing, we will lend him the money." Oh, that confidence! My heart rejoiced, and it rejoices today that, so far as honesty and integrity are concerned, the Church of Christ is a light. You and I grieve most deeply when we hear of a member who forgets himself and destroys, by his dishonesty, that confidence. Christ stood before Pilate a prisoner,, and was asked, "Art thou the King of the Jews?" "Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?" Pilate evaded the answer by saying, "Am I a Jew ?" Jesus answered : "Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth." In that sense truth applies to the gospel, the power of God unto salvation to all those who accept it, and Christ bore testimony to that truth. You and I today bear the same testimony, bear testimony by word of mouth that God has spoken to His sons and daughters, and restored to them the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is another way that Christ bore witness to that truth, and that was in His life. Men have called Him an enthusiast; they have accused Him of being a dreamer, an ascetic, a recluse, and other such epithets have they hurled at Him, but they are loath ever to say that Christ, the Redeemer, was dishonest or untrue. His life is a life of honesty, honor, uprightness. He was drawn to men who were honest themselves, whose hearts were pure and guileless. Witness how quickly He saw purity and guilelessness in Nathaniel. "Behold," said He, "an Israelite, indeed, in whom there is no guile." As a negative pole is drawn by the positive, the mutual attraction seemed to be here. Their souls attracted each other, as the  trickling down the flower, in the morning, falls into its brother dewdrop on the flower, absorbed in one whole. So the purity of Christ seemed to absorb, attract, draw to the purity of Nathaniel. Nathaniel was honest, upright, pure, as a follower of Christ should be. No guileless man can be dishonest. No guileless man can stoop to chicanery and fraud, deceiving a brother. I say Christ's life and His teachings always bore testimony to the truth. In our day, God has said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith : "God does not walk in crooked paths, neither does He vary to the right hand or to the left. His words are true always,, never varying from the straight path, and His words have one eternal round." To the Latter-day Saints, as God's people, he has declared that one of the fundamental principles of their belief is honesty and truthfulness. I rejoice in repeating our thirteenth article of faith. 

"We believe in being honest, true,, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men. Indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul. We believe all things; we hope all things; we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

Let your light so shine among men that they seeing your good works may be led to glorify our Father which is in heaven. In probably no more effective way can the truth be witnessed before men than for every Latter-day Saint to maintain and foster the confidence of our outside friends in a faithful member of the Church of Christ. Now r in order to do that we must be honest in all things. If we are contrac, and agree to put in such and such material in a building, let us put that material in. If we agree to the stipulations of a contract, to put in one hundred and fifty feet of radiation in the building, let us put in one hundred and fifty feet. Those are details, aren't they, but those are the details by which the men whom you deal with will judge your actions. If we are taking to market potatoes of a particular grade, and we so describe that grade, let us know that an investigation will prove our statements true. I was grieved when I heard a wholesale dealer say that he has opened sacks of produce, brought in from the farm, and found foreign material, such as rocks and dirt, placed in to make up weight. I did not ask him for the religion of those men; I asked for no name; but such things are dishonorable, no true member of the Church of Christ can stoop to such trickery. Let your light shine before men. In this world today there needs to be an ensign, a people standing out in bold relief as an example to the world in honesty and fair-dealing. I will not condemn the world, but to illustrate what I mean, I will let a reverend gentleman give his opinion of the world at large today. I quote from Mr. Jefferson, author of "The Character of Jesus." Speaking of the insincerity of the world, he says : 

"And yet how common insincerity is. What a miserable old humbug of a world we are living in — full of trickery, and dishonesty, and deceit of every kind. Society is cursed with affectation. Business is honey-combed with dishonesty. The political world abounds in duplicity and chicanery. There is sham, and pretense, and humbugery everywhere. Some use big words we do not understand, and some will claim to knowledge which they do not possess; and some parade in dresses which they cannot pay for. The  of many a man and many a woman is one colossal lie. We say things which we do not mean; express emotions which we do not feel. We praise when we secretly condemn. We smile when there is a frown on the face of the heart. We give compliments when we are really thinking curses, striving a hundred times a week to make people think we are other than we are. It is a penitentiary offense to obtain money, under false pretenses; and so from this we carefully refrain; but how many other things are obtained, do you think, by shamming and pretending, for which there is no penalty but the condemnation of Almighty God. Yes, it is a sad, deceitful, demoralized world in the midst of which we find ourselves; but, thank God, there are hearts, here and there, upon which we can ever more depend. We have tested them, and we know them to be true." 

Such hearts as he mentions at the last must be found everywhere in the Church of Christ, if we believe — not just think — "Believe" may not be so expressive as conviction or faith, but it is stronger than "think." When we say, "I believe I will do this," we do it; I do it. We do not say, "I think the Bible is the word of God." We believe the Bible to be the word of God, and accept it as such; and so when that article of faith is repeated, "We believe in being honest, true — " we take it as part of our life, that our acts may so shine among men; but there is one reason before, deeper than that, because it is right, the only way to live. Breth. ren and sisters, be honest in all your dealings. Be true to yourselves. Never be false to your honest convictions. Be true to your brethren; be true to the Church of Christ; be true to the testimony you possess; and then men must see by your good works that you do possess knowledge which they do not have. 

God help us in this and in all worthy things, to bear witness to the truth, in all the world, — I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The law of obedience. — Samuel and Saul. — Ingersoll's inconsistency. — Blasphemous presumption. — How blessings are obtained. — Abraham's example. — L/iving by every word. Will of the Lord in 1847.— "This is the Place." — How the Gentiles will capture Mormonism. — Celestial Law. 

Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. 

The speaker was Samuel the prophet, and the one to whom he spoke was Saul, king of Israel. Saul had reecived a commission from God, through the prophet, to destroy the Amalekites, a wicked and corrupt people who had lain in wait for Israel when on their way to Canaan, in the days of Joshua; and so strict was the commandment that Saul was required to spare no living soul, nor cattle, nor sheep, nor anything pertaining to that nation. But he deviated from the commandment of God; made himself the judge of which part of it he should obey, and which part he might ignore; he spared Agag, the Amalekite king, and brought him captive toward Jerusalem. He spared, also, the choicest of the cattle and the sheep, and thought to justify himself in his disobedience by making a great sacrifice to Jehovah. 

Meeting Samuel on the way, Saul was asked if he had carried out the Lord's command and replied in the affirmative. "Then what means this bleating of sheep and this lowing of cattle that I hear," inquired the prophet; and the king had to confess, to his shame, that he had not fully carried out the command, but had spared the wicked monarch and allowed himself to be persuad by the people to take a spoil and return with it to offer a burnt offering unto Jehovah. It was under these circumstances that Samuel uttered the words : 

Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. 

I wonder if King Saul was possessed of the same spirit that seems to imbue some men in these modern days. I have in mind a renowned agnostic, the late Robert G. Ingersoll, a wonderful man in some respects, a natural orator — magnetic, powerful in his influence over the people, brilliant in eloquence but shallow and unsafe in his reasonings. He took the ground that Jehovah was a murderer, because he commanded Joshua to exterminate the wicked races that encumbered the land of Canaan, and because Saul was required to slay the Amalekites. In his writings he condemns Joshua for his obedience, and lauds Saul for showing compassion toward the wicked king and for disobeying God's command. Ingersoll also declared that Jehovah was a lawbreaker, a violator of His own statutes because, forsooth, He had commanded that "whosoever sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, and then had issued commandments requiring Joshua and Saul and others of His generals to destroy the wicked nations around them. 

I have not time to dwell upon this branch of my subject; but will say. in passing, that the Giver of life cannot commit murder by taking life, and it is the supreme height of impertinence and presumption 

ELDER ORSON 

for any man to accuse God of crime. Man cannot give life, and is therefore commanded to take no life; but life can be taken by its Author without committing sin. To execute a criminal is not murder. It is equally presumptuous to say that Jehovah, the great law-giver, is a law-breaker because He chooses, at any time, to revoke one command and supersede it by another; to repeal one law and enact another in its stead. Colonel Ingersoll was a lawyer — what some would call a statesman — he knew that the legislature of any state or territory is entirely competent to enact new laws and repeal old ones; and yet he had the blasphemous presumption to accuse the all-wise and omnipotent Creator of breaking His own laws, because, having commanded that no man should shed blood, He afterwards commanded certain men to kill. I wonder if Saul was possessed of the same idea. His offense seems to have been that he made himself the arbiter and judge of the commandment that he had received; determining which part should be carried out, and which part he could disobey; an offense so serious, in the eyes of the Lord, that He rent the kingdom from Saul and gave it to another. 

It is not for man to sit in judgment upon the decrees of the Almighty. It is his duty to obey. We are told by the Prophet Joseph Smith that it is on the principle of obedience that we receive all our blessings. "There is a law," he says, '"irrevocably decreed in heaven, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obediF. WHITNEY. 51 

ence to that law upon which it is predicated." 

The example of Abraham should have been sufficient for Saul. He was commanded to slay his son Isaac; and though it doubtless wrung his heart to make the sacrifice, he was willing, and was about to make it, when he received, from the same source, another command suspending the former behest, and requiring of him that he lay not his hand upon the lad. Abraham would have carried out the first commandment, had he not received the second. And had he been unwilling, he would have been a transgressor; but, having received a commandment not to do the thing that had been commanded, if he had gone on wilfully and disobeyed the later requirement, he would have been a transgressor. Nor would the Giver of those commandments have been inconsistent. "My word is my law, saith the Lord." He has a right to require one thing today and another thing tomorrow, and the latest word that comes from Him is the word that His people must obey. 

This is what it means to "live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God." We cannot justify ourselves in living by that particular part of the word that appeals to us, the part that we desire to obey, but must be willing to make sacrifices. Sometimes the sacrifice is involved in the doing of a deed, and sometimes in leaving it undone. We do not take our commands from the Bible. We are not governed by the gospel as revealed to the Nephites. We are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and have a right to receive divine revelation, here and now, and this is our guide, our law, and we must be governed thereby. No man can stand up today in this Church and justify himself in any course by pleading what the Nephites did, or what the Jews did or did not do. The vital question with us is : What does God require of the Latter-day Saints? We have as much right to the word of the Lord as had the Nephites, the Jews, or the early Christians. If this is not true, Mormonism is a sham and is not what it claims to be. 

In the month of January, 1847, the Latter-day Saints were encamped upon the banks of the Missouri river. They had been expelled from the State of Illinois, and a band of pioneers was being selected for the journey across the plains to the Rocky Mountains. The word and will of the Lord was given through President Brigham Young, commanding the people to organize themselves into companies, with captains of hundreds, and fifties, and tens, preparatory to their journey to the West. That was the word of the Lord to our parents and grand-parents. The Prophet Joseph Smith had predicted that the Latter-day Saints would be driven westward and become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and President Young, as his successor ana executor, gave that word and will of the Lord at Winter Quarters, but is it the word and will of the Lord to you and to me? Are we to hitch up ox-teams, in this day of railroads and automobiles and aeroplanes, and go wandering off to California, or to Mexico, or to Canada, and justify ourselves by pointing to the word of the Lord given in January, 1847, upon the banks of the Missouri? Why no; the fallacy is apparent at a glance. 

This is the place selected by the God of heaven, where His people  remain and become mighty. President Young declared that he beheld Salt Lake Valley in vision while on the way hither; he saw a tent "settling down from heaven," resting over this spot, while a voice from above declared, "This is the place where my people Israel shall pitch their tents." 

And, remember, the Prophet Joseph had declared that this people should become mighty — not in Mexico, not in Canada, not on the Pacific coast; but "'in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." You all know, if you are familiar with history, of the efforts made to induce President Young to deviate from the course indicated by that prediction. Samuel Brannan, who had rounded Cape Horn with a Mormon colony, and landed on the shore of California, met the pioneers on Green river and tried to induce them to change their purpose and plant their colony on the fertile slopes of the Pacific. Brigham Young answered, "No; this is the place; here we will build the city and temple of our God." Bridger, Harris, and other mountaineers thought to discourage him, telling him that grain r could not be raised in the Great Basin; but he turned a deaf ear to their statements. He had seen this valley; had seen a great city rising here from the barren sands* and he knew more than Colonel Bridger, or Samuel Brannan; for he was guided by the inspiration of heaven. 

Here the Latter-day Saints will remain, it is my belief, until they go down, in the might of Israel's God, to take possession of the Promised Land; their next general movement will be eastward, not westward, from the Rocky Mountains. Oh, but the Gentiles are coming in overwhelming numbers to outvote us, to snow us under! Well,  if they do? If the Gentiles come to us, it will save us the trouble of going" to them. Our mission is to the Gentiles — not from them; and if they come, we will not skulk and run away, but face about and extend the olive branch, preach the gospel to them, and save their souls, if we can; for that is our mission. I want to see the Gentiles capture Mormonism. The Romans conquered Greece, and were conquered, in the doing of it, by Greecian culture, learning, and civilization; and the Romans were conquered by the Barbarians who, in turn, were subjected to the Pope of Rome and became Christians. If the Gentiles capture Mormonism, it will make Mormons of them — and that is just what we want. We want all the good Gentiles we can get, and we do not care how many of them come and embrace the gospel. Talk about the Gentiles overwhelming the Mormons and destroying the work of God! Yes, just as the Romans destroyed the Jews and the Christians. I can go out upon the street today and find a Jew; I can go out and meet a Christian; but has any one seen a Roman of late? The Romans became Christians, and the Gentiles, tens of thousands of them, perhaps millions, will become Latter-day Saints and will help build up the kingdom of God. That is my faith in this work, and my confidence in the Gentiles, and in the word of the Lord concerning them upon this land. 

We receive all our blessings upon the principle of obedience. There is a celestial law, a terrestrial law, and a telestial law; and we can attain to any degree of glory that we desire, but it will be upon the principle of obedience. If we obey ce law, we will obtain celestial glory. If we obtain terrestrial glory, it will be by obedience to terrestrial law; and the same with telestial law and telestial glory. And what is celestial law? It does not mean any one thing; it means all things. It is the fullness of obedience : it is living by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. If today, you are keeping those commandments that are now in force, you are living a celestial law, and your chances are good for celestial glory. Amen. 

Sister Esther Davis sang a soprano solo, entitled "A Prayer." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

The immense attendance at Conference evinces devotion to religion. — President Smith's example of faithfulness. Failure to live by law not evidence against its divinity. — To acquire true knowledge there must be no prejudice. 

I sense very keenly, my brethren and sisters and friends, the great responsibility resting upon me in undertaking to lead in thought this vast congregation. My only hope of being able to do it, with any degree of profit, is through the help and blessing of the Lord; and as we never know in advance just how much we are in favor with the Lord, and how much assistance He is going to give us, we have great concern. Barring this great responsibility and anxiety, these conferences are a source of great joy and satisfaction, the present conference being no exception to the rule. The general authorities and the people have been offering earnest prayers to the Lord, for some weeks, that we might have with us, in the meetings of this conference, our beloved president, the mouthpiece and representative of the Lord unto His people. Had our petitions not been answered, we would have been greatly disappointed; but the Lord has again been kind to us, and has so far healed and strengthened President Smith that he has been able to be with us. His very presence in the congregation of the saints is an inspiration, his testimony is soul-stirring, and his benediction upon us, as a people, makes our hearts to rejoice indeed. 

The effect of all the good talk, and the inspiration which accompanies it, in the meetings of the conference is to make us feel that the gospel is indeed true. We sometimes suffer lapses. Our time, to such a great extent, is devoted to the things of this world, the temporalities, that we become wedded to them and, naturally, that takes away our attention from the spiritual things, those things which are of most importance unto us, and we become more or less weaned in our minds and feelings. It is refreshing to come to a conference where the Spirit of the Lord is manifest in such great power, where such powerful testimonies are borne, where the truths of the everlasting gospel are made so plain to our understanding, and where we are made to feel the truth of the work in which we are engaged; and so we rejoice together. I rejoice, too, in meeting so many of the saints from various parts of this great country where our people are settled, from Canada to Mexico, up and down the country. We find a good attendance of representative men and women, and a great gathering of the saints, which makes this a largely attended conference. 

I rejoice to meet them whether it be upon the street, in their homes, or wherever I have the opportunity. It reminds me of their faithfulness, of the great labor they are accomplishing in Israel. So with these returned missionaries, and the presidents of our missions; I am glad to meet them, to shake their hands and be reminded of the many men and women who are in the world representing the truth today, the great sacrifices which are being made by the people, sacrifices of time, of money, and of effort for the furtherance of this work. I love the people for their devotion and faithfulness. I love to look them in the face. I love to shake their hands and to know that they fellowship me, that I have fellowship and standing with them. 

At the close of the first session of this conference, in conversation with one of our brethren he made this remark : "There are but few persons who could bear such a testimony as has been borne to us, this morning, by our president," referring particularly to the remarks made by President Smith respecting himself. I said, in answer, "Perhaps there are but few who have made their lives to conform as closely to the gospel law as has our dear President," to which he assented. I am reminded of the word of the Lord, in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph, wherein He said : "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." So, my brethren and sisters, if you will yield the same obedience, the same devotion and zeal to the gospel, to  laws and requirements, and the building up of the kingdom, manifesting the same faithfulness as our venerated president has, we will, perhaps, enjoy the same testimony, in the same strength and power, and be able to refer to our lives with the same satisfaction. We can then, with pleasure and pride, point to our life's history as being- above reproach. The gospel is intended to make us like our Savior, for He was the great prototype and exemplar, to bring us back into His presence, heirs with Him in the blessings and glories of our Father's kingdom. We have the history of His life before us, and we are requested and required, by the gospel, to follow in his foot steps. We have His representative before us in our midst, and we would do well to look to him, and emulate the good example which he sets before this Church. So with all these general authorities, for as they have taken upon them the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to be witnesses for Him, I believe that every one of them ought to be exemplars before the people, their lives, their example should be worthy the emulation of the people in the Church, or out of the Church. Then, indeed, would our light so shine that others seeing our good works would glorify our Father which is in heaven. 

It is not that the gospel law is weak, or defective, or changeable, that the lives of those who profess to be saints of God are not always in strict harmony therewith. It must be remembered that, while the law is divine and perfect, and while those who have yielded to it are trying to reach the goal of perfection, yet they are more or less weak. There are those among us and of us whose faith is weak, and those  are not of us ought to take this into account. No matter what some of the people, or one in authority, may say or do, it cannot possibly render the truth a lie, or prove any ordinance of the gospel unnecessary to the salvation of the children of men. We admit that our lives should conform perfectly to the law of the gospel. Now, while those who are without look upon us in this way, and while the Lord evidently realized that this would be the case, the Savior having in mind that fact, when He said that we should let our light so shine that others seeing our good works would glorify our Father in heaven; realizing that men would judge the faith we represent, or the cause we represent by our conduct, we would warn those who are without that this may not always be a safe rule to go by, because of the weaknesses of men. But the law is perfect, and we invite all to an investigation thereof. The evidences are ample to prove that the law and doctrines taught by the Latter-day Saints today are the same as those which were taught by the Savior and His apostles and the saints in the primitive church. Concerning this we have an abundance of scriptural evidence. Reason also will teach us and appeal to us, and then, by the power of the Holy Spirit, which we receive by yielding obedience to the law which comes to us, by our asking, knocking, and seeking, we shall receive the complete testimony, and we will not be in doubt. 

My testimony to you is, as it has been before, to the members of the Church, and to those who are without, that this work is true, and that you may "know it is true. But, you must rid yourselves of that prejudice which may have come to you through false education, through misrepresentation of this people and of the authority which they hold, of the cause which they have espoused, — you must rid yourself of this prejudice in order that, for your souls' salvation sake, you may be able to consider and render a righteous decision on the things which you may investigate. It would be folly for a man to come into our midst and try to find out all that he could about us as a people, and about what we believe in, with a view to tearing down and belittling the work of the Lord, and the people of the Lord, and then hope that by that means he would know whether or not the work is true. There is no possibility of true knowledge being acquired by such investigation; in fact, the individual being biased disqualifies himself to render a righteous decision. If we were impaneling a jury to sit on a case, I fancy the first question asked of those who were summoned, would be, ""Are you prejudiced in this case?" And, if the answer were in the affirmative, the individual would be excused, as being disqualified to render a just decision. Those who are not of us should remember that they are their own jury; thev are to hear and to decide the case, judging from the evidence which shall be presented to them; by that evidence, and by their course of life, will they be judged in the last day. So, if possible, this prejudice must be broken down first, and in order that it may be broken down, I offer a suggestion to those who are thus prejudiced. We have an example, an illustration of this prejudice, and what it led to, in the case of Saul of Tarsus, who was afterwards known as Paul the apostle to the Gentiles. You know his history; you know  his persecuting the saints, and how that on one occasion he held the clothes of those who stoned to death one of the servants of the Lord, Stephen. He was on his way to Damascus to bind men and women that he might take them and cast them into dungeons. When on the way he was confronted by an angel in a light from heaven, and he was stricken blind. You know the story and what followed, that when Paul became convinced of the error of his way, of his mistaken judgment and prejudices, — he being honest, as he declares that all he did was done conscientiously, thinking that he was doing God service — he became one of the most valiant in the cause. Now, in the case of those who fight against Zion, those who are maligning this people, must it needs be that the Lord shall send an angel to each one, that he may be convinced of his error? or does not the Lord expect that they will profit by the experience of Saul? I believe that is what the Lord expects. If it was possible for Paul, who was educated under Gamaliel, to be thus deceived and mistaken in persecuting the saints of God, may it not be possible, friends, that some of you who are using your influence against this people, and this work, are also mistaken ? Now if you can rid yourselves of prejudice and consider these things, I am sure that the evidence will be ample to convince you of the truth of Mormonism, so-called. 

I rejoice in the testimony of this work, which the Lord has given to me in common with you, my brethren and sisters; for I do know that the work is true. And, as I know that the work is true, and the power of God unto salvation, I know that the humble instruments in the hands 

of the Lord, in revealing this work were divinely called; and theirs has been a divine mission, the Prophet Joseph and Brigham, and those who have been our leaders down to the present time. I know that the Lord is with this people today, that He does honor His authority, that He will magnify it in the earth; and this work will grow and spread abroad until truth shall cover the face of the whole earth, as the waters cover the mighty deep. I know that this Church and kingdom is the Church and kingdom of God. The prophecies shall be fulfilled, and Christ our Lord shall come  possess the kingdom, He shall reign as Lord of Lords and King of Kings forever. This is my testimony, which I bear to you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Lord, dismiss us with Thy blessing; 

Fill our hearts with joy and peace; Let us each, Thy love possessing, 

Triumph in redeeming grace. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 


