Morning
09 10 1910


Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith, and he announced that an overflow meeting will now be convened in the Assembly Hall, under direction of Elder Anthony W. Ivins, for the benefit of the many who can not be accommodated in the overcrowded Tabernacle. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

An angel from on high. 

The long, long silence broke; 

Descending from the sky, These gracious words he spoke : 

Lo! in Cumorah's lonely hill, 

A sacred record lies concealed. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Junius F. Wells. 

A selection entitled ''Roses and Lillies," was rendered by twelve young lady members of the choir. 

ELDER CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

One Spirit characterizes Saints in all countries. — Divine authority lacking in sects of Christendom. — Evidences of Divine authority conferred upon Latter-day Saints. — Ordinances performed under Divine authority eternal in effect. — Ordinances performed without authorized appointment not valid. 

It is now four years since I had the pleasure of attending a General Conference, of looking upon the faces of my brethren and sisters, and listening to the instructions of our leaders. My heart is filled with , this morning, for the privilege that I now enjoy. This is a glorious sight, to me, to see this vast body of Latter-day Saints, gathered from different quarters of the earth, assembled here to worship God "in the beauty of holiness," with minds open to receive the truth, with a desire to learn the ways of the Lord and to have strength to walk therein. I do not think such a spectacle as I look upon today can be seen anywhere else among all the nations of the earth. 

While I have been absent I have traveled a great deal among the countries of Europe, have visited all parts of the British Isles — England. Ireland, Scotland, and Wales. (I will say, in passing, for the benefit of our Welsh brethren, that the work has been re-opened in that Principality, and in South Wales we have several missionaries and a number of converts to the truth. ) I also visited Holland and Belgium. Switzerland and many parts of Germany, also Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. In all my travels, when I have found bodies of Latter-day Saints, I have felt the same spirit among them as I have felt during this conference in tliis tabernacle. The Latter-day Saints, wherever they are found, are "baptized by one spirit into one body," no matter what their race or nationality, no matter what may have been their religion formerly. They have come out from the world, and have been "baptized into Christ;" they are a part of the body of Christ. His. Spirit is with them, and they rejoice in the knowledge of the truth. They have followed the injunction of the ancient apostle, "Add to your faith knowledge," etc. God has given them a witness by the power of the Holy Ghost, and they have received the truth as it has come from Him in this age of the world. 

There are a great many people among the various Christian denominations, who have faith, but there is very little real knowledge of the truth. There are many learned professors and teachers of theology, many great orators, men blest of God with the gift of speech, and it is beautiful to hear their finely rounded sentences. Their eloquence is charming, but there is one thing which they all lack — every sect, every denomination, every section or faction of Christendom is lacking the power of God to administer in His holy name by authority. This is a matter of the very greatest importance. While every man and every woman should have the privilege of expressing their belief, of conveying their ideas in regard to religion, as well as to philosophy and to science, and anything and everything which will upbuild humanity, while they should have this freedom everywhere, and people should be willing to listen to their voices when they are able to convey any principle of truth, they lack that divine authority which God gave to His servants in ancient times and which, I am pleased to know, He has restored in the day and age in which we live. It is one thing to preach the doctrine that Jes as is the Christ, and another thing to be authorized to administer in His name. There are millions of people who do not seem to understand this distinction — that men may  and lecture, and may write and deliver essays on religious subjects, but that does not give them any right whatever to administer ordinances that God has instituted, in His holy name. 

When Jesus Christ sent His apostles out to preach the gospel to all the world, to every creature, He gave them authority to administer in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. They received a witness from God that they were endowed with this authority and power. Jesus, the Son, spoke in the name of the Father, and the Holy Ghost was sent upon them to witness to their souls that they were thus authorized. Christ himself, we are told, did not "glorify himself to be made a High Priest, but He who said unto Him, Thou art my Son this day have I begotten thee and called thee to be a Priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek." Christ said to His apostles whom He chose to represent Him in the world : "As my Father sent me, even so send I you. Whosesoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them and whosesoever sins ye retain, they are retained." "Whatsoever you shall seal or bind on earth shall be sealed or bound in heaven and that which you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." This is very great authority; this is divine power; this is priesthood. The holy priesthood is divine authority, as the Holy Spirit is divine light; and the servants of the Lord, sent out by our Savior in former times, as we read in the New Testament, were endowed with this authority and clothed upon with this light. They were instructed by the Savior how this power should be used. All the teachings of the Savior in regard to this matter are not recorded in the New Testament, nor in any other book that I have learned about; but He did converse with them and explain to them how this power should be exercised, its limits, and the extent of the authority. After His resurrection, we are told, He was with them about forty days. The record of His teachings to His apostles, and those associated with them in this holy ministry was not preserved, so far as we know. If these teachings were ever recorded they will be brought forth in these last days, in this great "dispensation of the fulness of times, in the which the Lord will gather together in one all things that are in Christ, both in the heavens and on the earth." These things are not now in our possession; so far as we know they are not on record; but we can readily understand, from the actions and teachings of the apostles, that they were not only clothed with this authority, but they received instructions how it should be exercised, limited, and extended. He established His Church and bestowed these powers : 

"For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: 

"Till we all come in the unitv of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ: 

"That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about 'with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive 

"But speaking the truth in love, may grow uo into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ." 

So Paul informs us in the fourth chapter of his epistle to the Ephesians. Now, this power and author was recognized in heaven; there is the force and the beauty and efficacy thereof. When one of these servants of God, ordained by the Savior, or ordained by the apostles or others who were ordained by the Savior, administered in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, or, as it is in the case of baptism and one or two other ordinances, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, their actions were recognized in the heavens. They were just as valid as though performed by Jesus Christ himself or by the Father who sent Him. There is the power, and strength, and majesty of this priesthood or divine authority; that whatsoever is properly done by a man authorized of God, duly appointed and ordained to his office and calling, is registered on high and recognized there, and is of force and effect in the heavens as well as on the earth. 

This authority remained in the Church during its early period, but for hundreds of years, according to the confessions of modern Christian denominations, there has been no such power in the earth. All the Protestant denominations of Christendom repudiate the idea that it has been handed down by continuity and by succession from the days of the apostles. In fact there is no church and has been no church, whether in Protestantism or in the older denomination or organization, in which there was an inspired apostle, a living prophet, a seer, a revelator, a man clothed upon with the authority which Christ gave to His ancient apostles. This is the great lack in all Christendom. We admire the eloquence of great Christian preachers; we admire the puritv of the lives of a great many Christian people; we delight in the  that they have composed; we love the poetry which they have written, and we very often quote it. We recognize their songs, their music, their sculpture, their paintings, their art and science, and their great mechanical and other works for the benefit of humanity; but, at the same time, we recognize this potent fact — that among them there has not been, for many centuries, any authority whatever from God to man to administer ordinances in His name. Therefore, their baptims, their confirmations and other ordinances which are administered in the various Christian churches, while they may be good things to bring people together in various organizations, in unity, in concord and brotherly love, which exist to some extent, they are not recognized in the heavens, because God has not appointed them. Why should they be recognized above when, according to their own confessions, there has been no communication from God, from the Father, from the Son, firom the Holy Ghost, since the days of the early apostles; that all these things are done away with and are not needed, even in these times. Now, since the Lord has not appointed them, since He has not given the authority that is exercised among these various conflicting sects, why should He accept of their offerings ? 

I would like to read a few verses of scripture to you, this morning, on this subject. You will find them in the one hundred and thirtysecond section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Perhaps this may not be recognized as scripture, by all of my hearers, but the Latter-day Saints regard the revelations of God in the latter days as of at least  much importance as anything that He revealed in former days. We accept the Bible as containing revelations from God in former days; we also accept the Book of Mormon as containing the word of God to the people on this American continent. But in the book of Doctrine and Covenants we have a number of revelations, given from the same source, from the same power, by the same gift, in this age, to men endowed with similar authority to that which was held by the ancients, and, therefore, we look upon the sayings in the Doctrine and Covenants as scripture. I will read two or three verses from this section : 

"Behold! mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. 

"Will I accept of an offerino-. saith the Lord, that is not made in my name! 

"Or, will I receive at vour hands that which I have not appointed! 

"And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as T and my Father ordained unto you, before the world was! 

"I am the Lord thy God, and I give unto you this commandment, that no man shall come unto the Father but by me, or by my word, which Is my law, saith the Lord 

"And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever thev mav be, that are not by me, or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God 

"For whatsoever things remain are by me and whatsoever thines are not by me, shall be shaken and destroyed." 

There is a great deal more attached to this that I do not wish to refer to here, this morning: it is this holy power and authority that I wish to direct the attention of this congregation to. Why should the Lord accept the offerings of men — their ordinances, their institutions, that which they have originated by human wisdom ? Would any government on the earth recognize the acts of men who were not appointed by that government? Would any corporation, or firm, or individual engaged in business, recognize the acts of pretended agents who had received no authority from that person, or firm, or corporation? When we read the holy scriptures that were written of old and given to the Hebrews, we find that from the beginning the Lord called certain individuals to act in His name, and that what they did by His authority He recognized, but that which was performed by persons who had not that authority He did not receive. They had no force, or virtue, or effect in the eternal world, and according to the revelation that I have just read, they will have no effect in and after the resurrection from the dead. 

One very important thing connected with this, to the Latter-day Saints, is that the ordinance of marriage for eternity was revealed of the Lord, in this age of the world, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, by which men and women who had received the gospel, repented of their sins, been baptized for the remission of sins, and received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, could be sealed for time and eternity, according to the holy order of God, instituted in the beginning, when God gave Eve to Adam before they became mortal through transgression. This is an important ordinance pertaining to the salvation of mankind, and it opens up a field for thought which is very gratifying. It gladdens the , removes darkness from the mind, enables us to look upon things from an eternal standpoint : That though death may come and separate a man and his wife, yet, if they have been sealed by the holy ordinance that the Lord has instituted, for time and for eternity, their union shall continue in and after the resurrection from the dead. Adam and Eve shall come together at the head of "a multitude, quickened and 'raised from the dead;" and others who are blest with the same ordinance and privilege, and have been sealed by the authority of this holy priesthood that God has restored, will come together in the resurrection and will be husband and wife, and have their children gathered around them, if these children have walked in the right path, for the beginning of their kingdom and glory in worlds without end. Now, this ordinance, like all that the Lord has revealed, when solemnized, must be administered by authority. If it is done in the name of lesus Christ, and He has not authorized it, it is void. If it is done in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, and they have not authorized it, it comes to an end and will have no virtue or effect in the world to come, nor in the heavens today. This should be understood by the Latter-day Saints, and no man should take upon himself authority that has not been conferred upon him, whether he be in the Church or out of the Church. 

The world, as I have said, has been destitute of this authority for hundreds of years. Thank God there is a way opened by the revelations of the Almighty by which salvation will come to millions and millions of people, both heathens  Christians, who had not an opportunity of obeying the truth in their day. The work will be performed for them by their posterity, and salvation will come to all who are worthy of it. It will come through the atonement wrought out by Jesus Christ, and in accordance with the plans that He has revealed, so that all things shall be done by His authority, by the authority of the heavens, and what is done on the earth, by that competent authority, will be recognized on high. I bear you my testimony that this power and authority has been restored in the day and age in which we live. I add my testimony to that of my brethren who have explained, in this conference, how the holy priesthood was restored, how that men who held it anciently came and ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. First of all, the priesthood that John the Baptist held was conferred upon them, and afterwards the divine authority held by Peter, and James, and John, who stood at the head of the dispensation after Christ left the earth. We have been told how they came and bestowed the keys of their authority upon these men, and how it has been handed down to the present day. Our testimony is not only that Joseph Smith received this divine authority, in the only way by which it could be properly restored, but that those who have succeeded him in this ministry have held the same keys of power and authority, right down to the present day. God has given us the assurance, (gave it to us in the beginning of this work,) that this Church and kingdom that He had organized should not pass away; it should not be overcome by the Avorld. by the influence and powers  men, but that it should stand and remain until everything beneath the eternal heavens should be brought in subjection, willingly, to the law of God, and every knee bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father. I know that this is true. I bear you my testimony before this congregation and before the heavens, that the Lord has restored this divine authority to the earth, that it is in this Church and kingdom, and that the man who stands as its president holds the keys thereof. 

I warn my friends, my brethren, never to attempt to administer in anything to which they are not appointed, for if they do they will not only find that what they have done is void, but that they will be found in transgression. It is a fearful thing to take upon us authority that the Lord has not restored. I would never attempt to go down into the waters of baptism and administer that ordinance to any individual, if I was not assured beyond any doubt whatever that I held the authority to say: "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." And no man has a right to use those sacred names or to act in that divine authority unless he has received it in the proper way. God's house is a house of order and not a house of confusion, and He will not accept an offering, or an ordinance, or an appointment that He has not established and authorized by His word, which is His law, through those that hold the keys; and there is, according to this revelation, but one man at a time, on the earth, that holds the keys of that sealing power. Now, let us remember this, my brethren and sisters, and let us, while we look upon the world as stepping out of the proper line of conduct in performing ordinances to administer which they have not been appointed, let us be careful that we do not step out of the narrow way and go into by and forbidden paths. 

I testify to you that I know this work is God's work; I know it will prevail; I know it contains the everlasting truth of Almighty God. I know that the Lord loves that which is true, and good, and pure, and holy, and He cannot look upon sin with any degree of allowance, and, therefore, we must walk in His ways, keep His commandments, and be honorable, upright, and truthful in every respect. We must keep within our own lines : A deacon or a teacher has not the right to baptize or to lay on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. The Lord has limited the authority in those two orders of the lesser priesthood to that which is revealed. In the very same way, no man has a right to administer in anything to which he has not been appointed. Let every man learn his duty and do it to the best of Instability. I bear testimony that the Spirit of God is poured out upon His people, everywhere, where they keep His commandments. I have been up to the most northern point of Norway, away beyond the Arctic circle, and have met saints there possessed of the same spirit that I have found in England, and in Germany, and in other parts that I have mentioned, and that are here today. I know that this is the work of God, and that His people rejoice before Him in a knowledge of the truth, for God has given them the witness, to their souls, by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost; and 

He will give the same witness to all who earnestly and sincerely seek after Him and desire the truth. 

May God bless this congregation, all who are here, whether they be members of the Church or not. May our minds be open to receive the word of the Lord, given in ancient days or given in modern times  for the day is near at hand when light, and truth, and revelation will flow down from the skies, and that which we have already received are but droppings of the great shower to come. The Lord be praised for all His mercies. I thank Him, this morning, in my heart, for His goodness to me. During the time that I have been absent, traveling almost continuously by land or by sea, I have been preserved from accident, from harm, from sickness, and from danger of every kind; and in the midst of the congregation, I praise Him, this morning, with all my soul. I bear testimony that I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the living God, that his successors have also been inspired by the Almighty, and that today we have a man at our head who holds the keys of the sealing power, with authority to direct in all the offices in the Church of Christ. 

I want to say, before I sit down, that I have met a great many of my "boys," as we call them, in the old world, who traveled in the ministry — good, faithful young men, and some older men, good and faithful servants of the Lord. Brethren, now we are at home let us keep on the harness; don't let us go into the dark; don't let us slacken our efforts, but let us be ardent and determined at all times and under all circumstances, in every position, to do our duty, to be clean and pure before the Lord, as we were when  were on our missions. Let us serve the Lord with all our hearts, and keep our covenants, and seek to lead others in the right way. God help us all to do so — for Christ's sake. Amen. 

President Smith informed the congregation that the Assembly Hall, as well as the Tabernacle, is now overcrowded, and the multitude outside will be given an opportunity to listen to speakers outdoors this afternoon, as a meeting will be arranged for that purpose, near the Bureau of Information building, under direction of Elder Benjamin Goddard. 

"Life for Evermore," a baritone solo, was sung by Elder John Robinson. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Mormonism and its results. — How the truth has been misrepresented. — Faith and works. — How to meet the enemy. — Opposition strengthens the work of God. 

In an address put forth to the world, a few years ago, by the Presidency of the Church, are found these words : "Mormonism is in the world for the world's good." We believe that is a true statement. If it be true that the world is better for having a good man live in it, then it must also be true that the world is better for Having multitudes of good men living in it. Mormonism has made better men out of multitudes of already good men, and has even made good men out of bad men; # but in all the history of the church it has never made a bad man out of a good one, nor has it ever made men worse than  were before Mormonism found them. 

Notwithstanding this, Mormonism has met with a very persistent and bitter opposition from our socalled Christian friends. It can not be claimed, in truth, that we are not a sincere people, for insincerity has never produced and never can produce that which the Latter-day Saints have brought forth, manifested in part by their strength and power in the world. They cannot be accused of impiety, because they have manifested a devotion to God, and have kept His commandments, so far as they understood them, from the beginning. It cannot be successfully maintained that we love ignorance and are a degraded people, because we present to the world an example of intelligence, and among our people is found a spirit that yearns for knowledge and education. It cannot be said in truth that the Latter-day Saints are indolent, because, wherever they dwell, by their industry and their intelligent enterprise they have redeemed deserts and made them blossom and bloom with all that is beautiful, beneficial, and for the happiness of man. They have builded cities, towns, and villages, and filled the land with orchards, gardens, and farms. 

The Latter-day Saints have been misrepresented with respect to their home lives yet nowhere in the world can a people be found who love home more, who have builded more homes in proportion to their numbers, or who love their families more. We venerate the aged; we are always ready and anxious to help the weak, and never has the cry of the widow or the orphan ascended unto God against us. In our midst there can be found no poor to whose petition the Church has turned a deaf ear. Our religion is not a theory; it is a fact. Ours is not a mere confession of faith; it is a great profession with a splendid practice. Ours is not a faith that is dead, being alone; but a live, active faith, closely associated with a conscientious performance of good works. 

We have not hung our hope of salvation upon a single peg, nor do we rely for our salvation upon one word of scripture. We believe not only the Bible, as a compilation of sacred books, but we believe also in the very contents of these books; and therein we differ greatly from our Christian neighbors. Those passages of scripture upon which they seem to rely most for their hope and salvation are: "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved," "God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever should believe on Him should not perish but have everlasting life." These passages have formed a basis for most of the arguments that I have heard put forth by sectarian preachers, in their supposed defense of the Gospel of Christ. Now, we challenge the Christian world to believe in these passages of scripture more honestly or earnestly than we do, but we have not entirely hung our hope of salvation upon them. We believe with equal earnestness in that other scripture containing these words of Christ : "Whosoever breaketh one of these least commandments, and teacheth men so, shall be counted the least in the kingdom of heaven; but whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be counted great in the kingdom of heaven." We also believe in the scripture that says: 

He that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. 

And the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 

And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not. shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it. 

We believe that to attain eternal life a man must know the only true and living God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. We believe that we must understand the doctrines that He preached. We believe that all who do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine. We believe that men must have faith in God, for without faith it is impossible to please God. We believe that a man must repent of his sins, because no unclean thing can enter the kingdom of heaven. We believe that men must be baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins, in order that their sins may be washed away and they become clean in the sight of the Lord. We believe that men can only know the true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom He sent into the world, by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost. We believe that no man can receive that power and that gift except through faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; for no man can say, Jesus is the Christ, but by the Holy Ghost, and no man can receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, except it be conferred upon him by the laying on of hands of one having authority. 

Now, our sectarian friends may  their opposition and their warfare upon us. They may continue to declare that Joseph Smith was an imposter, a false prophet, and that the Latter-day Saints are fanatics and dupes. They may continue to misrepresent the doctrines of the Church, and declare that we prefer Joseph Smith to Jesus, our Redeemer. They may continue to say everything they have heretofore said; but we have a very effectual way of meeting them and answering all such statements — and what is it ? They say that we dread, most of all, to be brought face to face with the Bible and its doctrines. The remarks of Brother Penrose this morning, in which he quoted extensively from the scriptures, disprove that statement, as do the remarks of all the brethren. We will go to the Bible for our defense against such methods, and will not answer railing with railing, nor slander with slander, but will endeavor to put into practice the law of God, and love even our enemies. We will, first of all, pray for them. We cannot pray with much faith that so-called ministers who have taken the wrong course will repent for many of them have steeled their hearts against the truth and against repentance; but we will pray — and with great faith, too — that the Lord will cause that they shall not blind the eyes of the innocent and those who love truth. We will pray that they may not have power to deceive the honest seeker after salvation, and with the Bible in our hands we will go out into their midst, into the very midst of their congregations, and with the power of the holy priesthood, which is the authority we hold, proclaim the gospel in all its purity, as contained in the scriptures, and by the power of the Holy 

Ghost bear testimony to the truth. 

We will continue to testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. We will continue ro testify that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world; that He died for the sins of mankind; that He came forth from the Father, begotten of God and born of woman; that He grew to manhood; that He preached the gospel of salvation, and was crucified, after which He went into the spirit world and there proclaimed liberty to the captive, and opened the prison doors to them that were bound. He preached the gospel to the dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. We will preach that on the third day He arose from the dead, broke the bands of death, was the first fruits of the glorious resurrection; and that after His resurrection He was among His disciples, teaching them, instructing them, opening the eyes of their understanding, and expounding the words He had spoken unto them before His death. We will teach that His disciples beheld Him, that they beheld the wounds made in His crucifixion, and further that He declared, "All power is given unto me, both in heaven and in earth; go ye, therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." 

We will declare these truths, and further proclaim that this same Christ came to Joseph Smith, the prophet, and that He sent Moroni an angel, a man who had lived and died, and was also raised from the dead; and that he came and instructed the prophet. We will testify, also, that every man born into the world shall come forth in the resurrection, and shall take up the very body he laid down. We will declare the restoration of the gospel the establishment of the Church of, Christ, the committing of the keys of the kingdom of heaven unto men upon the earth; and these things we will declare in words of soberness, by the power of the Holy Ghost; and by that means we will take away from them their congregations, so that darkness shall flee away, light shall come, and members of their own churches stand up and declare to them, "All that thou hast taught us from the beginning is false, concerning the closing of the heavens and the doing away of the gifts of the Holy Ghost, for there are apostles, and prophets, and evangelists and teachers,, and the gifts of healing, visions, revelation, diversity of tongues, and they are now enjoyed by men;" and we will have these same members say to them : "We know the truth by the power of the Holy Ghost, through obedience to the principles of the gospel and the doctrines of the Bible. We have come to know the truth for ourselves." That is what we will continue to do. 

Now, my friends, you who oppose Mormonism, let us reason together. What is the use of your opposition? You have opposed the Church from the beginning, and you have seen it grow and increase and become mighty in spite of all. The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, and the Church of God grows and thrives on misrepresentation and persecution. Cease it, then. Let me call your attention, once more, to that presentation of truth made here by Brother Roberts which proves that Mormonism is in the world for the world's good; and if men will but approach it in the proper spirit, with a view to inves its claims, they will see its glories and beauties, and will help to promote, rather than tear down that which, most of all, seeks to lift up and make glorious the life and destiny of mankind. God bless the Latter-day Saints. Be true and faithful, and spread these gospel truths by example and precept; in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Sincerity of the powerful testimony proclaimed by President Smith. — Ambiguity manifested by Christian ministry concerning divinity of Christ, etc. — Good homes give strength to the Church and to the nation. — Abundance of land in Utah for farms and homes. Liberality of the government in helping dry land farmers. 

I crave the blessing of our Heavenly Father upon me while I shall speak to you, this morning. I realize, my brethren and sisters, the responsible position that a man is placed in when facing an audience of Latter-day Saints, and speaking of God's goodness and mercies to His people. 

A distinct feature of this conference has been the testimony that has been borne by every one who has addressed the congregations since last Thursday. They have been powerful and earnest testimonies. I wish in my soul that every man and woman in the Church, and every honest soul that lives upon the earth, could have heard the testimony President Smith proclaimed last Thursday morning. He bore testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, blest of the Lord and called to open the last dispensation. He testified of the goodness of God to himself, and of  blessings of our Heavenly Father to His people. There was no equivocation in his testimony, and I cannot conceive how it is possible for any man or woman who heard it to believe that it came from, any other than an honest and sincere man. While listening to the emphatic testimonies uttered during this conference, I could not help but think of, and quote, one expression recently delivered by an eminent divine in one of the fashionable churches, in one of the great cities of this country. He was speaking on the subject of belief in God and among other things, he said : "Within the dim twilight of revealed spirituality, troubled ones are constantly groping for the hearts-ease that is ever denied the traveler this side of immortality." My brethren and sisters, contrast our unqualified testimony of the knowledge of God revealed to this people, with the words of the divine : "Troubled ones are constantly groping for the heartsease that is ever denied the traveler this side of immortality," or, in other words, that hearts ease that comes to man, that testimonv that he is doing the will of God, the understanding and knowledge in his soul that Christ is the Son of God, is denied, so this divine says, to all travelers "this side of immortality." I want to say to the good people here that it is no wonder there is mistrust in the minds of the people. No wonder there is an utter lack of a testimony of the Savior, when the people are taught by their ministers that they cannot know God, nor Jesus His Son, this side of immortality. That is one of the great differences between the Latter-day Saints and all the balance of the world. Our teachers and missionaries wherever they go. impress up the people, even before they are ready for baptism, that they can obtain a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. When they become members of the Church, and that knowledge is obtained, they must live in such a way as to retain it, and that cannot be accomplished in anv other way than by keeping His holy commandments. 

Let me call your attention, my brethren and sisters, to some testimonies of the prophets of God in former dispensations, and see if there was any doubt as to whether they knew that God lived, and see whether they knew it this side or the other side of immortality. Note the striking contrast between these prophets of old and the modern divine : 

Job says : "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth; and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me." 

Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses, the priest of Midian — what is his testimony? He says, "Now, 

I know that the Lord is greater than 

all gods." 

David, in a psalm of the chief 

musician says, "Now know I that 

the Lord saveth his anointed." Peter says, "Now I know of a 

surety that the Lord hath delivered 

me out of the hands of Herod." Paul says, "For I know whom I 

have believed," 

John says, "These things I have 

written unto you that ye may know 

that ye have eternal life." 

My brethren and sisters, I thank God from the bottom of my heart for the testimony I have that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is His work, and that He will have a care for and watch over the destinies of His people. I care not for all the powers of darkness, of evil, of misrepresentation, of falsehood, of slander — I tell you that they will never retard the growth of God's work upon this earth. The only thing that can do it is our own disregard of the teachings of Christ. Individual members of the Church may falter and fall, and thus weaken us in numbers; yet, I have an abiding faith in the great majority of God's people remaining true to the end of their days. I believe that the young people who have been born under the covenant, will be as loyal and true to Mormonism as ever were the fathers and the mothers that gave them birth. I am thankful, indeed, for my testimony. 

I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that we live in this glorious country of liberty. I have no words to express my appreciation that I am an American citizen, and next to that blessing comes the fact that I live in Utah. I want to ask all people having homes in the intermountain states to maintain them, and establish homes for your children and thus grow and increase in wealth and power. The strength of a nation is the home; the basis of the Church is the home; anvthing that interferes with the desire and love of home affects the nation and the Church. My brethren and sisters, I want to see in this intermountain countrv, homes that will be pleasing to God — prayerful homes, homes blessed with children, homes ruled by love, homes filled with contentment. T have noticed,  studying the history of the world, that every powerful nation has been made so by its people obeying the laws of God affecting the home; and whenever those laws have been interfered with, no matter from what cause — extravagance, affluence, wealth, excesses, or any other causes, it was not long before the nation began crumbling to pieces. Oh, would that the people of my country would learn from past history the causes that destroyed some of the greatest powers on earth by destroying the home through disobedience to God's commands. 

I have heard Utah people say, that we have no more farming lands, and that our boys must go somewhere else to secure farms. Many having farms have a spirit of unrest. Remember that, "A rolling stone gathers no moss." I have lately visited the great Uintah basin, the Ouray basin, the Ashley Valley. There is room for an empire in these valleys; they are desirable sections of the country, and if I were a young man, seeking to establish myself in a home, I know that I could go there and in a few vears be absolutely independent. Our government has passed many laws in the recent past with a view of encouraging the people to become the owners of homes. Our statesmen have learned the lesson that a contented people must be a home-owning and a home-loving people. Since the homestead law was passed, many other measures affecting the public domain have been enacted into law. Only last year the Enlarged Homestead Bill was passed, giving to every citizen in this state a chance to take three hundred and twenty acres of dry farm land. There are millions of acres in our state capable of yielding an abun crop of grain by the process of dry farming. If there were only two million acres in all the state, cultivated, with an average yield of only fifteen bushels to the acre, that would make thirty million bushels of wheat, which means more value than the production of all the silver and gold in the intermountain states, and more than all the sugar produced in the west. I only want to say there is plenty of land for every one of your sons to establish a home within the borders of the state of Utah. 

Thank God that we live in this land, the land that has been held in the hollow of God's hand for ages, that liberty might be established and a government formed granting all men equal rights. Of all the states in this glorious country, Utah is among the best. It seems to me that every time I travel in different sections of this land, or foreign lands, on my return home I see an added number of opportunities on every side. I wish that every Latter-day Saint, and every citizen that calls Utah home, owned their own home. Happy is the man with a farm large enough for his boys to work with him. Coming to Salt Lake the other day, I noticed, in one of the beet fields,, a father with his five sons, all working together with one object in view; my brethren and sisters, I felt in my soul that, if it were proper to envy a man's lot in life, I would envy him. He had about him his boys, all working to make home happy, all interested in one cause, and I thought there could be no happier position in this world than that of the man who held his family close about him, and followed the avocation which, it seems to me, has always been and always will be the  independent in all the world, that is the farmer's. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may His peace be with you. May the counsel that has been given during this conference be carried home by each of you and taught to the people. I testify that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is God's work, and His watchcare is over it. May His blessings abound not only upon us as a people but with every honest soul that comes to live with us; for we invite honest men, from all over the world, to come and help us build the greatest state of all the western states. May we uphold and sustain God's work, in honesty and integrity, as long as we live, is my prayer, in the name of lesus Christ, Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith announced that Professor John J. McClellan will give a recital on the grand organ, in the Tabernacle, immediately after the close of this meeting; also stated the arrangements that have been made for overflow meetings in the Assembly Hall, and outdoors, at 2 p. m. Gave notice that voting for the General Authorities of the Church, and other business, will be attended to in the Conference meetings, this afternoon. 

The male members of the choir sang the hymn : 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder David H. Cannon. 


