Morning
06 10 1910

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Increased love for the Gospel a result of increased knowledge. — True to all pledges and assumed obligations to God, His Church and people, and to the world. — Professed members of the Church must stop traducing. — Admonition to the Saints to be faithful to covenants. — Study of Gospel principles adds to faith. — The Saints have numerous testimonies, additional to other Christians, concerning the Messiah. — Strong personal testimony of the divinity of Joseph Smith's appointment to restore the Gospel and reveal doctrines of salvation. 

I feel very grateful for the privilege of being present with you this morning, at the opening of our eighty-first anniversary of the semiannual conference of the Church. I am pleased to see so many present, and my heart is full of blessing for the Latter-day Saints and, indeed, for all the honest in heart throughout the world. I earnestly desire that the Spirit of the Lord may visit us and abide with us throughout all the sessions of this conference, that those who administer and those who are administered unto may rejoice exceedingly in the presence of the Holy Spirit upon them and in their hearts, inspiring them to diligence and faithfulness in the great work of God in which we are engaged. 

I do not feel that I should occupy very much time this morning. I have just got out of my bed, where I have lain for more than a month, with very little exercise, and I feel the effects of the inertia, the inactivity to which I have been subjected — not willingly but unwillingly — for the last thirty days or more. Nevertheless, I feel in my heart to say to this congregation that I love the gospel, I love the truth that has been revealed anew to the children of men in these latter days, more, if possible, today than ever I did in my life. I believe in it just as truly and as firmly today as I ever did, and, if possible, more so; and I think it is possible, for the reason that I believe all true Latter-day Saints are growing. They are progressing, they are absorbing more light, more intelligence, stronger  of the truth, day by day; for we cannot help doing this, if we enjoy the spirit of the gospel as we should. 

I feel happy, this morning, in having the privilege to say to you that in the days of my childhood and early youth, I made a pledge with God and with His people that I would be true to them. In looking over the experiences of my life, I cannot now discern and do not remember a circumstance, since the beginning of my experience in the world, where I have felt, for a moment, to slacken or relax in the pledge and promise that I made to God and to the Latter-day Saints, or to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in my youth. And if there is a man, or a woman, in the world that can point out to me an instance, in all my life, where I have been untrue to my pledge, or promise, or covenant, I shall be glad to receive that information from that man or woman. As an elder in Israel I tried to be true to that calling; I tried to my utmost to honor and magnify that calling. When I became a seventy, I felt in my heart to be true to that calling, and I strove, with all the intelligence and fervor of my soul, to be true to it. I have no knowledge nor recollection of any act of mine, or any circumstance in my life where I proved untrue or unfaithful to these callings in the priesthood of the Son of God. Later in my life, when I was called to act as an apostle, and was ordained an apostle, and set apart to be one of the Twelve, I strove to honor that calling, to be true to it. and to my brethren, to the household of faith, and to the covenants and obligations involved in receiving this holy priesthood which is after the order of the Son of God. I am not aware that I ever violated one of my obligations or pledges in these callings to which I have been called. I have sought to be true and faithful to all these things. I have endeavored to be true to my family; and if, ever, I have violated one pledge or promise, or neglected one obligation that rests upon me in these relationships, I do not know it. And when I have made pledges to the people of God, or to the world, if ever I have violated those pledges I do not know it. Furthermore, I do not believe there is a man living that does know it, or that can truthfully testify that I ever did violate those pledges. 

I stand before you today, my brethren, sisters and friends, on the ground that I have tried to be true to God, to the utmost of my knowledge and ability; that I have tried to be true to my people, to the utmost of my knowledge and ability; and I have been true to the world in every pledge and promise that I have made to the world, notwithstanding there have been men who have shown a disposition to make it appear that I was a hypocrite, that I was two-faced : that I was one thing to the world and another thing in secret. I want it distinctly understood that those who have conveyed such an idea as this to mankind have been wilfully injuring me, wronging me, and falsifying me and my character before the people : and I want it distinctly understood those things must stop. They must stop at least among men that profess to be members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; I can endure to be maligned and persecuted by my enemies, who are also enemies of the Kingdom of God, but I do not want to be maligned and belied by men who profess to be  of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, neither intentionally or otherwise. Now, I trust that you understand clearly what I mean. I do not know how I can make it much plainer or clearer, with the knowledge that I have of language. Then, I repeat, as the Lord has helped me in the past to be true to my covenants, that I have entered into with Him and with you, with my brethren and with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so by His help and by His blessing I propose to be true throughout the future, of my life, whether I am permitted to live long or short; it matters not to me. While I live, I hope to be a true man, an honest man, a man who can face all mankind and, at last, who can stand before God, the Judge of the quick and the dead, and not quail for what I have done in the world. 

May God bless you. May peace abide with you, my brethren and sisters. I pray you to be true to your covenants; be true to those covenants that you made in the waters of baptism, to those covenants you made in the house of the Lord, and true to every righteous obligation that devolves upon you. To be Latter-day Saints, men or women must be thinkers, and workers; they must be men and women who weigh matters in their minds, men and women who consider carefully their course of life and the principles that they have espoused. Men cannot be faithful Latter-day Saints unless they study and understand, to some extent at least, the principles of the gospel that they have received. When you hear of people, that profess to be Latter-day Saints, running off on tangents, on foolish notions and one-horse, cranky ideas, things that are obviously opposed to reason, and to good sense, opposed to principles of righteousness and to the word of the Lord, that has been revealed to men, you should know at once that they have not studied the principles of the gospel, and do not know very much about the gospel. When people understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, you will see them walking straightforward, according to the word of the Lord, and the law of God, strictly in accordance with that which is consistent, just, righteous, and in every sense acceptable to the Lord, who only accepts of that which is right and pleasing in His sight; for only that which is right is pleasing unto Him. 

I have not time, neither have I strength, this morning, to enter into details or to undertake to preach a lengthy discourse. I do not feel able to do it, physically. The spirit is willing, but just now the flesh is not very strong; but I want to bear mjy testimony to you Latter-day Saints. I know that my Redeemer lives. We have all the testimony and all the evidence of this great and glorious truth, that the world has, that is, all that the so-called Christian world possesses; and, in addition to all that they have, we have the testimony of the inhabitants of this western continent, to whom the Savior appeared, and delivered His gospel, the same as He delivered it to the Jews. In addition to all this new testimony and the testimony of the holy scriptures from the Jews, we have the testimony of the modern Prophet, Joseph Smith, who saw the Father and the Son, and who has borne record of them to the world; whose testimony was sealed with his blood, and is in force upon the world to. We have the testimony of others who witnessed the presence of the Son of God, in the Kirtland temple, when He appeared to them there, and the testimony of Joseph and Sidney Rigdon, who declared that they were the last witnesses of Jesus Christ. Therefore, I say again, I know that my Redeemer lives; for in the mouths of these witnesses this truth has been established in my mind. 

Beside these testimonies, 1 have received the witness of the Spirit of God in my own heart, which exceeds all other evidences, for it bears record to me, to my very soul, of the existence of my Redeemer, Jesus Christ. I know that He lives, and that in the last day He shall stand upon the earth, and that He shall come to the people who shall be prepared for Him, as a bride is prepared for the bridegroom, when He shall come. I believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I have every evidence that I need — at least enough to convince me of the divinity of his mission. 

I am proud to say that I have accepted and have tried to keep and honor every word that has proceeded from the mouth of God through him. As — "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." No one will dare to accuse me of side-tracking from, or of refusing to obey any doctrine taught by or revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I bear my testimony to you and to the world, that Joseph Smith was raised up by the power of God to lay the foundations of this great Latter-day work, to reveal the fulness of the gospel to the world in this dispensation, to restore the  of God to the world, by which men may act in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, and it will be accepted of God; it will be by His authority. I bear my testimony to it; I know that it is true. 

I bear my testimony to the divine authority of those who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith in the presidency of this Church. They were men of God. I knew them; I was intimately associated with them; and as one man may know another, through the intimate knowledge that he possesses of him, so I can bear testimony to the integrity, to the honor, to the purity of life, to the intelligence, and to the divinity of the mission and calling of Brigham, of John, of Wilford, and of Lorenzo. They were inspired of God to fill the mission to which they were called, and I know it. I thank God for that testimony and for the spirit that prompts me and impels me towards these men, toward their mission, toward this people, toward my God and my Redeemer. I thank the Lord for it, and I pray eanestly that it may never depart from me — worlds without end. 

God bless you, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A contralto solo, "Fear Not," was sung by Sister Mabel Cooper. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON" H. LUND. 

The way to regain our Heavenly Father's presence has been made known. — Interest in Temple work greatly increased. — Recent persecution of missionaries in Germany seems to have resulted beneficially. — Gratifying progress in all the European countries, in spite of obstacles. — Children should be taught practical religon. — Attend at Sacrament meetings an important duty. 

I am very happy, this morning, to be present at this conference and to see so many of the saints who have assembled here at this first meeting. I rejoice that we have had the pleasure of listening to our president, that his health has permitted him to leave his room and to come here and bear such a powerful testimony unto us. I know that you, with me, are happy to see him and to listen to him, and our prayers are that President Smith may regain his wonted health, and be released from all pain of the kind he has suffered so long. 

I was pleased to listen to the beautiful song that has just been rendered, and my thoughts were drawn to that happy period concerning which our sister sang, the time when sorrow and crying shall not be found, and death be no more; and then to be in the presence of our heavenly Father. What a beautiful hope we have; and we have learned the way to realize it. Jesus is the way; He taught us how to regain our Father's presence; He atoned for our sins and made us one with the Father again. Now, if we desire to have a share in that happy condition of which our sister sang, we must follow the example He has given us. We must study the way and walk therein; we must study our duties and perform them, and not shrink from them, nor neglect them. 

I believe that during the last six months there has been great progress in the Church, and that the saints are drawing nearer unto God, and are trying to perform their duties better than before. When I look upon the eagerness with which the saints flock to the temples, I know that in spiritual matters they feel well. During the last year, the temple here has been crowded, and I congratulate the saints upon this fact, which shows that they love to go into the house of God and take part in the ordinances which are performed therein. The prophecy of Malachi is fulfilling; the hearts of the children are turned to their fathers. During the last six months we have had a great increase in the number of the members of the Genealogical Society, which proves the interest that the saints are taking in the great work for the dead. Many are sending abroad, obtaining their records to quite an extent, and I want to encourage the saints in this good work. 

Yesterday we had seventy-two couples of young people come into the temple to be married. That is a good sign. We want the young people to begin married life aright. We want them to go to the house of God and make covenants with Him to serve Him, and also enter into covenants with one another in regard to married life, and to obtain the blessings of the sealings performed under the authority of the holy priesthood. 

The work abroad continues to prosper. We have the joy to learn that the work in Europe is going forward in spite of all opposition. About three months ago, we heard about a wholesale exiling of our elders from Prussia. I believe there were twenty-one cast into prison, and it looked as if that government would succeed in its determination to stop the progress of the work of the Lord in that kingdom. Our elders, however, did not feel disheartened. If they could not labor in Prussia, there were other countries where they could go and la in the Lord's vineyard. We have had letters from prominent men in Germany and in France, asking us for literature. They wanted to know more about us and gave as a reason, that they had read about the persecution of the elders by the government of Prussia. They say they could hardly believe that such things could take place in the twentieth century. The report of the German mission shows that the work there has not been stopped, for the month after this occurrence was, I believe, one of the banner months in that mission, as to baptisms. 

In a late letter from President McKay, we learn that the branch established at Vienna last year, with three members, has now grown to thirty-five; and at a meeting he attended there were a hundred people present and this was only a meeting by invitation. He thinks that there is one of the best openings for the proclamation of the gospel. Likewise in Hungary. Our elders have not done much in that kingdom. It belongs to Austria, but is a separate nationality. We have a brother there who has studied the language, and has published tracts in it, and a considerable awakening is witnessed there. People are eager to know something concerning the gospel of Christ, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph, and there are good prospects that many in that nation will come and join us. The brethren are continuing their labors in the French part of Switzerland, in France, and in Belgium, and are meeting success. Likewise in Holland in the Netherlands mission as a whole, our missionaries are obtaining gratifying results. In Norway there, was some excitement, this summer, among the people. The priests and the press sought to have  passed against the elders being allowed to preach in Norway,, and it looked for a while as if such laws would be passed. But, I am happy to say that the committee having the bill in hand reported to the Storthing or Congress of Norway, that there was no need of any more legislation in that regard. So our saints there feel to breathe freer. 

Whatever men may do, I feel that nothing can be done to stop the progress of the work of the Lord. This is the gospel, restored unto the earth, and it must be preached to all nations. John, in describing the mission of the angel, that should come with the everlasting gospel, tells us that his proclamation was to go to all nations. None should be exempt; none had the gospel; it had to be restored and preached to all; and this has become our mission, brethren and sisters; we must do this work. We are sending two thousand elders abroad. They are working diligently, and they are gaining the love and confidence of those with whom they become acquainted. The people look upon these men, as men who are what they profess to be — earnest ministers of the gospel, who seek to enlighten their fellow-men concerning their belief; and in their works and. in their lives they show the fruits of the faith which God has given them. We are sending out missionaries every year, in fact, every month. 

I want to say to the saints, that our children should be taught in the principles of the gospel; they should be encouraged to attend the different organizations that have been established for the development of our children and our young people. We have several of these . Our Mutuals are doing a splendid work. We like to encourage those who are angaged therein, and encourage our fathers and mothers to see to it that their sons and their daughters take the courses that are given in the Mutuals. We also want to encourage them to send their children to the Primaries, to the Sunday Schools, and to the Religion Classes. We know that this is necessary. 

Our children should be guarded against contaminating influences. When we read reports from the Juvenile courts, we feel shocked, and we are thankful that these courts have been established, for we believe they do a great deal of good. We hope that our legislature will sustain them; and we must take a hand with them. We must be warned by what we hear is going on among the young people, and try to protect them against the evil influences that are so demoralizing. Let us encourage our children to become members of the organizations I have mentioned and to receive as much training as possible in religion. We do not mean therebv that they should be taught theory entirely, but we want them taught practical religion. We want them taught how to pray, how to walk uprightly before God, how to learn to exercise charity to the neighbor, to do good to those who are in need, -pnd tc remember the sick. I was touched when I heard that a certain c!a?s in the Religion Class organiza tion went and got flowers and sent them to a sick classmate to comfort him in his sickness, and thus gave evidence to the sick boy that he was remembered by his class. We should commend such things; we want to encourage our children to think of others besides themselves. Now, brethren and sisters, do not discourage the children from attending the Primaries, the Religion classes, or the Mutuals. All of these organizations are of the utmost importanme, and we desire to see them well attended, so that the young people may get the benefit of the teachings given therein. 

We hope that the saints will be alive in their duties to attend their meetings. We find there is a slackness, in some places, and this I believe, to some extent, can be ascribed to those who have charge. The bishops and their assistants must study their congregations, and must seek to make their meetings interesting, so that they do not have to preach to empty benches. This has not been the custom in Israel. As a rule, our meeting houses are filled; but in some places there has arisen indifference, and where such neglect is seen, our brethren who have charge should study conditions and the causes of this negligence in regard to attending meetings. 

We are commanded by the Lord to go to His house on the Sunday. The Sunday has been declared His holy day, and He commands us to go to His house and there offer up our oblations, there renew our covenants in the sacrament, there listen to those who shall address us, and take part in the worship of God. This duty cannot be neglected without our sustaining a great loss. Brethren and sisters, let us be thankful that God has given us the faith and a testimony of the truth, and has given us a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and that his successors have been men appointed by Him. We know this. This is our testimony, when we are called upon to speak, for we feel it within our heart of hearts. Now  us carry out in our every-day life that which we know to be right, and the blessings of the Lord will attend us. May He bless the congregations of the saints. May He bless us in this conference; bless the speakers who shall address us, that such things may be brought forth as shall be for our best good. I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PREST. JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

The Saints should emulate President Joseph F. Smith's example of faithfulness. — Satisfaction found in the proclamation of the Gospel. — Cheerful responses to calls for missionaries. — Folly of wandering in search of better locations. — Loyalty to the flag, land, and laws of the country enjoined. — Moral training of children an important duty. — Teachings of the Mormon Priesthood always inculcate virtue, honesty, and all righteous principles. 

I have very great pleasure in welcoming you, one and all, to this conference, and endorsing with all my heart the good words that have been spoken by President Smith and President Lund in their addresses before you this morning. I am grateful, indeed, for the blessings of the Almighty, which we have received as a people. I am grateful to our countrymen for the kindly consideration they have given us, and the fairness with which they have treated us in the years that are passed and gone. I recognize, fully, that there has been much misunderstanding in the breasts of many people in regard to our purpose and mission in the world. 

President Smith stated to us, very clearly and explicitly, this morning, his belief in the gospel of the Redeemer, in the mission of the 

Latter-day Prophet, in the moral principles and doctrines essential to the well-being of mankind; and told of his efforts, at all times and in all places, to fulfill his obligations in honor to his God, to his country, and to his fellow-men. The spirit of his talk to us should make its impress upon the minds of every \oung man and young woman in this community. His determination to serve God, to keep His commandments, to be just and fair to all men, to love the truth, to betray no trust, but to fulfill all obligations in honor, should commend itself to every right-thinking man and woman within the confines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and to the hearts and good feeling of every citizen of the United States. 

My brothers and my sisters, I trust that each one of us, as we shall look into our own consciences, weigh our own conduct, look about us and consider the experiences of our lives, shall be enabled to say the same of ourselves. When we shall have reached the age at which he has arrived, and when we have gone through varied experiences similar to those through which he has passed, I trust that our consciences shall say to us, as we stand in the presence of our fellow-men : I have betrayed no trust, violated no obligation, nor counseled other men so to do. 

President Lund has presented to us the conditions that exist in some parts of the world, in connection with the Gospel, the success of the elders in their ministry, the results that are coming from their sacrifices and their labors. For it is a sacrifice to leave home and friends, to go forth a stranger in a strange land, without means, to make vour  among your fellows and declare your faith. It is all the more difficult when many of your fellowmen look upon you simply in the light of a deceiver, whose mission is to mislead, and whose heart is aflame with the purpose of doing wrong to his fellows. But the approval of a man's own conscience is his richest earthly reward, and he is blest in the fulfillment of the obligation of scattering the seeds of the gospel of the Redeemer among the children of men. No man or woman can be engaged in a more pleasing and satisfactory duty, no matter what may be the character of the abuse they may receive, or the wrongs and outrages that mav be perpetrated against them. This mission of ours is to all the world. When we received this gospel, going into the waters of baptism and making our covenants with God, we took upon ourselves this responsibility to preach the gospel to every creature, every nation, every kindred, every tongue, and every people. Every man. and every woman who received that gospel in a foreign land made the same covenant, and bore record that it was sent of God, that the angel had flown through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach. When we become conversant with its principles we learn to revere the name of the Supreme Being, we recognize the sacredness of the mission of the Redeemer of the world and the offering He made in our interest. When we became pricked in our hearts, and the voice of the spirit had declared to us that this is, indeed, the gospel of the Redeemer, and that He is, indeed, the Savior of the world, we entered the waters of baptism, in harmony with that call : "Come out of her. my peopie, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." We entered into the obligation, that, to the best of our ability, we would make it possible for every human being throughout the earth to hear the same glad sound which had pricked our hearts and which had aroused us from the conditions that surrounded us. When the gospel message appeared, finding us, sometimes, in the midst of sin and evil, when the word was declared in our ears that the angel of God had come, that the truth in its fullness and purity was among men, we turned from evil practices; entered the watery grave; we received the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and in receiving that gift, we said to our God : Our time, our talents shall be devoted to the accomplishment of this work, calling the children of men to repentance, and pointing out to them the way of life. It is upon this mission, in the discharge of this sacred obligation, that over two thousand of our elders — many of them boys, so to speak — are to be found among the nations of this world, upon the islands of the sea. in the far east and the far west, in the north and in the south, carrying that herald, making that proclamation. Having accomplished their great mission, they are standing free, before their Maker, from the blood and sins of the children of this world. 

There should never be an abatement in the hearts and souls of the Latter-day Saints, in their desire for the full accomplishment of this wonderful work; and how pleasing it is to note their response. Day after day, as we open the letters of the young elders in our mountain home, to whom has been addressed the reminder that laborers are  in the field, to aid in the accomplishment of the work we have to do, in nine cases out of ten comes the speedy answer: "I am ready to go, at the time appointed, to any part of the world, to fulfill my part in the accomplishment of that work of spreading truth." There are, occasionally, those who cannot at the present moment respond; but where such is the case they say, "A year from now, when my business concerns are in shape, so that I can go in honor, I will meet that call, for I hold it among the most sacred of duties." What a word to come from an army of "Mormon" boys all over the land. While I say this in regard to the boys, the maidens also that are wanted to assist in this missionary labor, among the nations, make the same response, in the same heroic manner, and with the same abiding faith. My brothers and sisters, I trust that that impress will grow upon our minds, that this work is to be accomplished in every land and in every clime; for it was to be preached to every nation. Remember that. It was to be preached to every kindred; it was to be preached to every nation; and the call : "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues," was to be the cry among the children of men. 

There are a number of subjects upon which, probably, we ought to speak in this conference, and in which we are most earnestly and devotedly interested. Among them is the one in which we see evidence of the drifting away from the old habit in the formation of our settlements and establishing ourselves in the land. There is discovered to be uneasiness in some sections of the country. There are still quite a  of our brethren wandering around in the world, hunting something better beyond our settlements. They have been in most states of the Union. They have passed beyond the borders into Mexico. Some of them have gone down into the South American republics. Others of them have passed beyond the borders into Canada. They are seen on the move, looking for something and anticipating something which never comes. After wandering around the circle, dissipating their means, and putting themselves almost in a condition of beggary, they in many instances are compelled to return* to their mountain home, that they may be enabled to secure the necessaries of life. We have sought to stop this tendency and to call the people to an understanding of their responsibility in caring, legitimately and properly, for their households, in making their homes and preserving those homes, that their children may hot be wanderers in the world. But, it seems difficult to make an impression upon some minds in regard to this matter, and we feel that an effort should be made to preserve ourselves in the possession of that which we have, and to repress this spirit of wandering, wandering, and wandering, until it leads to our almost complete annihilation, so far as our happiness is concerned, and almost as far as our physical wellbeing is concerned. 

The United States, my friends, is good enough for me. Anywhere under that flag, within the confines of the United States, should please every American, should fill him with hope and with faith, and none of you can help but' feel that hope and that faith when you stop to think and weigh the mission of that flag  the world, and the good that has come to you and yours, and the good that has come to me and mine. From a far-off land, amidst persecution and trial, my ancestry landed upon this continent. Under our flag they have endured some hardships and some privations and tribulations. Even wrongs have been heaped upon them by the intolerance of their fellow-men; but we have yet to find one of them who feels that that flag should be lowered from the place it occupies. They feel that our country's laws should be sustained and honored by the children of the Latter-day Saints in the United States. Our place among men should be a place of honor, a place of worth, that no matter where found we should be recognized as among the most obedient, tractable, and earnest observers of the laws of our country. In oUr perversions and the mistakes we make in life, we should not lay it to the flag; we should not lay it to the laws of our country. We should not lay it to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which under the law of God is required to obey every constitutional law of this land. When we step aside from it, we assume personally the burdens and responsibilities of our violations of the law. May you and I recognize our place in the great scheme of life to which we have been called by the still small voice, or by the ministration of the elders of the Church in the world outside. May we continue beneath the folds of the flag, in this glorious land, rejoicing in the fact that it floats and invites us to enjoy every blessing and right that mortal can enjoy beneath any flag in the world — and many more. 

I do not wish tO drift away from the thought that is in my mind upon this question of people moving from our sections of the country into other sections of the land. To the east of us is one of the finest sections of the world, a place where good homes can be built, where ample water, by labor, can be secured, and where industrious men, in the course of a few years, can stand in the possession of opulence and wealth. There homes may be established, and joy abound in the rearing of a family among friends and neighbors who feel, as you feel, reverence and respect for everything that is noble and good. 

The impress of the remarks of President Lund, in regard to the question of the guardianship of our children, should ever be held in remembrance by Latter-day Saints. Their homes should be homes of love and peace, should be homes of plenty, should be homes of prayer and devotion. They should be homes where a father, loving the right, presides in honor, and where a mother loving the right, loving the home and all its interests, guards it and her children. There is quite a deal of carelessness and thoughtlessness in regard to the matter of the mingling together of all classes of people, especially of young people, that forebodes evil of no limited character. We should seek to change and limit that wrong, and the possibilities of that wrong. Your sons, in paying their addresses to my daughters should pay to them the addresses of a man that is clean, and moral, and sweet in his life. The girls who receive and enjoy his companionship should recognize his worth as a man of honor, of integrity, and of virtue. The woman to whom he pays his addresses should be above reproach, or the possibil of censure in any respect as to their moral worth. When my sons go into your homes, to pay their addresses to your daughters, you should expect them to be men who are above reproach, whose honor is clean and free, who are as virtuous as maiden could be. Their hearts should be aflame with the true nobility of manhood, a love of God, love of country, love of home, love of faith, love of right, and be possessed of the dignity that should characterize genuine and true manhood in every sense of the word. 

My brethren and sisters, let us remember who we are; let us remember from whence we came. Let us remember our hope in connection with this work which God has revealed, the hope in our souls, written there by the finger of God. Let us keep in mind the obligations resting upon us, that we would stand for the uplifting of the race, that we would guard manhood, and require from manhood the same that has been required by the world from womanhood! We shall continue to require from the womanhood of our Church, the womanhood of our nation, a womanhood so clean and so sweet that, wherever found, the impress of the nobility of their character will write upon the souls of men — respect, honor, and devotion. 

Again, I welcome you to conference. Again, I say to you, when you go to your homes, go with this impress upon your souls, that the Latter-day Saints love this government, that the Latter-day Saints love every truth that God has revealed, that the Latter-day Saints propose to continue to gather truth from every source in the world, and to utilize that truth, to the best of their ability, in the betterment of  human family, men, women, and children alike. Let us keep up the standard of our birth, as far as it is possible for us to do, and let us teach the women who are forfeiting their right of motherhood, and trampling in the dust that call of God, "Multiply and replenish the earth," that they are on the road to destruction; that it means death; it means shame; it means the blotting out of the purposes of God, so far as their acts are concerned. Let us say to our own womanhood, one and all : Motherhood is her glory, and the fulfillment of the position of motherhood places her, when her mission is done, in the arms and holding the respect of the Redeemer of the world and God our Father, the friend and guide of us all. 

Look carefully around, over the land; secure good homes; preserve everything of a temporal nature, and utilize it legitimately. Cease to grow in the thought of increasing extravagance and recklessness. There is a feeling of recklessness taking possession of American people — and it reaches us — that will, from time to time, write the dishonor of the men, all over the land, who are unfaithfully handling the funds of other people. Wherever a man is entrusted with the funds of a people, or of his neighbors or friends, as a banker, as a merchant, or in any of the fields of activity, where we enter to do legitimate and proper business, he should learn that those interests should be guarded more carefully and sacredly than his life. But, we hear and see, upon the right hand and upon the left : This man has gone wrong, and the other man has gone wrong. This one has made a mistake. This one is in the penitentiary, in connection with these matters, and as a result of these conditions has brought him into disgrace and shame. He has disgraced the family from which he came; he has disgraced the wife and child with whom he was associated, if he had a wife and child, and disgraced, as far as it is possible, the honor of his state and the honor of his nation. You among the Mormon people can write it in your books, that the Mormon apostles have never counseled you to steal. They have never counseled you to lie. They have never counseled you to bear false witness against your neighbor. They have never counseled you to do a wrong to your fellow; not in any sense of the word. But their instruction, from the day you were born, as you have heard their voices in these gatherings, or in other gatherings, was that the highest elements of your manhood should be developed, that you might be lifted up and prepared for the duties of life. Pay your debts, be honest, virtuous, truthful, generous, brave, with unyielding courage and eternal hope; and God, the Father, will receive you when your mission in the world is done. They have warned you not to destroy the honor of woman. They have sought to guard you in the complete and implicit observance of every moral rule. Every woman has been warned and rewarned by the same voices, See to it that your womanhood is guarded, and that you live in harmony with the principles of righteousness and right. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I welcome you, again, and ask you to observe the rules of your Church, and you will never be far in the wrong. Observe the duties and responsibilities made incumbent upon you and which come to you by right under the constitution and laws of vour country, and you will never go far wrong. It is true we have our weaknesses, and we make our little mistakes; but the heavy burdens of crime and evil will not rest upon our shoulders. When the time shall come, we will stand accepted of our God, because we have been true to Him; we have been true to one another; we have been true to the obligations into which we have entered. We have been true to the requirement given of the Lord, and with which we have had much to do and say in the times past, obeying the laws of our country, which have been decided constitutional by the courts of our country, and doing that, there will be no regrets upon our part. None of our friends will feel that we have trampled upon them, if we have walked in this right and true path. 

May heaven bless every man, woman, and child of our land. May the Lord bless the citizenship of onr state, men of every creed and of every faith, if they obey the requirements of that faith in honor and in truth. May He bless the sons of the soil of the LTnited States, and her daughters, that this land may present a people to the world, that shall be unequalled among mankind in the future; men and women who shall be unequalled in their equipment for the duties of life, unequalled in their generosity, in their bravery, in their love of virtue, in their honor of truth, and in their sustaining of all things that mean, in manhood and womanhood, all that is noble and good. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able — Hold us with Thv powerful hand. 

Holy Spirit, Feed us till the Savior comes. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 ]). m. 


