Morning
07 10 1910


ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During the short time that I hope to be able to occupy, I shall make an effort to bear my testimony to the truth of this work. It is a very difficult thing to do unless you have the spirit of testimony. My conviction has always been, and my instruction has always been given to the elders who were preaching the gospel, that when you are moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord, then is the time to testify that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a Proph of God, for it is only under His influence that a testimony is of any effect upon the hearts of the children of men. 

When I think of my labors in the Church, and the efforts that I have made to do my duty, I am surprised as well as astonished at the meager information I have acquired, and yet, I have an abiding, unfaltering faith, in God the Father and in His Son Jesus Christ. I expect to always have faith, as long as I keep the commandments of the Lord, and keep myself clean, pure and sweet, so that the Holy Ghost can be with me. 

In thinking about the mission of our Savior, I desire to give a little evidence for my faith in God the Father and in His Son, Jesus Christ. I love the Lord because of His great patience. When I think of His patience in creating this world in which we live, which they claim took six thousand years, that of itself appeals to me. When I think of the patience of the Father and His Son with me, one of His children; how, through His providence, His care and protection, and the whisperings of the Holy Spirit,' that I have been able to do as well as I have, I feel to thank Him for His kindness unto me. Sometimes, I marvel that I have done as well as I have. As my mother once said to my father, during the reformation, when he wanted her to repent, as all others were repenting, she said : "I am surprised that I have done as well as I have, and if I had it to do over again, I could not do as well." Father hardly thought that was repentance. The Lord is very patient with His people, with His children. I often think of the time when I was in the South, laboring as an elder in Virginia. The president of the conference in which I was appointed was called into Colorado to continue teaching the people. He shed tears, because he wanted to stay in the Southern States mission, and "bind up the law and seal up the testimony;" he wanted to condemn all the people and close up the mission so the end would come. That was in 1883. We have had a great many elders who would have closed our missionary labors, as far as the world was concerned, but the Lord is not so short sighted and impatient; He has all eternity, and He proposes to save His children, "excepting the sons of perdition." Some of us become very impatient with each other because we fancy we are better than others, and we become angry with our fellow-men because they will not do as well as we do. I love the Lord because He causes it to rain upon the just and the unjust; because the sun shines for them as brightly as it does for any of His children. And while He is just, He is merciful. I thank God the Eternal Father that up to the present I have had the spirit of repentance, and while it has kept me pretty busy repenting, I hope I will always have that spirit. If it were not for repentance and forgiveness, I would become discouraged and discontinue my labors. I am going to read to you a little that has been culled from the Bible as to the mission of Christ. I would quote it, but I never dare quote scripture, for after I get through quoting you wouldn't recognize it. (Laughter.) 

I am a little like father, when he used to quote scripture, he would say. "Well, if that isn't in the Bible, it ought to be in it." (Laughter.) So it is not safe for me to quote. Speaking of the mission of the Savior : 

Is He not that Mighty Prophet that should come unto the world? 

At his birth the air was filled with angels and over whose couch hung a celestial star. 

Before whose infant feet the three wisest men of the world, representing the family of mankind, bowed in adoration and worshiped, as to God. 

Whom Herod, the First, slew three hundred and three score children in Bethlehem, in order to reach His life 

This is He whom John the Baptist proclaimed the "Lamb of God, which taketfa away the sin of the world." 

At whose baptism the heavens were opened above His head, and the spirit of God descended upon Him in the form of a dove, while the voice of the Lord, like the voice of many thunders, proclaimed from the clouds, "This is my beloved son." 

At whose words the tempest became still, the billowy waves placid, the winds hushed. Who healed the sick and leprous by a word; who by a look reanimated the lifeless limb of the paralytic. Raised the daughter of Jairus; healed the Centurion's servant; restored to life the son of Nain; cast out a legion of devils out of Beor, the Levite; restored the deaf and dumb; gave also to His apostles the same power to do miracles. Feeds at one time 4,000 men, and at another time 5,000 from a few pounds of bread or a few fishes which a lad could carry in a basket. 

Moses and Elias came from the regions of the blessed and held communion with the Savior. 

Who calls forth from the tomb of corruption Lazarus to life and health. 

Who when praying was answered by a voice from heaven in the hearing of many people. "I have glorified my name, and will glorifv it again." 

Was it not the Savior, at whose trial nothing could be found against Him, and who when delivered to execution by Pilate to save Himself and appease the Jews, was publicly declared to be an in man by the Procurator, in calling for water and washing His hands and saying that he was clear of His blood for he found no fault in Him. 

Who was He, at whose crucifixion the heavens grew black as sackcloth, the sun withdrew its light, the stars shot from their spheres, the lightning leaped along the earth, the earth itself quaked, and the dead spring from their graves. 

Who on the third Jay burst the bars of the tomb, received as He walked forth the homage of an arch angel; who appeared alive to His mother, to the women of Galilee, to Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and to the apostles. Does not this prove Him the Christ, the Son of the living God? 

That to me is evidence, preponderous evidence; it satisfies me  but as J. G. Holland said, in one of his writings : 

Better faith in a fable which inspires to good deeds, conducts our powers to noble ends, make us loving, gentle, and heroic, eradicates our selfishness, establishes within us the principle of benevolence and enables us to meet death with equanimity if not with triumph in the hope of a glorious resurrection" and a happy immortality, than the skepticism of kingly reason, which only needs to be carried to its legitimate issues to beastialize the human race and drape the earth in the blackness of Tartarus. 

My brethren and sisters, I have that faith, that unfaltering faith in the Lord; and I have the same kind of faith and the same kind of belief in the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a difficult thing, from a human point of view, to believe that God appeared to a bov fourteen years of age and revealed this work; but when you take into consideration the teachings and revelations of the Prophet, this alone appeals to me as strongly as any evidence I have; that God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ appeared to the Prophet. Then John the Baptist appeared and conferred upon him the Aaronic; and Peter, James and John, the Melchizedek priesthood. The most perfectly organized Church on the earth was organized. I have put this matter to the test. I stand before you as a Seventy, a witness of the Lord to the nations of the earth, I received that authority through William M. Allred, who was ordained by Levi W. Hancock, who was ordained by Joseph Smith the Prophet. I have learned this much regarding the value of the priesthood, that I would rather place my hands upon the head of an elder and ordain him a seventy than preach the best discourse that I ever delivered. I feel that I have accomplished a great piece of work for God and His Church, when I ordain a seventy and that man goes forth and magnifies his calling. It is a living testimony that God the Father recognizes that administration and that authority which I hold; and in my administration in the Church I have multiplied evidences that the Lord has acknowledged my authority and administrations. The sick have been healed under my administration. I remember, while in Los Angeles, an estimable lady interceded with me to attend one of their great Christian Science testimony gatherings. There were over three thousand men and women, and they were a very intelligent class of people. They were an educated people. The reader, that evening* was a judge who had been on the supreme bench in one of our states; he had been sick and afflicted with stomach trouble. He had resigned his position; he had given up his work and his profession; he said before that large congregation of people that he had been healed through Christian Science. He was as practical a man, as I am. He told a straight story. I listened to the testimony of perhaps fifty or more of those people, men and women. After their meetr ing adjourned, the lady who invited me, said : "What do you think of it?" Why, I said, I could put those men to shame; I could bear testimony of the power of God, through administration under the hands of the priesthood, that would have surprised and astonished that assembly of people; they would have been astounded and would not have believed my statement. 

My brethren and sisters, I believe in this work. I believe in the Prophet Joseph Smith. T believe in the living oracles. I honor the dead, but they are dead and performing their work behind the vale. We have the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve, and they are united, and with the help of God I want to sustain them. There are many things that I do not understand, that I cannot comprehend fully. I cannot see my way out at present; but this is God's work, and, with the help of the Lord, I want to sustain the Priesthood of God. I love the people, and I say: God save the people. When I look over this body of men, I do not discover that you are very distinguished in appearance. Why, you are no better looking than I am, and I look pretty bad. (Laughter.) I am only a remnant of what I ought to be. I am not very well groomed, and I do not look distinguished; neither do you. (Laughter.) You can't boast very much about your appearance. We are a hard working people, and we would not take a very good picture, unless you take the better side of us; but I tell you, in the name of the Lord, we .have got clean hearts; we love the Lord;  love truthfulness; we desire to be honest, truthful, and virtuous. You can't judge us by our appearance. If you knew the hearts of this people, there would not be the bitterness there is against the Latter-day Saints. 

In conclusion I will tell you a story, and then will close. When I was in California I was very low spirited and broken down in body; and I tried to die, but I made a miserable failure of it. (Laughter.) One day when I was laying on the sand, near the ocean, I happened to pick up a paper, and it gave me new life and new energy. It was a funny picture; it was a picture of a great big monkey, it represented, "Fate— Th Old Monkey." It was an editorial. I haven't it with me, but I have read it a good many times, and I desire to make a comparison. There was a very prominent citizen that had an intelligent monkey. He was a mischievous fellow, and he just went around the house knocking everything down that he could get hold of. He knocked over everything that he came to; he discovered that the things he knocked over did not get up again. He was just as mischievous as fate seems to be with us. Finally, this good citizen took the image of a little man, made of some kind of material, and placed it on a very strong base. It was so arranged that when you knocked it over it would come up again. So he set this little man in the room. The monkey came around, took his right hand and cuffed it over. To his surprise it wobbled a little and staggered, and then rose up and seemingly looked at him. Then he took his other hand and cuffed it again, and it came up again. Then he took the hand of his right leg  knocked it again, and then with his left hind leg; then he got on it with all four hands and took one hand up at a time. To his surprise, the little man rose up. The intelligent monkey almost became a monkey maniac. He kept at it and kept at it until he hated and despised the little man; and whenever they would move the little man near the monkey, he would get off in the corner and chatter and become angry. He wouldn't have anything to do with the little man. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is similar, or like that little man. You can knock it down one hundred times; you can knock it down one thousand times; it may wobble, but it will rise up again, and it will keep rising up until God has accomplished His work. This is God's work, and I look in sympathy upon men who oppose it. I stood on the street last night — something I hardly ever do — and listened to a man abuse the Church; and I had to laugh. I was a good deal like father was once when he was praying. In the midst of his prayer, he burst out in a loud laugh, and he said, "O Lord, forgive me; it makes me laugh to pray about some men;" it always amuses me when I see a man or a coterie of men try to break down this Church. I would say to these kind of men : You had better let the Church alone; you had better let the people alone; because you can't destroy the Church. I read somewhere in the Doctrine and Covenants, 

"Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against my anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which is meet in my eys, and which I command them. But those who cry transgression do it because they are the ser of sin and are the children of disobedience themselves." 

If there is anything we are doing, as members of the Church, that is dishonest, untruthful or intolerant, God has not commanded it. We have got to be honest; we must be truthful; we must be moral, if we are saved in the kingdom of God. I do not know just what will come out of our complex situation, but I do believe this, most ardently, that "every tub shall stand upon its own bottom." I believe that every man, woman, and child will have to have a testimony and a knowledge that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or they cannot stand. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. With all of my weaknesses, with all of my difficulties, I would like to see the color of a man's hair, and I would like to look into the eyes of the man that questions my loyalty and integrity to this Church. You may have to carry me; you may have to be patient and longsuffering with J. Golden Kimball, but don't you question my integrity. I think I have given some evidence of my faith, loyalty and integrity. I learned my lesson, in this Church, as every man will learn it; I learned it by being a stranger in a strange country. I learned it by traveling without purse or scrip, and I want to tell you, in the name of Israel's God, the Lord is amply able to provide for His servants. You do not have to "trust in the arm of flesh." The Lord has answered my prayers; He has opened up the way before me; He has raised up friends upon the right hand and upon the left. That is how I secured my knowledge and information. I know, iust as well as I ever expect to know, until I see with my eyes, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph is a Prophet of God, and that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I sustain the Church. I support as best I know how the Presidency of this Church, the Council of the Twelve, and the general authorities of the Church. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

That man must be accounted fortunate who in this presence, within the limited time allotted to the speakers, can present just one idea, clearly and distinctly, to the congregation. Whether I shall be able to do that or not, I cannot say, but certainly I shall attempt to do no more than that. 

When Joseph Smith was about fourteen years old, in the year 1820, he was much confused by reason of the disagreement that existed in his own neighborhood, between the various sects of religion; and in the midst of it, his attention was called to that splendid scripture which says, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." He resolved to put that doctrine to the test, and retired to a secret place in the woods, where he called upon the Lord in earnest and fervent prayer. In response to this petition, a most splendid vision was opened to his mind, and he was taken into the presence of God, the Father, and Jesus, the Christ, and beheld them in the midst of a glory that surpassed the brightness of the sun at noonday. He saw that they, in form, were like men, that each was  from the other. They made known to him that men had departed from the truth, as originally taught by the Christ, but they gave him to understand also that the time was at hand when the Church of Christ would be re-established in the earth, that the gospel would be restored to men, and told him that he was to be a chosen instrument in the hands of God to accomplish some of His mighty purposes in the earth. A most wonderful revelation, correcting the errors that existed and, at the same time, giving promise that there should be. and that soon, a revelation of the truth in its fulness. How glorious that is — if it is true! How many theological questions it would settle. How it would clear the field of theology of error — if, only, it be true! 

Subsequent to this, the Prophet was visited by an angel, not some phantom, a creation of the fancy, but a real personage, a man of flesh and bone, raised from the dead, a man who came from the presence of God and made known the existence of the American volume of scripture, by which I mean a volume of scripture which was brought into existence through the revelations of God to the ancient inhabitants of this land — the Book of Mormon — wherein is described the visit that the Christ made to this western world. After His resurrection from the dead and His ministry in Tudea, the Christ came here, according to this record, and established His Church, gave authority to men to teach the truth, and gave that same fulness of the gospel to the inhabitants of this western world that He had given to the people in the East. This gives an enlarged view of the earthlv mission of the Christ, and  the justice of God in dealing with the children of men, in that He gave to the inhabitants of this western world the same opportunity to know the truth concerning man and man's salvation as He did to the inhabitants of the eastern hemisphere. How splendid all that is — if only it is true! 

The Reverend Doctor Watson, in his most beautiful treatise on the "Life of the faster," says this in relation to Messiah : 

"Were a parchment discovered, in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing forty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century." 

I believe that is true. Mr. Watson continues : 

"If a veritable picture of the Lord could be unearthed from the catacombs, and the world could see with its own eyes what like he was, it would not matter that its colors were faded and that it was roughly drawn, — that picture would have, at once, a solitary place amid the treasures of art." 

And that also is true, such is the world's hunger to know something further concerning the Christ. Now, this revelation which came to the Prophet Joseph Smith brings a whole volume of scripture to testify of the Christ. Not only fifty words, but fifty pages and more of words, that come direct from the Christ- and the whole book is permeated by His Spirit. What a Christian treasure is this, and how the world ought to rejoice at such a revelation— 4f, only it is true! _ 

Subsequent to this, Joseph Smith testifies that an angel from heaven came to himself and Oliver Cowderv and bestowed upon them divine authority, restored the priest by which men were authorized to act in the name of God, in the authority of the Lord, and to have it of binding effect in matters pertaining to man's salvation. Subsequently, the apostles, to whom the Lord Jesus gave the keys of the kingdom, saying to them that whatsoever they should bind on earth should be bound in heaven, these apostles, Peter, and James, and John, came and conferred apostolic authority, a fulness of priesthood, upon these men, which priesthood holds the keys of all the offices in the Church, and the right to administer in all things pertaining to the salvation of man, and to bring into existence and set in order the true Church of the living God, — an instrumentality through which the Lord designs and does communicate His mind, and His will, and His truth to the world; a great teaching institution for the enlightenment of the world, in which also God has depositied a divine authority to speak and act in His name, and administer the ordinances of the gospel for the salvation of men. What a splendid thing this must be acknowledged to be — if, only, it is true! 

Again, the Lord revealed the great truth, through the Prophet, and lodged the truth with the Church, that God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, and men are of the same race; that there is something divine in man, an Intelligence that is not created or made, but is in the very essence of it akin to God; and that in that divine Intelligence there are infinite possibilities. Development may take place from that germ, that shall expand into all that is great, and noble, and wise, and pure, and powerful! There is in that Intelligence such possibilities of development that we may hope as eons of time shall pass by, to see it rise to something-- that is truly great and dignified, and worth while to preserve. How splendid that truth is — if, only, it is true! 

So I might continue to go on, step by step, through the whole catalog of those great and true principles that God has revealed to His Church — the doctrine of resurrection from the dead — the reality and tangibility of it I mean; salvation for the dead; the eternity of the marriage covenant, and so following, if time would permit; but the one thought, the one idea, only, that I hope to suggest in these remarks is simply this : Since, admittedly, these things are splendid and glorious, if true, why will not men approach an investigation of them from that standpoint? From the standpoint that it is desirable to have them established as true, if possible — these several events in which the Church had its origin, and these splendid doctrines which would mean so much for the uplifting of the race — if true? Why not start the investigation of this wonderful message which we proclaim to the world from that standpoint? It seems to me that there is opportunity for more headway to be made in solving these matters, if approached from that standpoint, than to approach them in the spirit of antagonism — since, admittedly, they are glorious things, if, only, they are true. That is the thought I wanted to advance to this congregation. 

In conclusion, I want to sav this about it, for the Latter-day Saints, and that is, so far as we are concerned, it is solemn conviction with us, that these several circum in which Mormonism had its origin are absolutely true. These principles that I have briefly alluded to, and many more that will naturally suggest themselves to your minds — many more principles that we accept, and which minister to the dignity and to the uplifting of men, are absolutely true. They constitute the center of truth on which we stand, and from which we take our outlook upon the world. From this coigne of vantage we interpret the meaning of the universe; we interpret the meaning of human life. This is our orientation with respect of things past, things present, and things to come. Who is there that can say that we do not occupy a most magnificent position from which we may interpret the meanings of human life, the relationship of individuals to the race, and the race to God, and the relationship of the individual to God? To my mind it presents a position of advantage the like of which is not equalled in all the philosophies and other religious systems of the world. 

A soprano solo, "In Thee, oh God, do I put my trust," was sung by Sister Irma Pendleton. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The sin of criticising or fault finding. — Wrongful accusers in danger of God's judgment. — Revelation an individual privilege. — The man quick to censure is often himself a transgressor. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the counsel and instruction that have been given unto us at the various sessions, so far, of our semi-annual conference. 

I desire to refer to one expression  was briefly made by one of our speakers yesterday, and mentioned again this morning, if I may be led and directed by the Spirit of the Lord; and that is this : That it is a serious thing for any member of this Church to raise his voice against the priesthood, or to hold the priesthood in disrespect; for the Lord will not hold such guiltless; so He has promised, and He will fulfill. I am satisfied, in my own mind, that there was not one person in this building at the opening session of our conference, who was not convicted in his heart in listening to the testimonies and the instruction given by our brethren of the Presidencv, that they were honorable, honest, and upright men; that they spoke the truth. I am satisfied that to the Latter-day Saints the conviction came that they spoke under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord : that Spirit which they are entitled to possess, and which, to my own knowledge and satisfaction, they do possess. It seems to be the heritage of the ungodly, of the bigoted, and of those who love iniquity, to sit in judgment and to place themselves as dictators, saying what shall be done and what shall be said by the authorities of the Church. They accuse the brethren of all manner of iniquity, dissimulation, falsehood, and try to cause a division between them and the people over whom they preside. They take unto themselves tlie prerogative of saying what shall and what shall not be the doctrine of the Church, what shall and what shall not be the government of the Church, when it concerns them not at all. But it is not of this class particularly that I desire to refer, but to those members of the Church who have entered into the waters of baptism and have  covenants before the Lord, that they will observe His laws and respect His priesthood, who have been persuaded, or who are in danger of being persuaded, by such characters. Occasionally, when a man has himself committed sin and has lost the spirit of the gospel, he will raise his voice against the actions of the authorities who preside over the Church; he will call them in question, sit in judgment upon them and condemn them. I wish to raise a warning voice to all such who hold membership in the Church, and say unto them, that they had better repent and turn unto the Lord, lest His judgments come upon them, lest they lose the faith and be turned from the truth. 

I desire to read a few words from some of our modern scriptures, that were also briefly referred to this morning : 

Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them : 

But those who cry transgression, do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves; 

And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage, and death: 

Wo unto them; because they have offended my little ones, they shall be severed from the ordinances of mine house; 

Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be despised by those that flattered them; 

They shall not have right to the priesthood, nor their posterity after them, from generation to generation; 

It had been better for them that a millstone had been hanged about their necks, and they drowned in the depth of the sea. 

Wo unto all those that discomfort my people, and drive, and murder, and testify against them, saith the Lord of Hosts; a generation of vipers shall not escape the damnation of hell. 

Behold, mine eyes see and know all their works, and I have in reserve a swift judgment in the season thereof, for them all; 

For there is a time appointed for every man, according as his works shall be. 

God shall give unto you (the saints) knowledge by his Holy Spirit, yea by the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost, that has not been revealed since the world was until now; 

Which our forefathers have waited with anxious expectation to be revealed in the last times, which their minds were pointed to, by the angels, as held in reserve of their glory : 

A time to come in the which nothing shall be withheld, whether there be one God, or many Gods, they shall be manifest; 

All thrones and dominions, principalities and powers, shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ; 

And also if there be bounds set to the heavens, or to the seas, or to the dry land, or to the sun, moon, or stars; 

All the times of their revolutions; all the appointed days, months, and years, and all the days of their days, months, and years, and all their glories, laws, and set times, shall be revealed, in the days of the dispensation of the fullness of times. 

According to that which was ordained in the midst of the Council of the Eternal God of all other Gods, before this world was, that should be reserved unto the finishing and the end thereof, when every man shall enter into his eternal presence, and into his immortal rest. 

How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven, upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

Again I repeat that it is a serious thing for a man holding a membership in this Church to say in his heart, or openly, that these men holding the keys of the kingdom have sinned, when they have not , and cause dissension, if it is in his power to do so among his brethren. The judgments of the Lord will overtake him. He will be brought in question before the Lord, and shall be cast out and find his place among the unbelievers; and those who flattered him and encouraged him to raise up his heel against his brethren will turn from him and leave him to his shame. I wish to testify that God has called these men, that He has appointed them, that He has given unto them the revelations of His mind and will; that they have the inspiration of His Spirit; that they are teaching and leading this people in truth. That is the conviction of every Latter-clay Saint who has the gospel at heart. What time, since the organization of the Church has any of the brethren, exercising the Spirit of the Lord, ever taught this people that which was false ? When have they ever said unto you that you should do that which was not right; that which would not make you better citizens and better members of the kingdom of God? You cannot, nor can any man, in righteousness, point to the time when any of them have wilfully stated anything that was contrary to the principles of righteousness, or that did not tend to make the people better in every way, that did not build them up in their salvation, temporally as well as spiritually. 

Now, if time would permit, I would like to say a few words in relation, also, to the part of this scripture I have read, regarding the pouring out of revelation. I shall only briefly refer to it. I say to you that the Lord blesses this people through the inspiration that comes to His servants, as they direct, and teach, and expound the . The statement is often made by the enemies of the people, and we hear it upon the streets of this city, from time to time, that there is no revelation in the Church. I say to you that there is revelation in the Church. The Lord not only blesses the men who stand at the head and hold the keys of the kingdom, but He also blesses every faithful individual with the spirit of inspiration. He gives His people revelation for their own guidance, wherein they keep His commandments and serve Him. That is a blessing promised, and within their power to receive. We are blest with revelation; the Church is built tipon that foundation. All the revelations given do not have to be written. The inspiration may come to the brethren, stating what shall be done, or what shall not be done, a- the Lord directs them. It does not have to be printed in a book. We have revelations that have been given, that have been written; some of them have been published; some of them have not. Don't be deceived by those falsifiers, those men whose hearts are filled with evil, and who say that the authorities have sinned when they have not sinned, who are themselves in the bondage of iniquity and are trying to destroy this work. So far as those men are concerned, who try to tear down and destroy, they do not preach that which they themselves believe. They do not teach the people that which is true or try to show them a better way, instead, they heap abuse upon the heads of the authorities of the Latter-day Saints. Whenever you find a man who spends his time abusing his neighbors, trying to tear down other people, you put it down that that man is not possessed of the Spirit of the 

Lord. But when a man tries to build up, when he tries to show you a better way, even though he be deceived, you may know that he is honest; but never the man who tries to tear you to pieces, who tries to destroy, without offering you something better in return. Never is such a man honest. 

Thank the Lord for the gospel; thank the Lord for the priesthood, and for the testimony which we enjoy that this is the. work of God. May this be the blessing of each one of us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Professed teachers of God's word must proclaim truth only. — The Church desires its doctrines judged by the Bible. — Proof that angels have been mortal men. — Misrepresentation the usual weapon used against the Church. 

There shall be false teachers among you * * and many shall follow their pernicious ways : by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. 

Elder Roberts, in the course of his very brief remarks — and only brief remarks can be made in the limited time which is allotted to us, this morning — stated that the fundamental doctrines of the Church, to which he referred, are true. It is upon these doctrines that the structure which we have builded rests; if they are not true, our hope is vain. He said unequivocally that these doctrines are true. I know that this statement of his is not sufficient evidence; I know that it is not proof of his assertion; because other men, stating it is not true, might regard, their evidence and the declarations which they make as equally in force, unless our statements can be sustained by proof. We are living in a time of misrepresentation, a time when, it seems to me, that the words quoted, which the Apostle Peter spoke to the Church of Christ in which he administered, are exemplified in the fullest degree. I believe that I sense the responsibility which rests upon me when I stand up here, professing to be a teachof the word of the Lord, to speak the truth. I do not believe that it is my prerogative, either, in advocating my own faith, or in criticizing the faith of another, to speak that which is not true. I must not be a false teacher, and it must not be by reason of my words that the truth is evil spoken of. It is not often that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints pays attention to misrepresentations, but, when their doctrines are ridiculed, when they are misrepresented, when they are spoken of with contempt, and when these things are published and sent broadcast to the world, by which men and women follow after the falsehoods which are told, it becomes necessary, sometimes, to correct them, and expose the false basis upon which men reached conclusions in regard to the faith of the Latter-day Saints. 

From one of the local papers, I clipped this report of a sermon which was preached in this city, only a short time ago, by a reverend gentleman. This report appeared in a paper having a wide circulation, and I thought to myself, wherever that shall go, among people who are not acquainted with the Latter-day Saints, who know nothing of their doctrines, impressions that are very wrongful must, necessarily, result. This man pretends to be a teacher of the word  the Lord, as it is contained in the Bible; and one of the charges which he makes against the Latterday Saints is that they do not liketo have their faith compared with the doctrines of Christ, as thev are contained in the Bible; that thev donot like to be held up against it. I will read, so that I may not be accused of misquoting his words : "I know that the Mormon church does not like to be stood up by the side of the Bible and compared with it." Then follows a tirade against the church. I wish to say to that man and to the world, and to my brethren and sisters, that there is nothing which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints more desires than that they may be stood up alongside of the Bible. It is the one thing which they are endeavoring, in their missionary work, to bring to the attention of the world. It is their one great desire that the doctrines of the Church mav be judged by the word of God. as it is contained in this holy book. The man who says to the contrary misrepresents the fact, and if he is acquainted with the subject which he discusses, he knows that he misrepresents the facts; and if he is not acquainted with the subject, he is, nevertheless, guilty, for he has no right to discuss that which he does not understand. I want to say, as Brother Roberts does, that every one of the doctrines of this Church, its articles of faith, as promulgated to the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the revelations of God, which are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, are absolutely impregnable from a Biblical standpoint. There isn't one of them that can be successfully assailed; and this man ought to know it r whether he does or not. 

I have read this discourse over and over again, in the hope that I might find in it something to indicate sincerity, something to indicate intelligent investigation, but I have not found it. He assails the Prophet Joseph Smith; he ridicules and scorns the thought of modern prophecy. He ridicules the Book of Mormon and, particularly, the manner in which it was brought into existence. Let me read just a few words here, which will illustrate this point Quoting from the Prophet Isaiah, he says: "To the law and the testimony; for if they speak not according to these, it is because there is no truth in them." I am glad he quoted that scripture, because I want — just for a moment, if I have time — to apply the law and the testimony to him. "Take the origin of the Book of Mormon, to begin with— I am just going to give you a sample — it is said that Moroni, an angel, once a man, directed Smith to the gold plates from which it is claimed the book was translated. Now, the unreasonableness of this is quickly shown. First, while men may become equal to the angels, they never become angels. Angels are an order of beings greater than and created before man." Upon this he bases his argument that the Book of Mormon must be an imposture, that it could not be true, because Joseph Smith claimed that Moroni, the man who visited him, the man who instructed him, the man who outlined to him the great mission which God had for him to perform, and the man — for I call him a man— who delivered into his hands the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, is called an angel, and because he had once been a man. Now, my brethren and sis, the Lord uses men to accomplish His purposes here in the earth. This earth was created for man, and he was placed upon it that he might here work out his salvation, that he might live this life of probation and prove himself worthy, or unworthy, of everlasting life. There has never been a dispensation, there has never been a word of revelation given, by which mankind is to be governed, so far as I am aware, that has not come through some man, from God, through His servants. This is our world. We are in it, and we are interested in it. Whatever we shall accomplish will be through our own effort; and God will manifest His will to us, through men, as He always has done. It may come by His own voice to His servants; He may send ministering spirits to administer to them; but it comes to the people through the voice of men chosen of God. 

Now, I just want to quote one passage of scripture — and the Bible is full of just such things as I am about to refer to here — -to show you the inconsistency of this man's argument, and to show you the way of the Lord. The Lord has His own way of doing these things. Unfortunately, men too often place their own private interpretation upon them. The Lord once gave a revelation to John, His loved disciple, who was, at the time, upon the Isle of Patmos, in which he reveals to us some of the most important things that ever have been given to man; and this is the way He did it : "The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it bv His angel unto His servant John." This seems very clear; he sent and signified it by His angel unto His servant John, just as He has a habit of doing -; and that angel outlined to John things which were to occur in the earth, from the beginning to the very end thereof, that wonderful book, the last book of the Bible, which we call Revelation, or the Apocalypse, gives this account : 

And he said unto me. These sayings are faithful and true; [so testified the angel unto John]. 

And I John saw the^e things, and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things. [Now. what follows?! 

Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not; [Why?l for I am thy fellow servant, [this angel of God whom He had sent] I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book 

So, it seems that Moroni was not the first angel whom God had sent ^ ith a message to the inhabitants of the earth. It seems that he was not the first angel who had had a -imilar commission, and who had heen a prophet, for this messenger bears witness to Tohn that he himself was his fellow servant of the ^roohets and of those who keep the sayings of this book. But. yet. this man would undertake to make people believe that because of the fact that Joseph Smith thus received the w ord of God. he was an impostor. 

He follows this up by making another erroneous statement: "Joseph Smith and his successors also teach the continuation of an Aaronic priesthood since the cross; that Mormonism holds it. That, loo, is in direct conflict with the holy scriptures." Has any one ever heard the doctrine by an elder of this Church that the Aaronic priesthood had continued since the cross? 

I would like to read here again, just a short extract from Joseph Smith's statement : 

We still continued in the work of translation, being the 7th of April. I commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he began to write. [Referring to Oliver Cowdery]. We still continued the work of translation when, in the ensuing month of May, 1829, we on a certain day went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, that we found mentioned in the translation of the plates. While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light. Having laid his hands upon us. he ordained us saying: 

Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of the Messiah, T confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never he taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness. 

He said that this Aaronic priesthood had not the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred upon us hereafter. He commanded us to go and be baptized; gave us directions that I should baptize Oliver Cowdery, and afterwards that he should baptize me. 

So, my brethren and sisters, the Latter-day Saints do not claim the continuation of the Aaronic priesthood from the cross, but that in the year 1829, as stated in this brief account which is given bv the Prophet, it was restored to the earth by John the Baptist, another angel who had been a man. the same man that had been beheaded by Herod of Jerusalem, because he bore witness against his iniquity, the same man who held the keys of the Aaronic priesthood in the meridian of time, the same man who baptized the Savior of the world in the river Jordan. Who had a better right? 

Who more logically, who more naturally, who more reasonably should have restored the keys of that priesthood in this dispensation than John the Baptist? He bears witness here that he was that John who was called John the Baptist. 

I shall not continue to discuss this sermon; but I call your attention to the fact that just such sermons as this are being sent broadcast, in which the faith of the Latter-day Saints is misrepresented, in which it is held up to ridicule. Boys and girls do not like to have the finger of scorn pointed at them, or the faith of their fathers held up to derision; and there is nothing else in this sermon from beginning to end. Not in one single instance has this man attempted to prove that the faith of the Latter-day Saints is not based upon the doctrines of Christ, as they are taught in the Bible, except the one that I have quoted. That is the only scripture that he quotes to sustain his contention, and I have shown you how ridiculous that contention is. Do not be influenced, neither saint nor sinner, Latter-day Saint nor unbeliever, by such sophistry. Before vou reach conclusions, investigate this question. There may be some excuse for men who reason from their own philosophy; there may be some excuse for men who do not profess to be believers in the Bible; but for these professed teachers of Christianity, these men who profess to make the Bible the basis of their faith, I say that they are inconsistent; I say that they are either insincere and wilfully wrong, or else they are woefully ignorant of the subjects which they treat. The Latter-day Saints stand before the world today with the Bible as the basis of their faith. Nothing would make them happier than that we  come together and, making that the basis of our faith, be governed by it. We are willing to be judged by that rule, by the law and the testimony. "If they speak not according to that, it is because there is no light in them." 

That is just exactly what is the matter with the world. They do not accept the Bible as the word of God, notwithstanding the fact that they profess faith in it. They teach for doctrines the commandments of men; they divine for hire; they preach for money; and their stock in trade, particularly, just at the present time, seems to be to belittle the Church of Christ and the Latter-day Saints. They will fail just as ignominiously as have every other people failed who have raised up their voices against the kingdom of God. They will be just as greatly disappointed as is a hungry man who, in his sleep, dreams that he eats, and thinks that he is satisfied; but when he wakes, he finds that he is still hungry. Or a thirsty man who, in imagination, drinks in his sleep, and thinks that his thirst is quenched; but when he arises his soul still has aopetite. A man remarked, only a few days ago, so I was informed by a friend, that it was only a question of a little time till the Mormon Church would fall of its own weight. Take the advice of Gamaliel then, and just let the Church alone, let it fall of its own weight. It is not injuring anybody; it is only seeking to establish righteousness, preaching only the doctrines of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is only holding up to the world the word of the Lord as it is contained in the Bible; and if we do, also, contend that the Book of Mormon contains the word of God, it is a very easy matter to prove it by comparing it with the doctrines in the Bible, and we are vindicated there, iust as we are upon every other point. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, remember this; do not forget it : You are a thoughtful lot of men and women. Think of yourselves; act -for yourselves; know for yourselves, right from wrong; do what God shall manifest to you is your duty, every day of your life. The Lord will take care of this work; He will magnify it; and it will never fall of its own weight, but it will continue to grow stronger every day, from this day henceforth, until it shall prevail in all the world. I bear this testimony to you, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith said, "I think the sentiment expressed by the Apostle Paul is very appropriate at this moment — T am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ : for it is the power of God unto salvation.' And we have it." 

President Smith stated that an entertainment bureau had been established in the office of Elias Morris & Sons, at South Temple and Richards streets, and that those who lacked places of entertainment might report there and be supplied. Those having places to offer for lodging and boarding during conference were also invited to notify the entertainment committee. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder George Osmond. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


