Morning
05 04 1924 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Parley P. Pratt has written more inspirational hymns for the Latter-day Saints to sing than any of the other of our poets; and there are few, if any, of his hymns that touch my heart more than this wonderful hymn to which we have just listened, so beautifully rendered by our sisters and the choir. It was written by inspiration, and, to my mind, if we omit the last verse, the wonderful prayer, contained in this hymn, is marred and lost. There has never been any doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints that Jerusalem will be rebuilt and re-established, and the prediction contained in this last verse is in prospect of being fulfilled. From the day that the British army rode into Jerusalem a change has come. We believe absolutely in the inspiration of this hymn, and that every word of this last verse will be fulfilled: 

"Lo, Israel, filled with joy, shall now be gathered home, Their wealth and means employ to build Jerusalem; While Zion shall arise and shine, And fill the earth with truth divine." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

THE OI.D PATHS AND THE GOOD WAY 

"Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. Eut they said, We will not walk therein. "Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. 

"Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them. 

"Hear, O earth : behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it." — Jer. 6:16-19. 

My brethren and sisters, I stand before you this morning as Elder Stephen L. Richards said that he did, yesterday, awed in the presence of this great congregation of Latter-day Saints, and in the presence of God, our Father who, I know is here by his Spirit. I feel dependent upon him, dependent upon you, and the exercise of your faith in my behalf, to help me during the few moments of time which I expect to occupy. 

THE PATHS OF THE LORD 

The way, or path, to which the scripture which I have read refers, is the path, or road, in which the Lord desires, and has always desired, that his people shall walk. 

THE TRAILS AND PATHS OF MEN 

Roads made by men thread the world. They have many beginnings, and some of them intricate and devious windings before the end is reached. Some of them are broad and easy to follow, and converge into other like roads, along which, multitudes constantly travel, multitudes who appear to be striving for the same objective, a destination which the history of the past shows but few reach. In the beginning these roads were mere trails. Men knew the direction in which they wished to travel, the destination which they desired to reach, but no one had traveled the road before them, no trail had been blazed, there were no markers to follow, and they went blindly on, often to disaster, and sometimes to death. 

In their effort to reach the Pacific coast, less than one hundred years ago, people perished from thirst, when there was water in abundance near. No one had been over the road before them, and they perished in the deserts of sand, because there was no track to follow. 

Today no man would attempt to reach Utah from Santa Fe by the route traveled by Cardenas more than three hundred years ago, we have learned that the Grand Canyon of the Colorado interposes an insurmountable barrier, a barrier which cannot be crossed, but know that there are other trails which make the passage of the great canyon and river possible. No party of travelers would attempt to reach the Pacific Coast by the route followed by the company of emigrants who perished in Death Valley, in 1849. 

The impassable barriers, and relentless death traps have become known, the roads and trails have been charted, and the wayfarer, knowing his danger, avoids them. The roads built by man are constructed to satisfy the demands of his environment. Over them he carries his commerce, they bring into close relationship remote communities and add greatly to his pleasure, convenience and comfort. They have become so well defined that they may be traveled with perfect safety and confidence, for from the starting point to our destination the way is plainly marked, though it take us to the other side of the world. 

ONE ROAD WHICH MEN HAVE NOT DESIRED TO FOLLOW 

There is one road which the great majority of mankind have never, as yet, cared to follow, notwithstanding the fact that the destination to which it leads is more desirable than any other. Since the earliest period of the existence of man, so far as we have record of his existence, the way has been plainly marked, and the destination to which the road leads well understood, but men have said, we will not walk therein. 

Since the beginning of time, as we count it, men have shown by their works, that from the influences and teachings of the remote past, the conviction has prevailed that birth into this life is not the beginning of the existence of man, nor is death the end of it. The people of the world, whether civilized or savage, so far as my personal observation and study enable me to judge, have always found some outward means of expression, by which their faith in the invisible is shown. It may be by worship of the forces of nature, the sun, the moon or stars, or they may bow down to images of wood, or stone or gold. In whatever form, this worship is but the expression of faith in the intangible forces in which man believes, and to which he acknowledges his debt of allegiance and service. 

PERPETUITY OF PEOPLES AND GOVERNMENT DEPENDENT ON RELTGIOUS FAITH 

I know of no great nation of antiquity which did not have, in connection with its system of civil government, a code of ethics which embraced in its doctrines, and had for its purpose, the ends which we moderns seek in the. various forms of religion which we believe in and practice. The perpetuity of the various forms of government which prevailed was dependent, as all governments are, entirely upon the ethical, or religious faith and practice of the people, for, if we are to judge by the history of the past, without the higher ideals of ethical life, applied in the administration of civil affairs, no nation can long survive. 

The earth on which we dwell was designed by the Creator to be the home of man; and, for the benefit and blessing of his children, the Lord plainly marked the path, or way in which they should travel. He taught them that, being the Former of the universe, and Father of the spirits of all men, holding dominion over the earth, and all that  to it, that we, in appreciation of the blessings which we enjoy, should acknowledge our obligation to the Giver, by obedience to bis will and reverence to his laws. 

We know that our sojourn in this life is but transitory, that we must pass from mortality, and the Lord has taught us that by observance of certain simple laws which he has given, or by traveling in the road which he has marked out we may find our way back into his presence, where, if our conduct in mortality justifies, we will be crowned with glory, immortality, and eternal life. 

We have but limited knowledge of the hand-dealing of the Lord with the ante-diluvian people, but sufficient is preserved to show that, notwithstanding the fact that he sent prophets among them, who warned them of the judgments to come, because of their transgression, they refused to listen, the result being that when the flood came they perished in their sins. 

One would suppose that the dreadful experience through which these people passed would have been sufficient to have impressed the sons of Noah, who were among the survivors, that they never would have forgotten, but it was but a short time after they became established on the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris when they had so far forgotten their obligation to the Lord, their Father and deliverer, that in his anger he confounded their language and scattered them abroad on the face of the earth. 

A GREAT EVENT, AND A MIGHTY PURPOSE FORETOLD 

It was at this time that an event occurred which was of great importance to us, we people who are permitted to live in this, the greatest dispensation of the history of the world, in this land which is choice above all other lands. Foreseeing that the people of Babylon and Nineveh would not repent of their wickedness, and return to his service, the Lord took a small company from the great tower which was in course of construction, and under the leadership of inspired men brought them to this land which we now occupy. 

That knowledge of the redemption which was to come to the human family through the infinite atonement which would be made by Jesus Christ was possessed from the beginning by the people of the world is plainly shown by the scripture, and is particularly emphasized in the revelations which have come to the Church in our day. In order that this great truth might not be lost sight of, the Lord has, at various times, and in divers places, manifested to his servants, either by dream or vision, or by personal appearance the importance and indispensable necessity of faith in it. It naturally followed that with the renewal of the old covenant, with the small body of people, whom he designed to bring to a new world, he should again make clear to them this great truth, by which their lives were to be governed, either for their blessing or condemnation, and this he did to the brother of Jared, under the following circumstances: 

THE GREAT TRUTH MADE CLEAR BY REVELATION 

While engaged in prayer the voice of the Lord came to him, as follows : 

"Believest thou the words which I shall speak? 

"And he answered; Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie. 

"And when he had spoken these words, behold the Lord showed himself to him, and said : Because thou knowest these things thou art redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my presence; therefore I show myself unto you. Behold I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. In me shall all mankind have light, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall become my sons and daughters. 

"And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. 

"Behold, this body, which you now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear to thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." 

RESULTS OF AN ANCIENT WARNING UNHEEDED 

By this we see, my brethren and sisters, that more than two thousand years before he manifested himself in the flesh Christ showed himself to this man, that a witness might be had among the people of his existence and future ministry among men. Before this people reached the American continent the Lord warned them of the consequence of disobedience, and made known the conditions upon which they were dependent, either for success or failure, after their arrival here. Let me read: 

"And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth, even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people. 

"And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them. 

"And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them.- And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. 

"For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that does possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. 

"And this cometh to you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the  come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." 

It is sufficient at this time to state that, notwithstanding this admonition, and the many manifestations of the power and mercy of the Lord, which were had .among them, the Jaredites refused to walk in the way that the Lord had marked out, went into transgression, and finally, through war and contention, ceased to exist as a nation. 

More than one thousand years after the Jaredites were led away from, the tower of Babel, the Lord again brought a small colony of people from the old world, this time from Jerusalem, and established them in America, a people known, and referred to in the records which they kept, as the Nephites. 

To them the Lord repeated the promise which he had made to the Jaredites : He would lead them to a choice land, which should be their inheritance, and great prosperity would attend them on one condition, namely, that they should be devoted to the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. The doctrine of the atonement was revealed to them, and after his resurrection the Redeemer appeared, and organized his Church among them. For two hundred years after the organization of the Church the Nephite people enjoyed a great degree of peace, prosperity and happiness, but like the Jaredites before them, they refused to walk in the old paths, and when the prophets whom the Lord raised up warned them that the road in which they were traveling would lead to' disaster, and that the way of the Lord was so plainly marked that a wayfarer, though a fool, need not err, they said, We will not walk therein. When the watchmen said, Hear the sound of the trumpet, which calls you back to the old way, they said, We will not listen. Disobedience resulted, as it always has, in loss of the birthright which the Lord had given them, and the destruction of another nation which might, if obedient, have continued until the present. 

MODERN DISCOVERY OF AMERICA 

This brings us to another epoch, or dispensation, of greater importance to us, to the world at large, than any which has preceded it. Another period of one thousand years had elapsed. When the Lord inspired Columbus to sail away from 1 Spain, and directed him to the shores of the New World, the first step had been taken in the opening of the greatest gospel dispensation which the world has ever known, a dispensation looked forward to by the prophets of old, in which the Lord said that he would consummate his work, and prune his vineyard for the last time, when the wheat was to be garnered, and the tares bound in bundles, and burned. 

By natural means, as the Lord always operates for the accomplishment of his purposes, means so simple that the thoughtless and unbelieving do not see the manifestation of his power, he brought the Puritans from the old world to New England, the Dutch to New York, the English Cavaliers to Virginia and the French to New Orleans, a combination of races which, paradoxical as it may appear, was just calculated to give us the composite America who made the United States of America what it is, the greatest nation of the world today. 

Inspired men have been raised up, who have given us our form of government, and the code of laws by which we are controlled, the best ever evolved by man, so far as we are able to judge. The Lord has strengthened the arms of the patriots who have defended us against the assults of all those who have come up against us, and delivered us until today, from those who would have torn us asunder. Against all opposition, I sometimes think almost against ourselves, the Lord has brought us to our present condition, until this nation, like a city set on a hill, has become the light of the world. 

ARE WE TO PROFIT BY PAST EXPERIENCES? 

I have gone hastily over the history of the past, which brings us to the present, to us the most important period of the world's history, because it is our day, the day in which the conduct of world affairs, with which we are directly associated has been entrusted to us, when we are to prove whether or not we are to benefit by the experiences of the past, avoiding the pitfalls into which our predecessors have fallen, and profiting by the markers which they have placed along the road which leads to happiness and success, while we avoid those which the experience of the past teach us inevitably lead to disappointment and failure. 

ALL INSTITUTIONS AND INTERESTS DEPENDENT ON THE STABILITY OF GOVERNMENT 

The welfare of the Church, and every other interest and institution of our country is dependent upon the stability of our civil government, by which our every interest is controled. There is nothing which we call our own, not even our lives, which is not subject to its demands. However much we may resist or say we will not, it compels submission. 

Our government can be no better than its citizenship, since the men who frame and execute the laws are chosen from among the body of the people, and consequetnly reflect the character of the majority of the electorate. 

IT IS TIME WE TAKE NOTE OF THE SIGNBOARDS OF HISTORY 

Has the time come when it is worth while that we pause and carefully examine ourselves, when we should take note of the sign boards which history has placed along the road which we are traveling? Is it worth while to inquire whither this road leads? To listen to the  of those who have gone over it before, and know the death traps which are scattered all along the way, or shall we go blindly on ignoring the experiences of the past, until chaos shall come to us as it has come to those who have occupied this choice land before ? 

I have gone back over the road which leads to Babylon and Nineveh, to Thebes and Memphis, to Tyre and Sidon, to Greece and Rome, and all along the way have seen these words of warning blazed in the tree-trunks, and cut into the face of the rocks — Beware of lack of faith in a living God. Beware of selfishness, of personal ambition, of pride, of love of power and dominion, of disregard for the honor of men, and the virtue of women, for the end of this road is disappointment and death. 

I believe that every soul present desires the perpetuity of our government. It would be a source of sorrow to know that there is a person here who is not willing to give his all that this desired end may be achieved. If this is to be accomplished we must avoid the road which those who have gone before have followed. I fear, as I contemplate our present condition, that some of the paths in which we are walking, if we continue to follow them, will lead us into the broad road from which few turn back, once they have entered into it. 

OUR NEGLECTS AND SERIOUS TRANSGRESSIONS 

Our reverence toward our Father and God is not manifested in our lives as it should be. Instead of honoring his holy name, as we should, we openly and unblushingly profane it, notwithstanding the fact that he has told us that we should not take his name in vain, and that he who does so will not be found guiltless. 

We are told that only the simple minded and uninformed believe in or practice the doctrine of prayer, and this world-old command of the Lord, this principle which opens the gates of heaven, and brings us into communion with the Father, through his Only Begotten Son, has been almost entirely eliminated from the American home, and is no longer regarded as a necessary, or even proper part of our public school system. 

We loudly acclaim our devotion to, and love for American ideals, and pose as patriotic, law-abiding citizens, while the very men who enact our laws, and are appointed to enforce them, too often violate the law, and the trust reposed in them, as if they were exempt from that which they require others to obey. Our trusted agents who have the management of our public affairs, too often prove themselves to be rouges and swindlers by uniting with the men whom they profess to detect and prosecute, to rob us of that which, they are employed to protect. 

Men, profound in their knowledge of the law, too often use their great learning, not to uphold and magnify the law, but to pervert it, and find means by which we may avoid its just requirements. Self confessed criminals, guilty of the most heinous crimes, premediated in their execution, are turned loose upon defenseless, law-abiding communities, to continue their criminal practices upon those whom the law is designed to protect. 

IN THESE TRANSGRESSIONS WE ARE TRAVELING THE BLAZED TRAILS TO DEATH 

We are rapidly converting the Sabbath day, which should be observed as a day of rest and devotion, into one of pleasure, rather than worship. Are we becoming lovers of pleasure, rather than lovers of God? If so, we are traveling in one of those blazed trails which lead to death, rather than life. 

GOD HAS REVEALED HIS WAY; WILL WE WALK THEREIN? 

I bear this witness : That in the age in which we live the Lord has again revealed himself to man. He has again marked the road in which we should walk. It is the old way, and the voice of the prophets of the Lord has been heard calling upon the people to walk in it for nearly one hundred years. The sound of the trumpet has been heard, but men have said, We will not walk in the road marked out, neither will we listen to the sound of the trumpet which calls us back from the broad road which we are following. 

GOD'S PATH, DECREE AND WILL REVEALED. WILL THE PEOPLE HEARKEN ? 

The decree of the Almighty regarding this land is in force today, as it was in the days of the Jaredites, and the Nephites. It is an everlasting decree, and we, as other peoples who have occupied this choice land, must be governed by it or suffer the consequence. Let me conclude my remarks by reading briefly from the Book of Mormon. This is the scripture of the American continent, the destiny of this land is outlined in it as in no other book. The road, or way, is plainly marked, no one need err who will follow the blazed trail. It is a straight and narrow way, but easy to follow, notwithstanding the many cross roads which intercept it. All of the danger points have been charted, and the way of safety plainly shown. 

The man who sealed up this record, and through whom it came to us, said : 

"And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth — that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief. 

"And wo be unto the children of men if this be the case. * * * 1 exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God; And the Lord God will say unto you: Did I not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out of the dust? * * * And God shall show unto you, that that which I have written is true. 

"And again I would exhort you that you would come unto Christ, and  held upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing. * * * 

"And now I bid you all farewell. I soon go to rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite, and I am brought forth triumphant through the air, to meet you before the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge of both quick and dead. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

My brethren and sisters, I suppose one could never grow old enough, at least I never expect to, to get entirely over stage fright. This is the third day that I have been sitting before this congregation, not knowing at what hour I might be called upon; and when one has gone through that experience for two or three days the stage fright becomes accentuated. 

It is recorded of Thomas Carlyle, who could not do his thinking if there were any great noise about, that he had a neighbor, a lady, who kept some chickens; and the crowing of the roosters was a source of annoyance to him. He sent a kind letter to his neighbor and offered to buy the chickens so that he might kill them. She refused to let him have them, and said : "Besides I don't see why they bother you. The roosters crow only at stated intervals." He replied : "Yes, madam, that is true; but you don't know what I suffer waiting for them to crow." 

I am indeed awed in the presence of this great multitude. My soul is subdued before this wonderful gathering, this splendid congregation, composed of men and women who are among the choicest of the earth. To stand before you and try to counsel, advise, or instruct is a responsibility which makes one feel his own insignificance. Except I have the Spirit of the Lord to assist me, I can be of little service in this position. I pray, therefore, for your sympathy and faith, and for the assistance of that same Spirit which has been given to the speakers of this conference up to the present. 

I listened with deep interest to President Grant's report of the various activities and work of the Church — its growth and all its splendid affairs of which we heard in the opening of our conference. The building of temples and their maintenance and operation take a substantial part of the means of the Church. Here we maintain the Temple and these beautiful grounds. I hope you will not fail to walk around this block and see if you can get out of it a thrill such as has come to me during the last week, as I have looked upon its beauty and have thought of the pleasure that it must afford to the visitors within our gates. All this is kept up at the expense of the Church, and it costs a good deal of money. The free organ recitals, given every day to the strangers — and to those of our home people, as well, who choose to go — are paid for by the Church; as also is the care of the organ, the upkeep of this building and these grounds, and it all costs quite a sum of money. 

Then, there are further expenditures for the building and meetinghouses, as the President called to our attention, and as Brother Rushton from Australia told us yesterday. They are spending considerable means for this purpose down in Australia; and we were also told by President Grant of large sums of money being spent for the building of places of worship in Sweden, in Norway, in Rotterdam, and in the cities of the eastern part of the United States. President Roberts told us of the chapels that have been built in Baltimore, and at other places in his mission; and, indeed, over all the face of the earth — in practically all of the civilized world, we may say — these activities of the Church are being conducted, and it takes a large, a very large, amount to carry them on. 

Where does all this money come from? It is the tithes you pay, and I pay, that the people of this Church contribute year by year. I am in a position to announce to you, and I feel it my duty to do so, that the means you pay, the money you contribute as tithing, all that comes into the hands of the Trustee-in-Trust, is expended in a judicious, wise, and righteous way; and only in the interests, the best interests, of the building up of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am in a position to know this, and I testify of it to you this morning. 

My brethren and sisters, the question I want to put to you, and to myself also, is this : Have you and I done our share in this respect? Are we doing our full duty in assisting in the building up of this work? Are we helping to keep missionaries in the field? Is it our means that help to extend this work in the wonderful way that it is being extended ? If not, then this spiritual power, this force, has not yet gripped you and me sufficiently to make us know that our duty is to pay our tithes— the full amount the Lord requires — and to do it when the means come into our hands; not to wait until the end of the year, because then we may not have it. It is true that we are instructed to make settlement annually, paying one-tenth of our interest, and we should see that it is paid annually, and make our settlement annually; but the time for us to pay our tithes and to contribute to this work, to help it grow and to be partakers in it, not only in words, but in deeds as well, is when we have the money in our hands, when it comes to us. I know that I was brought up strictly in respect to this matter, for my good old mother did not wait until she made ten pounds of butter before one pound of it was paid to the bishop. We had no money in those early days, but we gave butter, eggs, potatoes, wheat and hay — all that the earth produced. She did not wait until she got ten pounds before she paid one. No, she paid it from among the first, to get the tithing debt off her hands. If there were a dozen eggs, or two dozen, or five dozen, the tithing, and a little more than the tithing,  to the bishop at once. So I say, that this is a good example for me, and a good example for you. When the means come into our hands, let us pay our tithing then and not wait, perhaps until the means have been dissipated. 

This Church, with its varied activities, tends to build up the communities in this country. Our Chamber of Commerce, in Salt Lake City, is asking for seventy-five thousand dollars in donations — what for? To advertise Utah. And what is the purpose of advertising Utah? To bring settlers here to make homes and to build up the communities. Well, that is a good thing. I contribute to that, as do many of you who live here. But this Church has two thousand missionaries, or about that number, in the field all the time, who are preaching this gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ, and who are winning souls to it. While they do not encourage those people to come immediately to Utah, or to this country, yet, as soon as these converts hear about the Temple of the Lord, as soon as the Spirit of the Lord and ihe spirit of this work get into their hearts, the spirit of gathering is there, and you cannot hold them back, whether they are in Germany, or Switzerland, or Norway, or in the United States, or wherever they are. They want to come to Zion, and our difficulty is to keep them from coming too quickly. Now, if it is a good thing for the country and for the city that we spend money to bring people here, isn't this Church one of the best institutions for the merchant, for the business man, and for other interests? For the people that we bring here are of a class who want to build and own their own homes, and who do that very thing. In a little while they are established on the land, and they make the best of citizens. 

It is safe to say that the means we spend every year in beautifying this block contribute more to the renown and glory of Salt Lake City than almost all the money that is spent elsewhere; and this money is contributed by you Latter-day Saints; it comes from your tithes; and it is good advertising; it is good work. We should not be ridiculed for it; we should rather be commended for it and blessed for it. This conference gathering every six months brings thousands of people here. ' I wonder whether that is not a good thing for the merchants and the business interests of this city. I wonder how these merchants would like to have our conferences suspended for a time. You would hear something other than criticism if this were clone. You would hear a plaint and a wail go up; so I point out to you, and to the people of this State, and to our friends who are not of our faith, that the activities in which we are engaged make for the building up of the communities, and are a good business proposition in the line of material advancement and the betterment of communities, apart from the spiritual benefits which we know we receive. All this wealth of means which you contribute to the Church is expended, as I have said, in the building up of the community. This is truly American. I rejoice this morning with all my heart that I am a member of the Church — this American Church that owes no allegiance to any foreign power or potentate, the only real American Church worthy of the name. It is American through and through. It was established by true-blooded Americans of Pilgrim stock, the best Americans from Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and the surrounding New England states. Such men were the founders of our Church. It is American in ideals, American in thought, American in every activity connected with it, American in its desire to bless and benefit the people. There is not any other church that can claim anything like that. This is verified by the men who sit here on this stand, President Grant, - George Albert Smith and others, and by those who came before them — President Ivins, Elder Smoot and the Clawsons and Whitneys, Richards and Lymans — all sons of the American Revolution and leaders of this people. They are of the truest blooded American stock that can be found in this nation. I would like to have these things pointed out, and to let the world know that we are doing some good, that we are building up the country, and that the money which comes in as tithes is being righteously and properly expended for the advancement of the Kingdom of God. 

Again I say, have I done my share? Have you done your share? You alone can answer your part of that question. Some of us have not. I doubt if I have. We can do a little better; we can do a little more. We haven't done quite enough, for this is a great and good work. Check up on yourselves and see where you stand. This work cannot be conducted merely by preaching. It takes means to do all these things that the President has pointed out and that I am trying to rehearse to you, and there are so many, many more, and it takes means to do them all. The thought I want to leave with you is this: Have we done our full share? If not, why can't we try to do it? for the work is just beginning. In all truth, I can say that in its growth and development it has scarcely started yet. Let me read from the Book of Mormon. In chapter 14 of I Nephi, which I shall not take time to read through, there is a reference to the very hymn we sang, written by Parley P. Pratt. When you go home read this 14th chapter of I Nephi. Among other things that the angel of Lord showed unto Nephi was this : 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the Church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with power of God in great glory." 

Scattered everywhere is this people, building churches, as has been pointed out, in the East, in the West, and on the Islands of the Sea. It means permanency for the Saints. There will be branches of the Church throughout the world. In 1906 I had the pleasure of  the Old Country, in company with our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. In the city of Bern, in Switzerland, we held a Priesthood meeting one night, at which the power of God was richly and truly manifest. President Serge F. Ballif was there and is a witness to what I say. Joseph F. Smith said : "Not only will we have churches here, but in this land of Europe we will have temples of the Lord built here and there, all over the land." That was his prediction. I believe it. I believe in this vision of Nephi; that he saw our people scattered in small communities all over the face of the earth. The Church of God is permanent. We must build these churches. I have, said all along that this Church can spend its money to no better advantage than in building meeting-houses in which the people may gather together and worship, for this establishes the Church and lends permanency to its operations. 

I see that my time has expired. The Lord bless you, brethren and sisters, bless this work, bless his servants, and may we open our hearts and say in our heart of hearts, in our very soul: "Yes, I will do my share, my full share. I must not miss the opportunity. This work is too good, it is too great. The Lord has made me a partaker of it, and now shall I be miserly and withhold my assistance?" 

I think it is Brother Golden Kimball who tells the story of his father's owning a beautiful horse. Tithing was paid with horses, cattle, sheep, and everything obtainable in those days. The hcrse Brother Kimball had was a very fine one, and he said to the boys : "I believe I will turn that horse in for tithing; pay it to Bishop Hunter." The next morning one of the boys paraded the beautiful animal around and wanted to keep it, but President Kimball said: "See here, ycu take that horse right down and pay it in for tithing, before my heart puckers up." 

Now let us do our share willingly and loyally, before our hearts pucker up. God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Charles W. Penrose is hearing everything that is going on here this morning, a radio having been installed in his room, and he is thoroughly enjoying the morning service. 

Brother David O. McKay, in Europe, is well and happy but slightly disappointed that he is soon to return home. He is thoroughly enjoying his missionary work, and I am sure that he would really like to remain there until Spring. 

You have probably heard of the great Columbia Basin Irrigation Project, the largest contemplated by the United States, up to date. Brother Richard R. Lyman has been requested, by the government officials, to be present there as one of the consulting engineers, hence his absence from this conference. He wrote that he would get excused, if possible, but we wired him that we did not care to disappoint his associates, and that he was at liberty to remain. He is with us today in spirit, and it is a source of sincere regret to him that he is not present. 

One of the most remarkable and splendid hymns that we have is 

this : 

"School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm impulsive soul." 

This hymn was written by President Charles W. Penrose, at a time when he was falsely accused by his brethren, after laboring in the British mission for ten long - years without purse or scrip. Upon completing his mision, as I understand it, and when he was about to go home, these false reports or accusations were made against him, and, as he has told me, the Lord gave to him that night, for his own consolation, the thoughts of this very wonderful poem. I shall not take time to read, or for us to sing, the entire hymn, but I will ask the choir and congregation to arise and sing the first verse; and when you go home be sure and read it all. lie sure and get it into your hearts. Be sure and make it a part of your lives, and this conference will not have been in vain, even if you have heard nothing' else or received no other lesson here. It was the favorite hymn of President Francis M. Lyman, and he lived his life in perfect accord with the teachings of his favorite hymn : 

School thy feelings, O my brother, 

Train thy warm, impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, 

But let wisdom's voice control. 

School thy feelings; there is power 

In the cool, collected mind; Passion shatters reason's tower, 

Makes the clearest vision blind. 

School thy feelings; condemnation 

Never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation 

Like a flood of truth may flow. 

Hear defense before deciding, 

And a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding 

Underneath the shallow stream. 

Should affliction's acrid vial 

Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, School thy feelings to the trial, 

Half its bitterness hath fled. 

Art thou falsely, basely slandered? 

Does the world hegin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard, 

Keep thy rising anger down. 

Rest thyself on this assurance: 

Time's a friend to innocence. And that patient, calm endurance 

Wins respect and aids defense. 

Noblest minds have finest feelings 

Quiv'ring strings a breath can move, And the Gospel's sweet revealings 

Tune them with the key of love. 

Hearts so sensitively moulded, 

Strongly fortified should be, Trained to firmness, and enfolded 

In a calm tranquility. 

Wound not wilfully another; 

Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, 

Train them in the path cf right. 

The choir and congregation sang, "School thy feelings, O my brother." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"For he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes." 

THE WORDS OF THE BRETHREN 1 RING TRUE 

I have listened with great interest to the remarks that have been made by my brethren at the various sessions of this conference. I know that their words have rung true, that they have been accompanied with power, with authority, that they have penetrated the hearts of the people, and that we have gone from this building at the close of each service rejoicing, and bearing witness, one to another, that the truth has been declared; and, I believe, with the determination of making it more thoroughly a part of our lives when we depart from this conference. Truly we have heard the word of the Lord, and it has been spoken in power. The counsel, the advice, the instruction have been given unto us in authority. There has been no discordant note, no uncertain sound, but everything that has been said has been said with the conviction of the truth, and we rejoice. 

THE TRUTH GROWS BRIGHTER WITH USE 

Yet nothing has been said that is new. There has been no new revelation, no presentation of something that we did not understand, nothing that we have not previously been taught, and which had previously found a place in our hearts, for the truth endures forever. It is always new, it grows brighter with use. We love it the more we come in contact with it, which is not the case with falsehood. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

In one of the revelations given in the early days of the Church, the Lord said, speaking of one of the ordinances of the gospel; that he revealed "a new and an everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning." Those words are very significant. It is new because truth does not grow old, and yet was from the beginning, and hence must endure through all time, and through eternity; for that which is true must remain. 

COMMOTION AND UNREST IN THE WORLD 

Throughout the world today, as we have already been informed by a number of the speakers, there is commotion and a spirit of unrest; and the people, many of them, feel that it is something to their credit to hold radical views, to consider themselves to be progressive, and to make attack upon things that have stood land have endured throughout the ages. This tendency is not alone found in the political world. It is found in the world of education, of religion, of government, of business and everywhere. Men are departing from the well-worn paths, no matter how good they are, and feel that conservatism, is a reproach; that it is the duty of man to do away with that which is old, or which has been established, and find something that is new. We stand practically alone in the world, yes, absolutely alone in the world, representing the truth of the living God, declaring to all men the principles of eternal truth which do not change. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not new in the sense in which the world looks upon things as being new, for it has endured through the ages, not merely since the days of the advent of the Son of God, but from the beginning of the world, for the plan of salvation was prepared for the benefit of man, and declared unto him in the beginning. These principles do not change, they cannot change, they must endure immutably through all time. 

The Christian world may be divided into two camps, one bitterly opposing the other; one calling itself the progressive or modernist division, the other calling itself the fundamentalist division. They may think they are founded upon the truth of the gospel as it has been established. But we stand for the revelations of God as they have been revealed in this dispensation, known as the dispensation of the fulness of times, unchangeable, immutable, enduring forever, because they are eternal. 

AN ABIDING KNOWLEDGE OF CHRIST BRINGS PEACE 

If there is any one thing that brings joy and peace and satisfaction to the heart of man, beyond anything else that I know of, it is the abiding testimony which I have, and which you have, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. That is a truth that cannot be changed. Men may attack it; they may ridicule it; they may declare that he is not the Redeemer of the world, that his mission was not true, or that its purpose, through the shedding of his blood, was not to grant unto all men the remission of sins on condition of their repentance. They 101  refuse to be'.ieve in the resurrection from the dead, or even that Christ himself came forth, as the Scriptures declare, after he had been put to death by his enemies; nevertheless the truth remains. He did die for the sins of the world, he did bring to pass redemption from death, he did grant unto men the opportunity of repentance, and remission of sins through their belief and acceptance of the principles of the gospel, and of his mission. These truths are fundamental, they shall endure; they cannot be destroyed no matter what men may say or think. Furthermore, the mission of Jesus Christ teaches us that there was a time when man departed from the truth, when transgression came into the world, and man, through his agency sinned, or violated a law, which brought death upon the world. For Christ came to atone for sin, to bring again the restitution of life, of peace, of happiness, through the things which he suffered. Now anything which is contrary to that is not true. 

THE ATONEMENT OF CHRIST FUNDAMENTAL 

I bear witness to that which was said by President Grant at the opening session of this conference, that there is no place in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the man who does not accept, without reservation, the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, who does not believe that his mission in this world was to redeem, to restore, to grant again unto man the privilege, through his faith, through his repentance, and his worthiness, the opportunity of coming back again into the presence of God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. If there are within the Church those who have these so-called modernist tendencies, who deny the miracles of Christ, the miracles of the scriptures, the doctrines known as the gospel of Jesus Christ, who cannot accept him as the Redeemer of the world, then they should repent of their sins, for it is within the power, and it is the privilege of each individual member of this Church to know the truth for himself, through the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost. There need be no doubt, no uncertainty, in regard to this matter. The Lord has taught us these principles in modern revelation. He declared them while in his ministry upon the earth. 

JESUS DECLARED HIMSELF TO BE THE SON T OF GOD 

I know that there are those who make the statement that Christ did not declare himself to be the Son of God during his ministry. To the contrary, that was the claim he made from the beginning of his ministry, and which has been repeated in the revelations that have come unto us in this dispensation, one of which I shall read : 

"Hearken and listen to the voice of him who is from all eternity to all eternity, the Great I Am, even Jesus Christ — 

"The light and the life of the world; a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not; GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"The same which came in the meridian of time unto mine own, and mine own received me not; 

"But to as many as received me, gave I power to become my sons; and even so will I give unto as many as will receive me, power to become my sons. 

"And verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth my gospel receiveth me; and he that receiveth not my gospel receiveth not me. 

"And this is my gospel — repentance and baptism by water, and then cometb the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, even the Comforter, which showetli all things, and teacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom." 

TESTIMONY THAT JESUS IS THE CHRIST, THE SON OF GOD 

Those words are true, absolutely true. I bear witness of this fact because I know it; you know it; and so we stand firmly planted on the rock of truth, bearing witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that through him comes redemption from death, which passes upon all men irrespective of their belief or their unbelief, their acceptance or their rejection of his mission, and also through him comes redemption to man from sin on condition of his repentance, and endurance to the end. 

May we be faithful and true in the discharge of every duty and to the truth which God has revealed unto us, and endure in righteousness to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I failed to mention in my opening address that the following presidents of stakes have been appointed during the past six months: James A. Christensen, North Sevier stake. Harry L. Payne, St. Joseph stake. Albert H. Belliston, Juab stake. 

I also forgot to mention the fact that we have established, since our last conference, a French mission with Russell H. Blood as the president. I take it for granted that he is a son of ITenry TT. Blood- I do not know it, but his signature resembles Henry's writing. 

I also failed to mention that we now have a total of ward;, stakes, missions, conferences and branches, of 1,959, or 41 lacking of 2,000. 

Announcements were made by President Heber J. Grant that the Sunday School Union would hold their semi-annual conference in the Tabernacle this evening at 7 o'clock; also that a special Priesthood meeting would be held on .Monday morning at 10 o'clock in the Assembly Hall. 

An anthem, "The Almighty," was sung by Jessie Williams and the choir. 

Elder George A. Little, president of the Oquirrh stake, offered the closing prayer, and the conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 