Second Overflow
05 04 1924 


ELDER HILTON A. ROBERTSON 

Former President of the Japanese Mission 

My dear brothers and sisters, it is with a great deal of pleasure and gratitude in my heart that I am able to be present at this conference today, this being the first time that I have had the opportunity of attending a general conference in Salt Lake City for three years and a-half. While I am happy to be here today and have the opportunity (which I know it is) of speaking to you, it came as rather a surprise to me. 

I have had the privilege, together with my wife, of spending three years and a half in the land of the rising sun, Japan. In that time I have spent some of the most happy days of my life. I have gained a stronger testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ than I ever had before. It is worth more to me than all in this world, and I am happy to make any sacrifice which is necessary for the furtherance of such a cause throughout the world, be it in Japan or any place in the world. 

I thought it might be well, inasmuch as the Japanese mission has closed, to give a report of the work which has been done there during the past three years and a-half and to tell of some of my experiences, 123  the earthquake, which happened a little over a year ago. I have only fifteen minutes, so I will rush through hurriedly and explain some of the conditions which are there. 

The Japan mission, as you know, was opened about twenty-three years ago, in 1901. In that length of time there have been eightyeight missionaries spend from two to eleven years. Brother Stimpson, formerly president of the Japan mission, as I understand, has spent eleven years in that land — at that time about one-third of the years of his life. Brother Alma O. Taylor, who, together with the first missionaries to that land — President Grant, Brother Horace Ensign, Brother Louis Kelch, spent, if I remember right, something like nine years in that land, and translated the Book of Mormon into the Japanese language. We have had 137 baptisms in that length of time. Some of these members have apostatized from the Church, some of them have been cut off, and many of them have been indifferent to the message which the missionaries have revealed to them. The missionaries were united in feeling that the Japanese had had a fair chance of hearing the gospel, under the limited number of elders which we had present. The First Presidency felt that inasmuch as the people were anxious, in other parts of the world, that it might be more feasible to withdraw the missionaries from that land and take them to other parts, where the people were better prepared to receive the message of truth. 

Not all of those people who accepted the gospel have gone back on it; we have at least a dozen Saints who could be called such. Those people are very desirous of continuing with the work. Their hearts are in it, just as yours and mine are. They want to see the work progress. They want to do all they possibly can. But you can realize, as did the missionaries in that land, that the thousands of dollars which were being expended could be better utilized in other lands, and the missionaries must be withdrawn until that people is better prepared to receive the gospel. I hope that some time in the future the people of that land will prepare themselves to accept the gospel, the road, the only path to life and salvation. 

We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants that after the testimony of the servants of God, earthquakes, pestilence, and disease, etc., will follow, and I bear testimony to you folks, to the brethren and sisters assembled here today, that those things have taken place in that land; I have seen them. On the first day of September, at two minutes to 12 o'clock noon, it seemed that the gates of hell had swung open on the central part of the Island of Japan. Within ten minutes after the elements had shaken that land, fifty-four fires broke out. Within twenty minutes, seventy-six fires were burning, and within forty-one, eighty-eight fires were burning. Some of those fires continued for nearly a week. 

The people, in fleeing from the flames, came to the steel bridges GENERAL CONFERENCE 

(spanning the rivers and canals, which cut through the heart of the city of Tokyo. These -bridges were destroyed by the intense flames. People tried to make their escape in every direction, but the flames came; the heat, which was driven by a terrific wind, made them frantic, and thousands of them jumped into the rivers; they rained into the rivers and were swallowed up. There was one spot which was held for army purposes, about fifteen acres. This was vacant, and the policemen on duty directed those people to go in there for protection. They took with them many of their belongings which they considered precious. These caught fire. After the flames had gone down, the actual count was 32,843 bodies; so crowded were they in that position that many of them were still standing. 

The City of Yokahama, which has a population of about 600,000, was entirely destroyed. Buildings by the thousands were wiped out. 

I was not in Tokyo at the time of the earthquake. I was in the southern cities. We had just held conference in a city in the northern part. Our elders were returning home from that conference to their assigned fields of labor. When we reached Tokyo from the north, going to the south, on the 29th day of August, we left on the 30th day ot August for the southern city. On the first day of September the earthquake came. Had we been one day slower in getting to our destination, no doubt we would have been in the. earthquake. Our missionaries were protected. In all this disaster, which covered thousands of square miles, not one of our Saints, not one of our investigators, not one of our missionaries was injured. Our Church building in the city of Tokyo was still intact. Plaster and some of the tile from the roof had been shaken off, but other than this our mission property was safe and we were supplied with food. This to me was a great testimony. God will protect those who keep holy his law. 

While some of those people have not done as they should, in keeping wholly the laws of God, I realize that he is thoughtful of them, and knows what their hearts are. It is hard to live the gospel in a foreign land such as the Japanese are living in. Those people are not bad at heart; we have friends there whom we hold just as dear as any we have in this land, educated people, men who are holding high positions, who care nothing for our gospel, yet were kind to us. In all our missionary work we were not mistreated. If you went to the door of a Japanese home, if they did not want your tract they would politely tell you so. We received no persecution. We were allowed the privilege of standing on the street to explain the gospel — on street corners, where as high as one or two hundred people would gather to hear the message, but we were not molested in the least. If any one undertook to disturb the meeting, he was hissed out. And so the missionaries who are returning from that land, although the gospel is not being preached there now, hold many of the Saints and friends in high esteem, and we hope that the time will speedily come when those 125  will wake up and realize the condition which they are in. They are prospering financially, and that is where their hearts are turned. We hope and pray that those people will realize the position they are in before it is too late, that they will turn to the gospel message. 

I am happy and pleased to be affiliated with the Church of Jesus Christ. To put it as our late President Woodrow Wilson said, "I would sooner be engaged in a cause that I know will some day triumph, than be engaged in a cause which will some day fail." And this, I feel, is our position, that although our numbers are few today, we shall see the time when truth will triumph throughout the world, and that we must stand, as Bishop .Nibley said this morning, as guides along the highways to protect those tourists who are seeking for truth, who will be apt to accept our message. I hope that we will not only go as guides, but also be tourists and be willing to take guidance from those who understand the road better than we, who have seen or are able to see into the future farther than we, who have studied the future and know what disregard for the laws of God will do for our people. 

I trust that the Latter-day Saints may realize the strength of their position and ever be found willing and ready and doing his will, and this is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY Jr. 

President of the Canadian Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters: I humbly pray that during the short time 1 shall be upon my feet I may be in possession of a portion of the Spirit of our heavenly Father and at the same time have your sustaining faith and prayers. I appreciate fully the great responsibility that rests upon one who is called upon to occupy a place of this kind. This responsibilty is being felt by me more deeply as I proclaim the message of truth to the nations of the earth. My testimony is becoming stronger as I meet people and have the opportunity of explaining to them, to the best of my ability, what this great gospel of Jesus Christ means. Indeed, it means the development of the finest and best there is in the human soul. It means, when properly understood, to know God, which is eternal life, and eternal life is the greatest of all gifts of God to man. I am glad to say that in the Canadian mission we have a corps of young men and women who are equipping themselves well in defending, proclaiming, and teaching the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. Fathers and mothers who may be present here today will be pleased to know that there is not a single one, either elder or sister missionary, but what is measuring up to the great responsibility that has been vouchsafed to them in carrying this message of truth to those who are honest in heart. Their attitude is splendid and their testimony convincing, and in many instances, penetrating. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Our mission extends from Newfoundland, on the east, to the province of Saskatchewan on the west, a distance of about thirty-four hundred miles, and when one travels over that distance four times a year it requires practically ail of his time; however, my joy has come in witnessing the development and growth of our young people, knowing, as they do, that they are dealing with the greatest and most powerful thing in the world, for this gospel of the Christ deals with the souls of men. I believe that there is no thought that is so sacred and great as a thought of God, and when we concentrate upon this thought there must of necessity radiate from us the spirit of inspiration, of truth and love, all of which gives us a bigger realization of the great power which belongs to this organization. 

The outstanding feature, 1 may say, of our mission, this year, was the visit of President Heber J. Grant, Elders George Albert Smith, James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve, Bishop David A. Smith, Levi Edgar Young, of the Eirst Council of Seventy, and Sisters Robinson and Taylor, of the Relief Society organization. We have been blessed beyond measure in having President Grant and these leaders with us. They left their impress upon the people of that land. I particularly call to mind the impressions that were made upon the people who had gathered together to hear President Grant and his part}'. They are still talking of it. President Grant took for one of his subjects the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon. After his discourse we were unable to supply the number who wanted to receive this sacred volume. I believe that had we had twice the number of Books of Mormon at the meeting we could have easily disposed of them. The visit of these leaders of the Church was an epoch in the history of the Canadian mission. 

We are meeting with some success among the people of that country. They are a law-abiding people. If you were there today you would see the absence of moving picture shows, the absence of moving trains (except those that cross the continent) on Sunday — they observe the Sabbath day, they recognize law and the execution of it, they are a fine race of people, and I am- glad that I have the opportunity of laboring among them, bearing witness of the divinity of this work as it hais come to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I never tire of hearing this testimony because I believe that to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God is the basis upon which we can build a firm and a substantial testimony that will bring us in close touch with God through his Holy Spirit, that it may continue to grow and develop within us. To have a testimony of the truth of Joseph Smith's vision is to know that God lives, and when that testimony is born under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, there ovill be a power and a conviction connected with it that will bring souls to Christ, and bringing souls to Christ is our most wonderful privilege. 

In reading the statement made by Josiah Quincy concerning the 127 

Prophet Joseph Smith, I am impressed with the wonderful spirit in which it is written. It is outstanding and full of power: 

"It is by no means improbable that some future text book for the use of generations yet unborn will contain a question something like this, What historical American has exerted the most powerful influence over the destinies of his countrymen? And it is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written, Joseph Smith the "Mormon' prophet. And the reply, absurd as it doubtless seems to most men now living, may be an obvious commonplace to their descendants. History deals in surprises and paradoxes quite as startling as this. The man who established a religion in this period of free debate, who was and is today accepted by hundreds of thousands as a direct emmisary from the Most High, such a rare human being is not to be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets. * * * The most vital questions Americans are asking each other today have to do with this man and what he has left us." 

I have wondered as I have studied this statement why it was that Mr. Quincy was so impressed to write this "pen portrait" of the Prophet Joseph Smith, along with those of other great Americans. I have wondered why it was that he was so impressed with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and why it was that lie could not be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets. One must be in sympathy with the same feelings that Mr. Quincy had in order to appreciate fully the statements that he was inspired to make concerning this prophet of God. I believe that you will with me conclude that this was an unusual statement for him to make, but let us not forget he had been in company with a prophet of God — one who had seen and talked with God and the Christ and. subsequently, other heavenly beings. No doubt when the prophet unfolded to Mr. Quincy these powerful truths he left him with an extraordinary feeling that he had been in the presence of an unusual being, and his judgment was, that in future years this prophet would in all probability be ai greater influence on his countrymen than any other American. 

This is a significant thing, a wonderful statement when we think of it. But when we know that the origin of this great latter-day work had its beginning with this great manifestation, to say nothing of the many truths that Joseph Smith subsequently introduced into the world, we indeed have something that is worth while — something we can contemplate seriously as Mr. Quincy contemplated seriously years after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

Men who have communed with God in the ages of the world, or at leaist in different periods of the world's history, stand today, and we reverence them, as prophets and are actuated in our lives by their teachings, and so I believe that, as the time comes and goes, the name of this man Joseph Smith, together with the great work that he accomplished under God will influence men throughout the civilizations of the world, and mankind everywhere will be able to' see and feel GENERAL CONFERENCE  work as it is unfolded to them, because it is the pure gospel plan of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

There was another statement made, concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith, by Governor Ford. It will be remembered that when Governor Ford wrote the history of Illinois he devoted considerable space to the history of the "Mormon" people. There is a great contrast in spirit at least between the statement made by Josiah Quincy and that of Governor Ford, respecting the Prophet Joseph Smith. Indeed, they are not comparable. Mr. Quincy wrote his statement because he was actuated by the spirit of admiration, a spirit that caused him to see in the Prophet Joseph Smith an instrument establishing a wonderful truth that had been revealed to him, indeed, he seemed to be overawed. Upon the other hand, Governor Ford wrote his history, that part of it, at least, connected with the Prophet Joseph Smith, with a spirit of fear, contemplating, as he did, what might happen in future generations. Here is Governor Ford's statement: 

"It is to be feared that in the course of a century, some gifted man like Paul, some splendid orator, who will be able by his eloquence to attract crowds of the thousands who are ever ready to hear and be carried away by the 'sounding brass and the tinkling cymbal' of sparkling oratory, may command a hearing, may succeed in bringing a new light into this modern Mohamedanism, and make the name of the martyred Joseph ring as loud and stir the souls of men as much as the mighty name of Christ, itself." 

I siay that the statements of these two men are not comparable. It will be observed that there seemed to have been a spirit of remorse come over Governor Ford in writing this remarkable .statement. He, too, knew that he had been in the presence of an unusual being or he would not have written this seemingly prophetic statement. 

It must, inevitably be that this prophet of God will arise out of the mists triumphantly and will be recognized as the great instrument through which God operated in establishing the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the dispensation of the fulness of time. 

I know, as I proclaim this gospel message to the nations of the earth with the spirit of humility, that I can feel the divinity of it. It sinks into the hearts of men and women, and as a result, a few of them at least, are accepting this great and mighty work that has come into the world in this dispensation for the salvation of the human race. 

I remember most distinctly hearing one of our stalwart converts say, "When I heard the message of Joseph Smith the Prophet it was the most beautiful thing that I had ever heard in all of my life. It appealed to me, and as I investigated, day after day for a number of years, and as this gospel was unfolded to me. I could see that it was necessary for such a personage as Joseph Smith to be chosen of God in this day and time in carrying out God's divine purposes. I felt that the time had come for the fulfilment of that prophecy made by John the Revelator, "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell upon the 129 , and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." I really felt that there should be a man to which this message should be delivered, one who would be authorized to establish God's great purposes upon the earth. Truth is mighty. No truth can pass away. No truth can perish; though generations, disappear, it finds its way to the pedestal where it belongs, and sheds its rays throughout all of the world. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, beyond my power to say, that I have been counted .worthy to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth. I rejoice that I have a testimony of this work burning within my soul, that I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son, the author of our salvation, the institutor of the plan whereby you and I can come back, by yielding obedience to the principles that are in that plan, into the presence of God, our eternal Father, to enjoy immortality and eternal life. 

I do humbly pray with all of my soul that God will strengthen us in this land, that he will unite his people in the bonds of love and affection that we may have our lives preserved in order to perpetuate, to the best of our ability, this great and beautiful work. God grant that he will lead and direct us by the light and power of his Spirit, which Spirit is truth and love and which is the thing that brings into our souls eternal joy. May we stand firm and true to the covenants we have made, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Cast thy burdens upon the Lord." 

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

While I shall stand before you, brethren and sisters and friends, I hope I may be rid of the man-fearing spirit, and that I may be guided in what I shall say by the spirit of the brethren who have preceded me in this meeting, and the great spirit of this conference. The mightiest thing in all the world, brethren and sisters, is a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We, your brethren, in our weakness have been appointed to take charge of the work in the various missions of the world, and you have sent to us from your households the dearest possessions of your hearts, your sons and your daughters. And we, the presidents of missions, are endeavoring to implant in the hearts of those boys and girls that most precious thing in all the world, a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and your sons and daughters are receptive to that testimony. They come to us sometimes almost ignorant, in their knowledge of the things of the gospel, and I say it to the shame of the households GENERAL CONFERENCE  which they come; sometimes they come to us from households where the Word of Wisdom is not observed; they come to us from households where family prayers are not engaged in; they come to us from households of men and women who know the gospel is true, but fail in their duty and attendance upon it, and when your boys and girls come home to you they will be a reproach to you if you have failed in observing the duties that have given them that testimony which burns in their hearts like a living flame, if you have failed in the things they have been taught in the mission fields. We may think, brethren and sisters, that it is a light thing to have a testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, but it is not so. You have been given a responsibility; this people, bears upon its shoulders the burden of proclaiming the message of salvation to all the world. Is that a light thing? Let us look into our own souls, let us study the thing that has been given to us, let us remember we must account for these talents — and a testimony is one of the most precious of them; God has given you the talent of a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ and you must render account for your possession of it. Are you bearing it in the earth? If you are not, woe to you when you shall be arraigned before the bar of God, for he will not hold you guiltless for the great heritage that has descended to you from your fathers and that God has given you that you may keep it bright, that you may increase it, that you may render to him ten-fold, and if this responsibility shall be neglected, brethren and sisters, woe be unto us. 

Your boys and girls are laboring faithfully in the mission field. They have the spirit of their mission. They are endeavoring to search out the honest. They go from door to door. They are met with rebuffs and insults; sometimes they are turned away with violence, but that makes no difference, they continue with a smile upon their lips, and light in their hearts, and a prayer to God that he will help them to be successful where hitherto they have failed. When they come to us in the missions, they find themselves confronted with this great question, "Is or is this not what it purports to be? Is this the gospel of Jesus Christ, or is it a myth that has been woven from the vain imaginations of men?" And they learn, because they have had the seed planted in their hearts and it springs into being in the soil in which it has been planted, and by the watering, the rains and the suns, the clouds, and the storms; that seed germinates and bears fruit in the work those boys and girls are performing, and they are a rebuke in some instances to the households from which they came. They learn that the authority to administer the ordinances of this gospel is in the Church. They learn that God has delegated again to men the authority to speak in his name. They learn that these men "who occupy positions of prominence and leadership in this Church are veritably the leaders of the Church of the living God, that these are his prophets, that these are his inspired servants, and you will hear 131  plead in the most beautiful of prayers that God will strengthen, keep in health, and bless always the prophet of God, Heber J. Grant. My heart is softened, it is melted beyond description to hear the wonderful,- the beautiful, the touching, illuminating, melting testimonies of these boys and girls. They learn, that as compared with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, these other institutions called churches are merely houses of cards, that to touch is to see them crumble. They learn just as the scriptures teach us, that the gospel of Jesus Christ always has, always will have in it the authority to administer in the ordinances of God. They read in the scripture that on a certain occasion the Lord said to his disciples, "Who do men say that I am?" and some said, "O, they say you are one of the prophets; some say you are John the Baptist, risen from the dead." "Peter, who sayest thou that I am?" "I say thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Blessed art thou, Peter, flesh and blood hath not revealed that unto thee but my Father which is in heaven; and I will give unto you, Peter, the keys of the kingdom, that whatsoever thou bindest on earth shall be bound in heaven and whatsoever thou loosest on earth shall be loosed in heaven. If these churches which profess to be the churches of the Lord Jesus Christ, are the Church of Christ, where is this authority that one time existed in the Church of Christ? These boys and girls call their attention to this significant and overpowering fact : If you have, and are the Church of Jesus Chirst, where is its authority? The Lord said to Peter, Whatsoever thou bindest on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou loosest on earth shall be loosed in heaven; your priests, your ministers, your pastors who officiate in your pulpits and churches, when they marry a couple, say, I pronounce you man and wife until death do you part, and under that contract, that association ceases when the grave opens it,s portals to either the husband or the wife, but if they had the power that Peter possessed, why should death separate men and women, husbands and wives, fathers and mothers, parents and children? If they have the gospel of Jesus Christ, they have the right to bind on the earth and it will be bound in heaven. Why don't you exercise your authority, if you have it? You say you are the Church of Jesus Christ; where is this authority that Christ gave Peter? Why do you say that death separates and forever terminates ? So far as we know, according to the scriptures at least, these obligations that are formed by men and women in the marriage contract — the most important contract in all the earth! That is what your boys and girls are learning. They are learning that the authority to administer in the ordinances of the Lord Jesus Christ for his Church is here in the earth. They testify of it. It is borne in upon their souls, and they know that God has again spoken to the world. 

We do not depend alone upon the testimony of these boys and girls to convince us that this is the Church of Jesus Christ. The GENERAL CONFERENCE  itself is bearing testimony to this fact. I met a man the other day in Portland, a learned doctor, a man who had been educated in the universities of Germany. He said to me, after learning that I was a "Mormon," "Mr. Young, I want to say to you that the Church of Jesus Christ is one of the greatest churches in the world; in the East we have Mohammedanism, and Buddhism. I, myself," said he, "am a Theosophist. In the West we have the great Roman Catholic church and the 'Mormon' Church. These are the great churches of the world, and sometime the 'Mormon' Church is going to occupy a place in the world that the world has not yet accorded it." That comes from a man who is a student of religion, although not a member of our Church, not a believer in the truth as we teach it or as it has been revealed, but an observer who sees things, a man of vision, a thinker, a philosopher, a deep student of the affairs of men. 

A short time ago I attended a lecture in Portland of a great judge, who came from the East, the chief criminal judge of Chicago. He was lecturing on crime and its effect on American society. He deprecated the fact that we are having in America so few families. He referred with great pride to one of the kings of his former country (for he was a Norwegian) who had a family of twenty-five sons, another one had a family of eighteen sons; another had a family of fifteen sons. "We have no such families," he said, "in this day; we have no such domestic conditions as existed in those days; husbands and wives today are not what they were then, when men and women understood not only the necessity but the great joy of having families." That was among the themes that he developed in the subject which he treated. At the close of his address, and he had been introduced very eloquently and exhaustively by one of Portland's chief attorneys, I made my way to the rostrum, and as soon as I could get his attention with one hand I presented my card, with the the other the opportunity for him to shake hands with me. He grasped my hand with his right hand, and took my card with his left hand, and holding it up, he read, "Brigham S. Young." O, and he read it aloud. And you could see the bobbed hair and the skull caps just raise, for their ears pricked up as high as they would go. "Brigham Young?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"Any relation to the great Brigham Young of Utah?" 

"Yes, sir; I have the honor to be one of his grandsons." 

"Do you know," said he, "Mr. Young, that science is proving that the product of the 'Mormon' families in Utah are among the soundest people we have in America?" 

I said, "Thank you, judge." 

I am glad and thankful and meekly grateful that I have had the opportunity of going into the world with your boys and girls. Blessed be the parents that have borne such boys and girls! And the opportunity to labor with those young men and women has been the 133  glorious thing in all my life, and I am grateful to God for the opportunity that he has given me to proclaim his word in the world in the company of such blessed souls as you have sent us. Live up to the standards of these missionaries, brethren and sisters, for it is a high standard, an exalted standard, and if you measure up to their excellence you will be discharging the duties of Latter-day Saints and you will not have buried the talent that God has given you, but you will present it to him glorious and beautiful when you shall stand before the bar of God. 

And that we may be faithful, that we may sense these responsibilities, that we may measure up to these boys and girls of ours, I humbly ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A duet, "An angel from on high," was sung by Jean Robinson and Hyrum J. Christensen and the choir. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to enjoy a portion of the Spirit of the Lord while I speak to you. In the Book of Mormon the great truth is declared that when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost, by that power are his words carried into the hearts of the children of men, and without that power the preacher is as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. 

When President Heber J. Grant, some few years ago, was in a great southern city, a minister invited him to speak to his congregation in his church. The President accepted the invitation, and at the close of his remarks the minister said, "Mr. Grant, I wish that I had your earnestness, your faith, and your testimony." It seemed to me that that minister voiced the yearning that is in the souls of millions of worldweary people — the yearning to know for themselves that Jesus is the Christ, the son of the living God. This testimony : 

"Doth not spring from earthly soil, 

Nor from its wisdom grow; "lis not evoked by students' toil 

Though years hath crowned with snow." 

This living, personal testimony of the Holy Ghost comes through obedience, through faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. Then upon the converted soul is bestowed the Holy Ghost, which gives that soul a personal testimony that this is the work of God, and against which testimony the Savior said the gates of hell shall never prevail. This people are not priestridden; they are not led around by priests who aspire simply to be leaders. This people have the testimony of the Holy Ghost, and as the sheep know the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the shepherd, so we know that these God-given leaders are led by divine revelation, and when they speak, the spirit within us answers to the spirit within them, and we rejoice in having the counsel and instructions of our spiritual overseers. 

The poet, Parley P. Pratt, said in one of his hymns: 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. 

The dawning of a brighter dayMajestic rises on the world. 

The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine." 

The prophet Isaiah predicted the dawning of a brighter da}'. Pie declared that the time would come when people "shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into' pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ was sent into the world to prepare the way for the glorious second coming of the Son of God. I know it is the mission of this Church to preach the gospel to prepare the way of the Reedemer of Israel to come and reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. And I bear my humble testimony to you that this gospel is spreading abroad, that the hearts of the children of men are being prepared for the millennial dawn, and the glorious advent of the Son of God will come in the due time of the Father, for the signs to precede his coming are in the earth. 

A few months ago I was in Norfolk, Virginia. I went through the navy yards accompanied by an officer who had joined the Church. I saw a mighty battleship that had never been completed, and yet workmen were taking it to pieces. That battleship had cost several millions of dollars, but when President Harding called the disarmament conference and a limitation of armament was agreed upon, this majestic man of war was doomed to destruction. Huge pieces of steel were lifted out of the battleship, and that steel was bought by a company to be used in the manufacture of agricultural implements and tools of husbandry. Really, brethren and sisters, I could not help but feel that that was a beginning of the fulfilment of the prophecy that swords should be beaten into plowshares and spears into pruning hooks. The poet Tennyson, in one of his poems said : 

"For I dipped into the future, 

Far as human eye could see, Saw the vision of the world, 

And all the wonder that would be; 

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, 

Argosies of magic sails, Pilots of the purple twilight, 

Dropping down with costly bales; 13b 

* * * And there rain'd a ghastly dew From the nations' airy navies Grappling in the central blue." 

A few weeks ago near Athens, Georgia, ten thousand people assembled to witness a remarkable demonstration. The United States senators from Georgia, the governor of the state, and other state officials were there. And what was this demonstration? It was a demonstration that "Peace hath her victories no less renowned than W ar." Over the cotton fields, acres and acres of cotton fields, there flew airplanes, machines that had been built for the purposes of destruction, and these airplanes did rain a "ghastly dew" over the cotton fields; they dusted calcium arsenate, a deadly poison, to destroy the boll weevil which has cost the farmers so much, by destroying and bringing about a shortage of the cotton crop. And so the Lord is inclining the hearts of his sons to invent machines to assist in the noble art of agriculture. 

Brethren and sisters, the Prophet Joseph Smith was raised up by the Lord as the herald of Christ's second coming, to preach the everlasting gospel. In one of our hymns we read these lines; 

"We through the Holy Ghost Can witness better things." 

What better things do the Latter-day Saints witness? First of all, we witness the restoration of the glorious gospel for the salvation of the children of men. We, by the Holy Ghost, know that that restoration hath taken place. By the same power we know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that upon him was bestowed the holy Melchizedek Priesthood, and because of this we witness the salvation of the dead in the sacred temples which dot this intermountain country. By the same power we know the glories of the resurrection, that when Jesus comes in his glory the righteous dead are going to be resurrected and the glorious millennium will be inaugurated. These are some of the better things we witness through the Holy Ghost. But far above all these things — because these things are dependent on the Savior — we know that Jesus is the Christ. Let the world say what they will — that Jesus is not divine, that his blood did not atone for the sins of mankind, that he did not bring about the resurrection; we know, we witness, we testify by the power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of mankind, and the author of our eternal salvation. Who would not be a Latter-day Saint? "To whom shall we go?" said Peter, "thou hast the words of eternal life." The words of eternal life are in the glorious gospel and the power to officiate for the living and for the dead, thank God, is held by the men who lead and guide this people. 

A few months ago I was in a town in Kentucky, attending a conference. One of our brethren held a position at the waterworks of that GENERAL CONFERENCE . I said to him, "I would like to go through the plant and see how you purify this water." "Come along," he said. 

I saw the great settling vats, into which the muddy water of the Ohio river was poured, and I saw a vat containing muddy water and another vat containing clear water. 

"Now," I said, "Brother, I can see that this water is clear, but a hundred Ohio cities empty their filth into this river; though the water be clear, there may be germs in it. How do you kill the germs?" 

"Come and see," he replied, and so I went into a great underground chamber and saw the huge pipes which conveyed the water to the city mains, and at distances of about four or five feet I beheld doors which opened into cavities in these great pipes. He opened one of the doors, and a flood of light came out. He said, "This light is the ultra-violet ray, a powerful, penetrating light. When the water passes over this light, the germs are killed and the water is rendered fit and pure to drink." What a lesson! When men and women are baptized, they receive the Holy Ghost, and this sanctifying baptism cf the Holy Ghost, that baptism likened unto fire, does cleanse the soul; it kills the germs of sin, it makes people who love God and keep his commandments fit subjects to enter into the kingdom of heaven; for I testify and declare unto you that this gospel is pure, that it purifies those who live it, and without the gospel no man can ever be pure and enter into the kingdom of God. "But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin." So, through faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, the blood of Jesus Christ sanctifies us and saves us, makes us fellow-citizens in the household of God. The Lord be praised. 

Centuries ago Elisha said to the Lord, "I pray thee let a double portion of thy Spirit to be upon me." This is the Spirit that gives vision, the Spirit that shows the things of God unto man. And so, Latterday Saints, with you, I fervently and humbly pray, "Lord, give us a double portion of thy Spirit, in the name of Jesus Christ," Amen. 

The authorities were presented as in the Tabernacle and unanimously sustained. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Restored Gospel." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder W. H. Branch, of the Summit stake of Zion. 