Morning
03 04 1924

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice again at having the opportunity of meeting with the Saints in General Conference. It is a very inspiring sight to see this large Tabernacle filled to overflowing, and people standing, at the first session. 

THE RADIO 

The exercises of today and throughout the conference are to be broadcasted; and it is estimated that in the neighborhood of a million people will be able to hear all that is said, provided they are listening in during the conference sessions. The radio is one of the most marvelous inventions man knows anything about. To have the voice carried for thousands of miles seems almost beyond comprehension. 

LET US SERVE GOD WITH ALL MIGHT, MIND AND STRENGTH 

I rejoice in the remarkable and wonderful growth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in our day. Over a year before the Church was organized a short revelation was given through the Prophet Joseph, directed to his father. It reads as follows : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the serivce of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." , 

If there is any one thing more than another that I desire to impress upon the hearts of the Latter-day Saints it is that we should in very deed serve God with all our might, mind and strength, that we may keep pace with the progress of his work here upon the earth. This very audience here today, the immense auditorium filled to overflowing, testifies more eloquently than any language of mine regarding the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ. When I recall the revelations that were given to the Prophet Joseph prior to the organization of the Church foretelling the growth and the accomplishments of the work of God here upon the earth, it is one of many testimonies to me regarding the divinity of this work in which you and I are engaged. 

OUTSTANDING EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE CHURCH IN THE PAST SIX MONTHS 

I believe the Saints will be interested in knowing something of the progress in various ways that has taken place in the Church since we last assembled here. Within a few weeks after the April conference it fell to my lot to go East and to hold meetings in Denver, of the Western States mission, in Independence, Kansas City and St. Louis of the Central States mission, and later to visit Omaha in the Western States mission. I had the privilege of speaking in all of these places. Also meeting with and instructing our elders. I found a wonderful spirit of loyalty on the part of the Mission presidents, of the elders, and of the lady missionaries in all of these places. I rejoiced exceedingly in visiting with them. I came in contact with a number of influential men, some of whom attended our services. Several of them afterward expressed their pleasure in having heard something regarding our faith that was new to them. The great majority of mankind pay little or no attention to the message of the Latter-day Saints, but many pay a great deal of attention to the things of a detrimental character that are published against us. Today men of intelligence, men of thought, and men who are studying, in seeing the wonderful progress of the work of God here on the earth, are beginning to realize that there must be something good in it, considering the class of people that are attracted to it. 

I had the pleasure of playing a game of golf in Kansas City, and learned that the title to part of the very ground upon which we were playing originally stood in the name of the Bishop of the "Mormon" Church. I also learned that a large proportion of Kansas City stands upon ground once owned by the Latter-day Saints. The title to much of it has never passed, and the only title people today have to a portion of that great city is by possessing the ground. In tracing the abstracts back they find that the title originally was in the name of the Bishop of the "Mormon" Church. We all remember with gratitude the wonderful courage and manhood of General Doniphan in saving the life of the Prophet Joseph. Part of our holdings in that section of the country — thousands of acres, as I remember it — was turned over to Doniphan as a fee for legal services. The price of those lands then was very insignificant, but I was assured that the very land turned over to General Doniphan is today worth more than ten millions of dollars. 

After returning from visiting the Western and the Central States missions, in June, I went East and visited the Northern States mission, the Canadian mission and the Eastern States mission. I had the privilege for the first time of visiting Montreal, in Canada, and of attending one of the sessions of the Rotary Club in Toronto. The work in all of the missions I have visited since the last conference is progressing in a splendid way. 

Since our last conference, President Anthony W. Ivins and Elder Richard R. Lyman have visited the Hawaiian Islands with members of their families. The work there is progressing splendidly. Our sugar plantations there are progressing more satisfactorily at the present time than for many years past. 

New chapels are being erected in many of our missions. A site for a new chapel has been purchased on one of the principal streets in Washington, D. C, and we expect to erect a place of worship there that will be a credit to the Latter-day Saints, and worthy of that city of beautiful churches, wonderful public buildings, and palatial residences. We hope to have a building there that will be as much of a credit to us at Washington as our magnificent office building is to us here — not as expensive, of course, but in every respect worthy of the Church of Christ. 

Brother James E. Talmage has been chosen to preside over the European mission. Elder David O. McKay will have been in that mission two years by the time he leaves it. Previous to his being called there, he and Brother Hugh J. Cannon spent a year in traveling around the world, visiting nearly all of the missions in the world. Therefore we felt it was only fair to him to allow him to return to his mountain home without staying the usual three years that the brethren spend in England. 

We have sent considerable sums of money to the Norwegian and Danish missions for final payment on meetinghouses purchased years ago. We have purchased a fine large meetinghouse at Rotterdam. There has been erected a splendid meetinghouse at Honolulu; and others are now authorized in the Hawaiian Islands. We have secured a long lease of farming lands for the Tongan mission, not being able to purchase and get title there. 

The baptisms in the missions during the past six months number 3,156, a very decided increase over the average in years past. 

Two new stakes have been organized since our last conference, namely, the Grant stake, taken from the Granite stake, and the Minidoka stake, a part of the Blaine stake. 

Twelve new wards have been organized during the past six months. 

A large number of new meeting houses are being erected in Zion. I believe more building is going on at the present time in the various stakes of Zion than for many years past. 

We have ordered a monument to be erected at the grave of Martin Harris, in Clarkston, Utah. 

A new home is being provided for the Lamanites located near Cedar City, in order that they may be more comfortably situated. 

Successful conventions of auxiliary organizations are in progress at the present time all over the Church. 

Quite a number of seminary buildings have been erected by the Saints in various parts of the Church. 

There is a large and increased attendance at the Brigham Young University and our other Church schools. 

A very remarkable increase is noted in the attendance at all of our temples. The Manti temple has been overhauled, and extensive repairs made there, making it very much more comfortable and convenient than in the past. The repairs being made at the Salt Lake temple are now all completed. Rapid progress is being made in the erection of the Arizona temple. 

We have decided to erect on this block a monument in honor of the Three Witnesses (perhaps we will include the Eight Witnesses), to be located in the rear of the statues of Presidents Joseph and Hyrum Smith. The design has not yet been decided upon; but we will endeavor to have something that will be as attractive and as creditable, and that will preach the wonderful message proclaimed in the Book of Mormon as effectively as the Sea Gull Monument preaches the wonderful deliverance wrought by the Lord in the days when the crickets threatened to destroy everything. Undoubtedly some of the inspirational passages of the Book of Mormon, also the fact that these three witnesses declare that an angel of God came down from heaven and laid before their eyes, that they beheld and saw the plates of the Book of Mormon, and the engravings thereon, and that the voice of the Lord commanded them that they should bear record of it, with other incidents that proclaim the divinity of the Book of Mormon, will be features of the monument. 

We are pleased to note that there is an improvement in the support of our foreign newspapers. There are many faithful, diligent Latter-day Saints who, having embraced the Gospel in foreign lands at an advanced age, cannot read the English language, and it is a great comfort and blessing to them to have some of the sermons, messages, and news, regarding the work of God published in their own language. We bespeak for these papers the loyal patronage of those of foreign birth. Young men who have prospered here in the things of this world should be willing to assist in circulating at home and abroad the word of God through the papers published in the mother tongue of their parents. 

We have been called upon during the past six months to part with one of our loyal stake presidents, — President Andrew Kimball. It fell to my lot to have the privilege of going- to Thatcher, Arizona, and attending the funeral, at which there was a wonderful outpouring of the people, showing their respect and love for their president. It was a source of satisfaction to me to have the opportunity of paying a tribute of love and respect to him at the services. 

We have to announce the death of Sister Elizabeth C. McCune, who, in connection with her husband, presented to the Church some years ago the magnificent McCune mansion on upper Main street, the name of which has been changed since the death of Sister McCune to The McCune School of Music and Art. We hope at no far distant date to have a portion of that building devoted to the fine arts in the form of beautiful paintings and sculpture. There are two magnificent pieces of sculpture there now, probably the finest in our state, which were presented with the mansion at the time it was given to us. 

I believe this covers the activities of the past six months that I thought would be of interest to the people. Of course, you will realize that if I were to enter into detail regarding these activities I could occupy not only the entire time of this morning's session with interest to the Saints, but even longer. 

On my way home after attending the funeral of Brother Kimball, in Arizona, I stopped for a few days in California, and the work in the California mission is progressing in a very favorable way. 

THE DIVINITY OF JESUS CHRIST 

There is one thing that I desire to refer to, and a part of one of the revelations that I desire to read. There are no revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants that have made such a profound impression upon my heart and my mind as the one known as The Vision, recorded in the 76th section, and the one known as Prayer and Prophecies, given in Liberty Jail, and to be found in the 121st section. I rejoice every time I read the wonderful testimony of the Prophet Joseph and Sidney Rigdon as contained in The Vision. When bishops over large churches in England announce that Jesus Christ was not the Son of God; that he was not divine, but merely a great moral teacher; when men who are ministers deny the divinity of Christ and are being tried for their lack of faith, I rejoice in reading the testimony of these two men, and never read it but my heart swells with gratitude to God : 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds . are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

I rejoice that the Church of Jesus Christ is founded upon the first great vision that was enjoyed by the boy Joseph Smith over one  years ago. He declared that he saw two heavenly beings, whose glory and grandeur were beyond the power of man to describe and that one of them addressed him and pointed to the other and said : "This is my beloved Son, hear him." There cannot be any doubt in the heart of a Latter-day Saint regarding Jesus Christ being the Son of the Living God, because God himself introduced him to Joseph Smith. It is a fundamental truth of the Church of Jesus Christ in our day that Joseph Smith was and is and ever will be a prophet of the living God; and with Joseph Smith recognized as a prophet of God, and the testimony in our hearts of that fact, there will never be any schism, so to speak, in the Church of Christ. Any individual who does not acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, has no business to be associated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This Church is, as I read to you it should be, a marvelous work and a wonder. There is nothing like it in all the world, because Jesus Christ, the Son of God established it, and is the head of it; because Jesus Christ manifested himself to the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery, and to others; and because God, in answer to prayer, has given to people all over the wide world where the Gospel has gone, an individual knowledge and testimony regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

A PROFOUNDLY IMPRESSIVE COMPARISON 

Never have I been more profoundly impressed with the power and blessing of God than I was when I visited Nauvoo upon my recent trip East. Three quarters of a century ago there were twenty thousand prosperous Latter-day Saints in that city, with a magnificent temple. Today there is not a single stone left of the temple where it was once erected, and the population has dwindled to about one thousand people. Men have told me that the site of the City of Nauvoo is one of the finest, if not the finest, to be found upon the great Mississippi river, yet to get there now you have to cross the Mississippi river in a little tub of a steamer, on the deck of which there are but five chairs, and as there happened to be six in our party one of us had to stand; and there are cities with thousands of inhabitants on the Mississippi and on the Missouri that have grown up since that was the great city of Illinois. When I contemplate all these things and then come home and gaze upon the Temple of God in the eastern part of this block; when I look at our office building, at the Utah Hotel, and at the magnificent bank buildings in our city; when I think of the prosperity of the Saints, with beautiful temples, not only in Utah, but in Canada and in the Hawaiian Islands, as well as one in course of construction in Arizona; when I think of all the accomplishments of the work of God, my language utterly fails me to speak in just praise of all that has been done. When I realize the condition of the place from which we were driven, the lack of prosperity and of success in that country, I thank God that we are located here in these mountains. I feel that the very persecutions and troubles through which we passed prepared us and educated us and strengthened us as a people for greater things. Perhaps the very finest residence, with one exception, to be found today in Nauvoo is the one erected by Erastus Snow. They told me that it was erected by Lorenzo Snow, but I have since been informed that the people there were mistaken, and that it was erected by Erastus Snow. One of the fine dwellings there was built with stones taken from the Temple Block. 

I rejoice in the testimony of my own dear mother, also in the testimony of Aunt Emmeline B. Wells and scores of men and women who were present upon that memorable occasion, after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, when Sidney Rigdon endeavored to be appointed as guardian of the Church. I rejoice in the wonderful manifestation that was given to the people there, including my mother and other relatives of mine, when the mantle of Joseph Smith fell upon the Prophet Brigham Young, and he, Brigham, stood there and talked as with the voice of Joseph, his face being illumined and in appearance like unto the face of Joseph. The sheep knew the voice of the true shepherd. And from that day to this, of the hundreds who were present on that occasion, nearly every one has lived and died faithful and true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, loyal supporters of the Prophet Brigham Young and his successors. 

HOW TO EXERCISE THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

I desire to read part of the wonderful revelation given to the Prophet Joseph in Liberty Jail. Remember, though he was chained in that prison, the Lord Almighty could and did speak to him, and gave to him a revelation that I commend here today to every Latterday Saint. I particularly commend it to every man presiding in the stakes and wards of Zion, and in the various missions throughout the world. If we exercise the power of the Priesthood of the living God as he tells us in this wonderful revelation to exercise it, then there never can be and there never will be any just complaint made against the Church of Jesus Christ, because of the use of the Priesthood that has been restored again to the earth. It is when men do not follow the teachings and the revelations given of God to us through his prophet that mistakes are made. This revelation declares that by incarcerating the Prophet Joseph men could not rob him of the inspiration of the Living God, which revealed to him these wonderful words in that prison. Starting with verse 33, I read : 

"How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, or vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

"Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. 

"We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

I feel that I cannot close my remarks with anything better than this wonderful revelation given to the Prophet of the living God. 

god's blessings invoked upon the church and nation 

I pray God's blessings to be upon the Latter-day Saints all over the wide world. I pray for those who stand as the General Authorities of the Church. I pray for those who preside in the stakes and the wards and the branches, and in all parts of the Church, from Canada on the North to Mexico on the South, and for those who preside and labor in the various missions all over the wide world. I pray for the people of the world; not only for the Latter-day Saints, but I pray God's blessings upon every loyal, patriotic man and woman that is endeavoring to do right, and to uphold the laws of the countries where they reside. I pray God's blessings upon the President of these United States of America. I thank God for the loyalty and the patriotism of the Latter-day Saints. I thank God that we believe that the constitution of our country was given to us under the inspiration of the Living God, and that the Lord supported George Washington and the patriot fathers of this country. I pray that God will inspire us to continue loyal and true to him, to our country, and to its institutions; and that we may in very deed preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ by our acts; that, as we grow in years and increase in understanding, we may grow in the power and ability to live the Gospel, that our example of integrity, of honesty, of loyaltv to God and country may inspire others to investigate the message of life and salvation. 

CLOSING TESTIMONY 

Before sitting down, I bear my testimony to you and to all the world that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, the Creator of heaven and earth; that Joseph Smith was his prophet, the instrument in his hands of establishing again the Gospel of life and salvation. That we who have that knowledge may live the Gospel is my prayer, and I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters, I am very happy to have the privilege of again meeting with the Latter-day Saints in a General Conference. I did not have this privilege six months ago, and I have felt the loss which is sustained by every member of this Church who does not participate in the spirit and the exercises of these great gatherings. 

A TESTIMONY OF JESUS 

I bear witness to the testimony borne by President Grant this morning. I say with him that I know that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that Joseph Smith was the prophet of these latter days, called to restore the eternal gospel of Christ. I am happy in the possession of this truth; and I ask for nothing more than that the Lord may so help me to live, day by day throughout the years that may remain, that I may retain this testimony and be willing to (bear it to all who may care to listen. 

A REMARKABLE AGE OF THE WORLD 

Yesterday morning, before I left my home, I picked up a paper which is circulated in this country by the hundreds of thousands of copies. I turned to the editorial page, and to my surprise saw a statement by the editor to the effect that what this great country needs today, these great United States of America, is a close of Voltaire. I suppose he meant by that a dose of atheism. That statement has remained in my thoughts, because it seems to be another evidence of the fact that after these many centuries of light, of the gospel of Jesus Christ, many in the world, even among professed Christians, are unable  unwilling to accept the truth of the gospel, or the existence of God. 

This is a marvelous age. It is clear to all who follow the events of the day, and who note the great steps of progress from month to month, that this is in many respects the most remarkable age that the world has known. The air above us, the seas, the solid earth, the whole physical universe, all seem unitedly to bow before man, to his acquired power over the natural forces of the universe. Today, man is able to do things that in clays gone by were conceivably done only by God. Yet, as I read the editorial in this famous newspaper, an old thought came back to me, that the airship, the steamship, the telephone, the radio and all the other marvels of this age, are but as the clothing of the body, but as instruments to be used by man. By means of these great inventions and discoveries, great gifts of God to the people of these latter days, it is possible for the righteous man to accomplish righteousness more widely and more speedily, but it is equally true that by means of these great modern developments the wicked man may do wickedness much more easily and much more comprehensively than in the days gone by. The discoveries with which we conjure in this day have not touched the mainspring of human character, have not shaped or reshaped human conduct. Something deeper than material conquests relates itself to human conduct, to that manner of life, which in the end makes the world great or small, good or bad. A knowledge of God, and faith in his word have ever been the determining force in the making of the character of a man or a nation. 

MAN HELPLESS WITHOUT GOD 

If the world needs atheism, at this day, then the faith of this poor world of ours must concern itself entirely with man's own powers. Take God away from the earth and man has left only that which his own powers may produce, and he must become a worshiper of his own power. Centuries of human experience, and the events of every day, demonstrate the utter inadequacy of man's unaided power in winning human happiness. Life becomes full and rounded only as the forces beyond man are accepted and used by him.. Man is helpless without God. 

A GREAT INTELLECTUAL AND SPIRITUAL CONTROVERSY 

Such thoughts have been brought home to us especially during the last twelve months by a great intellectual and spiritual controversy, among honest people, which has shaken this country, and which is spreading across the seas into other countries, the result of which will probably appear much more important when history is written than the great wars and political contentions of the day. The modernists who already have been discussed from this stand say that they believe in an Almighty God, but declare that they are unable to believe in the virgin birth of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. They declare themselves unable to accept as real the miracles of Christ as recorded in Holy Writ. They say that, above all things, they cannot believe that man after death may be brought into a life again, to live forever as a personal embodied being. These doubts are before them, as they say, because man is not able to understand how such things may be done. 

These people, however good and sincere they may be, are engaged in an old pastime; they limit God and try to make him great only as man is great. They say in substance that God can do only that which man himself is able to do, or only that which can be understood by man. This limitation has been attempted before; it is not a new thing. It is surprising how, in this latter day, in this greatest civilization, we return, over and over, to such age-old controversies. I have no doubt that in the days of Adam men differed as do these modernists and others of today, with respect to the nature and character or the existence of God. 

It seems curious to me that a man can say that he believes in a God who is the author of life, of the unfathomable mystery of life, and in the same breath can declare that he cannot believe that God is able to cause the immaculate conception of Jesus Christ. It is difficult for me to understand the mind of a man who believes in a God who has raised the bottom of the sea into mountains, and has made the mountain-tops into sea-bottoms, and yet cannot believe in the possibility of the miracles of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It is still more mysterious to me how, in this modern day, men may say that they believe in a God who has made this great earth out of eternal elements and indestructible forces, but that man, the sum of creation, the most marvelous product of God's handiwork, upon this earth, is a transitory being, to be laid down in the grave, and if he ever emerges, to be" merged quiescently with the forces of the hereafter. 

DANGEROUS TO LIMIT THE POWERS OF GOD 

I am inclined to think, though I recognize that these seekers after truth are honest and desire to do the right thing in their seeking after truth — I always desire to give them credit for that — that there is no great difference between the modernist of today and the idol worshiper of the past. Heathen nations have set up a god to produce rain, and another to produce crops, and in a dry year of small harvests they have slapped the ears of both gods. It is dangerous to limit in our thinking the powers of God, to allow ourselves to say that God, the Maker of the heavens and the earth, the Founder of truth, is limited simply because we are limited in our understanding. It leads men to unbelief and atheism. SOMETHING, HOWEVER, TO BE SAID FOR THE MODERNIST 

Yet, brethren and sisters, I would like to say that there is something to be said for the modernist, because, after all, he has broken  from the unacceptable traditions of the past. What has the fundamentalist, his brother, to give him? Just a short time ago I met two priests of a church well known in the world, who explained to me at great length that God is a person, yes, but a person who fills the whole universe in person, and who, at the same time, in person complete and whole, is in every human heart. That is beyond my understanding. This summer I met a minister of another church well known in the world, who explained to me that God made matter out of nothing, and then, having made sufficient matter out of nothing, he proceeded to build an earth from the matter so created. I cannot understand that. A few weeks ago, a member of another Church wrote to me and said that God was in the beauty of the rose, in the melody of a song, in the tenderness of a mother's heart; and that was all there is of God. No wonder people break away from such conceptions. No wonder that we have modernists breaking away from fundamentalists. The fact of the matter is that in this day with respect to the existence and character of God the blind are leading the blind. 

A FUNDAMENTAL DOCTRINE 

Among the great doctrines revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, none is greater or more fundamental, as has been explained today by the living Prophet of today, than that God is from everlasting to everlasting; so far as we can understand without beginning and without end; the Father of our spirits, who in so far as he deals with human life may be understood by us, and who understands us because we are his children; a God whose glory is intelligence, and whose work and glory is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. There is no need for us of this Church to become fundamentalists or modernists or to set up new theories as to divinity, for God has revealed himself so clearly in these latter days that, with respect to our human life, every one of us may understand to a sufficient degree the nature of God and his relationship to the human family. 

THE LORD HAS DECLARED HIMSELF IN ALL GENERATIONS 

I rejoice in such truths. T rejoice to know that God in person came down to commission the boy, Joseph Smith, with prophetic power in these latter days. As President Grant has stated here today there is no doubt in our minds about the reality of the First Vision of Joseph Smith. Every religion is built upon a conception of God. The Lord, knowing this, has declared himself in all generations. The first statement in Holy Writ makes it clear that man must understand the true God and must not worship false gods nor set up gods for himself. "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth" — Almighty God, not blind forces, made the earth and the heavens above. Later on, out of the thunders and lightnings of Sinai, the first commandment was : "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." And on the back of the statue of Joseph Smith, in this square, you will find as a great fundamental message, that "It is the first great principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God." 

ALL SH4.LL BOW BEFORE THE ONE TRUE GOD 

The people of the earth are gradually beginning to understand the truths respecting God, though they are unwilling to abide by them. I read in a recent magazine — I clipped out the verses because they seemed so applicable to our belief — a verse which reads something like this : 

"We serve no God whose work is done, 

Who rests within his firmament. Our God, his labors but begun, 

Toils evermore, with power unspent." 

And so, the truth of this latter day work is filtering in among the nations, and filling the hearts and souls and understandings of men. After a while I have no doubt that all shall bow before the one true God, the one who made the heavens and the earth, and who has spoken throughout all these ages to his children, even if obedience is not shown him. 

It is possible to know God. There are thousands in this Church, there have been hundreds of thousands, who are and have been able to bear witness to that. There are hosts of people, who, in this Church, have sacrificed all for the love of the gospel, separated from their kindred, met the hardships of pioneer life, sacrificed all worldly ambitions, and then, at the close of life, have testified fearlessly that God has been good to them, that throughout their lives, in all their sacrifices, they have been simply carrying out the great purposes of Almighty God, that they have been engaged in the cause of truth, that they know of a certainty that God lives, that he has spoken in these latter days, and that it is good to be in his work. These testimonies from the thousands who have borne them become one great shout to heaven that God may be known, and that this work is a work of truth. A knowledge of God is the need of this and of every land. To know him and to serve him is the certain way to human happiness. 

WE REST UPON THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST 

There is no other gathering on the face of the earth such as we have here this morning; such a great body of men and women who see alike and think alike. We rest ourselves upon truth, the simple truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ. We are willing to live by that truth, and if necessary to die for it. I am deeply grateful that I know this truth; that God, in his mercy, brought it to my mother and to me. I praise God for it every day of my life. I know that you do the same. May the Lord be with us and make us strong in his cause. May we grow in a knowledge of God and his desires with respect to us, and be willing always to sacrifice whatever may be required of us for his great cause, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church) 

It is indeed a pleasure and a great privilege to be present here this morning, and to stand before this great audience and bear testimony to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I trust that the Spirit of the Lord will direct the few remarks which I may make. 

Listening to the revelation which was read by our President this morning, and which was given by the Lord to a kinsman of mine whom the Lord gave responsibility in the early history of the Church in this dispensation, I was touched with the simplicity of the words of our Father to a great grandsire of mine — counsel and advice which is good today for the souls of men. Without referring to the whole revelation I should like to refer to one of the remarkable paragraphs in that important and wonderful revelation. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence." Do you know of any advice or counsel that is not contained in those words? There is one word which may be implied but is not said — no Latter-day Saint can receive the blessings of the Lord without honesty. We must be honest with ourselves, honest with our neighbors, honest with our God, and then we are entitled to his blessings, to the confidence of our neighbors, to the confidence and fellowship of those who are around us. These words of counsel are applicable to all of us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

In visiting among the people, as it is my privilege, I have discovered that the Lord has been very kind to us as a people. We have struggled through this year which has beer. 1 and is known to us as one of the dry years, when we have not had sufficient rain and moisture for our needs in many cases; but in the kindness of the Lord conditions have been brought about which have brought us to a very happy condition, for there are none among us who are suffering to the extreme. True there have been many losses, true we have not accomplished all that we might have done; but the Lord has been merciful and I wish to acknowledge his hand, not only in behalf of myself, but in behalf of the people and of the Church, and I praise the Lord in your behalf that He has been mindful of and merciful to us as a people, as individuals and as an organized Church. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is organized for the last time. It is the kingdom of God that has been set up in the last day never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. It is that organization which was made plain to the great king of Babylon through the instrumentality of the Prophet Daniel; that in the last days the God of heaven should set up a kingdom likened unto a stone cut out of the mountains without hands, that should smite the great beast which the king saw and break it in pieces, and this stone should roll forth and fill the whole earth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is that kingdom of God which has been set up never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. It has not come from men of earthly power or from any earthly or man-made organization. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has neither father nor mother in the earth, for it has not come out of any organization in the earth. It has corne in the manner predicted, as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands, for the power, the keys, the authority and all the privileges that come to us to serve in the name of the Lord have come from heaven, through heavenly powers and heavenly messengers. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know with all the powers that I have to know, that these heavenly messengers did come to the Prophet Joseph Smith and did restore to the earth all the keys and powers of authority which are in the Church today, and that men are called upon to bear the Holy Priesthood which is the power to officiate in the Church for the Lord, to do his work, to bring about his marvelous work on earth in these the last days. I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the power and keys of authority to officiate in the name of the Lord for the salvation of the souls of men both for the living and for the dead are in the Church today. I have seen their marvelous power made manifest. I know that this power rests with the authorities of the Church as they are at present constituted the prophets, apostles, pastors, evangelists, teachers and other men who are called to bear this important responsibility, to bring about the mighty purposes of God in these the last days. I thank the Lord for this testimony. I know it is the truth and I praise the Lord for his kindness and his mercy in bestowing upon his children this plain truth, so that we are not in doubt. We: do not wander in our minds, but we know, like little children, that we have a father, and a .mother in heaven, and that we have our loved ones there. We know that if we are true to the teachings, counsels and instructions that are given unto us; that if we are honest and virtuous and faithful, and patient, and diligent, and practice all these other qualities that belong to Latter-day Saints, we shall receive the blessings of the Lord, we shall find that happy clay in the hereafter when we shall be associated with our loved ones, and with the men and women whom God has honored, who have gone before us. Certain powers are in the Church today which, if we are faithful in receiving, will bind us together in families, in the links of brotherhood and fatherhood forever: we will claim a natural relationship, to our fathers and our mothers, and to our brothers and sisters, not for this life only, but for all eternity. These are the keys and the powers and the blessings that will come to us if we will only live worthy lives and be obedient to the teachings and counsels which come to us from our merciful Heavenly Father. 

Now brethren and sisters, as a servant of the Lord, in humility I pray God to bless you, and say unto you that he will bless you. He  continue to bless those whom he has called to preside in this great and important work, from the President of the Church to the least and last one who is or who may be called; whether to labor at home or abroad; for this is God's work and not the work of man or men, and it will roll forth even as Daniel declared when he interpreted the great king's dream that it should in time fill the whole earth. 

May God bless you in your homes, may he continue to be mindful of you in your labors, that you may be honest with him in all of the possessions and blessings that came to you, that you may remember the Lord — whether in poverty or wealth, it matters not. The Lord will require only a certain amount from each of us. Let us be true and honest and faithful to the end. I pronounce upon you, my brethren and sisters, and upon the Church, the blessings of the Lord, the blessings of Jesus Christ, for this is his Church, and his blessings will continue with his Church and with his people. I pray that his mercies may continue to attend us, and for his spirit to inspire those who speak and pray and sing, and take other parts in this conference, that we may be encouraged and built up in our faith to return to our homes and abiding places after this conference, inspired and blessed and comforted and sustained to serve God and keep his commandments, and work out his mighty purposes according to his will as it has been made known to us, and may the peace and blessing of the Almighty be upon you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Elder Orson F. Whitney, will be our next speaker. We all rejoice in the recovery of Brother Whitney's health. On account of being in Europe for some time, he has not had many privileges of speaking to us. He will occupy the balance of the time. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

THE MARVELOUS WORK AND WONDER 

Seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior, a Prophet oi God upon the Eastern hemisphere proclaimed the coming forth of a marvelous work and wonder. The reason for its coming forth was given by the Lord through that Prophet as follows : 

"Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

"Therefore behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid,"— Isaiah 29:13, 14. 

The angel Moroni, who appeared to Joseph Smith on the night of the 21st of September, one hundred and one years ago, cited this prediction, among others, as relating to the Lord's work in latter days. He identified those words of Isaiah with the movement which the world now calls "Mormonism." 

FUNDAMENTAL FACTS 

And what could be more wonderful, more marvelous, than the basic facts upon which "Mormonism" rests ? — beginning with the appearance of the Father and the Son to a boy fourteen years of age, announcing the opening of a new Gospel dispensation; then the coming of an angel to reveal the hidden past and future of the American continents, as set forth in that ancient record, the Book of Mormon, containing also the fulness of the everlasting gospel; the coming of another angel, John the Baptist, to confer upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; the visitation of three other heavenly messengers, the Apostles Peter, James and John, delivering the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the power to bestow the Holy Ghost upon those baptized in the right manner and by the proper authority. By virtue of these priesthoods this Church was organized, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (April 6, 1830), and thus was lifted the ensign for the gathering of scattered Israel, the children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, that they might be ready to meet their God and King, who is coming to reign literally upon the earth. Subsequently came Moses, to restore the keys of the gathering, to authorize the assembling of the House of Israel; then Elias, repeating the promise made to Abraham, that in him and in his seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed — a promise fulfilled in the coming of Christ through the lineage of the Hebrew patriarchs, and in the dispersion of Israel among all nations, so that the [blood that believes, that has faith in ' the true God, might be sprinkled over the world, and that out of every nation under heaven might come in the last days some of the chosen people, to build up Zion on this goodly land and prepare the way before the glorious coming of the Lord. Finally the Prophet Elijah, who- holds all the keys of the Priesthood, appears and confers upon Joseph and Oliver "the keys to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers," in order that a link might be welded between the living and the dead, between the present and the past, and a work done that will eventually unify and bring together all things in Christ, both in heaven and on earth. What could be more marvelous, more wonderful than this? And yet the wisdom of the world passes it by as a thing of naught. 

WORLDLY WISDOM'S ATTITUDE 

Wise and gifted men will come into the midst of God's people; they will praise the industry, the thrift, the honesty and uprightness  the Latter-day Saints; but they seem to have no conception of the more glorious features of the Lord's Work. They praise Brigham Young as a colonizer, as a builder of cities, as the founder of a commonwealth; but they know nothing at all about Brigham Young as a prophet, seer and revelator. Agriculture, mining, and other temporalities, things of earth and time, they appreciate; but they take no cognizance whatever of spiritual things, things pertaining to heaven and eternity. 

Horace greeley's visit 

Many years ago a famous and prominent personage came to Utah. It was in the days of the stage coach and the pony express, before the transcontinental railroad had crossed the country, before there was even a telegraph line between the Missouri and the Pacific. He was the founder and editor of a great newspaper — the New York Tribune. His word was more influential than that of the President of the United States. Whatever Horace Greeley said was accepted by the American people almost as the word of God. He came here and spent a week or more, had several long interviews with President Brigham Young, and after returning East wrote and published a book entitled "Across the Continent." In it he praised the "Mormon" people for their sobriety and industry. He did not believe that they were robbers and murderers, as he had been told. They were sincere and honest, he said, and had done a wonderful work in peopling the waste and redeeming the desert. But he had not a word to say concerning the glories of our religion. Why was it ? 

A CATHOLIC COMMENT 

I bear in mind another noted visitor, a great scholar, who came here many years after the advent of the railroad. I became we 1! acquainted with him, and we had more than one conversation together. I admired his vast erudition. He seemed to know all about law, literature, science, philosophy, and had a dozen languages at his tongue's end. He said to me one day: "You Mormons are all ignoramuses. You don't even know the strength of your own position. It is so strong that there is only one other position tenable in the whole Christian world, and that is the position of the Roman Catholic Church. The issue is between Mormonism and Catholicism. If you are right, we are wrong. If we are right, you are wrong. And that's all there is to it. These Protestant sects haven't a leg to stand on; for if we are right, we cut them off long ago as apostates; and if we are wrong, they are wrong with us, for they were part of us and came out of us. If we have the apostolic succession from St. Peter as we claim, there was no need of Joseph Smith and Mormonism; but if we have not that succession, such a man as Joseph Smith was necessary and Mormonism's position is the only consistent one. It is either the perpetuation of the gospel from ancient times, or the restoration of the gospel in latter days." 

I replied : "Doctor, I agree with you in almost everything that you have said; but don't deceive yourself with the notion that we 'Mormons' do not know the strength of our own position. We know it better than you do; we know it better than any other people can know it. We have not all been to college; we cannot all speak the dead languages, and we may be ignoramuses as you say, but we know we are right, and we know that you are wrong." I was just as frank with him as he had been with me. 

Now what was the position of this learned man? He could not see into the heart of "Mormonism," with all his learning, his dead and living languages, his knowledge of science, law and literature. He could not comprehend this great problem. Why? Because God Almighty had said concerning him and bis class : "The wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." He thought that Joseph Smith had stumbled upon something of which he did not know the true value. A greater mistake was never made, a grosser error never committed. Joseph Smith received his knowledge, his power, and wisdom from on High. He did not stumble upon it; it came by divine revelation, and he knew, better than anyone else, the strength of the "Mormon" position. 

AN EPISCOPAL VIEW 

Years later I formed the acquaintance of a bishop of the Episcopal Church, a very worthy and scholarly gentleman, whose untimely, accidental death in this city we all deplored. He remarked to me on one occasion : "If Joseph Smith, at the outset of his career, had made the acquaintance of the Episcopalians, he never would have sought any further for spiritual light. But instead, he came upon the Methodists, the Baptists, the Presbyterians; and their conflicting creeds and claims bewildered the boy, compelling him to look elsewhere. Now if he had only become acquainted with Episcopalianism, which has an unbroken succession of authority all down the centuries, he never would have gone to the trouble of organizing another church." Such was this wise man's opinion. "Mormonism" was to him only one more broken off fragment of the ancient Christian faith. He could not grasp the idea of its being the ancient Christian faith restored. 

AN ABSURD THEORY 

But I think the shallowest and vainest attempt to explain away Joseph Smith and "Mormonism." was made by a learned man who was applying for a Doctor's degree from Yale University. He wrote a thesis, as the basis for his application, taking Joseph Smith and "Mormonism" as his subject. And all that he could say concerning this marvelous work and wonder, was that a boy named Joseph 

Smith, being an epileptic, had fallen in a fit and imagined that he saw the Father and the Son; imagined that he beheld angels; imagined that the heavens were opened to him and that he received communications from Above. 

Think of it! Here is a great Church organization which challenges the admiration of intelligent men all over the world. I wish I had time to describe it, even hastily — but you know it. This Church was once compared to the German army, in the excellence and perfection of its organization. That was when Germany had an army — but of course no comparison is possible between the work of God and the work of man. This Church is conceded to be a most superior organization, and "Mormonism," as you all know who have studied it, is replete with doctrines of beauty and sublimity, unequaled anywhere — full of science, full of poetry, full of philosophy, full of truth. And yet this wonderful scheme of religion and this unparalleled system of government, all sprang from the disordered brain of a fourteen-year old boy who had fallen in an epileptic fit! There are some things that do not need answering; they answer themselves. This is one of them. 

THE REVEALING SPIRIT 

There is only one way to comprehend God and the things of God, and the Apostle Paul struck the keynote when he said : 

"Eye liath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 

"But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 

"For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God."— 1 Cor. 2:9-11. 

And that is why the Spirit of God is given to every man, woman and child who joins the Church of Christ. We have received that Spirit as a gift from God, because we have done His will. Therefore we "know of the doctrine." We have had faith, have repented of our sins, have had our sins washed away by baptism, and have received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. That is the key to the situation. 

Why couldn't Horace Greeley see what you and I see in "Mormonism?" Why couldn't Dr. Reiner see it? Why couldn't Bishop Spalding or Mr. Riley see it? Because they were without the Spirit that comprehends the things of God. And we, without that Spirit, would be just as short-sighted in our views, would make just as many mistakes as do other men in relation to the Lord's work. It is not our smartness, not our native intelligence that enables us to understand these things. We have come out from the Gentile world. We have their blood in our veins. We are no more intelligent than they, naturally; but we have received something that they do not possess; that is the whole solution. The credit is not to us; it is to our Father in Heaven, who has given us this precious gift, the power to comprehend him and his purposes, and rightly interpret his word. 

ST. JOHN INTERPRETED 

Suppose we should open the Bible at the first chapter of St. John, and read : "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, * * * and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory." And then read a little farther on: "No man hath seen God at any time." Who can interpret that? Evidently "the Word" means our Savior, in whom dwelt "the fulness of the Godhead bodily." He was God in the flesh, and many men saw him; and yet John says, or is made to say: "No man hath seen God at any time." Who can interpret it? Who can explain the apparent contradiction? 

THE FATHER AND THE SON 

True, it might be shown that when John said : "No man hath seen God at any time," he was referring, not to the Son of God, but to God the Father. This is evident from the text (1:14, 18). But even here the same difficulty arises; for Adam had seen God, Enoch had walked with him, and he had appeared to Abraham, Moses, Aaron, and others, long before "the Word was made flesh" and was called the Son of God "because of the flesh." Joseph Smith saw both the Father and the Son, but the wise world rejects his testimony, and most believers in the Bible adhere to the dead letter of John's declaration, (which may or may not have been correctly transmitted), unheeding the divine admonition : "The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life." 

a "mormon" boy's wit 

One of our "Mormon" boys out on a mission was confronted with this question. He had just been preaching that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith, when a voice rang out : "No man hath seen God at any time," The boy had his wits about him. "Of course not," said he, "God is a business man — you can't see him at any time; you have to make a special appointment with him." (Laughter.) He answered a fool according to his folly, but that of course is not the explanation. 

MOSES EXPLAINS 

Read the Book of Moses. That mighty man of God had an experience of which Joseph Smith's was almost the exact counterpart. He wrestled with Satan, and was delivered from darkness. He saw God, and tells how he saw him, in these words : 

"Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I  have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him." 

THE SPIRIT SIGHT 

That is what John meant when he said : "No man hath seen God at any time." And that is what Paul meant, in saying: "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard." It means that no man with his natural eyes can see God in his glory. He must use his spirit eyes, the eyes with which he "walked by sight" when a spirit in the spirit world, the eyes that he saw with before coming to earth and receiving his natural eyes. In this second estate, where we "walk by faith," we are not permitted to use at all times our spirit sight. But now and then the Lord chooses one from among men, and gives him that rare privilege. The power of God comes upon such a one, transfigures him, opens his spirit eyes, and constitutes him a seer in the highest sense of the term. Such a man was Moses. Such a man was the brother of Jared, such a man was Nephi, and such a man was Joseph Smith. There have been many such men. They have seen God actually, literally, but it was with their spiritual and not with their natural eyes. "The natural man is an enemy to God;" the natural eye cannot behold him, the natural ear cannot hear him. But the spirit eye can behold him, and the spirit ear can hear him. With the Spirit of the Lord upon us, we can see and comprehend God, so far as he chooses to make himself known. This is the great differentiating feature between the Latter-day Saints and those who have not received the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

God grant us the power to retain this precious gift, which comprehends all things, which explains the past, the present and the future, shows us where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going when we leave this life, making manifest the things o'f God, both of time and of eternity. May we keep the fire burning - , the lamp lit, which the Lord has lighted within us, to lead and guide us into all truth, Amen. 

President Heber J. Grant gave notice that a free concert will be held in the Tabernacle this evening, to which all are invited. An excellent program of singing has been arranged. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Byron O. Colton, president of the Roosevelt stake of Zion. 

The meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


