Overflow
05 04 1924 


ELDER JOHN Q. ADAMS 

Former President of the Samoan Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, if I display just a little unusual nervousness this morning, it is due to a combination of circumstances over which I possibly have no control. I have yet to meet with the individual who f eels as much at home here in this position as he does in his own home. Also in eight and a-half years of missionary experience in the Islands, I had three opportunities of addressing an audience in my own language. Then, coming to this meeting, we had the sad duty of bearing a half-dead lady to St. Mark's hospital, and left one gentleman with the spark of life just flickering between this world and the next, the result of an accident when a large car went into the ditch. Imagine the condition of a person in this frame of mind, who has these conflicting emotions. 

I have one thought and hope and desire in my mind, and that is that I may still retain a sufficient portion of the Spirit of God that what few moments I shall occupy, and what few words I express, I may leave you a testimony that I know that above all things and beyond all things the gospel of Jesus Christ and its accompanying spirit supersedes everything in the world. In order that I should feel entirely at home now, I should desire that this house should be transferred into a Samoan house — for that is where I spent the eight best years of my life — with you sitting on the floor; that before each one of you should be a Bible, a Book of Mormon, and Songs of Zion, in the native tongue, after the order of a mounted piece of artillery. If I should refer to a passage of Scripture, you would not give me time to find that in my own Bible, but the first person to find it would read it for me. The people always have the Word of God at their fingers' tips. In the fractional part of a second the audience can find GENERAL CONFERENCE  passage of scripture in the Bible. It is not often that we can find cobwebs upon the books that we have down there, for people are using them all the time. 

I do not know that I should refer to any statistics this morning, or give you any report that bears very much on figures; those things we get enough of in the daily walks of life. But the mission is progressing under the able direction of President Butler. If I could bring to you the spirit of the mission field, so that you can feel the spirit that your sons and daughters possess who have gone out from your roofs to take the gospel out, I shoidd feel satisfied with my effort. They are probably gathered together at this hour in conference. I am wondering if you know the conditions of those people attending their conference session today. The way you came here, there were hardly any of you who did not come thirty miles an hour in an automobile or on the interurban, overflowing with convenience and comfort; but possibly half the congregation there will have walked between 75 and 100 miles to attend conference, on the largest island of the group. They take a couple of baskets woven from the leaf of the cocoanut tree; in those baskets are their clothes for conference, possibly a little food — because some of those lava stretches are 30 or 40 miles in extent, with no houses or drinking water. In tramping over those rough lava trails for three or four days, carrying their clothing, books, etc., they reach conference, and when they reach conference they feel in their hearts that they have come for something, and after they have left conference, they feel they have attained that objective, and back they go over those rough trails to their homes, carrying the spirit of the gospel; partaking of the influence of the gospel, having been fed the bread of life, and all keyed up and prepared to run another six months. 

You and I, with all of these modern conveniences and luxuries, possibly get a little careless, and do not realize and appreciate what God has given us. I think we hardly appreciate the gospel as our own people out in the world do. It is not a difficult matter there for us to get 90%, of our 3,000 membership in the Samoan mission, to attend to their duties. If we do not have well up toward 90% in attendance at Priesthood or Relief Society meetings, or other auxiliary organizations, and Sabbath meetings and Sunday schools, we feel that we are slipping; we begin to look at what is wrong — if it is with us or with them. Here we do not find the percentage nearly so large. I want to bear you my testimony that the more we do in this Church, and the greater the inconveniences that God puts us to, the more we appreciate it in the end. It is not the young man who is left a legacy of a million dollars who appreciates the meaning of that; it is his father, who accumulated that fortune by the sweat of his brow. And just so it is in a spiritual way. You and I will have to get in and work, before we get a full appreciation of what the gospel means. 

The thought strikes me that I should read a little clipping this morning, that I think is almost prophetic. When we left for the 

ELDER JOHN Q. ADAMS 105 

mission field five years ago, this had just been published in one of the newspapers. One of the most noted correspondents, William T. Ellis, received an assignment from some big newspaper syndicate to go to the Near East and ascertain the conditions that obtained there at the completion of the War. He met with all the notables in a military and governmental way, and these few paragraphs are what he has written with reference to that : 

"It was but a few clays ago that the sultan of Turkey, himself the accepted spiritual head of 200,000,000 Moslems throughout the world, told me of his yearning for a prophet to come from God to lead aright the stumbling feet of the world. In this he was but one of a dozen with whom I have conversed since leaving New York harbor — a much decorated British general in a high administrative post confessing himself baffled unless there shall arise a great spiritual leader for the race; Venizelos, the one man who is Greece's greatest asset, speaking wistfully of a spiritual rebirth; another, a romantic figure from the desert, a hero and a champion, talking not of battles, but of whence and how we may expect a new interpreter of the Eternal; another a powerful and wealthy business man with whom I dined in Paris, freely declaring that the social tangle of the times cannot be unraveled unless there shall come a clear Voice calling to the spirits of men, 'This is the way, walk ye in it;' others, American officers in France, ripened by their own great deeds musing upon the possibility of a Personality who may merge the distracted and divergent minds of men into one common purpose of good will; still another himself a soldier saint, troubled in soul, because in his America there had arisen no great spiritual leader to call in prophet tones the nation back to God." 

Never heard of Joseph Smith, I presume; had never heard that there are prophets in this day and age, as once on a time! 

"It would be less than honest journalism, did I fail to report that amid the welter and turbulence and discordance of world politics which is my present assignment, I find among thoughtful men of every creed and country a decided note of spiritual wistfulness and expectancy. We are too serious now for the mercenary and mechanical methods of a noisy evangelist, uttering only safe and remunerative sensationalism; we want a man from some P'atmos who can say, 'Thus saith the Lord.' " 

W onderful! Nothing more prophetic within the lids of the P>ible than what was uttered by that man, in ascertaining the ideas, hopes, and aims, and ideals of the grelat thinking men of the world at the present time; conversed with the Sultan of Turkey; conversed with men high in government circles in different nations of Europe, and high in different walks of life in other avenues, and came to this conclusion: that unless a man comes who can say, "Thus saith the Lord," we will still be groping in the darkness! 

We Have such a man, we have such an office, such power, and such authority. We have one who is able to say, "Thus saith the Lord." The proposition before the small, limited force of missionaries in this age is to get that message before the people. In doing so, various experiences come to them. It is a difficult task. You recollect that the Savior — Deity himself — dwelling upon the earth here in the flesh, ministering for something like three years among the children of men, only succeeded in bringing to the light a few in number. The vast, GENERAL CONFERENCE  millions did not hearken to his message. And so it is in this dispensation. 

But those whom the gospel reaches are transformed, in some fashion, so that the world recognizes there is a difference. They can tell a "Mormon" boy and girl in the Samoan Islands las far as they can see them, we are told. One fine evening, seventeen years ago, a group of "Mormon" boys and girls from our school village, at Mapu Saga, with President William A. Moody leading, went into the harbor of Pago Pago in a row boat. Tied to the wharf of the American Naval Station, there lay a United States gunboat. President Moody was struck with the spirit of inspiration and said to the boys and girls, "When we get under the stern of this vessel, begin singing the song, 'One day nearer home,' and we will see what effect it has." As these boys' and girls' voices rang out over the placid wlaters of the harbor, officers and men came to the rail of their vessel and peered down. They ascertained that it was the "Mormon" boys and girls coming down from our school village up the coast. We had scarcely reached our conference headqularters at the head of the harbor when a man from the ship, sent by its captain, who is usually a man high in American naval circles, came and said, "Will you see that these boys and girls come on our ship and sing tomorrow?" We had seventy-five boys and girls who were walking down the coast, in addition to the rest, and we seized that opportunity, and President Moody and others of us were taken into the officers' quarters and dined with them as the boys and girls gave a program in English. Without exception they were clean and pure, externally and internally, and the effect upon those men was almost electrical. And numbers of those men, who remain three and four years, time and again bore testimony in this fashion, "We don't know your boys' and girls' names, but as far as we can see the faces of those boys and girls we know that they are 'Mormons.' Their faces fairly shine with a different sort of intellectual expression." 

What effect does this gospel have upon people, when we purify ourselves, when we strive like the Saints out in the world? There is a wonderful transformation comes over them. We have in the Hawaiian Islands, where Brother E. Wesley Smith labored, a colony of Samoan Saints, numbering more than sixty. By the way. Brother Smith and I, although I feel that we have always known each other, never met until a short time ago; nor Brother Knight and I. We were laboring out in the mission field and became acquainted through correspondence. In the Hawaiian mission field now, there is a man from Samoa, with his wife and seven children. Upon the completion of the temple at Laie, our people seemed to be seized with an intense desire to accumulate enough of this world's goods to go to the temple, and we called some of our men and women there. We said to this man, Aulelio, "It is 2,500 miles, which is a long ways off, but if you can secure enough to go there, go and take your wife, and go as soon as you desire. This man had labored as a missionary for twenty 107 , without pay, something that people of the world cannot realize or appreciate. Of course, he could not accumulate much, but through the blessings of God, he was able to sell his home and sell his rolls of matting that he used for chairs and bedding, and everything in the world they owned, four or five head of cattle, and ducks and chickens, and managed to scrape together $600 or $700, took the entire amount to buy their passage, and they are now in Laie, working for the salvation of the vast numbers of Samoans who have preceded them to the other side of the veil. Would you and 1 do that? Until the time comes that we would, we will never be in the position of the Saints of the world. It is a difficult thing for me, twelve miles north, to come here and do work in the temple. But if we had to travel 2,500 miles, and sell all that we have in the world, so that when we returned home we would have no roof over our heads, no worldly possessions whatever, as if we were just born into the world, but our faith so ripened and we should know God so thoroughly — if we were in possession of that spirit, then we should be in the position that these people are. Do not wonder why 90% attend their duties; do not wonder why, when the elders return from the mission field, they have a little different spirit than before they went, or after they have been home a few months. 

I bear you my testimony in conclusion that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the one true system through which you and I shall or may attain to perfection, or at least as near to it as our heavenly Father demands of us, because he has said that we should be perfect as he is perfect. It is the only medium through which we can attain to everlasting happiness. 

I shall refer you, last, to a gentleman who went out to the South Sea Islands on board a pleasure yacht two years ago, just to show you what the conception of the world is of "Mormonism." This gentleman is a man who has made millions in the steel industry, who at the conclusion of his life, in that avenue, has gone down to California and spends the winters cruising out on his own yacht in the south Pacific. He came to our mission headquarters one morning. We were astonished at first. We had in our keeping a Samoan lady of royal birth. She had once been a favorite in the family of the renowned Scotch author, Robert Louis Stevenson, who searched the world over to spend his last days in a place of absolute quiet and peace, where he might write as he desired. He passed away in the early nineties just back of Apia, and his body now rests on the top of Vaea Mountain, on his own beloved estate. This lady, Laulii, was one of the reigning belles of the islands then. In her later years she and her husband went to Frisco and were there for twenty-one years. She was received in exclusive society circles there, and was the author of a book dealing with her island people. Upon returning to Samoa her husband died, and half a dozen years ago she joined the "Mormon" Church. Sometime later she was stricken with an insidious complication of diseases, one of the GENERAL CONFERENCE  being cancer, and we took her into "Mormon" Mission Headquarters, and my wife was ministering to her in our little humble home for several months, as she hovered between life and death. This gentleman in question was hunting her. He had letters of introduction to her from Mrs. Field of New York, a daughter of Robert Louis Stevenson, and herself had lived in the island with her noted father. He was told at the wharf that Laulii was up at "Mormon" headquarters. To make a long story short, as he left our little porch he drew a cigarette case from his pocket and said, "Mr. Adams, there is no need of offering you this, because I know you people don't partake of this." I said, "You haven't had much to do with us — " to which he replied, "Three or four weeks ago we were in Tahiti, and we came across two or three of your elders there, and we were in port in one of the diminutive island lagoons. While we were there a vessel came in and after being in port a few days, there were something like $7,000 that they had squeezed out of these natives in this one small village, and away the vessel went to another island, and so it goes from one island to another upon which that church in question is established. You 'Mormon' people, instead of taking money away from these islanders, as this other organization has done, sustain yourselves, do not draw any salary from your Church; and upon offering those elders in Tahiti tobacco, they refused it; and wherever I meet a 'Mormon' elder I shall not insult him by offering him tobacco." And he further said, "Mr. Adams, will you please tell me something concerning your work, what there is about your Church that seems to distinguish it from all others? I shall always advocate it, and wherever I go in the future, and 'Mormonism' is the topic, and the people are pelting you with epithets, I will say that in 'Mormonism' I have discovered the true Spirit of Christ, more nearly than in any other church organization on earth." 

This man had turned in disgust from all the churches, knowing that they did not exhibit the Spirit of Christ. He left us and went down to the Tongan Islands, and thence on to Fiji. We received a very fine letter from him, when he got to California, and the result is that they are going to erect a monument to this good woman. She had later passed away in our home. Think of it! He said that he had discovered in the "Mormon" Church more nearly the Spirit of Christ than in any other church of his experience. Well, we know that. My testimony is to that effect, and I leave it with you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ISAAC P. THUNELL 

Former President of the Swedish Mission, and Bishop of the Wasatch ward, Granite stake 1 

My dear brethren and sisters, I hope and pray that I may have an  interest in your faith and prayers, that the Spirit of the Lord will direct my remarks as it has done the remarks of Elder Adams. 109 

We will transfer our thoughts from the extreme tropical climate to a northern climate, in which I have been laboring. It was very difficult to get into Sweden on my recent last mission, owing to the fact that there were technicalities regarding the signing of passports. After being refused passport visas at Chicago, New York, and Washington, we decided to go on to England and try there. President McKay took us down to the office of the Swedish Consul, at which place, after no difficulty whatever, we received our passports and continued our journey to Sweden. After arriving in Sweden we felt that everything was all right and we would be permitted to fill our missions without further hindrance; but, to our surprize, after having been there only a few days we were politely informed that our passport visas had been cancelled and that not only we but all the elders in Sweden were to leave at once. How sad and heavy-hearted we felt at this news. But we had faith in our heavenly Father, and we believed that he would assist and help us in every way; so we used every means possible to obtain the proper signatures to our passports. It was of no avail. I personally petitioned three times to the King of Sweden in order to get a pass endorsed but the third time my pass was returned, and I was told by the chief of police, or rather his representative, that our presence was not wanted longer. Still we did not feel that we could give up, and we used every means possible to remain in that country. We employed the services of an attorney, and when we explained what we had done, he said, "Gentlemen, there is nothing else to do but for you to leave this country and go back to your homes." We were glad that we had used every means that even he could employ, though we still thought there was one more way, and that was to rely on the Lord. We called a fast. By this time two or three weeks had passed, and the word had gone to England and America that we were finding it difficult to remain in the Old country. I am sure that the prayers to the Lord from you people were answered in blessings to us. We felt your prayers and your faith. I bear testimony to you today that it was through the faith and prayers of our brethren and sisters, both at home and abroad, and through the blessings of our heavenly Father that the hearts of the officials of that government were softened to some extent, so that we were permitted to remain and complete our missions. 

This was in fulfilment of a prophecy and blessing pronounced upon our heads when we left for our mission field. President George F. Richards gave me a blessing in which it was promised that I should go to Sweden, perform an honorable mission, and after having completed that mission, return to my home. I never stressed the promise so much, until I had been in the mission field nearly two years. Then I thought of my blessing, and that part in particular which pertained to my staying there until my mission was completed and fulfilled. Truly I thanked God for a prophet and for prophets, whom we have in the Church to lead, guide, and direct us. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The Swedish mission is in a flourishing condition, considering the shortage of missionaries. We had but nineteen missionaries in a country that has about six millions of people. The elders were united, they were good men of various occupations in life; men who had come into the field, leaving their homes, families, and their all to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. They found joy and pleasure in their labors. We found many friends in that good country; so many that we could not fill the appointments with the few elders at hand. We went into the Arctic Circle, the country of the midnight sun, where we were met with open arms by both Saints and non-members. Many opened their doors and asked us to be guests in their home. We were pleased to bear our testimonies to them and tell them of the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ. ' 

I am impressed to tell you of a letter I received. It contained, in brief, the following account. A certain man, who lived near the Arctic Circle, had been reading in Revelations, the 14th chapter, 6th and 7th verses, where it speaks of an angel that should come to the earth with the everlasting gospel. He had taken this to heart and was ready to receive the message of that angel. But where to find him or anything regarding the visitation of angels to the earth, he did not know. So he went to a neighboring town and visited every book store, asked the clerks of the book stores for any book that would tell him of the visitation of angels to the earth. Of course they could not, but he persisted : "I must find something that will give me light on this subject." In an old second-hand store he asked concerning the ministration of angels coming to earth in these days. Me was told that those days are past. But just as he was leaving the clerk said, "Just a moment; I believe I can give you some information regarding this. T have seen a book with the picture of an angel printed on its front page," referring to the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants in which a representation of the Angel Moroni is found in the Swedish editions. After making some inquiries they finally obtained our headquarter's address at Stockholm. The letter of inquiry, in part, told this story : "Please send one of your representatives, a missionary, to my home as soon as possible, because I want to hear of this angel, I want to hear of the gospel of Jesus Christ, because I am sick both in body and mind but more concerned about my spiritual welfare than that of my body." You can imagine the thrill that came to us when we read this letter, and how we longed to get there and preach the gospel to this man. I sent President Mathias Erickson, who was on his third mission in Sweden, a noble man and a wonderful defender of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to visit this man. When he arrived he was received by the man and bis wife with open arms. Pie remained with them some days, and had the privilege of baptizing the man into the Church and confirming him a member. And today he is a happy man. 

Brethren and sisters, the people are strong, stalwart, kind and 111 -hearted. Every one of us missionaries are more than grateful for the kindnesses shown to us. Among them are many of the blood of Israel, and I am proud to have been born in that country, and thankful to God that the elders visited my parents and that they received the gospel. The gospel is being extensively preached everywhere in that country. I had the privilege of filling a mission there in 1907-8-9, and the interest is greater now than then. A wave of spirituality has come over the people, and they are longing to hear more of religion. New sects are arising and new churches are springing up. But we need not go astray, for we have a prophet to lead and guide us aright. 

While in Sweden I read a pamphlet published by a certain association, telling of a meeting held in Gothenburg, at which about 300 Lutheran priests attended, and the substance of this pamphlet was that one of the Lutheran priests got up and said, "Ladies and gentlemen (for there were a few ladies present also, as guests of these men), we are assembled to discuss the vital things of our religion, but I want to tell you that we are each and every one of us hypocrites. We cannot follow Christ if we follow the rituals of our Church." And then he went on to enumerate what they had to teach, what they had to pray for, whether they wished to do so or not. He said, "No matter how obnoxious we may seem to the public and the people, no matter how much they hate our doctrine or what we teach, we cannot change it, nor can we change our positions as did the Savior of mankind. If the people did not treat him kindly in one place, he would move to another and teach the people there. But we are planted down in one parish and cannot move, even if we want to. The religion that we are teaching is inadequate." 

One of the leading ministers of that country stood openly in a meeting and said that he did not believe in God. "There is no living God," he said. And his ideas conform to the modern ideas of today that Jesus Christ is not the Son of God but the son of Joseph. That was his thought, and he expressed it openly, and yet on Sunday he preached the doctrines and creed of the Church. 

I attended a meeting where an atheist spoke. "Can religion save the world? Religion has not made any progress in the last two thousand years; it has not made people better." A discussion was held after, and I had the privilege of saying a few words. I said, "Yes, religion can save the world, if it is a religion revealed from God our heavenly Father, founded upon truth, founded upon revelation. It can save the world both spiritually and materially. I related the message of the restored gospel to the Latter-day Saints and I was proud to bear my testimony that this message had brought people from all over the world in unity together; and that though from different nations, and different tongues, they were welded together in one Church, where unity existed. A majority of these people own their own homes, and spiritually, financially and materially the gospel of Jesus Christ is saving them. We are blessed with all of these things. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

We know that the gospel of Jesus Christ will persist. I fully agree with President Grant in what he said in his opening speech, that a marvelous work and a wonder has been brought to the world. It is a saving gospel — the true Church of Christ. 

I have often thought and wondered, brethren and sisters, how Job felt when the Lord spoke to him from the whirlwind; and John the Revelator, on the Isle of Patmos, when he heard the voice of the Savior. It pierced him, through body and soul, you might say. I had a thrilling experience yesterday, standing in the store in which I am employed, listening to the conference sermons through the radio. All at once I heard a prophet's voice, one that we all know, President Heber J. Grant call out my name, saying that if Elder Isaac P. Thunnell and Elder A. , William Lund are in the audience, they will please come to the stand. There was a thrill went through me, and it made me think, and I have thought a great deal about that ever since. We have been told, brethren and sisters, that a still small voice will dictate to us what we should do and what we should not do; we have been told that if we live perfectly, this voice will not fail us. Sometimes we do not live as perfectly as we should do, and therefore we lose the spirit and communication with this voice. We must place ourselves in harmony with the Lord, because he can and will give us inspiration if we seek for it. 

This is a marvelous work and a wonder that the Lord has begun upon the earth, and I am willing with you, brethren and sisters, to work with all my might for the furtherance of this great work in the earth. I have often thought about the vision of Isaiah, who saw in vision the tops of the mountains, the everlasting hills, where the Llouse of the Lord should be established. I have said to myself, how wonderful it must have been for him to look into the future! I have come to the conclusion that the Lord kept this spot of earth for the Latter-day Saints, that they might here in peace and plenty rejoice together with one another over the blessings that he had prepared for them. For centuries the Lord has caused the rains and snows to fall in the mountains so that the most precious soil from the hills would be washed down into the valleys. Our cities are built in the shadow of the hills, whence the rich soil has been washed down for centuries. The Lord knew where to send us. He prepared this land for centuries before we came here. Let us appreciate our blessings to the full. 

I bear my testimony that I know the restored gospel is true. I have had many testimonies through the Spirit of the Lord of its divinity. I am willing with you to go forward from this day on to help to further the work of the Lord in the world. I ask the blessings of the Lord upon each and every one of us, that we may live by the inspiration of his Spirit and enjoy its blessings at home even as we did in the mission field, and we shall, if we live for it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 113 

A soprano solo was sung by Thelma Fife, "Open the Gates of the Temple." 

ELDER E. WESLEY SMITH 

Former President of the Hawaiian Mission 

Thus far, during conference, I have been thrilled, and I would that the preceding speakers had continued on in their splendid endeavor to give us those thoughts that are faith-promoting. I feel rather weak in standing here. It is my desire, however, to be blessed with the Spirit of God, that I may be able to speak forth words pleasing and beneficial to all present. We have listened attentively to the previous speakers concerning the good people of far-of f Samoa, and the splendid Saints in the land of Sweden, now may I bring you back again to the land of the Pacific, to Hawaii, the land of my birth. I naturally feel a love for the good people in the "Paradise of the Pacific." It has been my good fortune to spend practically a third of my life in the mission field, the happiest time and the most blessed in my life. 

I desire to give just a brief report of four years' work there while I presided over that mission, that you may know your sons and daughters called to the mission field under the inspiration of God are bringing forth good fruit into the fold of Christ, that his work is growing and being magnified among the people. In harmony with President Adam's statement, "Mormonism" is printing itself upon the good people throughout the world. "By your fruits you shall be known." We can preach with far greater power through example — the way we live and act — than we can by word of mouth. 

Dr. Sullivan, an anthropologist of renown in the United States Government service, having spent many years in America, and in Mexico among the Indians, visited in the Hawaiian Islands, studying the people, under the direction of the Pauahi Museum, trying to learn where the Polynesian peoples came from, spending $50,000 a year in research work along this line. I had the privilege of going with Dr. Sullivan around the islands. He paid our people a splendid compliment. Starting out on his journey, he wrote to me saying, "I am unable to get the information from the natives that I desire; they seem to be timid about giving it." Other ministers had served with him, but they did not understand the natives, not knowing their language, and thus I went with him and some of the elders. They were not timid in the least; knowing that it was the desire of the elders of the Church that they give this information, they were free and open, did not hesitate, and he marveled about the influence the "Mormon" elders had over the natives. He said, "The moment I go into a home here, I can tell whether they belong to your Church or not." "How can you tell?" I asked. He said, "Because they seem to be superior; their home life is better, there is a sweeter atmosphere there. You people have been very wise, going among this glorious race, selecting the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the people; for I find that the choicest people in the land of Hawaii belong to your Church." 

"Mormonism" made them thus; it was not the work of the elders, but the inspiration of God that filled their souls. The principles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is what has magnified the people, both there and in Samoa and the rest of the world. 

Oftimes I have read of how the gospel should be preached, how it should be declared, from the housetops. I could not understand it. In my mind I pictured standing upon some building and crying out to the people. But who could hear! until the invention of the wireless ? Soon after my return from the Hawaiian mission, I labored here upon the temple block, meeting with the tourists, a delightful work, I assure you. I had the privilege of attending a service in the Tabernacle that was radioed out at the time of President Harding's visit here, and in relating this to the tourists' to show how, if we were in tune we may hear, one woman spoke up and said. "I heard that message away off in Louisiana;" another heard it in California', another in Mexico. A third party said. "We were out motoring that night, and returned too late to get that message, though we had a radio instrument in our home," consequently they missed it. A young man, several days later — a marine passing through from California made this statement — "We heard the choir sing, we heard the organ, and the remarks of President Harding, down in the waters of Japan." Pie said, "I had the privilege of being stationed with the Pacific Squadron, and on board our vessel we heard that message clearly, and how happy I am this day to stand in this building near this great organ and testify to you that I heard that clearly away down in the waters of Japan!" The Prophet Joseph Smith as a boy, being in tune, like unto the delicate instrument of the radio, and thus under that influence, went out into the woods to pray, and communed with God; the heavens were opened and he conversed with Deity. If man is able to communicate through the radio crying out from the house tops and having his voice go round the world several times in a second, then it is not impossible, truly, for God to speak to his children when he deems it wise and necessary. 

In the Book of Mormon the parable of the fig tree conveys a beautiful thought. I love to read it, for it is full of the inspiration of Nephi. Inspired through the revelation or vision given to his father, Lehi. he desired to understand the things that his father had seen, believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto him — he sat pondering in his heart and was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, into an exceeding high mountain, and- there was revealed unto him the workings of God, the coming forth of the gospel of Jesus Christ again to the Prophet Joseph Smith. In that vision he saw the people gathered in the tops of the mountains; he saw the missionaries going out in the isles of the Pacific to gather in again the fruits of those tender branches that had been taken away from the mother tree, from the colony of Nephi, and planted out in the land where they could not be 115 , where they could not have intercourse with other people, where the true blood of Israel could be preserved. And thus we find, out in the Pacific islands, the Polynesian people, the true blood of Israel coursing through their veins. 

The civilization of the Hawaiians before the advent of the whites had reached a high degree 1 , considering the limited opportunities; and when the mssionaries came, the people as a whole threw off idolatry and accepted Christianity. Today, in education, in virtue, in cleanliness, the Hawaiians compare favorably with many peoples of both the old and new world, while in hospitality no people are their superiors. They recognized the voice of the shepherds. Today it is impossible to find a Hawaiian who is not a staunch Christian, though they do> not all belong to our Church, to our faith. The missionaries laboring in the islands during the four years, I was there accomplished a most splendid work — and I am delighted to say the elders now are doing even a better work. There are approximately 13,000 Saints in the mission, twelve organized conferences, over fifty Sunday schools fully organized; also Mutual Improvement organizations, Relief Societies, and Primaries. This will give you an idea of how favorably the Hawaiian mission compares with some of the largest stakes in the Church. During the four years we baptized 1,438, blessed 1,387 children, and ordained 457 to the Priesthood. The last year I was there we had 2,426 tithe payers. 

The traditions of the islands are beautiful and in harmony with the scripture. We find the Hawaiian people today educated; I doubt if you can find any that cannot read or write, and they love the scriptures. Like unto the Samoans, they are very apt in finding scriptural passages and in memorizing the word of the Lord. Time will not permit me to go into detail much, but I would like to read just a little extract taken from the history written by King Kalakaua, showing forth some of the beliefs in the creation, the flood, and Abraham, showing how they have in that tradition carried on, from father to son, and so on down for generations, the history of their forefathers, proving in one way the origin of this glorious people. In this book King Kalakaua states: 

"A trinity of gods exists, named Kane, Ku, and Lono. These created the heavens and the earth, the sun, moon, and stars. From their spittle they created a host of ministering angels. In creating man, Kane formed his body cut of red clay mixed with spittle while Lono formed his head out of whitish clay brought from the four quarters of the earth. Then the breath of life was breathed into his nostrils and he became a living soul, and was called Kumuhonua (meaning the foundation of the earth). Afterwards from his ribs a woman was created called Keola-Kuhonua. The pair was placed in a beautiful paradise called Paliuli. Among the angels was one, Kanaloa, the Lucifer, who, when man was created demanded adoration from him. This was refused by Kane, whereupon Kanaloa resolved to create a man himself, who would worship him. He formed a being in the exact image of Kunuhonua, but was unable to breathe life into him. Repeated attempts bringing failure, he reGENERAL CONFERENCE , and resolved to destroy the man created by Kane. In the form of a Moo, or lizzard, he crept into the garden of Paliuli and there caused Kumuhonua and his wife to do something which angered the gods, and they were driven out. The story of Cain and Abel is also found among the Hawaiians in the three sons of Kumuhonua, one of whom, Laka, slew his younger brother." 

The Hawaiians, in their tradition of the flood said that, 

"Nuu at the command of the Gods built a boat and with his wife and three sons entered therein, taking with them a male and female of every living creature. When the waters subsided the gods came and released Nuu and his family, who on leaving the boat found that they had rested on a mountain overlooking a beautiful valley. Nuu offered sacrifice to the moon mistaking it for Kane. Kane became angry because of this and descended upon a rainbow and there reprimanded Nuu, and Nuu repented of this, and in token to show that his repentant spirit had been accepted and he had been forgiven, Kane placed the rainbow in the skies as a token." 

A man by the name of Ktt Pule, representing Abraham, is also related by this king: 

"He was ten generations removed from Nuu. He went to the South with his wife and slave woman. Ahu. Here he established the practice of circumcision, and was the grandfather of Kuni-lau-a-mano, whose twelve children became the heads of twelve tribes, from one of which the Menehune, or Hawaiians sprang." 

Now we know through the tradition, and through history given to us in the Book of Mormon, that the generations of Lehi came forth from the loins of Joseph through Manasseh and Ephraim. The tradition speaks of how they traveled to the promised land under the influence of God, how they peopled this land, grew to' be a marvelous race, and then, as is recorded in the 63d chapter of Alma, some of the people entered one of the boats built by Hagoth, traversed out and were lost in the mighty deep — according to the historians' record in the Book of Mormon, but not so in harmony with the traditions of the Hawaiian people, which are that God in his mercy planted that tender branch out in the Pacific Islands. And now he is bringing them back again, and they are producing fruit that is gladdening his soul. 

I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. My whole being is thrilled with this testimony, and how happy I am that I have been blessed with goodly parents, and that thus far in my life I have been able to walk in that straight and narrow path. I sincerely trust and hope that the influence of heaven may be upon me, that I may continue in God's service, that I may be magnified in his good works, that I may keep the faith as long as I am permitted to live upon the earth. I know that the Prophet Joseph was called of God through inspiration, that he was in tune with the Spirit of God, and I know that all who have been chosen to lead his great work have been inspired by that same spirit. May God's choicest blessings be upon President Heber J. Grant, his counselors, and all associated with them, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 117 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

You will remember that when Joseph Smith, the prophet of God. went unto his heavenly Father to inquire as to which church was right, that the Son of God, speaking to him, told him that none of the churches were right, and that all the creeds were an abomination in the sight of God. I was talking to a man the other day, and he said, "Why, on the face of the thing, your church is wrong, because God is not speaking to his people, his sons and daughters upon the earth, and condemning them and placing them in a position where they are declared all wrong in the sight of God." 

I am wondering how many of us, the Latter-day Saints, are trying to minimize the importance of that message. It is rather a hard saying, I will admit; but it is the word of God, the eternal Father, in these latter clays, declaring that only the Church that he organized is the Church and kingdom of God. God is merciful to his people, to his sons and to his daughters, and he would give every one an opportunity of coming back into his Kingdom; and his relation to his people has always been one of kindness, and sympathy toward his children. "Peace on earth, good will to men," is the message of God, the eternal Father, unto his children upon the earth. "Go ye out into the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ," is the message to his servants, that all mankind might see and understand this gospel of Jesus Christ. He has also told us to go out and contend against no one, but preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and him crucified. That is the kind of message, that God has for his sons and his daughters; but when it comes to the churches of the world, God has placed his mark, and told us that only the Church of God is right, and all of the others wrong. In all sympathy, in all kindness, and recognizing the sincerity of the people of the world, the fact stands out, that there is only one Lord, one faith, and one baptism. 

A member of the Church rather wanted to minimize that great message of God to Joseph Smith; he said, if God had only said it in a little more gentle way; if he had only made some kind of an explanation, so that it might have included all the world, it would not have made us so unpopular in this world today. Do you want popularity ? Do you want to stand out and be loved and pushed along by men who feel that you, with all the rest, are right and can get back into the Kingdom of God, following only the way that they may desire to follow? We enjoy being loved; we want to be popular because of our honesty, our good will, our fellowship for the good things that are done by the people of the Church, but when it comes to being popular, as far as the gospel of Jesus Christ is concerned, I hope and trust that the men and women, the boys and girls, will stand out for the faith of their fathers and feel in their hearts that God, in his mercy, in order that his children may be saved, has given us the gospel of Jesus Christ; and GENERAL CONFERENCE  it is by it, and by it only, that men shall enter into the Kingdom of God the eternal Father, whether they belong to this Church or any other church, but all must come into this Church, embrace this gospel of Jesus Christ; and all the men and women who belong to it must live lives of usefulness and of righteousness, and serve God through all the days of their lives, if the)' would enter into the celestial kingdom of God. 

Why minimize the gospel of Jesus Christ? Why try to put away some of the things that are so essential to the salvation of mankind? Why, a man, a brother of the Church, told us a while ago that in some churches they have the gift of healing, and, said he, "Surely God is placing the stamp of approval upon that church, because people are being healed; and God through their faith is healing them." No church that is founded only on the gift of healing, is Christ's church, and God will not recognize any church except the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The same man said, "Other churches have the gift of tongues, and surely God puts his mark of approval upon these churches, because of the speaking in tongues." No church can stand with only the gift of tongues as a foundation. God will not give any church as a church the gift of tongues, or faith, or healing, and stamp or mark it with his approval, as being his Church, or a part of his Church in these latter days. O, there are good people, men and women of faith, who, because of their faith, receive blessings at the hands of God, for some special purpose, for some reason, but as a church, never so long as the Church of God stands; for if he does, then we who represent God's Church are on the wrong road and cannot enter into the Kingdom of God, in the way we are going, but will have to find some other way. I admire men and women who stand out and believe in the truthfulness of the Church of Jesus Christ to the exclusion of all others, at the same time recognizing the good lives and the good works of all the children of our eternal Father. 

May the Lord bless us and guide us and help us to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, and to play fair with it. Let us not excuse it, let us not minimize what we have. We have nothing to be ashamed of, but, all in all we have something to be grateful for and thankful for. that God in his mercy, through his Spirit, has enabled us to see and understand the gospel which has been given unto us in these the latter days. And may the Lord bless us, help us, and be with us, in this our life upon the earth, that it may be lived worthily, that eventually we may find a welcome in God's kingdom, I humbly ask. in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

President of the W estern States Mission 

I have been very much impressed, my brethren and sisters, with the reports and testimonies borne in our hearing this day. You have 119  to men who have labored . in the South Seas and to one who labored in the land of eternal snow. Their testimony is to this effect, that the gospel message has found lodgment in the hearts of the people and that there is no controversy among them with respect to the fundamentals of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Reference lias been made to the wonderful progress that is going on in the world; our transportation facilities, our development in the arts and sciences, and our modern means of communication; the radio being especially mentioned. 

It was my good fortune during the summer months to speak twice over the radio broadcasting station of the W O A W, at Omaha, Upon the first day of June I had the pleasure of speaking, and as a result of that service, received letters from eight different states from people who had "listened in." I wish the time would permit me to tell you of some of the messages that were sent to us. One man in Wisconsin, after greetings of a personal nature, had this to say : "I listened to your discourse. It was a regular old fundamental sermon." Then he made the remarkable statement, to which I call your attention. Said he, "I am a student of science. I believe in evolution. There is no such thing as supernaturalism. There is no such a thing as the beginning of nature. There is no such a place as heaven, no such a place as hell. God is not a personal being. Jesus Christ is not a real character. Christian theology is not true. Education is, the only salvation for this world. Yet I respect every man who does right." 

I was not surprised in receiving such a message, because almost daily we come in contact with men and women who entertain such views — that Christian theology is not true, that Jesus Christ is not a real character. My observation has convinced me that many of our modern preachers are responsible for this condition. As Elder Taylor has pointed out, they are not teaching the wo>rd of God. They have a form of godliness, but deny the power thereof. The Eord declared, as he has stated, that their creeds were an abomination in his sight. I do not wonder that thinking men are withdrawing themselves from these creeds and long established notions and are seeking inspiration from another source. 

I have in my hand a clipping taken from the Denver Post. It purports to be an account or a report of an article written by Mr. Rupert Hughes, who is a magazine writer of some note in this country. He gives his reasons why he has left the Church. Says he, "I quit going to church because I came to believe that that which is preached in the churches is mainly untrue, or unimportant, or tiresome, or hostile to genuine progress and in general not worth while. Staying away from the church puts me with such an enormous majority that it carries no distinction. Nowhere does the increase 1 of Christianity keep pace with the population. Recently in New York a pastor read the Apostles' Creed to a large congregation, and asked everybody who believed it to stand up. Not one present arose." How different with GENERAL CONFERENCE  Latter-day Saints! Were I to read the articles of our faith and ask all who believed them to stand up, this vast audience would arise to a man. 

One thing that impresses me is this thought, the Latter-day Saints must be forever the champions of the divinity of Christ's mission, and ever be his chief defender in the world. I have little patience with agnostic Christians, who accept a salary for preaching to please their congregations, and who do not believe in the divinity of Jesus Christ's mission, and who are doing all in their power to eradicate belief in him from the minds and hearts of the people who look to them for guidance. You go among them and propound the same question that Jesus of Nazareth asked of the Jews in his day, "What think ye of Christ? Whose Son is he?" and I am sure that you will be astounded at the number and the uncertainty of the answers that you will receive from them. One will say to you, "He is a prophet sent of God." Another will say, "He is the ideally perfect character." Another will tell you that he is the greatest of all moral teachers. But you press them for something more definite; ask them, "Is he divine? Was he God ? Is he God ?" and they will tell you, some of them:, "We do not. know," "We cannot tell," "We cannot concern ourselves with difficult theological questions." Some of them more honest than the rest will tell you outright, "No he is not God; he is not the Son of God, and he never claimed to be, in any of his well attested sayings." They will tell you that he was a man in every sense of the word, with not only a human body but with human intellect and will, and that he bore the same relationship to the human family that you and I bear to that family. 

They tell you that Christ never claimed to be the Son of the living God. Did he? It would take a long time to point out the many evidences that are contained in the synoptic gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Some one will tell you if you quote the gospel of St. John that that is not well authenticated; that it cannot be considered as historically true. Let me read to you a definite message of the Savior : 

"And the high priest arose and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing;" What is it which these witness against thee? But Jesus held his peace, and answered nothing. And the high priest answered and said unto him, * * * * Tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God? Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said: * * * * Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds, of heaven, Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? * * * * Ye have heard his blasphemy; what think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death." 

Blasphemy was the final indictment against the Christ. He was either a blasphemer or the Son of God; take your choice. It matters not what we think, nor what we believe about him. 

I believe it to be a matter of measureless importance that we know who Jesus Christ is. He declared in that wonderful prayer, recorded 121  the 17th chapter of John, "This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." It is life eternal to know him, and he was particular to impress that message upon his immediate followers. 

As he walked in the streets of Csesarea Philippi, he abruptly turned to his disciples and said to them, "Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias; or one of the prophets." Then he turned to his disciples and said, "But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." He had told them before that no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. 

I see the time has expired. Just one of the thoughts that comes to me I would like to express, and that is this : The Lord told the Prophet Joseph that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight, that they taught for doctrine the commandments of men, that they had a form of godliness but denied the power thereof, and I want to bear my testimony to you that that is the reason the world is in its present condition; they do not know the Christ, because they have denied the only power by which they might know him. Revelation, so far as they are concerned, ceased generations ago, and the light of truth has not come into their lives; else they would know, as they know they live, that Jesus of Nazareth is the Redeemer of the world. You will remember the words of the Apostle Paul, writing to the Corinthian Saints, "I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed : and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." The Latter-day Saints are entitled to that blessing; it has been conferred upon them by the laying on of hands. The light of truth has come into their lives, and they are enabled to bear witness in sincerity and in truth that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. 

Now, in conclusion, let me say that men may temporize, they may equivocate, they may argue, they may explain away the divinity of Christ's mission, but so long as time endures, the Church established by the Master, in the day and age in which we live, and which bears the name of the Son of God, will champion his cause and will be the defender of his name, and his mission in the earth. 

God grant unto us power to appreciate the blessings of the gospel that have come into our lives. He has spoken from the heavens and revealed anew the plan of salvation, and blessed is that man and thrice blessed that woman into whose life there has come faith in these glorious principles, for it brings peace to the soul that surpasseth underGENERAL CONFERENCE , it removes doubt, fear, and anxiety, and brings a satisfaction that cannot be measured in words. 

May God add his blessings, may he sanctify unto us this service; and give us power to keep his commandments, which the old prophet declared was the whole duty of man, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "The Song of the Redeemed," Jean Robinson, Naoma Thomas, E. Jenkinson and Harold W. Langton in the quartette parts. Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lafayette T. Holbrook. 


