Afternoon
05 04 1924 


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have a message from the radio operator in President Penrose's room. President Penrose heard all of the proceedings this morning, most of it as perfectly as if he were here on the stand. He was very grateful in listening to one verse of his own remarkable and wonderful song, "School thy feelings," and tears of gratitude filled his eyes, while listening to this, that he could enjoy the spirit and inspiration of our meeting almost as perfectly as if he had been here upon the stand. Certainly, one of the most marvelous, if not the most marvelous, inventions to date is radio. 

President Penrose wishes the Saints to know that his testimony is as profound and strong as it was when he first embraced the gospel, in 1850. 

Brother George Albert Smith has visited President . Penrose, during the intermission, and brings this message from him. He wishes to bear his testimony to this audience that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer and Savior of the world of mankind, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that his successors are servants of the Lord, and that his Church is divine and led by inspiration. He is grateful for membership therein. He sends love and greetings to all Israel. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

PROGRESS AND SPIRIT OF MISSIONARY WORK 

In the front row of chairs facing this great stand, with its series of pulpits, I see a body of men each of whom has been called to a very responsible position in the Church. They are the presidents of misGENERAL CONFERENCE . We have been privileged to hear from a few of them, as also from two others, they being members of the First Council of the Seventy, as well as mission presidents for the time being. These men are the directing officers in the army of missionaries laboring in the world. The report you have heard from them, and such as you hear from conference to conference, and the many individual reports you receive from your sons, your daughters, your husbands, who are members of this army, bear witness to you that the missionary work is progressing as well as it ever has been progressing and possibly better than in any earlier time. 

The vicissitudes of the recent years of warfare have brought many people to a state of reflection. Many who have been careless and indifferent have been led to consider what this life means in relation to the life that lies beyond. Many whose ears have been dull are now listening intently for the radio message that shall satisfy them; and it comes sometimes in a very unexpected way, and by unlooked for means. This, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, would not, could not be what it is were it not for our missionary system. Nearly, or quite two thousand missionaries are now in the field, as you were told this morning, and many are going and some few returning. I may s'ay continuously. Scarcely a week passes unmarked by the setting apart of a new company of missionaries, who go out commissioned to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in the nations of the earth. 

I am well aware of the fact that some people take a little umbrage at what they think is presumption on our part in sending missionaries amongst them. They think that we should labor as some of the churches of the day labor, amongst the semi-civilized people of heathen nations, who have not come yet to recognize a knowledge of the Lord and Savior of men. We send our missionaries not only to such, but also to those who count themselves enlightened Christians. Our missionaries go with a message, not with a command. They go in the spirit of persuasion, asking only a hearing, a respectful hearing; for they have something of worth to present. Our missionary system would scarcely be justified had we nothing definite to present, nothing mlore than minor differences in ritual or creed such as distinguishes some of the great denominations of the day. I would not blame people becoming impatient over such relative trifles; but we have something that can be found amongst no other people upon the face of the earth. This is no instance of group egotism, it is a solemn fact. 

We proclaim not only that Jesus Christ is the foreordained and actual Savior of the race; not only that, but we proclaim that no ordinance of salvation can be authoritatively administered except under his commission, and that that commission is definite and personal. Hence these men, young, middle aged, sometimes aged, and in smaller number these women, go out to the world with a proclamation that in this day and age, strictly in accordance with the predictions of ancient 139  and with the word of the Lord Christ himself, while he was in the flesh, he has again spoken, and is speaking from the heavens, directing the affairs of the Church that bears his name, the name given by him., not taken by any human assumption, but conferred and bestowed authoritatively. We do not send missionaries out to assail or attack members of other churches, or the sects and denominations as organized bodies. We send them out to preach the positive doctrine of the restored gospel, which is the doctrine of the ancient gospel, speaking thus of the gospel according to the period of its preaching upon the earth. We are remarkable as a people for this missionary work. 

TWO CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF THE CHURCH 

There comes to my mind at the moment a conversation between a bishop of one of the big churches of the day and myself, dating a few years back. He had given some study to the plan of organization and operation of this Church, and said to me: "There are two features characterizing your Church that I would very much like to see introduced into ours." I said to him: "Bishop, I know what they are, but I should like to have the pleasure of hearing you specify them." In the same spirit of good will and fellowship he retorted : "Well now, honor bright, I will tell you whether you are right or wrong if you will tell me which two I have in mind." I said : "They are our missionary system and our tithing system." "You are right." "Well now bishop, why don't you introduce them into your church if you are so desirous of having them as features of your organization?" "Well," he said, "frankly speaking, I don't know. I can see some difficulties, but they are small, I think they could be removed. Yet beyond these there appears to me to be some great obstacle." "Surely," said I, "there is. May I express my opinion as to the reason why your great church has not introduced these features? 

THE TITHING SYSTEM 

"You cannot introduce and operate the tithing system successfully, for the tithe is holy, and none but men who bear the. holy Priesthood in fact and not by name only can touch it. The handling of the tithe has been provided for in the law revealed from the heavens. It was so in the days of ancient Israel. It is so today, and, Bishop, from what you have already admitted in our conversation — which to' me has been very interesting — you know that you haven't a single priest or even a Levite in your church who can touch the tithe with authority." Well, we passed on to the other feature: 

THE WONDERFUL MISSIONARY SYSTEM OF THE CHURCH 

"Why can't we have your missionary system?" "Because, bishop, if you tried to introduce it the first thing you would do would be to make up a salary schedule, so much for the preGENERAL CONFERENCE  officers and so much for the traveling ministers; and in the second place the men and women of your church would not respond if you called them. You know that." 

I went on and addressed him as I am speaking now to you : Do you think for a moment that the thousands and thousands of young missionaries, who have gone out and come home filled with the spirit of their work, would ever have put their energy into that labor if they were working for wage, such wage as men count in the terms that bankers use? Do you think it for a moment? We take our young men and young women from comfortable up-to-date homes, provided with the conveniences of modern life, and send them out, perhaps into the woods of the south where they have to put up with what would be called rather rough fare, and rather inadequate accommodations. They smile at it all and rejoice in the experience and work all the harder. I know it, I have been amongst them. I have been with every one of these worthy men to whom I have referred, in their respective fields, I have traveled with many of them throughout the length 'and breadth of their missions. I have met the elders in little branches and conferences, and on their individual circuits; have met them in the woods, have met them in the mountains, have met them in the towns and on the highways and the byways. I have felt of their spirit, and I find there a spirit that no man can ever develop from the incentive of money wage. 

Our missionary system is operated as the Lord has directed. These men and women go out trusting in the Lord, and beside those who go out, I pray you forget not those who remain at home, those worthy fathers, those honorable, God-loving mothers and brothers and sisters too, who are working, working hard, that they may make up the deficiency in means required by their sons and daughters or other relatives in the mission field. For, be it remembered, our missionaries accept anything that is offered them as they may need — a meal, a coat, a pair of shoes, lodging — any one who offers such in time of need finds his offering accepted, and a blessing left with him. But not all are willing so to help; and there is a deficit in every case, and that is made up by the sending of means from home. Do you know, that, reckoning the earning capacity of our missionaries at a very low figure, and considering what that means for one to three years in the field, and considering also the means they spend in traveling to their fields of labor and in traveling within their fields, that the sum will total up above the million dollar mark every year? They do this because they have the spirit of their calling resting upon them. They go out with this definite message to the people, and you can give a missionary no greater joy than to listen to him attentively while he states his message, and then discuss it with him in a friendly spirit. You will find that he does not try to force it upon you. But why am I talking to you, in the second person, you Latter-day Saints ? You know the missionary does not try to force the gospel upon those 141  out in the world; he tries to present it to them for their consideration ever praying that the Lord will bear witness in the heart of his hearer or hearers as to whether he is telling the truth or not. 

These missionaries come home after having been brought in contact with members of practically all the great religious denominations of the world, firmer, if possible, in the truth and in their conviction of testimony than they were when they set out. They have had every opportunity for comparison, every facility for discriminating judgment; and they come home rejoicing in the sure knowledge that has been with them, as a companion by clay and by night, all the time they have been in the field. Is it not a wonderful work? And it will not cease as long as there are souls willing to accept the message. We are using the press, and the press is a mighty missionary, but this individual labor will continue. I have heard the remark made by a few — it is so insignificant that perhaps I should not stop to refer to it — by the few who are a little out of harmony with the system, that we have outgrown our missionary work, and will have to bring about a revolution and supplant it by something better and more up-to-date. What is better, what is more up-to-date than the method of a man approaching another with the truth, and bearing witness to it in all solemnity? And yet with all humility, earnest in his testimony, merely asking the other man to listen, the humble missionary continues his labor, for our missionaries have a little of the spirit of the fabled ancient mariner, they are not at peace unless they can get somebody to listen to that which they have to tell them, because they know the value of their message. Do you not remember when Andrew recognized the Christ at the beginning of our Lord's ministry in the flesh, how the man tore himself away from that blessed presence and rushed off to find his brother Peter to tell him of what he had heard? it was so joyous, something so nearly unbelievable. We have found the Messiah; come and see for yourself, come and listen. Then the gentle Philip heard and he went off to find Nathanael. You know him, do you not — that Israelite without guile ? He was impressed with Philip's words, and the Lord addressed him by name. Philip and Nathanael wondered about it. Then read again about that woman at Jacob's well in Samaria. The testimony the Christ bore to her, that he was the Messiah sank into her heart, and she hastened back to the village and told the people; and they came out, a great flock of them to see and to hear. What of Lehi and his vision, in which he found himself plucking fruit from a beautiful tree by a stream. He found the fruit to be . delicious, and more than merely good in taste; and his first thought was for his wife and children. Tn the vision he saw them at a distance, and he beckoned to them, he shouted out to them to come and partake. So are the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints crying to the nations : Oh, come and partake! This is the bread of eternal life. 

The Lord has declared that in this day and age his servants are GENERAL CONFERENCE  out by him, and that he will hold the world accountable for the message which they deliver. In the very first section of this volume of modern revelation, the book of Doctrine and Covenants, we read : "And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days." That means our missionaries, and those who preside over them to direct them in their labors; and the Lord continues : "And they shall go forth and none shall stay them; for I the Lord have commanded them." None have been 'able yet to permanently stay the voice of the missionary who has gone forth with the word of God. True, mobs have quieted them for a moment, but they have been able to raise their voices again. Disturbances have been only local. 

"Behold," saith the Lord, "this is mine authority and the authority of my servants," and so on in that first section. Read for yourselves. 

May the Lord continue to set his seal of blessing and approval upon the labor of the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

I sense very keenly, my brethren and sisters, my weakness in standing before you this afternoon, and I sincerely pray that the Spirit of the Lord will guide and assist me in the few remarks I shall make to you upon this occasion. Truly, this is a wonderful occasion, and this is a wonderful sight to look upon the thousands of faces of Latter-day Saints who are gathered, who have come for the one purpose of being built up in their faith, testimonies, and knowledge of the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

I come to you, my brethren and sisters, as one of those whom Elder Talmage hais been speaking about, who are engaged in missionary work among our Father's children in the world who are yet in darkness and who have not yet a knowledge of the saving principles of the gospel restored in this day and age in which we live. I thank the Lord, from the bottom of my heart, that I have been deemed worthy of this call, and the greatest desire of my life is to continue to labor zealously in the Lord's work, in the service of his children, with a desire to bring a knowledge of him, to as many as may be, of those children who are now in the world hungering and thirsting for the word of the Lord; for truly that prophetic utterance of Amos the Prophet is in this day being fulfilled. Men are going to and fro upon the earth seeking for the word of the Lord, and, in many instances, have not been able to find it. 

I bring to you a message from the mission in Mexico, and I rejoice to say that since the day that temporarily we had to withdraw 143  mission and the missionary labor from the interior of Mexico, I found upon a recent visit there that the mission is now in better condition than it has been since that withdrawal. Our missionaries are free to go and to come in every part of that country to which we have been able to extend our mission work, and we are not persecuted, we are not harrassed in our labors, but freely we are permitted to go forth among the people and teach the principles of the gospel, and many are being brought to a knowledge of the truth. We have listened to reports of the missionary work that is being done in the East and in the West, and in the North, and now I report to you the work that is being done in the Southern part of our country, and also in the great republic that lies to the south of us, among the people who are descendants of father Lehi, known as Lamanites; and I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that the day has come when the gospel has been brought to them. I rejoice more, each day of my life, in the fact that the Lord has brought forth their record and that we know who they are, and that we are not in darkness as to their origin, and that he has given a mighty promise of redemption unto those people who are of his covenant, whom he loves; and that through the gospel of Jesus Christ which has been restored to us. 

Not many days ago, in the city of Mexico, one of our elders came to me and said of a certain man who was at one time an educator in Salt Lake City, and who is now excavating in the ruins that are being unearthed under the great lava flow that has come down from the volcano of Ajusco, and who is delving into the antiquities of Mexico; that in conversation with our elder he said : "Young man, I have not proved yet that the Mexican people or the Indians of America have not come to this country from Jerusalem. I have not proved that they are not Israelites." 

My brethren and sisters, since the day the Book of Mormon came forth, men inspired from no good source have sought to overthrow the Lord's work, they have sought to bring to naught his purposes; they have sought to make out that Joseph Smith was a fallen prophet; they have ridiculed the Book of Mormon and its contents, and that is going on even yet today. And this man insinuated to our young missionary that although he had not yet proved that the Lamanites were not of Israel, he hoped some day that he would be able to' do so. If you will read First Nephi IS, you will read there that the Lord revealed to his prophets and to us, through this book, that the Lamanites are of Israel, and if you will read in Second Nephi 30, you will find that the Lord revealed that this book should be restored unto the Gentile people, and that many should believe the words of the book that should be written, and that it should be taken back to the descendants of those who wrote it, and by that means they should come to a knowledge of the fact that they were of Israel, that they are of the covenant people of the Lord. And I tell you that nothing in all this wide world will ever disprove that fact, and everything that has been GENERAL CONFERENCE  in the great excavations that have been made in that land to the South of us tends rather to confirm the fact, than to bring anything to bear that would deny the fact, that this is the truth. And so it is, my brethren and sisters, with everything that has been brought forth in this day and age in which we live concerning the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It is true; ridicule, denial, and persecution will not disprove the truthfulness of the gospel that has been restored to us. I feel it more keenly today than ever in my life. I rejoice in the fact that the elders who come into the field, and the lady missionaries, the few that come into our field, are imbued with this spirit. They come with faith, they come with a desire to serve, and they come with a strong testimony that the restored gospel is true, and although men ridicule them and ridicule their teachings, they become stronger in their faith and stronger in their testimony, and the spirit of the gospel permeates their teachings, and many are being gathered out from among the people of the world, by believing these wonderful testimonies and messages that are being preached in the world. 

I rejoice to be able to report to you that the health of the missionaries in our field is good, and that we enjoy our labors in every sense of the word. It has been said to us, in this conference, my brethren and sisters, that we, among the Gentile nations, who have been gathered out by the gospel, are of Israel, that we are descendants of Joseph, through Ephraim his son: this is true. I rejoice in this fact, that we have in the country where we labor, and in Central America, farther south, and in South America, in all those great countries, blood relatives of ours; for all of those people, I bear you my testimony, are likewise of Joseph of the House of Israel. They are of Manasseh, likewise of Ephraim, for there is a sprinkling of that blood also in the Lamanite race that inhabits America to the south of us. We have heard that the lands of North and South America are the lands of Zion. Therefore, I contend that whatever we do, whether it be here, among those of us who are gathered out, one of a city and two of a family, or whether it be there, where there are nations of the blood of Israel — wherever we labor for their redemption, we are laboring for the establishment and redemption of Zion. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may go with us, as I pray that they may go with the missionaries who go to all the nations of the earth; and I beg of you, my brethren and sisters, compassion and sympathy for the down-trodden children of our Father in heaven who are in those lands. They are laboring under a curse pronounced upon their fathers because of their iniquity; but I rejoice not in that phase of it, but in the fact that the Lord has promised that through the establishment of the gospel in these latter days, the curse should be removed and they should be redeemed and become again his delightsome people. I look forward to that time with great anticipation, and if the Lord should require it at my hands, I am willing to continue 145  humble labors the rest of my life in striving to redeem and build up and bring joy and happiness that only a knowledge of the gospel can bring to the people of that land. 

The Lord bless you, and bless all in his service, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

All over the Church today, at this hour, from Canada on the North to Mexico on the South, with the exception of the immediate vicinity of Salt Lake City, fast meetings are being held in all the wards and branches, and men and women are testifying as to their knowledge, individually, regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. These testimonies, as a rule, occupy only a minute or two or three, very seldom more than five minutes, and a great many people in each of these meetings pour out their hearts in gratitude and thanksgiving to God for the knowledge they have, individually, of the divinity of this work. I shall call a half dozen men to fhe stand and ask them to bear their testimonies regarding the divinity of this work, speaking not to exceed five minutes, each one. 

We will start with Canada on the North, Brother Hugh B. Brown; and Brother Joseph C. Bentley on the South, from Mexico; Brother Winslow Farr Smith, of this city; Brother Edward C. Rich of Idaho, and Brother Robert I. Burton of Ogden. 

ELDER HUGH B. BROWN 

President of the Lethbridge Stake of Zion 

It is quite fitting that I should speak immediately after President Pratt, he having represented the Mexican mission, I representing the stake of Zion farthest North. The Lethbridge stake comprises that section of this great country, from a few miles north of the international boundary line, including the North Pole. 

I appreciate the privilege of bearing my testimony to the truth of this great work. During the great World War I had the opportunity of comparing service in other organizations with service in the Church of Jesus Christ. Tt fell to my lot to be the instrument of bringing to some of our boys certain favors by way of transfer, or temporary relief, or leave of absence, by virtue of authority vested in me as an officer in the Canadian army. Upon one occasion I was called upon, as I thought, to bring some relief to one boy, I was asked when in the city of London to visit a boy whose name I did not know. I supposed that he would ask for a temporary release that he might return home, as I thought to recuperate; and, feeling the thrill of the power vested in me by virtue of the uniform I wore, I went down to that hospital with the intention of interceding for that boy, with the powers GENERAL CONFERENCE  up. When I went into the little room which he occupied he extended his hand to me, and instead of addressing me as an officer in the army, he said to me: "Brother Brown, I sent for you to ask that you intercede with God in my behalf, that I may not die in this hospital, but that I may be allowed to return home to my widowed mother. Will you administer to me?" When this boy made that request at my hands, I could not help making the comparison, great though it may be to wear the uniform of the king, I never felt more pride in my life in any position than I felt as I knelt by the side of that boy, placed my hands on his head, and in the name of Jesus Christ asked that his life might be spared. I compared then the authority which I held in the Church of Christ with the authority held by men in other organizations, and from the bottom of my heart I felt to say : "Thank God for this work, and for the Priesthood which we have." I went into that hospital a proud British officer. I came out a humble "Mormon" elder; and I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that I prefer membership in the Church of Jesus Christ to presidency or command in any other organization in the world, civil or military. I bear testimony that I know this is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that it is the truth, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH C. BENTLEY 

President of the Juarez Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters, I am grateful for the opportunity this afternoon, of bearing my testimony to this great work of our Father in which we are engaged. This seems to be a time of encircling the earth. While we have just listened to the testimony of Elder Brown, from a Northern stake of Zion, which includes the North Pole, and the testimony of others from the United States, I represent the 'Juarez stake of Zion, which extends from the southern boundaries of the United States to the South Pole. 

I want to bear my testimony, especially to my young brethren and sisters, of this Church and kingdom of our Father, that I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that he was the instrument in the hands of our Father of restoring the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that today, as has ever been the case since the establishment of this work, our Father has his protecting care over his people. I remember distinctly during the revolution in Mexico when General Villa had made his attack on the town of Columbus and was making his way toward the "Mormon" colonies, there was considerable excitement, for he was killing every American that came in his way, and every Mexican who had shown favor to the American people. It was thought that when he reached the "Mormon" colonies he would completely wipe them out of existence. The American consul in El Paso had told us several times to leave Mexico and go back into the United States. As General 147 

Villa was marching toward the colonies the American consul said: "1 have told those people several times to come out of there, now we will see whether a 'Mormon' is made of any different stuff than any other American." There was considerable excitement among the Mexican people, especially in Colonia Dublan, for General Villa was located within a few hours march from that place. There was not a single Mexican family that felt safe in residing in that colony. We were notified by the officers of the Mexican army that they could give us no help. It was evident that Villa was marching toward our colony. Our people, under the instruction of those who piesided over them, were told to go home and go to bed, and trust in the Lord. That night they retired, and we were the only people in that section of the country who did go to sleep, but we slept peacefully. During the night General Villa marched within the borders of our colony and immediately turned and ordered his army to go in another direction. A year or two later when I happened to be in his army, having been detained on one of our trips, visiting the elders, when I was taken into his presence, he told me that there had been several occasions when he had our people completely in his control. He said : "I could have wiped you off the earth, without any trouble, but," he said, "I had no desire to do so. I like the 'Mormon' people, I like the 'Mormon' doctrines. While this is no place for you people to be doing missionary work at the present time, I hope to live to see the day when there will be a 'Mormon' missionary in every town in Mexico, for," he said, "I like you people. I like your method of living under this government." General Angeles was present with him, when we bore our testimony to him of the divinity of this work, and explained our mission, that we were there laboring among them, preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and he turned to General Villa and said: "This is a wonderful work. They are doing just what we ought to be doing, but they seem to be doing it in a much better way and more successfully." 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in this great work of the Lord. I am thankful to my heavenly Father that I have been permitted to bear a portion of his holy Priesthood and to labor in this great work in which we are engaged. May the Lord bless us and help us to keep ourselves free and unspotted from the sins of the world, that we may accomplish his work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

President of the Ensign Stake and former President of the Northern 

States Mission 

On one occasion a humble missionary in the Northern states rapped at the door of a splendid apartment; a woman greeted him, and GENERAL CONFERENCE  proceeded to present his message. She argued with him; he presented subject after subject, and she raised objection to every point that he offered; but finally, in humility, with somewhat of a feeling of defeat, he Said to her : "This thing I know, beyond all doubt, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet, raised up to usher in this, the great latter-day work." She , said : "That interests me, come in, and let me talk with you." He went into her home. All the argument that he had brought forth was as naught, but that humble testimony, out of the fulness of the heart of a devoted missionary, sank into her heart. She was impressed by it, and she listened to the word of the Lord. 

Christ said on one occasion : "He that will do my will shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." This is a law unto us, the children of our Father. We can know, as we know nothing else, that the gospel is true. We can know, for it will burn within our being, and God will make it known to us if we will but keep his commandments. He has given us the law, he has given us the great plan of life. It is a wonderful system, a marvelous philosophy. It embraces all truth, and it is so organized and so arranged that it matters not how humble we are or how mighty and great, it fits our needs; and, by rendering obedience, we can know that it is true. Its every principle is true. There is no exception among the principles and ordinances of the gospel. Each and every one: has its place. The keeping of every law is necessary to exaltation in the kingdom of God. If we feel that we are a law in and of ourselves, and feel that this principle or that principle is not for us, or for our keeping, we deny ourselves one part of the great blessing that God has for us. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that God lives, that this is his work, that at the head of his Church today stands a man who bears the Priesthood of Almighty God, one whom God sustains and whom we should and must sustain, if we would enjoy his Spirit. This is the work of the Lord. Its purpose is the saving of the children of men. At its head stands the great King, the Lord God, the eternal Father. It will go on; it will fill the whole earth. 

All men will hear its message, and the honest in heart will be gathered into its fold. Nothing can stay its progress, it is the work of God, and it will go on, for God has spoken it. This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD C. RICH 

President of the Montpelicr Stake of Zion 

I rejoice in the opportunity of having the privilege of bearing my testimony here in this great tabernacle. I have: done so many a time in cottage meetings, in the Old World, upon the street corners, and in the halls, and I am not ashamed to do it here. 

About thirty years ago, I was called to go on a mission. I had 149  returned missionaries, time and time again, say that they knew that "Mormonism" is true. As a child I was taught that it is the truth, and I believed it. When I received that call the impression came to me that if I would go into the world, I would know for myself whether "Mormonism" is true or not. I have thought since, that likely this was the deciding factor that caused me to accept that call to go into Great Britain to preach this gospel. I returned in a little over two years, convinced in my mind that it is the truth. I have received many testimonies to the divinity of this work. One of them came to me while laboring as a missionary in the city of Bristol. I might say that I had never had any experience, or very little experience, in this Church. I neglected the opportunities that came to me, as a child and as a young man, to take active part and to participate in it. I have rued the time of that neglect, and I have been humiliated, time and time again since then, but there was no one to blame but myself. I had every opportunity to understand the truth, to study it, and to explain it. I neglected that opportunity. 

While laboring as a missionary, with three other elders, we held a meeting every Sunday evening in Bristol, and during the week a cottage meeting. At this particular time the other three missionaries were out visiting their friends. The time came to hold that meeting. No one was present but myself. I had never presided at a meeting in. my life. The time came to start the meeting, but none of the elders arrived. I selected a long chapter in the New Testament. I did not know what it contained. I read that chapter thinking that by the time I would finish it some of my companions would be there and they could preach the gospel to the people who had assembled. But none of them came. I read the chapter, commented on it for about ten minutes, and dismissed the people. After they had left, the landlady said to me : "Elder Rich, that is the shortest meeting I ever attended." I said: "It might have been short to you, but it was long- enough for me!" 

Years after that I attended a reunion of the Sheffield conference, held in the Seventeenth ward in this city. A girl came to me and told me that her father, prior to attending that meeting had said : "I have been to hear 'Mormon' missionaries; I have propounded questions to them, and they have been answering all of them; but I have a question tonight that I can ask them and they can't explain it." She told me that in my remarks that evening the question had been answered, though her father did not present it. I knew nothing of it for years and years. I have come to the conclusion that the Lord inspired me to pick out this chapter, and in the few comments that I made upon it answered this man's question. I believe in the inspiration of God. I know that he is leading and guiding this Church. 

Some ten years after that time. I met a man on the streets of Montpelier, a friend of mine who received the gospel in Ireland, and he said : "Brother Rich, I wish my brother-in-law, who is in the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

British Isles, could hear this message of salvation." I said : "Where is your brother-in-law?" He said: "He is in Sheffield." I said: "I have a brother in Sheffield now performing missionary work." I sent the address to my brother who called upon this family, by the name of Fitnar. They were not interested in the gospel at first. Later on they received the message of salvation and today they are all active members of this Church, living up to the teachings of the gospel in the stake where I preside, and in the settlement where I live. I am as confident that the inspiration of the Lord came upon that man and impressed him to speak to me in reference to his brother-in-law, as I am confident the inspiration of the Lord came upon Columbus, and that he was inspired to go out upon the waters. It is remarkable that of all the places in the world where my brother might have been performing missionary work, that he should be in the very city where this man's brother-in-law resided, and that of all the people in Montpelier this man might have approached on the subject, he should speak to me about it. I am sure that it was in answer to this man's prayer, that his brother-in-law might receive the gospel. 

Two weeks ago yesterday morning I attended, in company with Brother Smoot, who is upon this very stand, a man whom the doctors said could not live twelve hours. He was administered to, and today is rapidly improving and on the way to recovery. These are some of the things that are testimonies to me as to the divinity of this work, that it is the work of God and that those who lead and direct its affairs upon the earth are inspired of the Lord. 

This missionary system of ours is the greatest thing in the world, for it gives individual testimonies to men and women so that they know for themselves that this is the work of God, that there is power in it, that the Lord is leading and directing it. They go forth and perform the duties and obligations that are resting upon them, to warn the inhabitants of the earth. In speaking of the signs which should precede his coming, the Lord said that there should be wars and rumors of wars, pestilence, and plagues, and that this gospel of the kingdom should be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. May God hasten the day when it shall be done, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ROBERT I. BURTON 

President of the Mount Ogden Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters, this is a new experience for me, being the first time I have ever been called upon to address a body of the Saints in this building. I am filled with awe at the thought of standing in the place where so many notable men have stood when addressing the congregations of our people. 151 

The other day, as I was speeding westward on a train from Chicago, and I crossed the Missouri river and again followed along the Platte river, I looked at those bodies of water, and I thought, and asked myself the question: "I wonder if this is where the pioneers crossed this continent, I wonder if I am. beholding a sight that Brigham Young beheld, as he led that notable band of pioneers westward?" I then felt assured that their hearts must have been made of noble stuff to have made such a journey in order to be able to worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. Each time I gazed upon the different scenes, I wondered if their eyes had beheld those same sights. But here I am upon the stand and in a building that those pioneers helped to erect. I know that they were here, and I know that their presence has made this building sacred. So I feel overwhelmed to stand before you in a place that has been occupied by men of note, men whom we love and revere; and we have in our presence today their successors, men whom! we hold very dear to our hearts, men whom we support with our faith and our prayers, and with all the energy that we possess. I thought also of my mother and how she walked across the plains, at least a great part of the distance, in 1848 as a girl nine years of age, and how she left the blood stains of her feet upon some of those pathways. I thought of my father coming here, in 1854, after a long journey from England; how they had run out of water and provisions, almost entirely, upon the ship, and they had been placed upon quarter rations; how cholera had broken out upon the ship, and many of them died and were buried at sea. I remembered all these things, and I thought: "Oh, if I cannot remain faithful, and firm and true to the gospel as it has been taught to me by my noble parents and by those patriots, those noble men and women who came out here as pioneers, then I am not worthy of the blood that runs in my veins!" 

All honor to the pioneers. All honor to their successors, who are here in our midst. I love them, I respect them, I honor them with all my heart, and I pray God to bless them. I know as surely as I know that I stand before you, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, I know that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Son; and when I know that, all else in this life matters little to me. I feel, if I can be faithful, firm and true to that knowledge, to the end of my days, I shall be a most happy and grateful man. 

We have heard today, in song and story, the wonders of the latter-day gospel that has been restored to us, and my heart has been filled, to overflowing, with gratitude to my heavenly Father that I have been permitted to be counted worthy to be one with you. I love you, brethren and sisters, and I pray God to bless you and give you the spirit of the gospel, give you the necessities of life, give you wisdom that you may train and rear your children in the way in which they should go, instill into their hearts the precious truths of the gospel, and a knowledge of its saving power, for this is our mission GENERAL CONFERENCE  the earth. May God bless us to this end, I pray, in Jesus name, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In calling on the five speakers who have just borne their testimonies to you, I did not do so with any preconceived thought of who they were. It so happens that Winslow Farr Smith is the great grandson of Patriarch John Smith, and the grandson of George A. Smith who has thrilled the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, as his father, the late John Henry Smith, has done many and many a time from this stand. It happens that Hugh B. Brown is the grandson of James S. Brown, one of the great missionaries of this Church, a man that I knew in my childhood, and I rejoiced in hearing him preach the gospel here at home. Edward C. Rich is the grandson of Apostle Charles C. Rich and also of Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter, the man who came with money, after selling a fine farm in Pennsylvania and buying some wild land at Nauvoo, and presented the remainder of his means to the Prophet Joseph, because he was in financial distress. Robert I. Burton is the son of William W. Burton, one of the late stalwarts of the Church. Joseph C. Bentley is the son of one of those early pioneers who went to Dixie — that country which I heard belittled by one of our wealthy men who said he would not give his forty acre farm in Davis county for the entire Dixie country. Richard Bentley went there and stayed. He lived there and pioneered that country, and was one of the loyal, true men of the Church. 

We will now hear from one of the brethren that the gospel found in a foreign land — President Soren Rasmussen, of the Jordan stake. 

By the way, the world said that by the time grandchildren came along this work would perish from the earth. We have heard today from one great-grandson. That is a pretty good specimen of its perishing. 

ELDER SOREN RASMUSSEN 

President of the Jordan Stake of Zion 

My dear brethren and, sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the testimonies of my brethren. As President Grant has stated, I was born in a foreign land. My parents were very kind to the elders, and as a consequence many of the missionaries had a home there. I remember very plainly, some years ago, while traveling on the road as a commercial man, I was in the city of Elsinore where I stopped over Sunday, and the bishop asked me to speak at the afternoon service. After closing he asked me who my father was. I told him, and he said: "I thought so, when you spoke. I want to tell you that I called at your father's home while laboring as a missionary in the country 153  you lived. We had been in the habit of lodging in your father's home. We came there on one occasion and the spare room was taken. It seemed that there would be no opportunity for us to stop there, at this time, but your father suggested to your mother that they would sleep on the floor and the missionaries might sleep in their bed. 

I have often thought, my brethren and sisters, since coming to Utah, and since having received the gospel, how greatly I have been blessed of the Lord, and I feel to thank my parents, although my father never joined the Church. My mother, however, emigrated with the Saints; and I may say this in behalf of my father, he was very kind to the missionaries, and that he was ready to be baptized. He suggested this to my mother, but she was not yet ready. A few months after this transpired, father passed away, and mother soon afterwards sold out her business and emigrated to the land of Zion. 

My brethren and sisters, I know that this is the work of the Lord. I have enjoyed the spirit of this work, and I feel that the Lord is with his servants under all circumstances; for wherever I have labored, whether at home or abroad, I have felt the inspiration of his Holy Spirit. I want to say to you that I sustain the authorities of this Church with all my heart. May the Lord bless us and help us to become, more and more, his servants and his handmaidens, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has found converts in all parts of the world — from the country of the midnight sun, Scandinavia, to South Africa, from Canada on the North to Mexico on the South, in the far off lands of New Zealand and Australia, in the Hawaiian Islands and in Japan, and that the Lord has been so merciful that no matter where the message of life and salvation has gone, men have received for themselves, individually and not for another the knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. One of the truest, most loyal and magnificent men that has ever been connected with this Church of Christ was the late Karl G. Maeser, from Germany. He gave his very life and all the strength, the ability and power that he possessed for the advancement of the work of the Lord, and for the uplift, educationally, of the youth of Zion. 

We will now hear from Bishop Kasper Fetzer. 

ELDER KASPER FETZER 

Bishop of the Jefferson ward, Granite Stake 

I can indeed say it is a great surprise to me to stand before this great congregation. I took quite a pride, a year ago, in seeing my son on this stand, when he offered a prayer as one of the Boy Scouts. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I rejoice in an organization of that kind, because it helps to take care of the boys who shall be our future leaders. I rejoice also in bearing my testimony that a servant of the Lord came to our country bearing witness of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I was then a member of the officers force of the German army. I had borne my testimony before a military court, and I was ridiculed in my position that I should join such an undesirable sect, and they told me that if I attended another "Mormon" meeting I should be thrown out of my office and punished in jail. I was fined, again and again, for attending the meetings; and here is President Thomas E. McKay who can testify to the truth of it. I have been in the forests, joining with the Latter-day Saints and listening to the gospel of Jesus Christ; and I was fined at one time a hundred dollars and another time was told I would be thrown out of my position and punished. But when I was called before the court and asked what I would do in the future, I told them to decide between themselves whether I should not serve my God more than them. At that time they testified unto me, as the highest officer and general in that Bavarian army, that if I could learn the truth, and the reason why the ministers of the churches there are preaching to the people, it would be discovered that it was only for the reason of better policing the people of Germany. They have assured me that the first minister of Germany has told them that there is no truth in religion, but that the Darwinian doctrine is paramount and is the truth. But, as I told him, I can say there is no evidence that a monkey ever became a man, as far as history goes; that there is no evidence of any progress in that direction whatever, and I can't see why I should believe a doctrine of that kind which teaches us to go down to the very bottom of animal being, whi'e the gospel of Jesus Christ teaches me to go up to heaven. It is so lofty that it is impossible for me to detach myself from it. So I told them I would take the consequences, and I am glad I did. 

I am thankful that I came here, and I can say to you people that your God is my God, your people are my people, and I hope I will be worthy, in my weakness, to stay with you and be useful. I have tried to show my faith; and even during the war I told the German people whom I presided over that we should be loyal first, as the Doctrine and Covenants says, that the time shall come when freedom shall come to every nation through America; and yet when the President of the German nation said : "If freedom shall come to the German nation through any other nation, we shall accept it," though it was hard for those who were really Germans. They can't say anything else, after the truth has come out. than that it was a good thing for the German nation to become free of their masters who have made them slaves. I know the German people from the ground up, as I have been mixing with them, and no one can tell me any different. I tell you that I know the German people, and that they will some day rejoice that they have been freed, and that now they can progress 155  than ever. The world will be made to see that there is a good foundation; not only in science, but also in the gospel of Jesus Christ, as followers after the great message which has been given in these last days. I have knelt down in the forest of Bavaria and asked God in heaven for this, the gospel jyf Christ — the truth which he has revealed — and I know that I have heard a voice from heaven, though I have seen nobody, and I know this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I could not deny this testimony, and many other testimonies I have received. I assure you it is a matter of satisfaction to me, and I desire my superiors shall feel that my testimony rests upon the very foundation, and that is the Spirit of God. I ask God to bless us that we may join one another more closely, and that we may help one another, and especially that the youth of Zion may step in the footsteps of their fathers as we are all called, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Presented the general authorities and the general officers of the Church, all of whom were sustained in their positions and callings by the unanimous vote of the great assembly as follows : 

Ileber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot George Albert Smith George F. Richards Orson F. Whitney David O. McKay" 

Joseph Fielding Smith James E. Talmage Stephen L. Richards 

Richard R. Lyman Melvin J. Ballard John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The Counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Reve'ators. 

FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF SEVENTY 

Seymour B. Young Rulon S. Wells 

Brigham H. Roberts Joseph W. McMurrin 

Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Levi Edgar Young Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, and Junius F. Wells. Heber J. Grant Charles W. Penrose Anthony W. Ivins Willard Young Rudger Clawson Orson F. Whitney 

Arthur Winter, Sec, and Treas 

Joseph Fielding Smith David O. McKay Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman John A. Widtsoe 

COMMISSION OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 157 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

John J. McClellan Edward P. Kimball Tracy Y. Cannon Alexander Shreiner Frank W. Asper 

George C. Smith, Sec, and Treas., and all the members of the Choir 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I desire to express my sincere gratitude and thanksgiving unto God for the very rich outpouring of his Holy Spirit, during all of the sessions of our conference. I feel that we have in very deed had a spiritual feast, that the Lord has blessed us abundantly, and I hope and pray that we may all return to our homes in safety; that those who are not located here, but have come from other sections of the state and from other states, from Canada to Mexico, and from the various missions, that we may all go home and carry with us the inspiration that has ben manifest during this conference. 

I have nothing on my mind that I desire to say further than that I endorse the remarks that have been made, and rejoice in the wonderful testimonies that have been borne. Particularly have I enjoyed the remarks of the last seven speakers who were called upon, who had no expectation of being called. All of the other speakers were rather inclined to worry, as the Bishop said, knowing that their turn would come sooner or later. 

Although I have already borne my testimony I feel impressed that I would like to leave with this body of people, once more, my testimony regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I know, as I know I live, that God lives, that he hears and answers the prayers GENERAL CONFERENCE  those who honestly seek him. I know that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, the Son of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that there are thousands and tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who have this knowledge, as perfectly as I have it; that God has revealed it to them, that they are not indebted to any man or set of men for this light, knowledge and testimony regarding God our Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and regarding the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the instrument of our heavenly Father and of our Savior in restoring again and establishing upon the earth the gospel of life and salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which will bring to us salvation, if we are faithful in keeping his commandments, and we shall thus enjoy the privilege of mingling with God and our Redeemer, and the faithful ones who have gone before, throughout the countless ages of eternity. 

The choir sang, "Then shall thy light shine," solo by James Astin. The choir and congregation sang the "Doxology." The benediction was pronounced by President Anthony W. Ivins, and the conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by Professor B. Cecil Gates. Professor John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made in the Tabernacle by Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; and in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. 

EDWARD H. ANDERSON 

Clerk of the Conference INDEX 

Adams, Elder John Q 103 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities of the Church, General 156 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 27 

Promises to be Fulfilled in Our Day, 27 — The People, Place and Plan in the Accomplishment of These Promises, 28 — The Descendants of Joseph the Right People of Promise, 28 — God Has Gathered Them to the Right Place, 28 — How to Secure Permanency in the Right Place, 29 — The Right Plan Revealed to Gathered Joseph, 30 — However, We Must Adhere to Our Standards, 31 — We Have an Inspired Interpreter for the Plan, 31 — Let Us Keep the Great Vision Before Us, 31. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 73 

Bentley, Elder Joseph C 146 

Brown, Elder Hugh B 145 

Burton, Elder Robert I ISO 

Callis, Elder Charles A 133 

Clawson, President Rudger 24 

A Conundrum, 24 — The Answer, 24 — We Were the Children of God in the Spirit World, 24 — The Purpose of the Creation of the World, 25 — Man's Creation, 25 — Redemption Through the Gospel and the Resurrection, 25 — The Purpose of Man's Life, 26 — The Wonderful Beauty of the Gospel of Christ, 26 — Our Duty to Carry the Gospel 

Message to the World, 27. 

Fetzer, Elder Kasper 153 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 1, 156 

General Officers of the Church 1, 156 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

The Radio, 2 — Let Us Serve God With All Might, Mind and Strength, 2 — Outstanding Events and Activities of the Church in the Past Six Months, 3 — The Divinity of Jesus Christ, 6 — A Profoundly Impressive Comparison, 7 — How to Exercise the Power of the Priesthood, 8 — God's Blessings Invoked Upon the Church and Nation, 9 — Closing Testimony, 10. 

Grant, President Heber J 17 

Elder Orson P. Whitney, 17 — Absence of President Charles W. Penrose, 43 — Illness of President Charles W. Penrose, 83 — Elder Parley P. Pratt's, "An Angel From On High," 84 — Conference Proceedings Heard Through Radio by President Penrose. Absence of Elders David O. McKay and Richard R. Lyman, 97 — "School Thy Feelings," Hymn by President Penrose, 98 — New Stake Presidents. The French Mission, 102 — Greetings from President Charles W. Penrose, 137 — Announcing five speakers. Fast-day Testimonies, 145 — Ancestry and Nationality of Speakers, 152 — Gospel Converts in All Parts of the World, 153 — Presentation of the General Authorities and Officers, 155 — Closing Speech, 157. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 32 

Ivins, President Anthony W. 84 

The Old Paths and the Good Way, 84 — The Paths of the Lord, 85 — The Trails and Paths of Men, 85 — One Road Which Men Have Not Desired to Follow, 86 — Perpetuity of Peoples and Government Dependent on Religious Faith, 86 — A Great Event, and a Mighty Purpose Foretold, 87 — The Great Truth Made Clear by Revelation, 88 — Results of An Ancient Warnng Unheeded, 88 — Modern Discovery of America, 89 — Are We to Profit by Past Experiences? 90 — All Institutions and Interests Dependent on the Stability of Government, 90 — It is Time We Take Note of the Signboards of History, 90 — Our Neglects and Serious Transgressions, 91 — In These Trangressions We Are Traveling the Blazed Trails to Death, 92 — God Has Revealed His Way; Will We Walk Therein? 92— God's Path, Decree and Will Revealed. Will the People Hearken? 

16C GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Kimball, Elder Jonathan G. 70 

Knight, Elder John M 118 

Lund, Elder A. William 76 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 52 

Nibley, Elder Charles W. 93 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 142 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 125 

Rasmussen, Elder Soren 152 

Rich, Elder Edward C 148 

Richards, Elder George F 37 

The Gospel of Christ Originated in Heaven, 37 — The Restoration of the Gospel, 37 — Our Responsibility to Preach the Gospel, 38 —  Many Lack Courage to Join the Church, 38 — Qualifications for Becoming a Member of the Church, 39 — The Speaker's Testimony, 39. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 64 

In a Great Presence, 64 — A Comparison, 64 — Here Only May be Heard the Word of God, 65 — A Tremendous Responsibility, 65 — Reverence for God Essential to the Peace of Mankind, 65 — Our Country and Our Church Command Our Allegiance, 66 — An Appeal for Undivided Support, 67. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 59 

Robertson, Elder Hilton A 122 

Rushton, Elder Don C 79 

Smith, Elder E. Wesley 113 

Smith, Elder David A 56 

Smith, Elder George Albert 44 

Our Duty to Assist in Perpetuating Liberty, 44 — The Constitutional Law of the Land to be Supported, 44 — We Should Not be Led Astray by Fallacies, 45 — A Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General, 46 — No One a Good Member of the Church Who Refuses to Sustain the Law of the Land, 47 — Thankful for the Blessings of Liberty, 48. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 15 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 99 

The Words of the Brethren Ring True, 89 — The Truth Grows Brighter With Use, 99 — Commotion and Unrest in the World, 100 — An Abiding Knowledge of Christ Brings Peace, 100 — The Atonement of Christ Fundamental, 101 — Jesus Declared Himself to be the Son of God, 101 — Testimony that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, 102. 

Smith, Elder Winslow Farr 147 

Smoot, Elder Reed 35 

Wonderful Organization — Integrity of the Constitution. 

Talmage, Elder James E 137 

Progress and Sprit of Missionary Work, 137 — Two Characteristic Features of the Church, 139 — The Tithing System, 139 — 'The Wonderful Missionary System of the Church, 139. 

Taylor, Elder John H 117 

Thunell, Elder Isaac P 108 

Wells, Elder John 49 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 40 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 17 

The Marvelous Work and Wonder, 17 — Fundamental Facts, 18 — Worldly Wisdom's Attitude, 18 — Horace Greeley's Visit, 19 — A Catholic Comment, 19 — An Episcopal View, 20 — An Absurd Theory, 20 — The Revealing Spirit, 21 — St. John Interpreted, 22 — The Father and the Son, 22 — A "Mormon" Boy's Wit, 22 — Moses Explains. 22 — The Spirit -Sight, 23. 

Widtsoef, Elder John A 10 

A Testimony of Jesus, 10 — A Remarkable Age of the World, 10 — Man Helpless Without God, 11 — A Great Intellectual and Spiritual Controversy, 11 — Dangerous to Limit the Powers of God, 12 — Something, However, to be Said for the Modernist, 12 — A Fundamental Doctrine, 13 — The Lord Has Declared Himself in All Generations, 13 — All Shall Bow Before the One True God, 14 — We Rest Upon the Gospel of Jesus Christ, 14. 

Young, Elder Brigham S 129 

Young, Elder Seymour B 68 

^uii i  j caiiiiiiiiiiitcaitiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiiKaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiiiiii in icaiitmiiiiiiEati micaiiiiiit^ 

I SOMETHING NEW I 

ttiiiiiiijiiiiiittiiiiriiiiitiiirirriJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirirriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiciiiiiiiiriiritiiiiiiiEiiiiijiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiji 

"Science and Belief in God" 

BY DR. FREDERICK J. PACK | 

= An interesting treatment of an interesting subject. Every 

S student of religion or science will want to read it. = 

D $2.50, postpaid D 

Doctrine and Covenants Commentary 1 

= Thin paper — handy sized volume = 

| Cloth $3.50; Leather $5.50, postpaid § 

If you want to study the Doctrine and Covenants, you'll 

3 want this book. 3 

= Just Issued = 

| The Life of Franklin Dewey Richards j 

S A life replete with interesting, faith promoting incidents. S 

Our young people will be greatly benefited by reading this « 

= biography. = = $3.00, postpaid 

= Revised and Reissued = 

1 Roberts' Outlines of Ecclesiastical History j 

Now on the press. It will be ready January 1, 1925. j§ 

2 Order your copy now. □ 

| A NEW EDITION | 

2 There is now ready a new edition of 

| THE GOSPEL | 

= BY ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 1 

= This work has been so well known, and its value so much = 

appreciated, that a lengthy description is not necessary. = 

= . Nicely bound in cloth, postpaid, $1.25 = 

" — ^— ^— — — — — — ^— — — —  — — — _ « 

| DESERET BOOK COMPANY 1 

| 44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY | WiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiini^ 

^iiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicai iiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiif if icaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiini^ 

| THE TEXT FOR j 

1 1925 "Priesthood Lessons j 

= IS THE | 

I Articles of Faith j 

| BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 1 

| Beautiful Blue Cloth Binding....$1.00 Postpaid | 

a Black Morocco 2.50 E 

1 Misssion Edition — Brown Cloth.. .50 § 

Order yours early and get an outline free with your 3 s book 

EE IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllllllllltllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllfltllllHIIIIIIIllllllllllllllHtHIIIHIIIIIIIIMlMlllllllllllllllllllinilll n 

— u 

n = 

EE Our service consists not only in selling books and s 

supplies, but it consists also in helping you to select § 

= your home library. E 

| Tell us how many in the family, their ages and | 

i how much you want to spend each month for books, | 

and we'll suggest a list for you. | 

— n n ^ 

u j= 

| DESERET BOOK I 

I COMPANY I 

— n 

| 44 E. So. Temple § 

| Salt Lake City 5 

u — 

^iiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicJiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiKaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiinmicaiiiiiiis 







