Afternoon
10 04 1932

The closing session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock, Sunday afternoon, April 10th, the attendance at this meeting being similar to that at the morning session, large crowds of people who were unable to gain entrance to the Tabernacle, having assembled in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the proceedings as they were broadcast by radio. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The Choir and Congregation sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Elder Lee R. Taylor, president of the Nebo Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A ladies' chorus under the direction of Prof. Anthony C. Lund sang a sacred anthem, "The Twenty-third Psalm." 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

People are moved to action by a diversity of motives, and much depends upon the incentives by which a man is prompted. Indeed, motives may be regarded as constituting an index to the character of the individual; and doubtless there are many whose motives are not generally understood in their full significance. 

SIGNIFICANCE OF MOTIVES 

I call to mind that the Master while in the flesh warned against unworthy motives : When you give to charity, he said, though as he put it "when thou doest thine alms," do not so act before men to attract their attention and win praise for yourselves; for those who do this receive their reward then and there and have nothing more to expect by way of recompense. And do not make a display of your piety and your prayers, for there are those who pray that they may be heard of men. Well, they are heard of men, they have their reward and that is all there is to it. 

And when you fast, he continued, do not go about with a haggard countenance, displaying to men the fact that you are fasting or pretending to; but fast in earnestness and sincerity unto the Lord and pray unto him in secret and do your alms quietly. 

Now, I would rather a man do a good deed even with a motive that may not be the best than that he should fail to do it; and far rather that he should do that good deed rather than do evil. Nevertheless there is an importance to be attached to the incentives that move us. 

CONFERENCE ASSEMBLIES 

In looking over these assembled thousands in the several meetings of this conference I have thought of the motives that bring such multitudes together, not only now but at all of our recurring conferences. 

The gathering of people in conferences of this Church is a phenomenon, or appears to be such to those who do not know us well, while to the members of the Church it is an ordinary and regular occurrence. I am inclined to impute good motives to men, to communities and organizations, until I have reason to act otherwise. I have not lost confidence in this family of ours, this human family. .We are a pretty good family after all, much as there is to be improved in our affairs; and I ascribe worthy motives to those who are assembled here this afternoon. 

ACTUALITY OF RELIGION 

I believe that the great majority — oh, I may say that all of us— 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 101 

have come together with good intent. This is a day set apart for worship, the Sabbath, and we come with the spirit of worship in our hearts. We are here to learn more of the duties that pertain to us as members of the Church. Our religion is very real to us. There is that feature about the Latter-day Saints — they take their religion to heart. They believe what they say, and though I know we can do much better than we are doing, I believe that the people are trying to live according to what they know to be the revealed truths of their religious system. There are many to whom religion is really lacking in actuality — in f actuality let me say — it does not reach the heart, therefore it does not impel to right living. Many are apt to deal with religion in the abstract and to shrink when concrete application is made. There is nothing new in this. 

Christ's affirmation of his divinity 

You remember the story told, not a story in the sense of a bit of fiction but the recorded account of the Christ as he made his way from Jerusalem northward, passing through Samaria, near the beginning of his ministry, when he met a woman at Jacob's well and asked her for water to drink. She was surprised that a Jew should solicit any favor of a Samaritan, but she hastened to comply with the request, and Jesus talked with her. She asked him questions and soon became aware that he could read her thoughts, that he knew the story of her life, and she was somewhat disturbed. She raised the query, perhaps in a casual way, as to whether it was necessary to worship in Mount Moriah, as the Samaritans held, or in Jerusalem, as the Jews insisted. She reasoned on it for a moment and then put it away, really thrust it aside or tried to, saying: 

"I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ, when he is come, he will tell us all things." 

That may seem a good way of putting things off; but she was brought to solemn attention when he spoke the next few words: 

"/ that speak unto thee am he." 

For that she was not prepared, the application, the present reality. The Jewish nation had been waiting for the coming of Messiah; their rabbis had preached upon it Sabbath after Sabbath, and their synagogs had resounded to the words of the prophets telling of the coming; but when they were told that he was there in their midst they rose up and tried to kill him, and eventually did bring about his death. 

THE REVOLT AT NAZARETH 

From Samaria our Lord went on to Galilee, and there, in what has been called his home city — though not the place of his birth, yet the town of his youth, Nazareth — he went into the synagog after he had become thirty years of age, the age at which a Jew was entitled to be heard if he had anything to say, in the synagog, and he there appeared 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

for the first time so far as we know in what we may call the speaker's stand, perhaps by invitation. The president of the synagog handed to him the roll, the Book of Isaiah. Jesus opened to what in our Bible is the sixty-first chapter and read from it as recorded by Luke : 

"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, 

"To preach the acceptable year of the Lord." 

Possibly there were few if any there who had not heard that scripture quoted aforetime. It was a favorite with speakers and commentators of the day, and it aroused some solemn interest in all who listened to him, but his words that followed struck to the heart of everyone : 

"This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears." 

They were startled. Some began to find fault, and the tumult culminated in their seizing him and dragging him to the brow of a nearby hill, intending to cast him down to his death even at the beginning of his ministry. But his hour had not yet come. It was the present, the individual application, that had stirred their anger. And so with many other incidents in the life and earthly ministry of the Lord Jesus. 

PREDICTED SIGNS OF THE END 

As you read in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew our Lord declared as one of the signs of the approaching end of the dispensation of which he was speaking, that this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. That scripture has been preached in many places, synagogs, tabernacles, cathedrals. People passively believe in it, yes, it is scripture and it goes with other scripture. But when the voice of authority is heard declaring that this Gospel that we preach is the Gospel referred to by Jesus Christ, verily the Gospel of the Kingdom, that it is now being declared in all the world, that this declaration is a witness unto all nations, people get angry; they reject it; they do not want the application. In theory it is to them all right. As a matter of record they are willing to let it stand, but if you apply it to them they object. This is the attitude of many. 

Elijah's coming 

So we could cite instance after instance. Indulge me in one other. Remember what the Lord said through Malachi regarding one particular characteristic of the last days, that before the great and dreadful day of the Lord Elijah the prophet would be sent with a particular mission to turn the hearts of the living children unto their dead progenitors, and on the other hand to turn the hearts of the dead ancestors, alive in the spirit, to their posterity now in the flesh. Yes, that is scripture also, 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 103 

and many have quoted it and let it pass. But when we raise our voices in solemn declaration that Elijah the ancient prophet has come, that that prediction has been fulfilled as to its initiation and is in rapid course of progressive operation, people object. When we say that on the third day of April, 1836, Elijah appeared in person, a resurrected being, in the Kirtland Temple, and did confer his authority, power and commission, upon the prophet of this dispensation, people refuse to receive it and they are loud in their denunciation of the claim. 

A SPECIFIC INSTANCE OF DENIAL 

I call to mind that it was my privilege once to address the Philosophical Society of Denver on the Philosophy of Mormonism. I quoted that passage from Malachi, and dwelt upon it at some length. In the discussion that followed the address a cultured gentleman, a Jew, took part. He said : 

"I wish I could believe all that the speaker has said tonight, and I believe much of it; but when he tells us that Elijah, the ancient prophet, has actually come in person to the earth in this age, I say simply that I can not believe it. I wish I could, but I can not." 

Well, of course the rejoinder was simple when my turn came again : 

"Do you accept Malachi as one of your prophets ?" 

"Certainly." 

"Do you believe what he said when he voiced the word of the Lord that in the last days Elijah the prophet would come?" 

"Well, yes; yes of course." 

"Now, we simply affirm that your Jewish prophet Malachi was a true prophet as is proved by the fulfilment of his prediction; that Elijah has come; that the work without which the earth would be smitten with a curse is now in progress." 

SIGNS OF THE TIME 

The calamities of these days, phenomenal disturbances in nature — earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, destructive hurricanes — as also the struggle of nation against nation in actual warfare and in scheming diplomacy, the pestilence and the famine — these and yet greater disasters have been definitely predicted. None can gainsay their actuality, and all who read must see that they were foretold. 

Yet men are prone to deny the reality of these dread occurrences as signs of the time, telling of the imminence of the Lord's coming to rule among men and to inaugurate the millennium of a new order. Conditions prevailing in the world today demand our serious attention. The solemnities of the eternal word and plan should move mankind to repentance, reformation, and soulful worship of Deity, worship expressed in a rectification of individual and national life. 

I plead for the reality, the actuality of religion, in belief and practice, feeling that this is no day for mere theory and supposition. This religion of ours, this Church of ours, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is real, vital, living, eternal. God help us to understand and live accordingly, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER LEONIDAS DeVON MECHAM 

Former acting-president of the Australian Mission 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

These few lines, the beginning of the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, have been running through my mind from the very opening of the Conference sessions up until the present time, more especially so during the address of Elder Ballard. It seems to be the general theme of this Conference to me, and I have been wondering if we are taking these things which are indeed a luxury, which we have started to class as necessities of life — taking them to heart to such an extent that we are crying depression when we are really enjoying marvelous blessings from God. We are living in a truly marvelous age. 

Having been handicapped somewhat in this Conference in the earlier sessions — as I recently had my tonsils removed, in fact a little over a week ago — I was unable to participate with the audience in singing the hymns. I love to take part in singing the Latter-day Saint sacred hymns. They surely contain Gospel sermons and I love the beautiful harmony in them. As I stood listening to those hymns my faith and my testimony were increased and I felt well repaid for having attended these services. 

I rejoice in having this opportunity of meeting here with you people in a General Conference. It has been some time since this has been my privilege. 

Going back to the point I want to stress. In thus being a listener and not a participator in the rendering of the hymns I could not help noticing the confusion caused by people leaving during the closing hymn and benediction, not mentioning those who leave before the last speaker has finished. I cannot help but feel that this is not only improper but shows disrespect to God himself. If we have a true testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ how can we leave a spiritual feast before it is finished. One would never think of leaving a banquet before the serving of the last two or three courses. Of course there are exceptions, there are cases and times when necessity makes this necessary. But seeing the members do this, not only at these sessions of Conference but in our ward meetings, it has been a mystery to me, because as I stated before I do love to hear our sacred hymns sung and the final benediction pronounced at our Church services. I am sure that if we have embarked in the service of God, and if we are trying to live up to our religion with all our heart, might, mind and strength, we will never leave a meeting before it is completely finished and the amen has been said. 

Some reference has been made during the Conference to anti-"Mormon" literature that is being spread abroad. Australia has been no exception in this regard. During the past four years there has been a man by the name of Julian Barclay, masquerading as or professing to be the 

ELDER LEONIDAS DeVON MECHAM 105 

re-incarnation of Christ, and he has received wide publicity as such, throughout Australia. During the course of the past year this same man has been led to see the light through the diligence of some of our missionaries and through his own prayerful and earnest desire to find the truth. He accepted the Gospel and joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I believe humbly and sincerely, because of the true change of heart which I have witnessed in him. The newspapers, took advantage of this, and have circulated false propaganda in regard to statements that they claim he made which in reality he did not. Along with this they have written a number of articles of an anti-"Mormon" nature, some of them three to four columns in length. In some instances they have printed them on the front page, using one to two-inch block type letters in their headlines. Two papers in particular did this, and they had statements similar to the following as their headlines : "Mormon Agents are Seeking Girl Recruits in Australia — Wiell Spoken Americans Frequent Cafes and Offer Jobs to Pretty Waitresses — All Expenses For Journey and 8 pounds ($40.00) Per Week!" Some of these articles have carried with them beautiful pictures and descriptions of Salt Lake City and the Church Office building, along with fine write-ups about scenic Utah and its wealth in natural resources. The truth mixed with such brazen falsehood made the articles so ridiculous that instead of doing harm to our people they have been of inestimable value to our missionaries, because people who are educated and think for themselves realize that these statements are impossible, and when they came in contact with our missionaries the first thing they wanted to know was just how our Church organization does operate, why it is we send missionaries into the world, just what constitutes our beliefs, etc. These things gave us a wonderful opportunity to spread the Gospel among that people, giving us audiences that we could not otherwise have had. Therefore the Elders are taking advantage of this and are laboring with all their heart, might, mind, and strength among that people. 

I believe firmly that the Australian mission at the present time is in the healthiest condition it has ever enjoyed. The missionaries, though few in number, are doing a marvelous work. I have left them in the best of health. The Saints generally throughout Australia are also enjoying very good health and are not being hurt by this depression nearly so much as are the other people of the commonwealth. During the past few months there has been a remarkable growth in the Australian mission. There have been more converts baptized and more Books of Mormon distributed than in any other similar period in the entire history of the mission. This speaks volumes for the work the missionaries are doing there. 

I do not want you to think I am in any way placing all the honor or glory upon the Elders who are laboring there now. They are reaping what the other missionaries have sown in years past. These things run in cycles, and Australia at the present time is enjoying a cycle of reaping. Of course I realize fully that all blessings are contingent upon God and to him belong all praise, honor, and glory. 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

In closing I want to bear my testimony. I only hope and pray that I may ever remain steadfast in the Church of Jesus Christ, that I may  remain firm in the faith. As President Grant expressed in his opening address, I have never seen a time yet when I wavered the least bit or had any cause for doing so, nor have I come in contact with any doctrines of other churches that would cause me to waver in the least so far as my faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is concerned. I only hope and pray that if I live to see the age that President Grant has attained, I too may look back on my years and be able to continue to say that very thing. In fact, after looking over the doctrines of the world as they are being taught in the various denominations, I feel just as Peter did in the time of the Savior. You will recall some of the Redeemer's disciples had fallen away and left him, and he turned to the Twelve and said, "Will ye also go away?" Then Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life." That is what I say in regard to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If we haven't the Gospel in our Church today I do not know of any church that has, and I would say, to whom shall we go, because the words of eternal life are inculcated in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that it has everything within its fold that is conducive to health, happiness, and success, and the richest of all blessings, that of eternal life and increase. 

May God bless us all that we may worship and obey him throughout our lives, with all our heart, might, mind and strength, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

Today, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in my lot. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of laboring in authority of the holy priesthood. 

As I have listened to the remarks made during this Conference I have wondered if this so-called depression is not really a blessing. I recall six months ago President Charles W. Nibley called this condition to our attention and urged that we prepare ourselves to be ready to live according to the United Order. 

May I be pardoned if I take a moment to speak of him. He was as a father to me, for he was all a kind and loving father should be to a son. He came into our family life before I was born. In my youth I learned to call him "uncle." He loved my father with a devotion seldom found in men. Because of that devotion I have been exceedingly blessed. It was my good fortune and great privilege to work with him many years, to know of his faith and his integrity; and I want to testify to you that he was, through faith, the service he rendered and his life's work, in a position to advise us to prepare to meet the requirements of these Gospel teachings. He lived them and never taught anything that he did not believe, and that which he taught he believed with all his heart. As he learned the joy of service in the Lord's work during times of poverty and 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 107 

the need of such service in times of plenty, should we not accept his advice and example to guide us during this period of depression ? I want to relate just one incident. While he was the presiding bishop of the Church the majority interests of the Sugar Company were held by eastern capitalists. They were declared by the Government to be a trust and ordered dissolved. It appeared that if that were carried out the sugar industry of the intermountain country would cease to be, for sugar could be made much cheaper elsewhere. He went to New York, negotiated for the purchase of that stock, pledged every cent he had in the world to secure it and came home thinking it would be an easy matter to persuade his friends and business associates to help him carry the load. But few of them helped. On every hand men looking at dollars, not with the viewpoint he had, refused to help. 

I remember one day while sitting in the office he said : "I have been impressed that this industry should be preserved for this people. I may lose every cent I have in the world, but if I save the industry for this people I shall be satisfied." 

Later on, the demand seemed to grow in the East for that stock. It increased in value. Day after day men came to the office, the telephone rang, for people were then willing, when they could see a chance for an increased monetary value, to give him support. Later, during the great war, when the price of sugar was at the highest it has ever been, I had the honor of representing him on a committee to deal with the beetraisers to negotiate a contract; and his only advice was, "I want you to endeavor to secure an agreement for the division of profits between the beet-growers and those who have put their money into this industry." 

For days we argued, labored and pleaded with those who represented the beet-growers. Finally we were unable to reach an agreement. I shall never forget the final answer. I shouldn't repeat it but perhaps I can make a lesson of it. When I finally said : "Now let us be reasonable; let us reach an agreement in this matter that will be equitable and just," the spokesman of that committee said : "To hell with equity and justice. We know what we want and we are going to have it." And he evidently did know, for he got what they wanted and the beet-growers and the stockholders of the Sugar Company are still paying the debt. 

President Nibley was always ready to enter into the United Order. He taught it. He paid his tithes and his offerings, and every call made of him through the Gospel of Jesus Christ was uppermost in his mind and his soul. He never overlooked that statement which the Lord made, warning the rich man that unless he gave of his substance to the poor his riches would canker his soul. He had been poor, he knew what it was to go hungry and cold. He knew that the salvation of man, that which would secure for him exaltation in the kingdom of our Lord, must be obtained by faith and work. 

Again I say, I believe this time of depression is really a time of blessing, a time of fasting, a time in which we are called to turn to God, a time of purification. How can we live the United Order when we have not learned to live according to the law which teaches us to pay our tithes 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and offerings? How can we live according to the law of the United Order, which is only a counterpart of the great law of eternal salvation, which does not mean that every man shall share alike in amount, but only, as we have already learned in this Conference, insofar as he earns through his faith and his works the right to participate in the blessings ? Not all shall enjoy the celestial glory, but those only who earn that privilege. 

And so it comes right back to us, are we worthy, are we worthy to enjoy the blessings the Lord has promised? It seems to me that there is something more than to feed men and women bread. Oh, how many are there who are dying, slowly dying, spiritually, for want of spiritual food. We cannot help them by ridicule. We know ridicule and abuse are the methods of hell. The Gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that we shall love one another, and how many of us who hold the priesthood really love our neighbor ? How many of us are trying to feed those who are hungering for the Gospel ? If we could only touch the spark of life and cause it to burn within their souls, we should have no further concern, for the Gospel teaches men to do good. The testimony of the Gospel leads into the path of truth and righteousness and there is no greater work that we can do during this time of depression than to take advantage of this forced condition of humility in which we find ourselves and go forth to carry the Gospel message to those who are hungering, dying spiritually, for lack of spiritual food. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, may his Spirit be upon us, that we may carry his Gospel message to those who are careless and indifferent, who because of careless habits have lost the spirit and are wandering in darkness. Let us give them a helping hand and lead them into the light, that we may be blessed eternally, is my prayer, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

It is a wonderful privilege to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and to enjoy the fellowship of men and women whose standards of life are noble and uplifting. I appreciate the opportunity I have to live in this choice land of Zion and be guided and directed by the teachings of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and by the revelations given to the prophets of these latter days. I am thankful I have faith in the immortality of the soul, in divine revelation, in the restoration of the Gospel and in the blessings of the holy priesthood. In this Conference we have listened to words of inspiration, encouragement and helpfulness, which help prepare us for the battle of life and give us a greater desire to continue in this work in which the Lord has called us to labor. 

Marvelous changes have taken place in the last thirty years because of the development of the automobile, the radio, motion pictures and sound pictures. Not only have amusements and recreation changed the 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 109 

general attitude toward life, ibut modern commercial life has also affected us. We are still suffering from the effects of the World war, which has changed some of our ideals and habits. I feel that these changes have had a serious effect upon the attitude of the Latter-day Saints, particularly toward the Lord's day of rest. Our own exacting requirements have made it necessary for railways, street cars, and other forms of transportation to be carried on even on the Lord's day. 

I have been thinking concerning the Lord's day, mentioned briefly by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, and I wish to call attention at this time to the important commandments of the Lord which he has given to his people in the past and in the present day concerning his day of rest. Let us briefly remind ourselves what the Lord requires of us. 

While the Children of Israel were traveling in Sinai preparing to enter the Promised Land, an incident of great importance took place. Moses was commanded to prepare the people to behold the face of God. They gathered around Mount Sinai, but when the ground shook and the mountain rocked and was covered with smoke and fire, the people were afraid and said unto Moses, "Speak thou with us, and we will hear : but let not God speak with us, lest we die." Then the Lord spake unto Moses, giving him the decalogue, or the Ten Commandments. Among those commandments is one that refers to the Sabbath day, as follows : 

"Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. 

"Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work : 

"But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates : 

"For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it." 

The Lord required the seventh day as a day of rest. It was to be holy unto the Lord. Even in the daily collection of manna, a double portion fell on the sixth day, the day before the Sabbath, so there would be no necessity for gathering food on the seventh day. Not only was it a day of rest, but the Lord said that the Children of Israel should observe that day and sanctify it. The observance of the Sabbath day was a distinctive badge of membership in the Hebrew community. No law given to the Hebrew people was more strictly observed. 

In the days of the Savior the Jews had made so many restrictions concerning the Sabbath day that the Master himself stated, "The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath." The Jews looked upon the observance of that day as a covenant, as indicated in the word of the Lord to Moses, contained in Exodus 31, verses 13, 16 and 17, as follows: 

"Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep : for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. . . . 

"Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant. 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever : for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed." 

In commemoration of the resurrection of our Redeemer and the fact that he appeared to his disciples and others on the first day of the week, this day was observed by the early Christians as a day of rest, which was known as the Lord's day. 

To us the first day of the week is the Lord's day. The Lord has not left his people in doubt as to the use and purpose of his day. On Sunday, the 7th day of August, 1831, a few days after the land of Zion had been dedicated for the gathering of his people, there was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith a revelation known as Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, part of which is as follows : 

"Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments. . . . 

"Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; 

"For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; 

"Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; 

But remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. 

And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full." 

This is the way the Lord intends the Latter-day Saints to observe the Lord's day. He intends that we shall cease from our labors and pay our devotions to the Most High, live restfully and quietly during the day, and attend the house of worship and offer up our sacraments to our Father in heaven. It is obligatory upon every Latter-day Saint to observe this day both in its spirit and meaning. 

President Brigham Young in his day called attention to better observance of the Lord's day. He said : 

"All Latter-day Saints should observe the Sabbath by resting from all labor, except those who must be detained to take care of children or perform some work of mercy. Now, remember those who go skating, buggy riding, or on excursions on the Sabbath day are weak in the faith and gradually, little by little, the spirit of their religion leaks out of their hearts and their affections. When I see a man gathering in his crops, or cattle, or making repairs on the Lord's day, I count him weak in the faith. At least he has lost the spirit of his religion. We should devote our time as the Church requires it on the Lord's day, for the express purpose of renewing our mental and physical powers and getting our spiritual food." 

President Joseph F. Smith frequently called attention to the lax 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 111 

observance of the Sabbath day among the Latter-day Saints, and spoke as follows : 

"Men are not resting from their labors when they plow, plant, dig or do work of any kind. Men are not resting when they work around the house all day doing odd jobs. Men are not honoring the Lord when they go to places of amusement. Men are not honoring the Lord when they loiter around ice cream places, go to ball games and witness these games. It is a reflection on any Latter-day Saint to patronize a ball game on the Lord's day." 

Quite recently President Heber J. Grant and his counselors, noting the trend among the Latter-day Saints, made the following appeal : 

"The Lord's day is a holy day — not a holiday. It has been set apart as a day of rest and worship. A sacred Sabbath begets reverence for God. It is not pleasing in his sight that the day be given over to pleasure-seeking in places of amusement or elsewhere. Sunday schools and meetings have been so arranged as to meet the convenience of the people and leave a considerable portion of the Sabbath day without Church appointments. We earnestly appeal to the people to keep their meeting appointments faithfully and to utilize that portion of Sunday not appointed for meetings in promoting family association in the home, with the purpose of stimulating and establishing greater home fealty, a closer companionship among parents and children, and more intimate relations among all kindred. We believe that it is unnecessary for families to go beyond their homes or those of their kindred for the relaxation and association which are proper for the Sabbath day, and we therefore discourage more traveling than is necessary for this purpose and attendance upon appointed meetings. Let all unnecessary labor be suspended and let no encouragement be given by the attendance of members of the Church at places of amusement and recreation on the Sabbath day. If Sunday is spent in our meetings and in our homes, great blessings will come to our families and communities." 

No person can disregard the Lord's day without suffering serious spiritual consequences. If we neglect to observe it, we shall become sick spiritually. The Sabbath-breaker will lose faith in this great work, for faith can only be developed by service and obedience to the commandments of the Lord. The Lord is not pleased with Latter-day Saints who attend Sunday shows, Sunday ball games, who play golf on Sunday, go on canyon trips, or visit places of amusement; .nor is he pleased with those who do unnecessary labor on the Lord's day. 

When we observe the Lord's day and carry out the spirit of the instructions of the Lord, as I have quoted in Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we shall grow in spiritual power and usefulness, great faith will come into our souls, and our minds and bodies will become rested. This observance will have a refining influence in our homes and on our families. Sabbath observance will teach our children the great lessons of obedience they so much need. 

The commandment to keep the Lord's day holy is always binding upon the Lord's people. Let us get in harmony with the word of the Lord concerning the proper observance of his day and make it a day of rest and devotion to the Most High. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "High on the mountain tops." 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles Dear Brethren, Sisters, and Listeners : 

INDIVIDUAL REVELATION 

Recently I was asked if I thought the Lord would not have something to say to the people of the Church at this Conference, of course through his prophets. "If there was ever a time when divine revelation was needed, it is now," my questioner remarked. Apparently he did not have in mind one of our fundamental doctrines relative to revelation. It was stated by President Joseph F. Smith in these words : 

"The spirit of inspiration, the gift of revelation, does not belong to one man solely; it is not a gift that pertains to the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve Apostles alone. It is not confined to the presiding authorities of the Church; * * * and it is the right and privilege of every man, every woman, and every child who has reached the years of accountability, to enjoy the spirit of revelation. * * * It is the privilege of every individual member of the Church to have revelation for his own guidance, for the direction of his life and conduct — " (Gospel Doctrine, page 42). 

In further explanation, President Smith said, 

"Every individual in the Church has the right to enjoy the spirit of revelation — for his own good — to exercise these gifts and these privileges in the conduct of his own affairs, in bringing up his children in the way they should go, and in the management of his farm, his flocks, his herds and the management of his business" (Gospel Doctrine, page 43). 

These truths relative to revelation are generally understood by the Latter-day Saints but they are also sometimes forgotten. Is it not greatly encouraging, however, to know that we may get light and wisdom from God our Father to guide us aright in solving our individual problems and to help us in our private affairs ? If we can be so fortunate as to have wisdom enough to manage well our personal affairs and to carry acceptably our particular responsibilities, why should we worry about revelations to the Church? 

REVELATION TO THE CHURCH 

Respecting this type of revelation, President Smith said on another occasion : 

"So far as I know there is not an ordinance of the Church now enjoyed or practiced that was not revealed to the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know of no new doctrine that has been revealed. Principles that were revealed to the Prophet Joseph have grown and developed more fully and clearly to the understanding; but we have received nothing new that I know of." (Gospel Doctrine, page 43). 

But on another occasion in speaking on this same subject, President Smith said : 

"There is a great deal that has been revealed that has not yet been lived up to, I assure you. There is a great deal yet remaining to be learned. * * * There is a great deal that has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph and his 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 113 

associates that the people have not yet received in their hearts, and have not yet become converted to as they should. When we obey and are capable of observing the precepts of the Gospel and the laws of God and the requirements of heaven, which have already been revealed, * * * then there are other things still greater yet to be revealed to the people of God." (Gospel Doctrine, page 44.) 

Weak as we are, disobedient as we are, hard hearted and stubborn as we are, I wonder if it would not be more becoming of us to fear new revelation than to desire it. Of course we believe "God will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to" his kingdom. But I fear that we are not yet ready for or worthy of the revelation of these things. What do you think about it ? . 

But of course we do believe in continuous revelation, in the doctrine that God lives and that he reveals his will to worthy individuals who believe in him and who obey his commandments. Especially do we believe that God makes known his mind and will concerning the Church, its membership and the world generally through his prophet, the President of the Church. At this point let me illustrate my meaning by an example. 

CHRISTMAS GREETINGS QUOTED 

In the Christmas edition of the Deseret News, December 19, 1931, the First Presidency of the Church published their "Christmas Greetings." May I read some excerpts from these Greetings? 

"With the coming of Christmastide and the dawning of a new year, we are confronted with a bankrupt world — a world in which the nations, as well as individuals, find themselves fettered with the bonds of debt. A universal depression exists, the like of which has never before prevailed under similar conditions. 

"With banks overburdened with money, thousands of honest toilers are unable to pay the grocer. With elevators bursting with wheat, industrial workers are without bread. With warehouses over-stocked with sugar which cannot be sold, children cry for the sweets which they so much crave but cannot procure." 

And the Greetings continue : 

"The prophet Isaiah, referring to the age in which we live, tells us that a time of tribulation will come from which none shall escape. He says : 'It shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with the master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him.'." 

And then the Greetings continue with these cheering words: 

"Notwithstanding the confusion which at the present prevails in this world of ours, we have much to be thankful for, and we can look (confidently to brighter days." 

But what are the conditions ? They are clearly stated in the Greetings as follows : 

"If the people of the world will turn to God, and acknowledge His Son, our Redeemer; if each citizen of our country will put away selfishness, strife and bitterness; if men who enact our laws will be governed by the necessities of all of the people, and not of a favored few; if every citizen will pledge himself to rigidly observe the laws, and uphold the men Who frame and execute them — " 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Then what will happen if these conditions are all fulfilled ? Listen, I beg of you, to the glorious promises of the Greetings : 

"The sun pi (prosperity will shine again, and peace and plenty will prevail from the rivers to the ends of the earth." 

But what if these conditions are not fulfilled and we continue as we have been doing? I reply in the language of the Greetings: 

"If the extravagant expenditure of money by our government, our states, our counties, and municipalities, and citizens, as it has prevailed during the past few years, is to continue; if heavier burdens of taxation are to be saddled upon the people; if murders, robberies, racketeering, tha appointment or election of dishonest men to office, and other violations of the law are to go unpunished — " 

Then what will be the consequences ? Hear, I pray you, these fateful words of the Greetings: 

"Chaos must be our inevitable heritage." 

To all of you who are looking for or desire the word of the Lord applied to the conditions of this very hour, I most earnestly commend these Greetings. And may I remind you that the document, part of which I have just read, was signed by the Presidency of this Church, Heber J. Grant and Anthony W. Ivins, who are mouthpieces of God to this people. And do not forget, I beg of you, that President Grant holds all the keys, authority, rights and, powers of the holy priesthood that were ever given to any man that lived upon the earth. 

And so to me these Greetings are an expression of God's will to us, to the world. They are in very deed a revelation of his will to the Church, as authoritative and as scriptural as any passages in the Holy Bible. Extravagant claims, do you say? Well, they state my deep and honest convictions relative to this point. 

HOW TO WIN THE FAVOR OF THE LORD 

And what must we do to win God's favor in order that "the sun of prosperity shall shine again," a desideratum for which all the world is longing? Let us read the document over and over until the conditions are unforgettably impressed upon our memories. Briefly paraphrased, we must observe the two great commandments and make the Golden Rule the actual motto of our lives. 

CAUSES OF DEPRESSION 

Why are we, the country, the world, in our present fix? Because we have forgotten and disobeyed our Creator and God. The words in the Greetings are my scriptural authority for this declaration. My thinking leads me irresistibly to the conclusions expressed in the document. 

In this "depression" the people as a whole are perhaps not unjustly suffering. We live in a world governed by law. There are so-called natural laws — divine laws — as well as human laws. A violation of law entails, in justice, a recompense. Hence, we suffer, in general, not because God whimsically afflicts us, but because of violation of some kind 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 115 

of law or laws. The idea I have in mind is related to the declaration in Section 130 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 20-21. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is iby obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

It follows, of course, that if we violate law we shall have to suffer the consequences. Justice requires this. 

We live in a world of plenty — there is plenty of food, plenty of clothing and shelter or the means of making them; yet there are millions of God's children who are hungry, ragged, and cold at this very moment. And why ? Many reasons can be given, but in the last analysis, they are reducible to one— selfishness. And through his servants, the Lord lays down as one condition for the return of prosperity the elimination of selfishness in our inter-relations. 

Of the many "cures" for the "depression" that I have read, except the one just quoted, not one is based upon unselfishness. In fact, selfishness appears to be the most prominent characteristic of most of these "cures" and for that reason none of them will "cure." God's inspired servants have made this plain, and reason, too, tells the thoughtful that they are right. 

UNSELFISHNESS THE CURE 

The return of peace, happiness, and prosperity to all the people demands a basis of stability. But this can never be until all who are able to work have work to do, until there is a job for everyone. And a workable plan that will provide a job for everyone at a living wage, must have unselfishness as its outstanding characteristic. I can find no logical escape from this conclusion. And so far as I can see, no workable plan can go into effect until our political, financial, economic, industrial and labor leaders get together around a council table and agree. If this is true, why do they not do it? Selfishness is the answer. And selfishness will always be a controlling factor until the two great commandments are dominant in the minds and hearts of men. We demand that the federal government reduce expenses and balance the budget. And have you observed that every proposition made in Washington to reduce federal expenses in Utah meets with our violent protest? We wish the government to reduce expenses elsewhere but to increase them in Utah. Why? Is not selfishness the answer? 

And we want the budget balanced. This means the government must raise more money. How? The only way seems to be by some form of increased taxation, but we protest every suggestion to increase our taxes. Apparently we are far, very far, from a willingness to live the "Golden Rule." We are willing for the other fellow to be taxed, but protest being taxed ourselves. 

BANK FAILURES 

Let me give you another illustration, a delicate one I admit. There 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

have been many bank failures in this intermountain country during the past year. The closing was due in most cases, probably, to a "run on the bank." Now of course when we think a little about the matter it is clear that no bank can immediately give back to depositors all their money. Some of it is always loaned out on time accounts, and borrowers are not able to pay on demand. Hence if all the depositors make a run on a bank they will inevitably force it to close. Now what causes a run ? Selfishness, of course. If the bank is in distress, let the other fellow lose. I want my money and so rush after it, hoping to beat the other fellow to the bank, if in this matter all depositors were to live the Golden Rule there would be few, if any, losers and few, if any, bank closings. This is a self-evident fact. 

THE EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT 

Another illustration: Certain powerful interests in the United States are carrying on an intensive campaign, designed to nullify or eliminate the 18th amendment to the constitution of the United States. Vast amounts of money, it is said, are behind the active but deceptive propaganda to effect this result. And why do some people want the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors again legalized? Once more I assert, selfishness is the dominating motive. Selfishness is at the bottom of all law violation, of depravity, and crime. And if selfishness shall continue as the ruling motive in human affairs, chaos will result. This is the conclusion of the Greetings. 

Some people are simple enough to believe that legalizing the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors in the United States will bring back prosperity to the country. Are England and Germany prosperous ? As well say a man can lift himself by his boot straps. Can a country drink itself into prosperity by imbibing narcotic beverages? Reason stands aghast at such a proposition. And the fact that the governing board of a powerful local organization gives support to such an idea does not rob it of its absurdity. Further, 2.75 °fo beer cannot be made and sold in this country without violation of the 18th amendment, because 2.75% beer is intoxicating, a fact unquestionably established by scientific investigations. (See How to Live, p. 366.) 

THE LORD'S WAY BEST 

Now the sooner we believe the Lord's way is the best way, the better it will be for us, the country and the world. It is not only the best way, it is the only way to secure permanent prosperity. If we do not accept this truth and act accordingly we shall continue to suffer, for the Lord will not be mocked. His prophets have spoken. 

May the Lord give us eyes to see, hearts to feel, minds to understand and wills to do, so that the clouds of adversity shall roll away, the sun of prosperity shall shine again, and peace and plenty shall prevail "from the rivers to the ends of the earth," I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 117 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The Literary Digest of April 2nd, 1932, contains the following 3.rticlc  ' 

"THE DRUNKARD DISAPPEARING" 

"The tremendous army of the -unemployed and down-and-outers seeking aid from the Salvation Army is almost entirely drink-free, and poverty from drink is a negligible factor in the current depression. 

"This is the testimony of Col. 'George H. Davis, in charge of the Salvation Army forces at Chicago, who backs up his opinion by the experience of his organization with more than a million cases of hard luck and poverty in the past few months. i 

"Colonel Davis' statement was made to the Illinois Conference of Organizations Supporting the Eighteenth Amendment. It is offered by the W. C. T. U. in opposing the group now fighting Prohibition. 

"As it is issued by the Salvation Army, Colonel Davis's statement is, in part, as 'follows : \ 

" 'Out of more than a million cases we have dealt with in the last sixteen months, there were only seventy-five bad cases of drink, and of moderate cases, only 500. 

" 'From October 11, 1930, to February 3, 1932, we helped 1,102,545 unemployed men. Of this number ,we found 99.92 per cent drink free. Having nothing to do, many of these men would have drunk to excess if they could get the liquor. 

" 'I did not realize the small percentage of drinking men that (pass through our doors until I personally checked it up. 

" 'The number of iwomen coming to our doors with a tale of being ruined Iby drink is less than 1 per tent of the entire number, whereas in former days it was a considerable proportion. i 

" 'In our family welfare relief work in these days we seldom find need arising from strong drink on the jpart of one or other of the parents, whereas in the old days it was 90 out of 100 cases. In fact, poverty from drink has almost disappeared. I 

" 'The old-time drunkard, the wets of the country notwithstanding, is gone. 

" 'Before Prohibition the Salvation Army would gather drunks by the truckload and busload ,from the saloons and park benches. Today one would have to search high and low in every American city to find at one time 100 men and women of the type the Salvation Army ( used to gather by the thousands under the rule of John Barleycorn.' 

"This agrees with the experience of Commander Evangeline Booth. As noted in these pages May 17, 1930, she said that before Prohibition the Salvation Army in New York .would collect 1,200 to 1,300 drunkards in a night, whereas Prohibition immediately reduced the number to 400." 


