Morning
08 04 1932

The opening session of the Conference commenced promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday morning, April 8th, at which time the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were almost completely filled with people who had assembled from all parts of the Church. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and called the Conference to order by announcing the opening hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," which was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Willard Young offered the opening prayer. 

Sister Edith Grant Young sang a solo "The City four square." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the opportunity of again meeting with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference. 

It has been customary for many years in the opening of these conferences to give a statement regarding the expenditures in the various stakes of Zion, and for other purposes. 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1931 are as follows : 

Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake meeting houses $ 545,630.69 

For ward maintenance expenses 647,194.36 

For stake maintenance expenses 254,025.41 

$1,446,850.46 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system. . $ 751,200.28 

Temples : 

Expended for the construction, maintenance, and operation 

of temples 201,833.50 

Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment 224,556.38 

Missions : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions 757,126.76 

Total $3,381,567.38 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and Temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities, and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $455,423.46, which amount, added to the $224,556.38 paid from the tithes, makes the total, charity assistance rendered by the Church. .$ 679,979.84 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church 

and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance 66,783.90 

MEMBERS SPEND MILLION 

Undoubtedly there has been expended by the people themselves, in sending missionaries out into the world and taking care of them while there, considerably more than one million dollars. 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE YEAR 1931 

We have at the present time: Stakes of Zion, 104; wards, 934; Independent branches, 70; Dependent branches, 35; total wards and branches in the stakes of Zion, 1,039; missions, 30; mission branches 860; districts, 266. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the 

stakes and missions 19,804 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 15,283 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and 

missions 7,596 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1931 1,627 Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1931 30 Number of local missionaries 46 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 1,703 

Number engaged in missionary work in stakes 1,151 

Total missionaries 2,854 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 601 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 72,152 SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29 per thousand. 

Marriage rate, 12.8 per thousand. 

Death rate, 6.6 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 65.2 per cent. 

HOME OWNING URGED 

Our records show that in years gone by over 75 per cent of the people owned their own homes. There is a spiritual growth always when people own their own homes. The owning of a home creates a spirit of loyalty to the Church and also, really, to the government. It is illustrated somewhat in an incident that I heard regarding a nobleman in France who was very wealthy. His butler, who drew a large salary, attended socialistic meetings. The nobleman noticed that the butler had discontinued attending these meetings and asked the reason. 

Said he: "At the last meeting a report was made of how much per capita everybody would receive when all of the wealth was appropriated and distributed, and already I have more in the savings bank than would come to me." 

It cured him completely. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

Stake President Appointed : 

John B. Reed appointed president of the San Luis stake to succeed James P. Jensen. 

New Mission Presidents : 

James H. Douglas appointed president of the British mission to succeed A. William Lund. 

Alonzo A. Hinckley appointed president of the California mission to succeed Joseph W. McMurrin. 

Clarence H. Tingey appointed president of the Australian mission to Succeed Leonidas D. Mecham, acting-president. 

Gustave W. Forsberg appointed president of the Swedish mission to succeed Gideon N. Hulterstrom. 

New Wards Organised : 

Torrence ward, Los Angeles stake. Farmington ward, Young stake. Caliente ward, Moapa stake. 

New Independent Branches: 

Alameda branch, San Francisco stake. Hayward branch, San Francisco stake. 

General Authorities Who Have Passed Away: 

Charles W. Nibley, 2nd counselor in the First Presidency. Hyrum G. Smith, Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 5 

Bishops Who Have Passed Away : 

Adrian Schipper, Elmhurst ward, San Francisco stake. S. J. Lindsay, Taylorsville ward, Cottonwood stake. John M. Grow, Middleton ward, Ogden stake. 

LAUDS THOSE DEAD 

I am sure that those of us who had the opportunity of attending the funeral of President Charles W. Nibley felt very grateful for the remarkable spirit that was present and for the very splendid tributes that were paid to him. I had that privilege and I rejoice in the spirit of the occasion, and in the excellent remarks. 

I regret that I was in the East at the time of the funeral of the Patriarch. But from what I have read of the services I am very pleased indeed with the tributes paid to him. 

In addition to these officials of the Church whose names I have read, who have passed away during the time since our last Conference, the editor of the Improvement Era,_ and former president of Liberty stake of Zion, Brother Hugh J. Cannon, has also passed away. Brother Cannon presided over the Swiss and German mission many years ago when I was president of the European mission. 

He subsequently returned to Germany and Switzerland and fulfilled a third mission, he having been there originally as a young missionary, not presiding. Brother Cannon, as you are all aware, filled a mission with Brother David O. McKay, taking a trip around the world, visiting all the missions of the Church, I believe, with the exception of South Africa. I rejoice in the splendid record that Brother Hugh J. Cannon made in every Church position that he occupied. He was a man of God, a man worthy of the respect and admiration of all people. 

RECEIVES LETTER 

I received this morning a letter from Brother Robert I. Burton, president of Mount Ogden stake. Among other things he says : 

"The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the source of the greatest comfort and joy to me, and I never tire of its message. Attendance at the Conference thrills and stimulates me more than I am able to tell. I count it as one of the great blessings of my life, that I have been permitted to become personally acquainted with you and other General Authorities of the Church and to labor with you in a humble way in the great cause of our Heavenly Father. I know of the cleanness and purity of your life, and I am filled with righteous indignation when I read such scurrilous attacks as are made against you in a little four page sheet recently issued. It seems to me that something should be clone with men who send such slanderous vilifications through the mail." 

MALICIOUS COMMUNICATIONS 

I received the sheet to which he refers and it found its place in the waste basket. I did not read a word of it. When men have so lived that they are unworthy to be in the Church and are cast out, they are wasting their time sending me printed matter or written matter. The 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

waste basket is large and capable of holding all such communications. It is a little disappointing in one sense not to take action against premeditated falsifiers. 

I am tempted to ask the government to prosecute the people who use the mails to circulate malicious falsehoods. But there is something about the fact that when you handle a smoky, sooty stove-pipe you get your hands soiled, and it is a question whether such lies are worthy of any consideration. 

DENIES CHARGES 

In all my travels I have never paid any attention to a certain Lulu Shepherd, perhaps the greatest female liar who ever drew the breath of life. I cannot help but wish that some of her falsehoods were true. In a synopsis of one of her lectures in Brooklyn, she is reported to have said I owned Union Pacific and other railroad preferred stocks and bonds amounting to one hundred million dollars, and I did not have a dollar of such securities. I could wish' I had the millions of dollars' worth of stocks and bonds for which she gave me credit. In this lecture she is reported to have named nine states of the Union that I controlled politically, and to have said that no man could be the president of the United States without my consent. The states as I remember were Colorado, Utah, Idaho, Montana, Washington, Oregon, Arizona, Nevada and New Mexico. Instead of controlling those states I did not know the names of the governors of any of them except Idaho and Arizona, and of course our own state. And I do not know that I would have known personally the governor of Idaho if the president of the United States at that time — Warren G. Harding — had not introduced me to him when he came into the President's car as I was riding up to Idaho Falls and Pocatello — not as a guest of the President, but as a guest of the vice president and general manager of the Oregon Short Line Railroad company in his private car. 

"mormons" lauded 

I do not know that I would have known the Governor of Arizona were it not for the fact that we had had a convention of governors here at the Capitol and Governor Campbell was one of those who did us the honor of calling at our office. When I met him I shook hands with him and said : 

"Governor, I heard a very interesting story regarding a statement made by your predecessor. It was that among the best of the citizens of Arizona in early days were the 'Mormon' pioneers, and that in one particular the 'Mormons' were being robbed out of a share of the public funds of Arizona. They were losing from twenty-five hundred to three thousand per cent of their share of the criminal taxes; as they were entitled to have, in proportion to their number, twenty-five or thirty inmates in the state penitentiary, and had but one. When I went to Arizona I mentioned this fact in a meeting in St. Johns, and the District Judge arose and said : 'That one has since been pardoned.' " 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 7 

The Governor smiled and said : "Mr. Grant, that is correct. He was pardoned." 

INTEGRITY PLEASES 

I rejoice in the integrity of the Latter-day Saints, I rejoice in the absolute honesty of the men who have held positions as the General Authorities in this Church, the falsehoods of any human being to the contrary notwithstanding. 

I rejoice in the fact that when I was in England I carried a letter from non-"Mormon" bankers in Salt Lake City vouching for me as a gentleman of unquestioned integrity and honesty, and from bankers in San Francisco, Chicago and New York, containing the same kind of recommendation. I remember calling on a newspaper that had published seven to ten columns, I am sure, of vile misrepresentations about us, carrying with me a letter of introduction from the shipping firm with whom we had done business for over sixty years, not only vouching for my honesty and integrity, but for that of every president of the European mission during that period. And yet the assistant editor of the paper positively refused to publish one word of refutation. I pleaded with him to no avail. 

ANSWERS EDITOR 

I walked to the door, turned and said : 

"By-the-way, my letter was not to you. It was to the editor. The boy who came down stairs announced that the editor was absent but that the assistant editor, Mr. Robinson, would receive me. Is your name Robinson?" 

"Yes." 

"Do you know Phil Robinson?" 

"Why everybody knows Phil Robinson." 

I said : "Was he the correspondent of the London Daily Telegraph during the Boer War, one of the two greatest [and I emphasized "greatest" because his paper was not one of the two] newspapers in Great Britain?" 

"He was." 

"And would you believe anything that Phil Robinson said?" 

"I would." 

"Is he editing the Court and Societv Journal here in London?" 

"He is." 

CHALLENGES PROOF 

"Seeing that you believe anything this gentleman says, buy his book entitled 'Sinners and Saints,' it will cost you two shillings, and you wijl find that everything you have published in your paper about the 'Mormons' is a lie pure and simple. Phil Robinson traveled from Idaho in the north to Arizona in the south, through all of our settlements, with the late John Henry Smith, and he met our people, and yon will find if you will read his book that you have published a lot of falsehoods. I 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

defy you to get a letter of introduction vouching for the honesty of any person who has furnished you the information that has been printed in your paper against us, and I have in my valise letters from bankers in Utah and from bankers in New York, Chicago and San Francisco, vouching for my honesty, and I brand your publication as false." 

"Well," he said, "you surprise me, that Phil Robinson would vouch for your people." 

ASKS FOR HALF COLUMN 

"Oh," I said, "you are not the first person that has been surprised when he ran up against the 'Mormon' question." 

He said, "Write us a half column." 

I said, "Small favors thankfully received; large ones in proportion. Seven to ten columns of misrepresentations and a half column of refutation. You shall have it within the next two hours." 

He received it all right and kept it thirty or sixty days and returned it with the usual printed slip that I have seen very often: "The editor regrets that he cannot find space for the enclosed manuscript, which is returned." 

ATTITUDE CHANGES 

What a change has come about! Today reporters attend our meetings in all parts of the British Isles and make fair reports of everything that goes on. Three whole years in England without one single line of refutation in any newspaper when I presided there. The wonderful work accomplished by Brother Talmage, and that is being accomplished by Brother Widtsoe, in getting us before the public honestly and fairly, in our missions in Europe, has filled my heart with joy and gratitude. 

SEVENTY-FIFTH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATED 

It may not be out of place today for me to make a few remarks that are personal in their nature. I never expected when I was a young man to live to announce that I had celebrated my seventy-fifth birthday. I often said in my youth that if I could live twenty-five per cent longer than my father who died when he was forty, I would be perfectly satisfied with life, which would be until I was fifty years of age. Today I have lived fifty per cent longer than that, and to be perfectly frank with you, I am not quite satisfied with life now, but would like to live a little longer. 

THANKFUL FOR HEALTH 

I rejoice in what I have seen in the seventy-five years of my life. It may sound a little egotistical, but few men reach the age of seventy-five years in perfect vigor of health of body and mind, and I desire in this Conference to express to my Heavenly Father and to the people composing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, my gratitude for this vigor of body and of mind, and for the health that I possess. I am grateful, beyond all of my ability to express my gratitude, for the prayers and the faith and the good will of the Latter-day Saints. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 9 

APPRECIATIVE OF LOVE AND CONFIDENCE OF SAINTS 

There is nothing in the world, I am sure, that a man should value so highly as the love of those with whom he is associated, and I appreciate very greatly the love and confidence of. the Latter-day Saints and of the officers of the Church. That this has been extended to me fills my heart with gratitude beyond all my ability to express it, and the blessings that have come to me from my Heavenly Father and the honors that have come to me in being permitted to stand here representing his Son Jesus Christ in the restored Gospel, fill my heart to overflowing. 

FAITH IN THE GOSPEL 

I am grateful beyond expression that from the time I was a boy of fifteen, and entered the office of a non-member of the Church — working for non-members of the Church from then until just before I was twenty, when I went into business for myself — I am grateful that I have never found anything at home or abroad, in all these sixty years, that has in the slightest degree lessened my faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

But, on the contrary, I have been constantly finding additional evidences of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. This a' source of the keenest gratification to me. Evidences of the 



 of the work have come to me from time to time, some of them very strong. 

STRANGE EVIDENCE 

I have often mentioned it in public, that while I was being entertained at a dinner in London by one of the managers of the great New York Life Insurance Company I met a gentleman who had been connected with the British Legation in Constantinople and who had spent years in the Holy Land. He had been to America a number of times. I spent the evening, after dinner, chatting with him because of his remarkable experiences and the interesting things he had to say. Finally he said to me : 

"Mr. Grant, do you know that I ran across the most inexplicable thing of my life the last time I visited Canada. I went way up into the northern wilds of Canada, beyond all civilization, visiting with those heathen Indians. I found among them the exact pattern, woven in colored beads, of Holy Land rugs, and in no other part of the world that I have visited have I seen any rugs of the same pattern as those oriental rugs in the Holy Land, and in some sections certain patterns have come down for hundreds, almost thousands of years, in one family. They have no fabrics up among those Indians with which to do weaving, but they had the exact patterns, yet they had never heard of Jerusalem, and it is the most inexplicable thing of my life." 

I said : "That is very easy to a Mormon. Have you ever heard of the Book of Mormon?" 

"No." 

"I will send you a copy. It is the Bible, so to speak, of the American Indians, their sacred history, and you will find that the forefathers 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of the American Indians and other peoples who have been on this continent came from Jerusalem." 

He said: "What! That explains the inexplicable." Now that may not be. counted by some as much of a straw of evidence, but to my mind it is a very great evidence regarding the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. 

INTIMATE WITH BRIGHAM YOUNG 

I am grateful to bear witness to this audience that from the time I was a little child not more than five, I am sure, until the day of his death, when I was nearly twenty-one, I was very intimate with Brigham Young; that when the bell would ring for family prayers, quite frequently I would run through our back lot across through Brother George A. Smith's lot and across the street, and kneel down in President Rrigham Young's home at family prayers. 

I knew him intimately, as I say, from the time I was five or six years of age. I was born where the Z. C. M. I. store now stands. Father's lot was 165 feet front by 330 feet deep, the lot just like it on the south was occupied by Edward Hunter, and a lot of the same size on the north was occupied by Daniel H. Wells, two of as God-fearing, kind, splendid men as ever drew the breath of life. T grew up under their tutorship to a certain extent. 

RECALLS LAST INTERVIEW 

The last interview I had with Brigham Young was on the very day he was taken sick. I met him coming out of his office with a cape on his arm and I said : 

"President Young, I was elected yesterday the assistant cashier of Zion's Savings Bank, and I have been told this morning that I must give a bond of twenty-five thousand dollars to vouch for my honesty. It occurs to me that it would be very appropriate and a nice thing for the president of the bank to sign the bond of the assistant cashier." 

He smiled and said : "Heber, I have had a very strenuous day. I am just going for a ride. I shall be glad to sign the bond. I do not see how I could get out of it because I said so many good things about you in the directors' meeting yesterday, (or the day before, I have forgotten which) about your integrity and honesty and favoring you for this job; and if I refuse to sign your bond now, the directors would say, 'What did you say all those good things about him for if you are afraid to sign his bond?'" 

He came home, was taken sick and passed away. I am sure, from my own experience and all of the symptoms that were published in the paper, he died of appendicitis. During all those years of my acquaintance with him, fully fifteen, I learned to love and respect him as a man of God, a man of great ability. 

GREATNESS RECOGNIZED 

I remember saying to the vice president of a great bank with hundreds of millions of dollars, that the day would come when Brigham 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 11 

Young would be acknowledged as one of the greatest pioneers and colonizers who ever lived. 

He said : "Why say the day will come ? No man who knows anything of the accomplishments of Brigham Young but what could say the day has come." 

WANTED LARGE STATE 

Do you know that all this trouble about the Hoover dam and the division of water never would have come about if we had got all that President Young tried to get. 

All that he asked for when he knocked for admission into the Union as the State of Deseret was all of Utah, fully one-half of Colorado, a little patch down in New Mexico so as to take in the San Juan River, all of Arizona, Nevada as far as the Sierra Nevada Mountains, Idaho way up into the north, and one-third of what is now California. 

Los Angeles . and that whole section would have been included. Every drop of water that goes into the Hoover dam would have been in the State of Deseret. Texas would not have been in it for size. This shows the great capacity of the man. He sent scouts into the various sections of the country, realizing as he did that irrigation was what was going to count, through the inspiration of the Lord, in this country, and he arranged to get all of the watershed of the Colorado River. 

LAUDS PREDECESSORS 

As you all know I was chosen as one of the Apostles during the administration of John Taylor, a God-fearing, inspirational man. I can vouch absolutely from my intimate association with him from the day I was made an Apostle, two years after he became the president, to the day of his death, for the inspiration of the living God that came to him and the nobility and uprightness of his life. 

I can say the same of Wilford Woodruff during his administration, and of Lorenzo Snow. I can say the same thing of President Joseph F. Smith, than whom I am sure no man has lived more in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints from the days of the Prophet Joseph to his day as the president of the Church. I rejoice in my knowledge of the integrity of their lives, their honesty, and their devotion to God, and that the first and foremost thing with them was to labor for the Gospel and the spread of truth upon the earth. 

LETTER PLEASES 

I rejoice in a letter that I received from the general manager of one of the greatest life insurance companies in the world when I was made an Apostle. He said : 

"I owe an apology, Heber, to your fourteen associates in the Presidency and Apostles. I have always thought they were a designing lot, that they were getting rich because of the religious enthusiasm and the ignorance of the people of your Church, gathering in their tithes, etc. But now that you are one of the fifteen, I apologize to the other fourteen. If they were not honest and upright men they would not dare invite you 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

into their councils, because if there were anything crooked you would give the whole thing away. I know you are fundamentally honest from the crown of your head to the soles of your feet." 

No truer statement was ever made by mortal man than that by Josh Billings: "Never judge a man. by his relatives, he cannot help them, they are crowded upon him; but judge him by the company he keeps, because he picks his own." 

PRAISED BY MILLIONAIRE 

I met a millionaire on the street — the late David Wood — the next morning after Anthony W. Ivins was made an Apostle, and he said : 

"Hold on, Grant, don't walk so fast. I want to tell you something. I am glad you are running your Mormon Church just to suit me. If you had come down to my office yesterday and said, 'Dave Wood, you have lived among this people for twenty-five years; you have been a friend of the 'Mormons' not only in the United States but in foreign lands; you have spoken well of them; you have a 'Mormon' bishop managing your business in Idaho — now I have been told to come down here, as you have met the leading men of the Church from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, to say that the Apostles want to express their gratitude for your friendship, and we will let you name the very best man to fill the vacancy in the quorum of Apostles,' — do you know, Grant, I would not have batted an eye or taken a breath, but I would have just hollered, 'Ivins.' I am glad you are running your Church to suit me. Good day." 

REJOICES IN GOOD WILL 

I rejoice in the good will of those who know us. I have said many times that a man who so lived that those who knew him best, loved him most, and whom God loved, was entitled to be crowned with the wreath of success although he might die in poverty; and I do know that the Lord has seen fit to love, and did love and did inspire all of my predecessors. 

I am happy in the good will that exists, I believe, for this people. Not only in the United States, but wherever I go today I am treated with respect. When I think of going to Kansas City some years ago and there speaking before the Knife and Fork club which is claimed to be the second greatest dinner club in the United States, and speaking on the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints for a full hour — the other speakers, one of them the president of a great university, being limited to thirty minutes — and I being advertised as the guest of the evening, and receiving applause, and then being invited to 'come back again and speak before the Chamber of Commerce in Kansas City, my heart is filled with gratitude. Where was this? It was within ten miles of Independence, from which place the Latter-day Saints had been expelled under an exterminating order of the acting-governor of the state. 

EARLY PERSECUTIONS 

I have been reading again lately the wonderful record of the Missouri persecutions and the fall of Nanvoo, by Elder Brigham H. Roberts, 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 13 

and as I think of those terrible things that happened — imprisonment, the sentence of death passed upon the Prophet, the Patriarch and others; the murders at Haun's Mill; the battle at Crooked River; the driving out of the remnant of the Saints from Nauvoo in the dead of winter and their crossing the river on the ice — when I think of all these things that the early Saints had to endure, it seems to me that this depression is a good deal in the nature of a flea-bite in comparison. 

(JUOTES POEM 

I see the time has expired. You will pardon me for being personal, but you know they say when a person gets beyond 75 years of age he cannot talk about anybody but himself, and likes to deal in reminiscences, that he has no thought for the future. I want to quote a few lines entitled "Age" and say that they are my sentiments, although not original with me: 

"Age is a quality of mind; If your dreams you've left behind, 

If hope is cold; If you no longer look ahead, If your ambitions' fires are dead — Then you are old. 

"But if from life you take the best, And if in life you keep the zest. 

If love you hold; No matter how the years go by, No matter how the birthdays fly — You are not old." 

I do hold love for the Latter-day Saints. I do love my God, and I do love the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I hope to accomplish more in the next five years of my life than I have accomplished during any previous five years. May the Lord help us one and all to be loyal and true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for 2 prophet." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In nearly all of our Conferences we have been obliged to limit the time allotted to our mission presidents to five or six minutes each. We are going to start this Conference by giving the mission presidents ten minutes each. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

When our beloved President was speaking, these words of the Lord came to me: "And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." This is a continuing promise, fulfilled in the life and administration of every President of the Church. 

We are thankful for President Grant. His seventy-five years have 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

been blessings to the people of God and to all the people among whom he has moved. 

One of the most comforting and sustaining thoughts and influences in our lives is the love that the Lord Jesus Christ has for us. I believe that in these dark hours of gloom and trouble he weeps, because of the distress that exists among the children of men. And what shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? No. 

The testimony that Jesus is the Christ is the precious heritage of every faithful Latter-day Saint. How is this testimony secured? 

"This doth not spring from earthly soil, 

Nor from its wisdom grow; "Tis not evoked by student's toil, 

Though years hath crowned with snow." 

This testimony comes through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the Gospel. The Lord says : 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. "And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." 

A vision may grow dim with the flight of years, but the companionship and testimony of the Holy Ghost, that sustaining power that forever abides with the faithful children of God, no length of time can dim; no length of time can silence the voice which says : "This is the way; walk ye therein." No length of time can extinguish the lamp which is a light to our feet and a guide to our path. The testimony of the Spirit is clearest and strongest when we live close to God. 

The gift of the Holy Ghost is the spirit of revelation. This gift is enjoyed by the missionaries in their fields of labor, those splendid young men and young women whose sacrifice is sacred in the sight of God. Their loyalty to God and the Church leaders cannot be questioned. It is as firm as the rock of ages. These missionaries love their leaders. They are guided by that spirit of revelation which the Lord grants unto them for guidance in their own fields of labor, but not for the direction of the work of those who are in other parts of the vineyard. 

I testify unto you that as Moses possessed the spirit of revelation which enabled him to bring the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground, so the spirit of revelation, the presence, the companionship, the guidance of the Holy Ghost is with our leaders, and they are leading us by that spirit. If we will follow them they will bring us through this mortal probation, into the celestial kingdom of God, therein to be the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. 

God bless our leaders. They are inspired of God, and we will follow them, with our Father's help, for he will bless the man who sustains those who preside over him. No man who has the gift of the Holy Ghost will ever be found criticising the oracles of God, entertaining a spirit of rebellion against them, or refusing to follow in their footsteps. 

This is my testimony, and I bear it in the fear of God and in humility of soul, and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 15 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my dear brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this Conference. It has been my privilege for a good many years, as a representative of the Central States mission to attend the Conferences of this Church, and these Conferences have always been a great source of inspiration to me. They have been to me, in part, a guide during the time I have been in the mission field. The instruction and doctrine that come from the leaders of this Church are inspiring and when reproduced in the different magazines of the Church have been encouraging and beneficial when I reviewed them later in the mission field. 

I am not at all alarmed over the attacks that are being made upon the President and the leaders of this Church. It has always been the heritage of the Lord's anointed from the very beginning of time, that men who have held the authority of God in the earth have been subject to criticism and attack by men and women who are not well informed and who have wicked intentions. 

There are individuals, who because of their own transgressions, have ever found fault and criticised and persecuted our leaders from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith until now. 

Often we find the more bitter enemies coming from within the Church membership. If such individuals ever had a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ they have forfeited their right to it, and as a result they do not apparently recognize the gravity of the position they take and the attack they make upon the leaders of the Church. 

People who slander have never hindered the growth of the Church in the least, but my observation has been that it has increased the faith of those who are diligent in the work of the Lord. 

In my experience during the time I have lived in Missouri, in a period of twenty-five years, I have been able to observe that those leaders who were faithful in the discharge of their duty have made history that has always established faith among the children of men; while those who fought the work of God in the early history of the Church, departed from the truth and were thus disloyal in their conduct, not only destroyed their own possibilities, but I have never found the descendants of those who fought the work of God, from then until now, to be faithful in the work of God. On the contrary, I have found them to be generally bitter enemies of the Lord's work. Those who stood by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young and the rest of the Presidents and leaders of the Church from then until this present time, their descendants are found generally faithful and active and true to the trust in the organizations of the Church. The leaders of the Church have established the word of the Lord in the earth as instruments in his hands and will stand as witnesses for God, while those who oppose the authority of God in the earth will not have such a record. 

Most all of the places where the Church settled in Missouri and other places nearby are practically deserted. Places where once in16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

dustrious men and women of this Church were building" great centers in that land and where everything pointed to greater industries and activities are now found to be almost desolate. 

One has only to make observation in these valleys of the mountains to recognize where the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ is vested. Those places in Missouri where the people once lived are nothing to compare with these cities and settlements in the valleys of the mountains. Any one who makes a study of the growth and development of the Church membership can readily observe that the life and light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is found in the present membership of this Church. 

It has been an inspiration to have known President Grant these many years. I have been closely acquainted with him. To me, he has been as a father. T knew his predecessor, President Joseph F. Smith : he was as a father to me as well. They have been men that have guided me in many, many things with which a mission president has to deal in the mission field, and I know they are men of God. 

I have known the Apostles in this Church from the beginning of my ministry in 1904 until the present time. I have traveled with most of them in the mission field. They are men of great inspiration and power, and my testimony to the world is that these men are of God and that they are entrusted with the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ in the earth. They will stand in the presence of our Eternal Father as his witnesses some day, to give testimony concerning the lives of men with whom they have lived. 

I know that men live after this life. I know that President Joseph F. Smith lives and that President Charles W. Nibley lives. I have seen them in my dreams since they have left us, and they are counseling in wisdom at the present time. 

I know that these leaders of the Church who sit on this stand are examples to all people with whom they come in contact. 

I listened to President Grant deliver a speech in Kansas City some years ago before the Knife and Fork club. Two hundred and fifty people at least were in attendance. He gave one of the most inspirational sermons I have ever heard. Men who were on the program to talk that night gave him as much of their time as he wanted. 

I heard President Ivins speak in a Boy Scout meeting in St. Louis and his was an inspirational and instructive address. I saw a man there who counted his money by the millions, yield his time to President Ivins. No finer tributes could be paid to these leaders of ours than were paid by those people who were not of our faith in the places where these two brethren were entertained at that time, and I know that men do have faith in the leaders of this Church. 

There are thousands of men and women in the world who love the truth and there are many of them who are searching for it earnestly. There are many preparing themselves to receive the Gospel. I know this is the work of God, — that this is his Church, that his priesthood is the governing power in the earth, and that the leaders in this Church, 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BEN N ION 17 

with President Grant who presides at this time, hold their offices with authority. 

Ours is an individual responsibility. I bear this testimony to you and close with the words of William Ernest Henley, the poet: 

It matters not how strait the gate, 

How charged with punishment the scroll, 

I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul. 

And this is the condition of every man and woman in the world. I pray the Lord to bless us in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WM. R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

To face this body of representative men and women of the Church is indeed an inspiration, and to bear witness of-this great work that we are engaged in, my brethren and sisters, is a joy unspeakable. 

I have rejoiced in my acquaintance with the leadership of this Church. I am thrilled beyond all words of expression for this acquaintance with them and bear witness that they are men of integrity and men of God. 

Last summer it was our pleasure to visit Alaska. We took the inland route, and you who have enjoyed that wonderful voyage know that the channels you go through, in many cases, are very narrow. One evening the pilot invited Sister Sloan and myself into the pilot room. As we sailed along the narrow channel he pointed out to us and said, "I want you people to note that just on the opposite side, on the right side of the boat [and the boat was moving very slowly] a few feet underneath the water, about eight or ten feet from the vessel, there is a great ledge of rock. Many a ship has struck the same and been sunk." Oh, it was a wonderful feeling of security and safety to know that we were under the leadership of a pilot who knew the course the ship was sailing. 

So it is an inspiration to know in this Church that God is at the helm, and that his servants are inspired, directed and led by his influence. Zion is growing. Let the world say what it will, do what it may, yet this work will go on and on unto a perfect day. 

The Apostle Paul in II Timothy, chapter 3, verses 1 to 5, said of these times : 

"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. 

"For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 

"Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, 

"Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; 

"Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof; from. such turn away." 

I admonish you, my brethren and sisters that this is a day that demands the best that is within us. God demands service of us and loyalty to his priesthood. Let us give it. 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I rejoice in my ministry in the Northwestern States mission. We have a wonderful mission. I believe our people are imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, so much so that they are trying to live it. I am happy to report that the tithes of the mission for the past year show a substantial increase over the previous year, and that the tithes for the first quarter of this year exceed the corresponding period of a year ago. 

We do a lot of good things up there, and God has blessed us. The honest tithe-payer and the men and women who observe the Word of Wisdom are being blessed, and it is an evidence of his promise unto his children. 

Last evening another blessed privilege was enjoyed by our returned missionaries. We made a call six months ago that our returned missionaries should enlarge their scope of activity, and we called our brethren and sisters who have filled missions and are now at home to all unite and go to the temple and there assist in extending blessings to the thousands and millions of people who are unable to help themselves. Oh, the thrill that came to my soul, and I sat almost speechless, as I met five hundred returned missionaries, their wives, and friends — all in the temple to do this splendid work, vicarious work for our kindred dead. 

This is God's work. I bear this witness. I give my allegiance, my brethren and sisters, to the men who preside over this Church. I love them. 

God bless you, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the W'estern States Mission 

What a glorious privilege every Latter-day Saint enjoys through membership in this Church! The Holy Ghost, which emanates from the presence of the Father, and fills the limits of space, is available to every one who will seek it, and is particularly the heritage of the Saints who have earned the right to enjoy it by obedience to the ordinances of the Gospel. 

We are told that in the latter days false prophets shall arise, who might confuse some as to whether they were true or false. But the Savior said : "By their fruits ye shall know them," and in our judgment, we only' need to apply that measuring rule to ascertain whether men are true or false servants of God. And greater than that, let us apply the rule to ourselves. The fruits of the Spirit, if they are enjoyed by you and by me, are love, joy and peace. When you have within your heart a burning desire to love your brethren and sisters, and particularly those who preside over you and direct the affairs of this Church, you may know that that is the influence of the Holy Ghost. 

If there is happiness and peace in your heart, as expressed in the joy of your life, you may likewise know that you are influenced by the Holy Ghost; and if you have peace and love within your soul, then you know that you are in the line of your duty. If you are disturbed in your hearts, if you are angry with your brethren, if you allow yourselves to. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 19 

criticise them, you are not happy, you are not at peace, there is no joy in your soul. 

What a glorious thing it is, brethren and sisters, to have this wonderful key by which to measure ourselves! I pray the Lord will bless his Saints, that they may always keep that in their hearts. I try, as far as I am able, to keep that message in the minds of the people in the mission where I labor, that they may be a happy people, that they may be a loyal and a lovable people, that they may enjoy the gift of that spirit which enriches the souls of men. 

I bear you my testimony that the Lord pours out his Spirit upon us in great power, that we feel its blessing, and that the hearts of the Saints rejoice in the testimony of the missionaries, and in their own testimonies, as they meet together to worship the Lord. They do sustain the First Presidency, the Twelve, and the other General Authorities of the Church. They sustain them in their hearts and in their souls. They sustain them by their actions. They pay their tithes and their offerings. They say their prayers. They attend their meetings. They strive to gain an understanding of the Gospel and continually improve in knowledge, to increase their testimonies. The Spirit burns in their hearts, and when we meet together we have some glorious meetings- — not large meetings, of course, but we have small gatherings of Saints in our district and branch conferences, in which the souls of the people overflow with joy and happiness, and with love of each other. 

I believe I can say truthfully that there is peace and harmony existing almost without exception throughout the mission. The missionaries themselves are rendering faithful service. They are making their sacrifices, trying to curtail their expenses according to the incomes of their parents who are so distressed at home; trying to realize that the sacrifice of the parents is a wonderful thing; and they wish to make their parents feel that they appreciate it, and are trying to fit themselves to the conditions. 

You may be assured that so far as the Western States mission is concerned, your children, your sons and daughters laboring there, are all in good health, all in good habits. They are prayerful : they are humble; they are diligent in their work : and the Lord is blessing them greatly. His power is manifest among us, and we can testify continuously to his loving kindness and blessing. 

May God bless you. May God bless the work. of the Church everywhere, and above all, his chosen servants who preside over it. and that we may follow their example and have the influence of the Holy Spirit to dwell in our hearts, T humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I am very thankful, my brethren and sisters, to be able to report progress in the East Central States mission, in which I have had the honor and privilege of laboring during the past three years. I am very 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

pleased to state that the missionaries are enjoying good health, with the exception of one, who has been confined to his home for some little time, but he will soon be out again and be able to carry on his work. From time to time as I meet the missionaries who have returned home, I find that they have the missionary spirit with them still, and every one of them exclaims : "I wish that I were able to go back again and take up the work where I left off." 

President Grant has referred, this morning, to some opposition. If I recall right the scriptures say : "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake . . . for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." 

Persecution always has been, and perhaps always will be the heritage of God's people in the earth. I sometimes wonder if the change is almost too much, when I consider that today in practically all walks of life, and among all classes of people, we find those who are willing to. listen to the message that we have, and to give consideration to it. 

I am very pleased to state that men of influence and women of influence, with whom we come in contact today, are giving consideration to the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and are agreeing with our teachings. So I ani wondering if there is a little lull at the present time. But nevertheless, we are pressing on in the work, and as I hear those people express themselves it fills my heart with joy and thanksgiving to my Heavenly Father for the progress that is coming, especially in the East Central States mission; and from all reports, from all of the other missions. 

During the past year four hundred and eleven honest souls have entered the waters of baptism in the East Central States mission; and since the first of the year more, in proportion, have been baptized than in the previous year. The outlook for the coming season is very encouraging indeed. 

It may be that some who are under the sound of my voice today, both of the seen as well as the unseen audience, are earnestly seeking after truth, but have not as yet put themselves in a position to receive a testimony of the divinity of this great latter-day work. If there should be such, let me say to you, as I have said upon other occasions, that if you will go into your chambers by yourself, and there kneel down and pour out your soul to the Lord in humble prayer, he will not turn you aside, but he will cause a feeling to come into your soul that will bear witness to you of the divinity of this great latter-day work; and by following the admonition that will come to you, and complying with the commandments of the Lord, you, with us, may rejoice in the knowledge of this great latter-day work. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have, because I do know as I know that I live that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of the Lord, raised up in this day and age of the world, for the purpose of establishing his work upon the earth for the last time. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 21 

which will never more be thrown down nor given to another people, but will stand unto the end. 

I know that President Heber J. Grant and those who have preceded him as prophets and presidents of the Church are men of God, and that President Grant today is God's mouthpiece upon the earth; and if we follow his admonition and teachings God will bless us and prepare us for every emergency in life and for every calling that may come to us. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER A. WILLIAM LUND 

Former President of the British Mission 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the Spirit of the Lord to direct my remarks. It is indeed a pleasure for me to be in your midst once again, and to report the splendid condition of the British mission. 

I bring to you the greetings of President and Sister Widtsoe, and of President and Sister Douglas. They asked me, as 1 left, that if I were permitted to speak at Conference, to extend to the Saints assembled their good wishes and their blessings. They are doing a wonderful work in that land. The Lord is blessing them in all of their labors. 

The Saints throughout the British mission are a wonderful people. They are imbued with the Spirit of God, and are trying to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The Elders are a splendid group of young men. I am pleased to report that in all of my missionary experience the greatest joy that came to my heart was to see the Spirit of God take hold of these young men, these boys, so to speak, and make men out of them. As they studied the scripture, as they prayed to God for his help, I could see them grow in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I could see the testimony of the truthfulness of this work rest upon them. As they stood in the halls and upon the street corners, it brought joy to my heart to listen to them bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that this work had been restored by him, and that he had given his life as a testimony of its truthfulness. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have that this is the Church of Jesus Christ; that within it is the power of everlasting life : that the priesthood of God has been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith to men in this age of the world, and that the keys of this priesthood are vested in the. President of this Church at the present time. I am reminded that on one occasion, at a time when a number of the disciples were leaving the Master, the Savior asked his apostles this question, "Will ye also go away?" Then Peter answered, "Lord to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life." 

So I ask, my brethren and sisters, if we should turn from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where would we go, for in this Church, and only in this Church, are the words of eternal life. Here is the power or priesthood which makes the Gospel the power of God 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

unto salvation. The priesthood is here; and when men go about reviling the President of the Church they revile the Church to which I belong. I resent it, because I know in my heart that this is the Church of God; that these men who stand at the head of this Church are inspired of God, are our leaders, and have the words of eternal life. 

I rejoice in the testimony that has been given to me that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of mankind, and that through him and only through him can eternal life come unto the children of men. 

In the British mission we have established priesthood and genealogical classes, and have all the auxiliaries. I rejoice to report to you that they are doing splendidly in their work. We have 6,640 members of the Church who are divided into 16 districts containing 74 branches. There were, at the end of 1931, 68 Relief Societies, 71 Sunday Schools, 71 Mutuals and 37 Primaries. The Saints rejoice in the privilege of having a patriarch in their midst. Brother Wallis is doing a good work among the people. I am happy to report that last year we had two hundred and forty-five baptisms in that mission. It may seem only a few, but brethren and sisters, the people there are not turning their hearts to God as we would like to see them do. I wish that they would. I wish that they would turn unto him; that they would come back to him; that they would follow in his footsteps; that instead of so much belief in man-made philosophies they would come back to the teachings of Christ; that they would repent and turn unto him. 

In conclusion let me plead with the younger members of the Church who may be present, as I am a younger member of the Church, that we devote our lives to service in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; that we remain loyal to this Church, to the leaders of this Church. The Church will go on, and the only way that we can remain with its progress is to be loyal to it and to continue faithful to all the duties that are assigned unto us. We need not fear for the welfare of this Church. It is the Church of God, and it will go on and on and fill its destiny. Let us, the younger members of the Church, rise up, do our duty, keep the commandments of God, pay our tithes, keep the Word of Wisdom, and God will bless us with a testimony of the truthfulness of this Church and the faithfulness of its leaders, I testify to you, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

I earnestly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord may guide the few remarks that I may make, as has been the case with those who have preceded me. 

I know that my Redeemer lives, and that this is verily the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for membership in it, and for the privilege of acting as a missionary abroad. 

"Go ye into all the world," declared tbe risen Lord to his disciples, "and preach the Gospel to every creature. He that believeth and 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 23 

is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." (Mark 16:15-16.) 

Whatever the Savior may have meant by "damned," the responsibility of those thus commissioned to deliver the Gospel message to the world is here made clear and emphatic. Every missionary knows, however, that Paul may sow, and Apollos water, but only God giveth the increase; (I Cor. 3) and he knows that without this testimony of the Spirit there is no increase, never was, nor ever will be. It was the Master himself who, in answer to Peter's inspired declaration : "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God," said: "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock [Revelation] I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." (Matt. 16:16-18.) 

I testify to all the world that this Church is built upon the rock of revelation. Now as always, "not flesh and blood, but my Father which is in heaven" reveals its truth to men. Our task as missionaries is to bring the truth to the favorable attention of men in every possible way, and leave the rest to them and to the Lord. 

Now, a word about our missionary work. The North Central States mission, though comparatively young and numerically small, is approximately a thousand miles square, lying west of the Great Lakes and east of the Rockies, half in the United States and half in Canada. We have fifty missionaries, about twenty-six hundred members, and a population of approximately ten times the total membership of the Church in all the world. 

Our missionaries are well and busy and happy in their work. They are a credit to their parents and to the Church. So are our members. Last year more of them paid tithing than ever before in our history, and more of it than for any previous year except 1930, which was our banner year. 

Conversions and baptisms, however, though surpassing all previous records, come but slowly. Our people are honest, industrious, and I am sure, more than ordinarily religious; but there remains much to be done to bring them to an acceptance of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. As I think of these good people, and listen to the testimonies offered here, I wish, in the language of Philip to Nathanael, that they might all "Come and See." Philip, you remember, had reported to Nathanael : "We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth ? Philip saith unto him, Come and see." (John;1 :45-46). Such is Mormonism's invitation to the world : "Come and see." 

Come and see what ? First, I wish they might find here what I believe to be the greatest need of the world today; namely, a real faith in a real God, our Heavenly Father. This is the first essential of any worthwhile religion; and the second is adherence to the laws of morality, good 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

old fashioned virtue and honesty and honor in the lives of men. These ought observers to find here. 

I would invite attention also to the organization of this Church, — led by prophets and apostles, — its hundred stakes and thirty missions calling into active service literally thousands of people in positions of responsibility, — its more than a thousand wards and branches with their tens of thousands of officers, — its multitudes of men holding the priesthood, and of men and women engaged in the various Auxiliaries of the Church, — all laboring gratuitously and enthusiastically for the welfare of others, under conditions best calculated to hold men always at their best. All my life I have been engaged, as student or teacher, in character education. In my opinion the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the greatest instrument known to man for the development of its members, for the character education of those who participate in its blessings. It is God's own plan "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." (Eph. 4:12.) All this I would have our friends to "Come and see." 

I would have them examine also the law of tithing operative in the Church. In these times of financial distress and perplexity of nations, when state legislatures, national congresses and parliaments, and international conferences are frantically wrestling with mounting deficits, let them inquire God's way of balancing the budget in his Church and kingdom, a device so simple and equitable as to require neither explanation nor justification, the ancient law of the tithe. 

The public budget in balance. I would have them observe how the individual poor and needy of the Church are cared for by the simple but effective device of the fast offering. Then might follow analysis of the benefits of the Word of Wisdom, and of our missionary system, etc. 

Thus, I believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is much in the fruits of Mormonism which should challenge the attention and command the respect of men. But after all these so-called fruits of the Gospel are of relatively minor importance, — a few acorns, so to speak, from the great oak tree of truth. It is the testimony that God lives, and that we are his children; that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Gospel is his plan of life and salvation; that his priesthood and authority are here; and that the promised gifts and blessings do follow the believers, — these are the fundamentals in the faith of the Latter-day Saints. All these and more are here if the world will but "Come and see." 

I sustain and uphold those who preside in this Church. I know that the priesthood is here; and that in the Gospel as here taught resides the power of God unto salvation. 

I am glad, I repeat, to be a missionary, and to assist in bringing this message to the attention of men. I pray God to bless the youth of Zion and keep us true to our heritage of truth; and may he bless the world, and in his own due time, bring to pass his righteous will and purposes in the salvation of the children of men. To all of which may he add his blessings, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 25 

The hymn, "Do what is right," was sung by the congregation. Elder Franklin S. Richards pronounced the benediction. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


