Morning 
10 04 1932

Conference reconvened Sunday morning, April 10th, at 10 o'clock President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

All the seats and every available space in the large auditorium and galleries were occupied long before the time arrived to commence the meeting. Thousands of people who could not find accommodation in the Tabernacle congregated in the Assembly Hall directly south of the Tabernacle and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the services as they were broadcast by radio. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session, and joined with the congregation in 'singing the opening hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Arthur W. Horsley, President of the Carbon Stake. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Grant us peace, O Lord." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

"And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old. These were the years of the life of Sarah. 

"And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron, in the land of Canaan; and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. 

"And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying, 

"I am a stranger and a sojourner with you; give me a possession of a burying place with you, that I (may bury my dead. * * * 

"And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth, * * * 

"Saying, * * * hear me, and entreat for me to Ephron, the son of Zohar, 

"That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field. * .* * 

"I will give;thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there. 

"And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 

"My lord, hearken unto me : the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that betwixt (me and thee ? bury therefore thy dead. * * *' 

"* * * and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named * * * current money with the merchant. * * * 

"And * * * Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah, before Mamre." (Genesis Chapter 23) . 

Sarah died iB. C. 1872, j3,800 years ago. Fifteen years after the death of his wife, Abraham was carried by his sons Isaac and Ishmael and buried by her side, in the cave of Machpelah. Later the remains of Isaac and Rebecca were interred there; and after the death of Jacob, 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 81 

the grandson of Abraham, who passed away in Egypt, his body was embalmed and carried by his son Joseph up to Hebron, in the land of Canaan, and interred in the same spot that contained the remains of his father and grandparents. 

[FIRST REFERENCE TO USE OF MONEY 

I have quoted this scripture, not alone because of the fact that it refers to Abraham, the founder of the Israelitish race and our ancestor, but because it is the earliest date, so far as I am aware, at which money is referred (to as a medium of exchange and legal tender for debt among men. 

This is a General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, an occasion when the members of the Church assemble together to be taught' the way of the Lord, that they may walk in his paths. 

, TEMPORAL THINGS 

It is a time when the elders of the Church, who are selected to address the assembled congregation are expected to treat subjects which have to do with the spiritual things of the kingdom, rather than with temporalities. 

Notwithstanding this fact, and at the risk of being considered somewhat out' of place, with your faith to assist me, I am prompted because of the occurrences of the past several weeks to confine my remarks to the temporal interests of my brethren and sisters of the Church, and the people of the state at large, because it is a subject that affects all of us, men and women, members of the Church, and those who are not affiliated with it. 

THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF MAN'S OCCUPATIONS 

To trace the development of man from the beginning, and the origin of the various occupations and professions which he now follows in our intricate and complex life, would take us over a long and winding trail. i ' 

I suppose that in the primitive and far distant past, man first became a husbandman. His first indispensable necessity was food, for the sustenance of his body, and this he learned could (be provided by cultivation of the soil. He learned that as the seasons came and went there were periods of seed time and harvest; that in order to reap he must sow, and that his crop must be gathered and garnered to provide for future necessities. Thus he became a farmer. 

Food to sustain his body was not his only requirement, he must have clothing with which to cover it. This could be provided from the wool and hides of animals, and so he became a tender of flocks and herds, as well as a tiller of the soil. 

As time passed he discovered that he had other necessities. He was subject to sickness and accident; a limb might be '.broken, a skull 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

fractured, or because of improper diet his stomach might become deranged. 

In the beginning, with the assistance of his wife and neighbors, he attended to these human afflictions as best he could; then it occurred to one of these neighbors that the application of simple remedies would bring relief to a disordered stomach, that by binding a broken limb with splints it would more quickly heal and become normal, that by removing the fragment's from a broken skull and taking the pressure from the brain, the patient was relieved. 

Men began to study the anatomy of the human body and provide means for its proper care. People were willing to pay for the service rendered, and thus the profession of medicine and surgery, which today does so much to prolong human life and relieve suffering, became one of the professions of man. 

PROFESSIONS ARISE 

As society developed laws became necessary for its government and protection. Men violated these laws and were punished under them. One day a man said to his neighbor, who had been adjudged guilty of an offense : You were not guilty of a violation of the law, the statute under which you were punished was not properly interpreted. If you are in trouble again come to me, and for a consideration I will defend and free you. 

Thus a new profession was added to the occupations of man, which has developed until men have become so profound in their knowledge and interpretations of modern law and its proper application, that the judge himself, when criminals are arraigned before him, can scarcely determine whether they are innocent or guilty. 

MEDIUM OF EXCHANGE CREATED 

In the beginning, trade was carried on by exchange of commodities, rather than by purchase and sale, with a recognized medium of exchange. In fact, in my time I have been in countries where this was almost the universal custom. 

As civilization developed it became apparent that ifor the convenience of commerce and trade some medium of exchange, with a fixed and recognized ratio of value, must be created; and at a very early date gold and .silver were used in the beginning counted by weight, as dust or in bars, as shown in the scripture which I have quoted, when Abraham weighed to Ephron, the son of Zohar, 400 shekels of silver, about $250.00, 3,800 years ago. - At a later date minted coins, of specific weight, came into use. 

BANKING SYSTEM DEVELOPED 

As people, by industry and economy accumulated more than was required for their personal necessities, and merchants began to penetrate new countries with their caravans, and ships to sail the seas, it was common practice for those who had a surplus of money to 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVTNS 83 

lend it to those engaged in trade, in order that commerce might be carried on between different peoples and nations. 

The borrower was required to pay a reasonable interest on the money obtained, but excessive usury was strictly forbidden. 

It was from this simple beginning that our present system of banking has developed, until it has become the most important business occupation of the world. 

This may appear to be an extravagant statement, but it is nevertheless true. 

The business of the banker brings him in closer contact' with every field of human endeavor than that of any other occupation. 

He is the custodian of the hard-earned money of the husbandman, the widow, the fatherless, the doctor, lawyer, merchant, manufacturer, and the man who has no occupation at all, of whom I sometimes think we have too many, for it was written long ago that the idler shall not eat the bread nor wear the apparel of the laborer. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BANKER 

As custodian of the savings of the depositor, the banker assumes the responsibility of investing the funds entrusted to him in a manner that will bring to the depositor a reasonable return in interest upon his savings, and at the same time compensate the banker for the responsibility he assumes as the agent of the depositor, 'which is very great'. 

Banking is a partnership between the stockholder, who provides the capital upon which the bank is founded and the reserves which guarantee the security of its deposits, and the depositors who, for their own protection, become obligated to support the bank in which their money is placed. 

The bank becomes a debtor to it's depositors, and at the same time the creditor of the world. It is through banks that all nations maintain their 'financial standing and tredit, one with the other. Through bank credits the railroads which thread the world and make possible the quick transportation of people and things from place to place, by which our surplus products are transported to profitable markets, and the products of other people which we require brought to us, are made possible. 

It is by means of bank credits that our ships sail the seas, that the forces which protect us 'from the invasion of foes from without and enemies within, are maintained. 

As stated, the occupation of the banker brings him in'closer contact with every field of human endeavor than that of any other occupation. Thus it will be seen that the success of the banker depends upon the stability of all other occupations and business activities, consequently it becomes his duty to strive for the stabilization of all. 

He must be constantly alert, constantly in touch with all of these various interests to which reference has been made, in order that he may know just when to extend credit, 'when to withhold it; having always in mind that his first' duty is to the people who have entrusted their money to his care; never forgetting that while it is his duty to 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

help those who need assistance, his business is not so toych one of sentiment as of duty. 

The greatest of all teachers said: "What mattereth it if a man gain the whole world, and lose his own soul ?" 

Permit me to paraphrase this scripture by saying: What mattereth it if a man do a large banking business and assist many needy individuals and enterprises, if in doing so he wreck his own credit, lose the money of his depositors and stockholders, and bring discredit to the officers of the bank and to the banking [business in general? 

MAN ONLY UNIT 

Whatever the occupation of man may be he acts only as a small unit, in a sphere which at first thought may appear to be independent, but jwhich, after all, is merely a cog pin the wheel of human progress and development, one of the many pillars which support the tremendous structure that our modern life has builded; and the progress and development of this intricate System requires that each of these pillars be kept in place, lest the structure fall of its own weight and thus bring disaster and chaos to all. 

We cannot say to the husbandman, we have no need of you. His occupation is still the one indispensable vocation of man. We cannot say to the manufacturer, we can dispense with your service. He takes the raw material which exists and converts it into the things which add to our comfort and convenience. The merchant is indispensable to our modern system of business. He provides for us the things which we need, brings them to us from afar to add to our happiness. The doctor and lawyer are indispensable to our modern life. 

The miner takes from the earth the treasure which lies hidden there, and brings into circulation new money which before was not available. His contribution to the commerce of the world cannot be overestimated. To all of these occupations the banker is a necessary, in fact indispensable, adjunct. 

HOW THE DEPRESSION MAY BE OVERCOME 

Every intelligent person who is familiar with current events, knows that a cloud of financial depression, the like of which has never before been known, hovers over the world, so dark and ominous that the sunshine of hope can scarcely penetrate it. 

Like the great World War, it has found its way into the most remote corners of the world. 

It can be met and overcome by the united effort of all of the people who are affected by it. A beneficent and willing government cannot accomplish the task without the loyal support of its citizens. The citizens cannot do it without the support of the government. 

Banks cannot do it without the cooperation of the depositors. Depositors cannot do it without the cooperation of the banks. United together the task can be accomplished. 

If the government, the states, the counties and municipalities will exercise rigid economy in the expenditure of public funds; if citizens 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 85 

will loyally support and patronize the industries and business of the nation, state and community in which they reside; if bankers will carefully and wisely protect the money of depositors; if depositors will loyally cooperate with the banks to which the care of their money is entrusted; if families and (individuals will live within their income and avoid debt, the clouds of adversity will roll away, and the sun of prosperity and peace will shine again upon a happy and prosperous people. 

CHAOS THREATENS 

If we are to continue the lavish, unnecessary expenditure of money, and dissipated habits, which have characterized the past ten years, in both public and private life, chaos awaits us. 

A ,f ew days ago a person asked me this question : "What of tomorrow?" 

I answered : "You may better ask me : What of yesterday ? I have had the experience of many yesterdays, while tomorrow is a sealed book to me." Then I remembered that I had seen as many tomorrows as anyone else. I Tomorrow is a sealed book to all of us, except as we are able to penetrate it by the eye of faith. And I discover, too, that while I have endeavored to profit by the experiences which the past teaches, and cheerfully perform the tasks which the present brings, I have lived largely in the future. 

Tomorrow has always been full of promise to me, and the future has beckoned me on with the assurance that as the days, and months, and years, come and go, they [will bring to me greater happiness, and added experience which I may apply to my own affairs and in service to others — acting today according to the light and wisdom which I possess and believing that each tomorrow has something better in store for me, and when this mortal life is ended and I stand upon the threshold of another world, I shall still be looking forward toward the better life to which I aspire. 

PRAYS FOR WISDOM 

I pray God our Heavenly Father that he will give wisdom to those who direct the affairs of our government, and particularly to you, my brethren and sisters, and those who preside over you in the Church, and to all others who desire and seek his blessings and serve him, that the clouds of adversity may iroll away, and the sunshine of prosperity and peace bring happiness to the people of this troubled world. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RUDGE.R CLAWSON 

'President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I would that I had the gift of eloquence with which to give expression to the thoughts in my heart. But since I have no such gift I must be contented to speak as best I can, with 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the hope that if I speak the truth it will be sanctified for the good of those who are present and of those who are listening in. 

TESTIMONIES THRILL 

I have been deeply impressed and thrilled with the opening address of President Grant and with the sermons of the brethren which followed, and I have also been very deeply impressed with the singing of the choir and with ithe solos that have been given at this Conference, which have been inspiring. 

In listening to the spirited remarks and fervent testimonies of the mission presidents on Friday, I was thrilled and led to reflect with respect to the nature of their ministry and the responsibility resting upon them, which requires that they should carry the Gospel message to the nations of the earth, and particularly to this nation in which there are thirteen grand divisions, including the Temple Block mission, numbering in population considerably over one hundred million people. This responsibility requires that they should lift up their voices, calling the people of this nation and others to repentance, to reformation, and asking them to give heed to the teachings of the Gospel. 

They are to call upon the people to jepent, which if they do will lead to the acceptance of the Gospel doctrines, even those of baptism and the laying on of hands. But the people must remember that repentance precedes baptism, and faith, the great foundation principle of the Gospel structure, precedes repentance. These thoughts and reflections passed through my mind. 

PROGRESS REPORTED 

On (Wednesday last, the Council of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy met with the mission presidents, who reported their labors in some detail, which showed that progress is being made in Gospel conversations, conversions and baptisms. They reported that the tithing in the branches of the mission fields for last year kept up very well indeed. 

It was shown that the Gospel message is being declared upon the streets of the various cities of the country, in halls and chapels, in the newspapers, and last, but not least, by radio. And thus the voice of warning is going out to the world. For remember that in speaking of these particular mission presidents I did not mention the presidents of other missions, numbering about fifteen in all. 

THE CHARACTER OF GOD'S WORK 

In respect to this very important' matter, my mind rests upon a saying in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, which saying was mentioned by Elder Stephen L. Richards in his address yesterday, and also Rulon S. [Wells; and it is (this : "This js rny work and my glory," said the Lord to Moses, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

Truly, this is a wonderful saying. In just a single sentence we learn the character of the special work in which God is engaged, and are 

ELDER RUDGER CLAW SON 87 

justified in believing that' he could not be engaged in a greater work, and possibly there is no greater work. One reason is that man, who is the child of God, has within him the attributes of Deity, and he may become in time like unto God, his jFather, in this work of salvation. The accomplishment of such an undertaking by our Heavenly Father involves the important work of salvation. You will remember the saying of Paul the Apostle, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation unto all who will receive and obey it. 

REVELATION EXPLAINS 

The word of the Lord given to Joseph Smith by revelation June, 1829, as follows, is pertinent to this important matter : 

"If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no greater gift than the gift of salvation." (Doc. and Gov. 6:13). 

Also the word of the Lord given to Joseph Smith by revelation in June, 1829, for the benefit of John Whitmer, indirectly emphasizes the value of human souls and calls attention to the importance of seeking their salvation. The wording of said revelation in part is as follows : 

"Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone —  

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. i 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given 'you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you iwill (be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." (Doc. and Cov., Section 15). 

MORE LIGHT GIVEN 

In a further revelation from the Lord given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, in the same month, viz., June, 1829, greater light is thrown upon this interesting and most vital subject. Listen to these solemn, impressive words: 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of .my Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

"Ask the Father in my name, in faith believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men. 

"And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing." (Doc. and Cov., Section 18:10-19). 

DUTY TO PROCLAIM GOSPEL 

Permit me to call your attention to the fact that the prophets of old, jand Jesus and his disciples during their ministry, were constantly engaged in preaching to the world, thus seeking the salvation of the people. They had received a dispensation from God and seemed to feel the weight of it. They had little of worldly goods but were rich in the knowledge of God and preached the Gospel in power. 

So it is in this age of the world. The Latter-day Saints received a dispensation of the Gospel from the Lord — even the dispensation of the fulness of times. Divine authority was sent down from heaven and sealed upon the head of Joseph Smith, by which he organized the Church of Christ' among men. 

Having received from on high, without money and without price, the Gospel with its saving power, Joseph Smith and his people were in duty bound to give the Gospel to the world freely without money and without price, that all might have equal opportunity of securing the blessing of salvation, and that it might be said of God that he is no respecter of persons and that the righteous in every nation are acceptable unt'o him. 

RESPONSIBILITIES EXPLAINED 

The nature of the responsibility that goes with a Gospel dispensation is set forth forcibly in a revelation given to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in September, 1832, a portion of which reads as follows : 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. 

"And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. T will be on your right hand and on your .left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward. 

"And .he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples. 

"He that receiveth you not, go away from him alone by yourselves, and cleanse your feet even with water, pure water, whether in heat or in cold, and bear testimony of it unto your Father which is in heaven, and return not again unto that man. 

"And in whatsoever village or city iye enter, do likewise. 

"Nevertheless, search diligently and spare not; and wo unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony concerning me. | 

"Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your [words, or your testimony of me; 

"For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAW SON 89 

"And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness — 

"Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall see eye to eye, and shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together sing this new song — " 

QUOTES NEW SONG 

I declare to you, my brethren and sisters, that this new song which I will read is one of the greatest songs that was ever written, and I have no doubt that it is a greater song than anything that ever can be written, because it sets forth the works of Almighty God and the consummation of all things. Let me read these words : 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion; The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel, According to the election of grace, Which was brought to pass by the faith And covenant of their fathers. 

"The Lord hath redeemed his people; 

And Satan is bound and time is no longer. 

The Lord hath gathered all things in one. 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

"The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength; 

And truth is established in her bowels; 

And the heavens have smiled upon her; 

And she is clothed with the glory of her God; 

For he stands in the midst of his people. 

"Glory, and honor, and power, and might, 

Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy, 

Justice, grace and truth, and peace, 

Forever and ever. Amen." 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

My brethren and sisters, when all this is accomplished one might well exclaim : "God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform!" 

I testify in all solemnity that the work in which we are engaged is the work of God, that Jesus was the Christ, that Joseph Smith was his prophet, and that Joseph's successors in office were and are prophets, even men holding the keys to the kingdom of God upon the earth; and I invoke the blessings of the Lord upon you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and Congregation sang, "America." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." 

AS A REWARD OF FAITHFULNESS 

These words which I have read present to us an epitome of existence. They are the words of Jesus Christ, uttered in the pre-mortal state. From them we discover that we are here in this world because of obedience to former commandments and laws. We are here in this world, in this mortal existence, passing through all of its vicissitudes because of former faithfulness that has entitled us to receive these tabernacles of flesh. One-third of the hosts of heaven, through rebellion, were denied this great and glorious blessing. But we are here on probation. This is called a probationary state. We are here to be tried, to be proved, to be found worthy of exaltation in the kingdom of God, to go back into his presence, to become his sons and his daughters, entitled to a fulness, or to receive other rewards, according to works of lesser degree of importance. 

ALL THINGS SPIRITUAL WITH THE LORD 

I desire to spend the portion of time allotted to me in speaking of temporal things and spiritual things, if I may so designate them. The Lord has so designated matters that we may understand them. But to him there are no such things as temporal things. These are his words : 

"Speaking unto you that you may naturally understand; but unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning; but it is given unto you that ye may understand, because ye have asked it of me and are agreed. 

"Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. 

"Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and 1 gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." 

Nevertheless, that we may understand, the Lord uses these terms and speaks of temporal things. We, naturally, being in this mortal state, are surrounded by change, and all things are subject to change; and seeing the end but not the beginning, we naturally conclude that there are things temporal. All things in this life are mortal, and yet in the eyes of the Lord there is nothing but eternity and all things are eternal. 

POWER TO CHOOSE FOR HIMSELF 

In this world, as you have discovered in the words which I have read, the Lord has given unto man the power to become an agent unto himself. We are not coerced, we are not forced, there is no compulsion in the Church. Every man has that freedom granted unto him by virtue of the power given him by our Father in heaven to choose for himself what he will do and be. 

One of the ancient prophets upon this continent has summed this 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 91 

matter up very beautifully, and I desire to present to you his words. These are the words of Alma: 

"For I know that he [God] granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience." 

An earlier prophet, in fact the founder of this race upon this continent, has also given us this information, not new by any means, as it comes from him, as it is found in all the revelations of God, but he says : 

"Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other." 

That is, by the power of righteousness or the power of evil. From this we learn that opposition is necessary. We must be enticed. We are subject to temptation. We are subject to all the ills of the flesh as well as to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. And then as agents we have the right, the great God-given right, to choose for ourselves, and we may choose righteousness and eternal life or we may choose death by disregarding the commandments of the Lord. 

A -TEMPORAL LAW 

I said that I was going to speak of some things temporal. I must hurry if I do so. In the beginning of this Conference, President Grant presented figures in relation to certain sums of money that had been expended for the benefit of this people, in our education, in our temple work, in the building of meeting houses, in the care of the poor and many other ways in which the funds of the Church are spent. I want to call your attention to the fact that money for these purposes cannot be spent unless it is received, and the Lord has given us a law by which these revenues may be obtained; this is called the law of tithing. Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon has called your attention to this law and the necessity for it. It is a very important one. It seems to me that a man holding membership in this Church is certainly disloyal, he certainly does not comprehend the nature of this work or his duty, if he fails to pay his tithing. 

A PROMISE AND WARNING 

I want to present to you a few things coming from a former President of the Church, President Lorenzo Snow, uttered more than thirty years ago, but just as true and binding upon the people today as when his words were uttered. Said he : 

"Teach the children to pay tithing, so that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what our enemies may do the Lord will preserve us." 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

What a wonderful promise! And it appears to me that little do we appreciate it! Then again he says : 

"Because we are his sons and daughters he loves us and he has forgiven us our f orgetf ulness to this holy law in the past, but he will not forgive you and me any longer. I say it in the name of the Lord. He will not forgive this people any longer if we continue in this dilatory way of paying tithing. We will be scattered just as the people of Jackson County were. It is true, just as God is true." 

I call your attention to the fact that this comes from the one who had the right to speak in the name of the Lord and give commandments. He goes on further to say : 

"Those who will not observe this law are not entitled to the blessings." 

I shall not take time, much as I would delight in doing so, to read farther, because in this expression which I have already presented there is food enough for thought to keep us busy in our reflections regarding our duty in this matter for many days to come. 

OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH 

One or two other items. Our attention has been called to the fact during this Conference that we are living in perilous times. There is sin, there is distress everywhere and disregard of the commandments of the Lord. He has given us another commandment, and that is that we regard the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Who does it ? Do the people of this nation? Do the people of other nations? I have been in some parts of this land where on the Sabbath day people worshipped, but here among us we find Babylon in all its glory, all its wickedness; and we are face to face with temptation, with sin, with enticement of various natures to lead us from the path of truth and from the worshipping of the true and the living God. 

The Lord has pointed out in the revelations what we should do on the Sabbath day to keep this day holy. We should not go to picture shows, nor go to places of amusement, nor spend our time foolishly; but in thought and in reflection and in study, in consideration of the things of the kingdom of God. What more can be said ? I leave these thoughts with you, fragmentary they are. 

May the Lord bless and guide the Latter-day Saints and keep them in the path of righteousness, in the path of humility, in the path of truth. We must uphold the standards of Zion. May we do it, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

The Twelve Apostles, the First Council of Seventy, and the mission presidents, who have addressed you in this Conference, as already stated, met together during last Wednesday, to hear reports and consider matters pertaining to the missions of the Church. I had the pleasure of attending that meeting. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 93 

I call your attention to the fact that this was the gathering of special witnesses for the Lord. That is particularly true of the quorum of the Twelve, who are designated as the "special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ;" and also the Seventy, the Council of Seventy, and as a matter of fact of all the Seventies of the Church. They were not all present, but those who were present were among "these special witnesses of Jesus Christ." And also these mission presidents, by reason of their appointment, are witnesses of the Lord, and preside over the work of proclaiming the Gospel in their respective fields of labor. 

During that meeting, I think more than at any other time, I was impressed with the dignity, with the importance and the glory of those who are witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ. iWhat do we mean by that general term, "Witnesses for Jesus Christ?" I think sometimes we leave it in that generalized statement, and fail to appreciate just what is meant by it. I want to express some thoughts in relation to that. 

What is it to be a "witness for Jesus ?" One of the best examples that I can recall just now is given in the experience of St. Peter. When on the coast of Caesarea, on one occasion, the Christ seemed to be a little anxious to know what men thought of him — whom men thought him to be. So he inquired of those disciples that were around him. Some thought he was John the Baptist, raised from the dead. Others, one of the old prophets who had reappeared. They got about that far when the Christ, with some earnestness, put this question: "But whom say ye that I am ?" Then St. Peter spoke up, as perhaps was his place, by reason of his age and his position in the quorum as the chief of the apostlesi — he said : "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God." That was his testimony. And the Christ said unto him: 

"Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. * * * 

" * * * And upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

I do not intend to go into a discussion of that tremendous statement. I merely call attention to what it is to be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. First and foremost must be the great truth, and it must become the testimony of .the witness : "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." That is one item at least of our lesson of being witnesses. It is to testify of the sonship of the Christ to God, the eternal Father. 

Also to be a witness of him is to testify that he is the revelation of God to man, for so he is. If men would hold before them a vision of God the eternal Father they need only refer to the glorious resurrected Christ, as he stood before the disciples in Galilee, where he met them by appointment, after his resurrection; and from his glorious condition of a resurrected, eternal personage, he said : 

"All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. 

"Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And so we are to speak iof him, as witnesses for him, that he is the Son of God, and the revelation of God to men; also that he is the Redeemer of the world, through the resurrection from the dead. Redeemer of the world because it is a redemption that will come unto all people, saint and sinner; for "as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive;" and the being "made alive" is as broad as the death through Adam. So men are assured of this resurrection, because it was imperatively necessary to pass through the portals of death in order to reach the stage, through resurrection, where God carries out his great purpose of bringing to pass the "immortality and the eternal life ot man;" meaning the race. 

So Jesus is the Redeemer of the world from death. Of that we are assured. But also he is the Savior of men, the Savior of individual men, by bringing repentance of sin within their power, and salvation from the consequences of sin, through forgiveness, in the symbols of his death and resurrection in baptism; also to bring individual men into union with God, through the Holy Ghost, so that the lives of men may be linked up to the source of light, intelligence, power, glory, progression — united to God. So the Christ is the "Savior of men," in that he has made salvation possible unto them, every one who will believe, and repent of his sins, and thus come unto God. 

To bear witness of these truths concerning the Christ is to be the witness of Christ in relation to all these things. What a privilege thus to be witnesses for God! And how fundamentally important  is all this to the children of men, that they should know these things; that they should come to a knowledge of the way of salvation! I glory in the greatness, in the immensity of such a mission as this. 

But there is still a closer and a dearer thing coming out of all this, and that is the association it brings to us with the Christ himself as a witness; for St. John, in his revelation, declares jthat "Jesus Christ is the faithful witness," the first witness, the greatest witness of all. It is our privilege to stand in the throng of which he is the leader, and what could be more honorable, greater or more desirable than to be one with Jesus Christ, as a witness for God ? > 

And then the definiteness of the Christ's mission as a witness. You perhaps will recall, at these suggestions, the language of the Savior when teaching Nicodemus some of the supposed mysteries of the Gospel. At the conclusion of his interview with him he said : 

"We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness." 

What an upbraiding, and what definiteness of God's chief and leading witness! 

He has presented the same thought to us also in his conversation with Pilate, who was seeking every possible opportunity to deliver him from the unjust clamor of the Jewish multitude, who charged that he had committed blasphemy by proclaiming that he was the Son of God. And then, in order to influence Pilate more greatly, they charged the Christ with claiming to be a king : "He who .claims to be a king is not 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 95 

Caesar's friend," said they; and this touched Pilate more nearly, because he must maintain the attitude of patriotism toward ( Caesar. Hence this declaration of the Jews sent Pilate into the inner court to inquire carefully of Jesus if he were a king. "Well," Jesus said, "my kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my disciples would fight, that I might not be delivered to the Jews. But ,my kingdom is not of this world." "Thou are a king, (then?" said Pilate, and Jesus, as if despairing of making him understand, said : "Thou sayest I am a king," as if he would say, "Let it go at that." Then he made a declaration that is most thrilling: 

"To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth." 

That was greater than being a king, to be a witness of the truth. And he added now, not — "and ye receive not pur witness" — as in the case of Nicodemus, but said, "Every one that is of the fruth, heareth my voice" — they who are of that spirit of truth would hear his words, and so will they by that same power of self-evidence, that goes with the truth, hear all his witnesses who proclaim the truth. And "they who are of the truth" will be attracted to it, and ultimately find their places in the great body of the Church of Christ. 

Well, all this, to my mind, stamps with importance and glory those who are called to be witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they share with him the high honor of bearing testimony to the truth, by the power of truth. 

The Savior, in the dispensation when he established his atonement for the sins of the world, and brought to pass the beginning of the resurrection from the dead, chose special witnesses. These were the Twelve apostles. And after he had chosen these apostles and sent them into the world, then he "called other seventy," and giving a like commission to them, sent them into the world to be his witnesses. To both these classes he made these declarations, in substance : 

"He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me." 

It is a true principle; and conversely: those who reject you reject Vne, and those who reject me reject my Father also. 

To these men he gave power that they should heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead even, heal the lame, open the eyes of the blind, and pronounced woe upon those who rejected these, his witnesses. They went forth as witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ. When the Seventy returned they were very joyous about what their experiences had brought to them. "Why," said they unto the Lord, "even the devils are subject unto us through thy name;" and (Jesus raised up his eyes and glorified God in that hour, that he had revealed his great truth to the simple, and to the humble among men. It hadn't fallen upon the great, who stood in the establishments of learning in those days, but the revelation had come to those who, comparatively, might be thought of as 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"babes and sucklings" in knowledge. God had exalted them through the spirit of knowledge which comes of faith, rather than from the learning of men. 

He said to these men, whom he sent into the world, that "He that repenteth and is baptized shall be saved; and those who do not repent, and consequently will not be baptized, they shall be damned." Now, I have no disposition to soften that word. Let it stand, in all its ruggedness. You may put all the "cons" before it you please, but there it is, and whatever "damnation" may consist of, it will fall upon those who do not hearken to the message that God sends to them, and I leave those upon whom it falls to render this definition as they please. But whatever it is, that is it; it is "damnation;" so let it stand! 

'Well, we happen to be associated with a new dispensation of this Gospel. Men in early Christian centuries at least, fulfilled the great prophecy of Isaiah — speaking of the last days — when he said that men in those days would "transgress the law, change the ordinances, break the everlasting covenant," — and the blood of Christ is spoken of as "the blood of the everlasting covenant." It is that covenant with Christ, who brings salvation through his Gospel to the world that he sealed with his blood, and that is the "everlasting covenant." God's prophet, speaking under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, seven hundred years before the coming of the Christ, declared that men would break that covenant, and if broken, the only possible way to ever re-establish it is to renew it through a new dispensation of it. 

We happen to be the witnesses and the heralds to proclaim that this dispensation of the Gospel has been renewed in our days, to bring to pass the final fulfilment of all the dispensations from Adam to now, and weld them into one, that should consummate the work of God in relation to the salvation of men and the redemption of the world. 

How does this matter of being witnesses appear in this new dispensation? It began as of old. Men had departed from God, changed his ordinances, broken the covenant, and the only way to go about reestablishing all this is to give the new dispensation and raise up new witnesses to its truth. The Lord took one in every way prepared to be chosen and educated by him, and made a witness for himself and for the Lord Jesus Christ. To Joseph Smith, as you all know, both Father and Son appeared in the commencement of his ministry. With them he conversed; he saw — he heard them, and had most definite knowledge concerning God — the Father and the Son — and received at that time the promise that he would be an instrument, in the hands of God, in accomplishing some of his great and mighty purposes in these last days. 

God had established a witness among men, one who could speak with positiveness; who through the senses of sight and hearing, together with the responsive pulsation of soul, could say : "I know God lives, for he spoke unto me and I beheld him. His Son Jesus is the Christ," and he could say it with all the positiveness that ever St. Peter couldf— "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." And it can be applied to Joseph Smith: "Blessed art thou, Joseph, for flesh and 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 97 

blood hath not revealed that unto thee, but my Father who is in heaven. . . . And on this rock will I build my church." And now, in this dispensation of the fulness of times, truly the gates of hell shall not prevail against the Church of the Christ, not only in this time but in all times. Men forgot that the Church of God began in the days of Adam, and the method, and the means by which all men could become the sons of God was revealed to him; and those who reacted in faith to the message of God, through all time, constitute the redeemed in the Church of the living God in heaven, and there shall nothing prevail against that church, from first to last. 

We shall see the consummation, that is, this dispensation of ours shall see the consummation of God's work, against which the gates of hell have not prevailed and cannot prevail. 

Then another mighty stride forward was made, when God revealed the scriptures of the American continent, and brought them to the knowledge of men. He raised up witnesses to bear special testimony to that great event. And these three whom he favored with what is called a "miraculous testimony" — a vision from heaven in relation to these things — he told them that they would be called upon to choose other witnesses, even twelve. So it came to pass in this new dispensation that twelve were chosen as special witnesses. Then groups of seventy special witnesses were to follow them in the great work of preaching the Gospel in all the world. I would like to dwell a little on that, but time will not permit. 

I can only ask this question: Must the same consequences follow the testimony of these witnesses in the new dispensation as those in the time of the Christ? Yea, verily! Brother Rudger Clawson has read to us just now how some of these things will be. Let me hastily say : God gave unto them the same commission he did to the ancient witnesses. He named the same consequences that would follow their proclamation of the truth: He that believes and is baptized shall be saved. Those that believe not, and are not baptized, shall be damned. The same positiveness — and I don't undertake to make any limitations about it. 

Then he enumerated the great blessings that were to follow their preaching and bearing witness of the truth, for God said : 

"As I said unto mine apostles, [meaning the ancient ones] even so I say unto you, for you are mine apostles, even God's high jpriests; ye are they whom my Father hath given me; ye are my friends. Therefore, as I said unto mine apostles I say unto you again, that every soul who believeth on your words, and is baptized by water for the remission of his sins, shall receive the Holy Ghost." 

What man is authorized to say that of a group of witnesses he is sending out into the world? It is in the first great promise to be fulfilled, also that they shall have power to impart the Holy Ghost. 

Then further on: 

"And these isigns shall follow them that believe — In my name they shall do many wonderful works; in my name they shall cast out devils; in my name they shall heal the sick; in my name they shall open the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the dtjaf; and the tongue of the dumb shall speak. * * * 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation." 

Pointing to these so-called miraculous gifts and their fulfilment, what a testimony to those who accept the Gospel! Yet they are not to prize those things above other great spiritual truths, namely, for one thing, receiving the Holy Ghost. That is more than equal to all these spiritual gifts named. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, they who believe not on your words, and are not baptized in water in my name, for the remission of their sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, shall be damned, and shall not come into my Father's kingdom where imy Father and I am." 

I think that must be the "damnation" spoken of above. At least they can not attain unto the rewards that come with obedience to the Gospel. 

And then the Christ continues on speaking of these witnesses, that they shall labor in the spirit in which the ancient apostles — the former witnesses — labored. When he traveled with them in the world, he neither suffered them to take purse nor scrip with them in their mission, but taught them to rely upon the Lord, and promised they should not be darkened in mind or limb or joint, but he would sustain them in their missions. Being without money is no excuse for the witnesses who are to go forth in the name of the Lord in the New Dispensation. They are to preserve the same spirit of earnest, sacrificing devotion to the work as in ancient times. 

The revelation (Doc. and Cov., sec. 84:79-91) dealing with these things in the New Dispensation says : 

"Behold, I send you out to prove the world, and the laborer is worthy of his hire. 

"And any man that shall go and preach this Gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed. And they shall not go hungry, neither athirst. 

"Therefore, take ye no thought for the morrow, for what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed. * * * 

"THEREFORE, LET NO MAN AMONG YOU, FOR THIS COMMANDMENT ,IS UNTO ALL THE FAITHFUL WHO ARE CALLED OF GOD IN THE CHURCH UNTO THE MINISTRY, FROM THIS HOUR TAKE PURSE OR SCRIP, THAT GOETH FORTH TO PROCLAIM THIS GOSPEL OF THE KINGDOM. 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. 

"And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward. 

"And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples." 

To my surprise I see the time is up. I would like to dwell upon these matters a little longer, if it were possible. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 99 

I was delighted with the suggestions made by Elder George F. Richards here yesterday, in regard to widening the mission force in various mission fields. Now that we are in the midst of this so-called "financial depression," it becomes increasingly more difficult for the Saints in Zion to provide the funds for a mission for their sons and daughters, especially if asked to make the provisions from the beginning of it to the end of it, before they start. I want to make a suggestion or express a thought I have upon the subject, and that is that these witnesses for God I think should learn to trust more in the Lord and his promises — summon up the faith of the Gospel and be willing to face the world with faith in God, and depend upon him more and more for supplying their needs, while preparing the hearts of the children of men for the coming of the Lord as in the beginning of our work. 

The Lord bless Israel and sustain the witnesses of this dispensation as in former dispensations, increase their power so that when they go forth to speak it will not occur to the children of men to question their truth but to know, by the response of the spirit in their hearts, that these are witnesses sent of God — in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Mr. H. A. Smith of Arizona, who has been addressing the Commercial Club, is here in the interest of a tariff on copper. We wish him God-speed in getting it. I do not think I could get one vote against a tariff on copper. 

I wish to say, incidentally, do not go wild over a lot of books that claim the world is coming to an end in a few days. The scriptures tell us that no one knoweth. I am sure that some of the people who are wasting days, weeks and months of study trying to frighten themselves to death will not be successful. 

The Chpir rendered the anthem "Inflammatus," solo part by Sister Laurinda Brewerton. 

Elder Heber J. Meeks, President of the Kanab Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


