Afternoon
08 04 1932


The second session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The congregation sang, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian. 

A sacred solo, "Arise! Shine!" was sung by Brother John Wood. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in the work of the ministry, and pleased to say that our missionaries are in good health and active in their work. The past winter has been one of the mildest in the history of the East; while you have had so much snow here, we have had practically none. 

There are two features of our work which have greatly interested me, one — the enlargement of our radio activities. We have obtained two more free stations, one in Buffalo, where there are more people than in Utah; and the only station in Paterson, New Jersey. During President Grant's last visit, we secured the largest station in Washington, D. C. President Grant opened the service over it with an address, notable in the history of the Eastern States mission and the preaching of the Gospel over the radio. This makes eight stations over which we broadcast weekly. [We have reports from over the mission, and from the East Central States mission, that President Grant was heard clearly. In Massachusetts, the bishop of the Reorganized Church at Brockton, with a number of followers, listened in. We are guaranteed that we can preach to people over that station from Florida to Canada. Thus, literally, the Gospel is being proclaimed from the housetops, as predicted in the Book of Mormon. 

Another event of marked interest to me is the opportunity that has been afforded during the past three months to preach to the Jews in their synagogues. The subject thus far has been the Relationship of Mormonism to Judaism. It was something of a remarkable experience to witness the interest which these educated Jews have manifested, and especially the Jewish students at Ithaca, New York, where the Cornell University is located. About a quarter of the students are Jews, and they, with their Rabbi, constituted substantially all of the audience which gathered in their synagogue. In fact, it was some of these young Jews that induced the Rabbi to invite me to speak to them. They remained after the service, wanting to learn more, until eleven 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

o'clock, and then several followed me to the hotel. Two have since written letters, promising to visit me at the end of the school year, and inviting me back. 

As I say, we have now several invitations to speak at other synagogues and Jewish organizations, one at Newark, New Jersey, presided over (by the father of one of the Cornell students, who was not only present at the Jewish synagogue at Ithaca, but it was he who induced his father to invite me to speak to the Newark Jewish Club over which he presides. 

I do not know of anything that presents a more marvelous and satisfying demonstration that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God than the fact that he, a boy not twenty-four years of age, translated the Book of Mormon, and published it to the world very shortly after his twentyfourth birthday, and that that book should arouse the interest that it does among all classes of Jews. 

On the title page of the Book of Mormon/ — written by practically a boy — is found among other things, the remarkable statement that it, (the Book of Mormon, was "to come forth by the gift and power of God * * * in due time by way of the Gentile * * * to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their Fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever — 'And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations." 

Bear in mind that this was over a hundred years ago, that this country frontier boy, without education, and with only extremely limited opportunities of access to books or libraries, or contact with learned men, translated the Book of Mormon, which is now translated and published into sixteen languages, and about 50,000 of the same sold per year, with an ever-increasing demand for the same. 

That book, as previously outlined, and particularly in the prophecies found in Second Nephi, in the 30th and 10th chapters, foretells in unmistakable language, vital future events and conditions which have already been fulfilled, and still more which are being fulfilled. It says : 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words fwhich are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. * * * 

"And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land." 

The Prophet then says that they of Jerusalem "who shall not be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations. 

"But behold, thus saith the Lord God : When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance. 

"And it shall come jto pass that they shall be gathered in from their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth." 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 27 

When the Book of Mormon was first published, there were extremely few Jews in all of Palestine, and they were not permitted the privileges of citizenship in that land, or the right to hold title to land, and were greatly mistreated by the Turkish government, of which Palestine was a part. In fact, the Jews throughout Europe, even including liberty-loving England, were denied many of the privileges and the freedom enjoyed by other people. 

All must know something of what has been taking place altogether subsequent to the publication of the Book of Mormon. 

In about a quarter of a century after the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, there commenced some real agitation among Jews for their restoration in Palestine. The first material effort in that direction was led by Baron Rothchild, in the 70's. That was personal, and the first organized movement was led by Baron Hirsch. Then followed an the 90's, and the early part of the twentieth century, the more general Zionist movement, which has become a real power in the world and influenced the British Empire. Since the great World War, millions and millions have been contributing, and Jews by the thousands have been aided in their migration to and settlement in Palestine and their establishment therein in making it a homeland for scattered and down-trodden Jews. 

Another notable fact, showing how clearly the youthful Prophet understood the hidden but foretold predictions of the prophets of the Lord, is shown in the first publication of the Church, other than that of the Book of Mormon which was published before the Church was organized, namely, the "Evening and Morning Star" printed in June, 1832, in Independence, Mo. In its first issue, setting forth its mission and the object of its publication, is the statement that it was to be "a Messenger of truth in these the last days, to present to the world the revelations and commandments of God which have been given, and those which may be given, etc., and good tidings of great joy to all* — but more especially to the House of Israel scattered abroad, that the day of their redemption is near, for the Lord has- set his hand again the second time to restore them to the lands of their inheritance." 

I would like to call your attention to the fact, that at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple in 1836, in the prayer of the Prophet Joseph, (found in the Doctrine and Covenants) among other most significant things he said : "We therefore ask thee to have mercy upon the children of Jacob, that Jerusalem, from this hour, may begin to be redeemed; and the y\&ke of bondage may begin to be broken off from the House of David; and the children of Judah may begin to return to the lands which thou didst give to Abraitt-m, their father." 

Then in April, 1840, the Prophet called Orson Hyde and John E. (Page on a mission to go to Jerusalem and there dedicate that land to the return of the Jews — at a time when they were not permitted ordinary civil or political privileges, including the right to hold land in Palestine. It took Orson Hyde a year and a half to get there, traveling without purse or scrip. The trials were so great that John E. Page failed on the way, and gave up the struggle : but Apostle Orson Hyde arrived on 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the Mt. of Olives, and in Oct., 1841, dedicated that land to the return of the Jews, praying, among other things, to the Lord "to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water its thirsty soil, let the vine and olive produce in their strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. | Let the land become abundantly fruitful and possessed by its 'rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty, to (feed the returning (prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication. Upon it let the clouds distil virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty; let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and hills." 

I see my time is up, but I commend to your consideration what we call in the mission "The Redeemed Hebrew," written by President B. H. Roberts in 1927. It sets forth in much greater detail the whole story, with quotations from the Book of Mormon, and the changed attitude of the Jews toward Christ, hundreds of thousands of whom are accepting Christianity. We are distributing that paper, and it is being read eagerly by thousands of Jews. You know that New York City is the great Jewish center of the world. I understand that about one-fourth or two million of the people living in and near New York City are Jews. At our street meetings they take this paper eagerly. It was printed in a Jewish-Christian periodical. The Jews are interested in it. It is a common experience to learn from well-informed Jews that they have read or are familiar with the contents of the Book of Mormon. 

Thus the work is going on, and may God bless it and those who are seeking to further the purposes of the Lord, is my desire in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

I esteem it a great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be permitted to come back to Salt Lake City every six months and participate in the Conference proceedings. It is a wonderful inspiration unto us who are absent in the mission field, and we can carry back that inspiration unto those with whom we are laboring. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that I obtained by listening to the teachings of the Elders many years ago. I rejoice that year by year that testimony has grown stronger and brighter; that in all the vicissitudes of life, and the flounderings and the stumblings through which we go, and through which I have gone, I have been able to retain that testimony. I cherish that as one of the greatest, if not the greatest gift that God can give unto us. I do not know of any gift I can think of now that would be worth so much to me if I were to lose the testimony that this is the work of the Lord; that it is divine; that his power and authority are here upon the earth; that he speaks through thai authority; that we are led and guided by his Holy Spirit in all that we do; that we are seeking in our humble way to carry on his work; that 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 29 

he in reality has given unto us the privilege of being his humble assistants in carrying out the great task that he has set for himself, to bring about the immortality and eternal life of man. 

I know of nothing more glorious than to have the privilege of working in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in high position or in low. I feel it such an honor, such a help, such an opportunity for growth and advancement, that I feel that all Latter-day Saints should hunger for the privilege of serving in some capacity in the kingdom of God. It gives us joy; it gives us happiness. 

I do not know that at any time in my past life I have realized as fully as I do now what that second commandment means : "Love thy neighbor as thyself." In contemplation of that so many other things that occupy our lives fade away into insignificance. The philosophy of that commandment, "Love thy neighbor as thyself," seems to me to be made clear in the Book of Mormon. I remember reading in the book of Mosiah the story of King Benjamin. As he felt age creeping upon him he desired to deliver over the kingdom to his son. He called the people together for the purpose of counseling them, to advise them, and to deliver the kingdom into the hands of his son. When they had gathered together he began to recite some of the things that had been done and accomplished. What he particularly impressed upon them was this one fact, that though he were a king and ruled over them, yet he had labored with his own hands for the accomplishment of God's purposes, that he might not be a burden unto them. "And this," he declared, "I do not desire to boast of, but I tell you these things that ye might learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings, ye are only in the service of your God." 

This truth is impressed upon us in the mission field; and the privilege of carrying the Gospel to those who are honest in heart, giving unto them the word of the Lord, giving unto them greater opportunity for advancement, progress, knowledge, understanding, gives us joy. Grief we feel when we find that apparently our words fall on deaf ears, when that which is so plain unto us seems as a fallacy to them. They believe in Jesus Christ but they have already been saved, they say, and, being saved, there is nothing else that they need look [forward to; the fact that we cannot undeceive them in this thing brings us grief. In a small way it gives us a little understanding of what our Savior must have felt when he came unto his own and his own would not receive him. He gave them the opportunity for salvation and exaltation, but they looked upon him as a blasphemer. 

I desire to bear my testimony to the goodness of God, and to his mercy, to the j oy that has come into my heart since we heard the Gospel some 56 years ago, and the satisfaction and the happiness that are ours in doing the work of the Lord, in working in his cause, in helping to deliver unto the rest of the world that same message that has given us joy and happiness. 

May God help us to cherish the testimony that we have received, that we may do nothing that will mar it or cause it to fade away, because 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

these testimonies that have come unto us by doing the will of the Lord cannot be taken from us by any power on earth, except that of our own transgression. Let us cherish it and keep it. It is a wonderful thing to know, not only that we are in the way, but to know where we are going, and that at the end of this life we still continue in the service of the Lord, with the vistas of progression and advancement outlined before us. O, that testimony! There isn't anything in the world that I can think of for which I would give that testimony. 

May God help us to serve him, to do his will, to be faithful, honest and loyal to his cause, not paying so much attention to the things of this world, because they fade away, but to look more for the things that are of eternal worth and that we can carry with us, that we may find stored up there for us when we go there, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the opportunity I have of laboring in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I bring you greetings from the Saints, the missionaries, Sister Rowan, and my family. I am happy to say that the missionaries are all well, enjoying the spirit of the Gospel, enjoying their labors, and getting great satisfaction from bearing testimony of the restored Gospel t'o the people of Texas and Louisiana. 

I find there are many faithful Latter-day Saints living in those states, and as missionaries we appreciate very much the splendid cooperation they are giving us in helping to disseminate the Gospel truths. Many of our best converts are being contacted through the very fine personnel of those who have membership in this great Church. 

It gives me great joy to report that we have fifteen branches, with a membership of eighteen hundred fifty-nine souls. We have five districts having a membership of thirty-six hundred five. Making a total in the Texas mission of five thousand four hundred sixty-four souls. We have thirty-four Sunday Schools, seventeen Relief Societies, and many Primaries. Our Primaries, however, you realize, are not entirely stable, because the lady missionaries establish temporary community Primaries, while they are laboring in the various cities; yet they are accomplishing a wonderful work. 

I am happy to report that the people in these states are very friendly and hospitable. It is a source of gratitude to me to find the confidence that the business and professional men have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The conduct of our people whom they have met has thoroughly convinced them that those who have membership in this church are honest, honorable, straightforward, God-fearing men and women. I appreciate telling you, that many of the leading doctors in those states treat our missionaries absolutely free of charge because of the wonderful work thev are doing. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 31 

We are not quite so fortunate in giving addresses over the radio, since those in charge say : "We will be delighted, if you will pay, to give you a reduced rate, — but we expect money from all other churches and receive it; consequently you will have to pay to get on the air." Hence few radio programs have been given. 

During these hard times we are finding great consolation and solace in the words of the Redeemer of the world, wherein he said : 

"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 

"Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart : and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 

"For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." 

We are putting this to the test, my brethren and sisters, and I am frank to confess that the Lord is blessing his people with his Spirit. 

I believe that the Christian people generally throughout the world are depending more on the Lord than they have done in the past. I recognize and appreciate that the Lord has given us an invitation to come unto him and find rest to our souls, but I am also mindful of the fact that the Lord has said there is something of vastly more importance. He said, 

"Not every one that sayeth unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven. 

"Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity." 

So I say to you there is a certain way prescribed by Jesus the Christ through which his children must come unto him. The plan is outlined completely in our Articles of Faith. 

I am happy to be engaged in the work with my missionaries in calling upon mankind to repent. I find myself in perfect accord with this Church. I honor, revere and respect these prophets; I bear you my witness, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that I know that God our Eternal Father has spoken in this dispensation of time, that Jesus the Christ has reappeared and that Joseph Smith was an instrument in the hands of Almighty God in establishing anew the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I am also thankful to know that his successors have all held the keys of the authority to bind on earth and it shall be bound in heaven, and to loose on earth and it shall be loosed in heaven. I certify to you, in words of soberness, that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet, seer and revelator, and an inspiration to all who are familiar with his life. 

May I make one appeal before closing. Send us the names and addresses of your friends or relatives in Texas or Louisiana and we will be glad to get in touch with them. I want to thank the Bureau of Information, and all others who have furnished us with information. Your sons and daughters are well and happy. They are receiving testimony upon testimony that this is God's work. 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I pray God to bless all of us, that we may live and prove faithful to the end, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE. S. ROMNEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I have been thrilled, during this Conference, with the testimonies of my brethren. I am happy to report to you that the missionaries in the Northern States mission are carrying the message of the Gospel, and the testimony that the Lord has spoken again to his people in this day, and that they are doing it well. They are faithful young men and women. They grow very rapidly in the testimony of the Gospel when they come to the mission field. 

This last Sunday I listened to the testimony of a young lady who has been only a few months in the mission field. She was a very timid girl when she left home, and was extremely frightened when she arrived in the mission field. It seemed almost beyond her strength to go up to the doors of the people and announce that she was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Last Sunday, in her testimony, she stated that she had never known much about the Gospel. Just the other day, however, she was invited into a home of very intelligent people. They asked her questions for an hour and a half, and it seemed to her that she did not lack for an answer to any of the questions that previously she had no idea she could answer. 

Such is the testimony of the young men and women. I received a letter from one of the boys not long ago. He, too, was just a young man who had had no experience at home. He said : 

"A non-member of the Church called for us to administer to a young lady who had been sick for some time. We administered to her. We were very timid and frightened — scarcely knowing what to say. In two hours after the administration the young lady was up and out at play, and has been well ever since." 

We are very glad to have the young men and women come into the mission field, and we trust that they will come filled with the spirit of testimony. 

President Grant spoke this morning of the things that are said and have been said against him. I believe that sometimes, even in the words of those who write and speak against the prophets of the Lord, we have some of our strongest testimonies. 

Just recently a book came from the press in Chicago, written by Mr. Beardsley. Its newspaper review was entitled : "A Drunken Fiend, or a Prophet, or Mouthpiece of God." The title of the book is "Joseph Smith and His Mormon Empire." In this book we have rehearsed again many of the old stories that have been told about Joseph Smith, the Prophet, derogatory of his character. He is pictured as one of the vilest of men. In fact, Mr. Beardsley seems to find him the "drunken fiend." I was surprised, when I read that book, to notice some of the inconsistencies in it. After picturing the prophet of the Lord as he 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 33 

does, he makes statements concerning the time just following the driving of the Saints from Missouri to this effect: 

"At that time what talent the little town of Quincy could boast! There was Abraham Lincoln, the future President of the United States, and the great martyr of the American people. There was Stephen A. Douglas, who has written his name so prominently across the pages of history. And there was Mr. Browning, a senator and cabinet officer. There was Brigham Young, whose name was to become a common word upon the lips of the American people, and there was Joseph Smith." 

And he said : 

"In this company of people who was the dominating personality? Was it Abraham Lincoln? No. Was it Stephen A. Douglas? No. Was it Mr. Browning, or Brigham Young? No. It was Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, a fugitive from justice." 

It seems to me that such contradictions in the writing of those who would speak evil of the prophets of the Lord are but testimonies to the truth of this great work. In the beginning of the book Mr. Beardsley refers to the statement of Joseph Smith .which the Prophet made when he was fifteen years old, when he said that an angel told him that his name should be known for good and evil among all nations of the earth. It seemed strange to me that Mr. Beardsley shovdd raise his voice and take his pen, trained in literature as he is, to write a book to help fulfil that prophecy, wherein he is doing his part in making the name of Joseph Smith known among all the nations of the earth. I feel that he would be much safer if he were on the right side rather than on the wrong side. 

I have a testimony that the prophets of the Lord came in this day, and are here yet; and I know, as my friends who have spoken before me, that our leaders are men of integrity, men of honor and honesty; and that this, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is the truth. I trust that the Lord will bless us, that this testimony may sink into our hearts, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

President of the California Mission 

It is my prayer that the Lord will calm my spirit and lead me by the influence of the Holy Ghost. I am so new in my field of labor that I feel that I can hardly speak with the same assurance relative to the mission, that my associate presidents speak in regard to their missions. It was only late in January of this year that by divine appointment, by prophecy and by the laying on of hands, I was set apart to preside over the California mission. 

It was my great pleasure to be led into that mission and introduced to my labors and installed under the direction of Elder David O. McKay. As he traveled through that mission rapidly, spending some two weeks visiting all of the districts, the people flocked to hear him. Along his route the chapels were filled. The inspiration of the Lord was upon him. The Saints were built up in their faith. The Elders were instructed and 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

given new high hopes, and impressed with the great responsibility that rests upon them, and entered into their labors with renewed diligence. 

But when the two weeks were ended, and I saw Brother McKay disappear through the gate at the railroad station, on his way back to headquarters, headquarters seemed farther removed from California, to me, than they had seemed just a day or two earlier. To me that two weeks was, of course, a schooling under a prophet. I have never quite understood, as I have read the history of the Church, the operation, in its entirety, of the school of the prophets. I have always thought that it must have been most remarkable. But I do know, in a measure, what it is to be schooled under the prophets. 

It has been my great privilege, all the years of my life, to be rather close in contact with the Authorities of this Church. My father was a president of a stake for twenty-five years, and I followed him as a stake president in the same locality for twenty-seven years. So in all those years, into our home — into my mother's home first and later, into my own home — came the Authorities of the Church, and thus I became acquainted with all of them as they traveled among the people to direct, admonish and bless them; and their coming into our home was a blessing. I have appreciated it all my life. I appreciate it more today, I think, than at any other time in my life. And as I stand here, thinking of what a blessing it is to be well born, to be born into the Church and kingdom of God, of goodly parents, today I bless my mother, today I bless my father, prince of a man that he was, carrying in his heart a reverence for the Authorities of this Church. I thank the Lord that his reverence for the Authorities carried over into the hearts of his children. 

I thought when the President was speaking this morning, that never have I heard in my mother's home, never have I heard in my own home any of the Authorities of this Church lightly spoken of. Oh, ye Saints, beware, if in your homes ye speak slightingly of the servants of the living God! Rather that our children should hear our lips uttering prayers that come from the heart; that they, the servants of God, in a world of wickedness and strife, shall be sustained and led and inspired, so that this people shall be and continue to be an exceptional people, chosen of the Lord and led by his servants. 

As I minister with my young brethren down in the California mission, and with the lady missionaries, oh, I stand before the Lord and express my gratitude for those young men and young women, clean and sweet and undefiled; that down in that country of rapid and continuous growth, down in that place where everything seems to thrive, they are not drawn away to the right nor to the left. They are not afraid. The courage that comes unto those young missionaries to stand up in defense of the truth, and declare Jesus Christ and his ministry, and the restoration of the Gospel, and the call of the Lord unto salvation unto all those who will hear it, — I say my soul thrills. 

It is a new experience to step down into that field of labor, among these young men and young women, just out of a class where I had been associated with high priests, mature and sweet, ripened in their expeELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 35 

rience; and to touch these young lives and to witness their giving of all that they are, the strength of their young manhood and womanhood, to the service of God; it is one of the greatest testimonies in all the world. 

As I have gone through that mission, that country, that beautiful country, from the summit of the hills down in and through the valleys, everywhere today it is a garden spot, following the rainy season. I have driven past the homes of the rich, the estates of the wealthy, and then walked into the homes and sat down with the meek, the Latter-day Saints; and I have questioned in my soul, I have queried : "When shall the meek inherit the earth?" Not now, that is certain. The meek are pushed aside. The grasping, the selfish — they rule and dominate. 

But if you wish to find sweetness, if you wish to find contentment, if you wish to find love, just assemble with the meek who love the Lord and keep his commandments, who love the children of the Lord. Then you will say : Blessed are the meek now, and what must their blessings be when they shall inherit the earth? For the earth and the fulness thereof belong to the Lord, and he who bought it, redeemed it and paid the price, opened the way for you and me to become sons and daughters of God. When he comes, when he rules whose right it is to rule, what will be our joy? The promise will be fulfilled, "The meek shall inherit the earth." Recently in going through that mission, I have gone into the mining camps, where thousands have found their livelihood heretofore. There is no whistle that shrieks now and calls men to work. The smelter smoke does not ascend from those smoke stacks, and their towns are like deserted villages. And I say in my soul : I wonder if this kind of experience will not bring to men's minds the invitation of the Lord, when he said unto the people : 

"Lay not up unto yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal : 

"But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." 

Uneasy is the head of the man of great estates and holdings today. That for which he has struggled, and from which he has hoped to inherit ease and comfort and the power and influence that come from wealth, is now threatened and is insecure. He is under anxiety today. No peace there. But I bear testimony that there is peace in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. 

It was my privilege not long since to go into one of our branches, and as I was met at the depot I was asked : "Did you know that Brother Allen had died?" 

"Oh, no. When was that?" 

"Just now, in the hospital." 

"All right." 

The fact of that death caused me to remain there for three days. For three days, here and there, in the parks, in the lobbies, in the stores, on the streets, I heard people speaking — not our people, as we have only two hundred and fifty of our people in that city. They said : "That Mor36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

mon, that man Allen, was a good man." There was a man that went about doing good. My soul rejoiced. 

Oh, the power and the influence of a righteous life! The president of a branch had 'died. He was a Latter-day Saint. 

I walked up to one place and I saw a magnificent building, and I said to Brother Johnson : "I wonder, while we wait, if we couldn't go through this institution?" 

"Surely, Brother Hinckley. They let me in there any time." 

At the head of the institution was a man named Seaman. I thought : "Perhaps that could be George A. Seaman's kinsman. I will go in." 

The first thing he said when I was introduced was, "Do you know President Allen?" 

"I have never known him, but I am here to be in attendance at his funeral." 

"Great was that man," said this head of that institution. "He came in here and held meetings with us." 

This is briefly the story that he gave: "All of the sects and the denominations are permitted to hold meetings in this institution on Sunday. When President Allen brought his people in," he said, "they prayed, they sang, and they preached the Lord Jesus Christ. We had been used to seeing them, when others were here, play cards and let the radio go on; but this room became a chapel when the Mormons held services here. But it stirred up opposition, and my board was petitioned to prevent the Mormons from holding meetings in this institution. What did your president say? President Allen said, 'No war, no contention with us. Our mission is peace. We have preached unto you the truth, and when you shut us out you shut out the word of God and the message of salvation.' Result : The inmates said : 'Where are those Mormons? 

" 'They are not coming.' 

"'Why not?' 

" 'The Board has said they cannot come.' 

"Result : Five hundred people signed a petition and said : 'We want the Latter-day Saints to come in here and hold their service.' " 

The privilege was renewed and we continue to hold services there, and when the funeral of that righteous man was held the chapel was filled; the archway dividing two rooms was opened, chairs were put in; hundreds were there to pay their respect to the life of a righteous man. 

That is the kind of message that reaches the world when a righteous man manifests before God in daily life the fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Down in the California mission, under the wise leadership of President Joseph W. McMurrin — perhaps the only mission where one of the General Authorities has been permitted to preside for years and years, covering a period of thirteen years — he has wisely established branches all over Nevada, Arizona and California. Twelve thousand people in their daily lives are manifesting unto the world the fruits of Mormonism, and they are leavening the lump. And while our missionary force has dropped from its high peak of two hundred and twenty 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 37 

in 1929, to fifty-nine now, and while the depression is forcing fathers and mothers to write daily: "Can you not honorably release my son or my daughter? We have gone the limit" — in other places, presidents of stakes have written to the president of the mission and said : "Send no Elder home for the want of funds. When they have reached their limit notify us, for in this stake no lady missionary and no Elder has ever returned for the want of funds." 

I bear my testimony to the quality of the men, the quality of the women, who minister in that mission. It is the choicest of the choice. I love them as I love my own sons and daughters. They are wonderful. I love those Saints, and I want to bear testimony that in that mission are some of the best Latter-day Saints I have ever known. And now in answer to this call for local missionary help the presidents of those branches have said : "We will give you help;" and I expect that a hundred or more will be installed and divinely appointed to labor part time to help in this emergency. 

I know the truth. I love the truth. I hope to live it to the end, and to be found worthy to sit down with my father and my mother, saved in the celestial kingdom of God. May this blessing be mine and be yours, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Congregation arose and sang the hymn, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Up to this point in this General Conference I believe that our meetings have been on a par with the meetings of previous General Confer-, ences of the Church, in spirit, instruction and interest. I have been greatly edified myself and have been made to feel very grateful and thankful for my membership in the Church, the fellowship that I have with the Latter-day Saints, the knowledge that I have of the Gospel and the testimony I have of its truth; for I do know that this is God's work, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I rejoice exceedingly in this knowledge. 

INTEGRITY OF STAKE WORKERS 

The brethren who have spoken in this conference, excepting the President of the Church, have been the mission presidents, and they have spoken of conditions that obtain in the world, of the faithfulness s of our young missionaries and the integrity of the Saints in the mission field. From my knowledge in visiting the missions I can bear testimony to what they have said, and in thinking of it I am reminded of the integrity and devotion of the Latter-day Saints in the stakes of Zion. We as General Authorities of the Church, visit them quite frequently. We are always received cordially, and are given a generous welcome. We are treated, I may say, as kings might expect to be treated, given the very best that the people have to give, and there are evidences that they 



38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

sustain the Authorities of the Church, evidences of faith and faithfulness as members of the Church. 

A great many faithful workers are laboring in the stakes of Zion, men and women who are setting a worthy example before the people, living their religion, paying their tithing, keeping the Word of Wisdom, doing things that they are asked to do, and rendering service to God, to the Church and their fellow men. I am proud of this people, thankful that I am numbered with them, that I have association and fellowship with them, and I believe I have their confidence and support as do all of my brethren of the General Authorities of the Church. 

NEED FOR IMPROVEMENT 

I praise the Lord and thank him for these blessings, yet I realize that there is much in Zion that ought not to be. There are things that we engage in and do as members of the Church that we ought not to do. There are duties that ought to be performed that we neglect. I do not know whether the Lord is altogether pleased with us. I feel sure that he is pleased with the Church as a church, and with many of the individuals, but with some I am afraid he is not pleased. I am afraid that there will be disappointment on the part of some members of the Church when this life's work is finished, when our opportunities are past. Disappointment is something to be dreaded if not to be feared. 

SATISFACTION IN BEING RIGHT 

There is always a satisfaction, my brethren and sisters, in having been right on any question that has engaged our attention, especially if the wisdom and judgment of others have been brought to bear upon that question and we have not all agreed. You know how prone we are to say, "I told you so." The more important the question that is involved in a consideration of this kind, the greater satisfaction there will be in the end when we find that we have been right; but if on the other hand it is found that we have been wrong there will be correspondingly great disappointment. The importance of the question involved determines the amount of satisfaction or disappointment. The greatest question that man has ever considered, according to my judgment, is that of religion, or salvation, of what it consists and how it may be attained. There is no other question I suppose that has engaged the attention of so many people or upon which there has been such diversity of opinion. That accounts for the numerous creeds and religious denominations that there are in the world today. 

Those of us who know the truth of the Gospel as it has been revealed in these last days through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, know that there are millions of people who, in the end, when it shall be universally known of what salvation consists, how it may be attained, will be tremendously disappointed, and only the disappointment of the wicked or those who have fought against the work of God will be greater or supreme. We who know the truth and know the will of the Lord and the law of the Lord, understand that we are to love the Lord 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 39 

our God with all our heart, with all our soul, and with all our might; that this is the first great commandment. And the second is like unto it : "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

DISCHARGING OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

We ought to desire above everything else, except our own welfare and salvation, the welfare and salvation of our fellow men. We are organized as a Church. We have received responsibilities from on high to preach this Gospel of the kingdom in all the world as a witness before the end shall come. For more than a century we have been trying as a people to discharge ourselves of this responsibility and prove our love of God and man by making sacrifice in the preaching of this Gospel. You have seen the results, and yet there are but very few of our Father's children in this dispensation who have embraced the Gospel, but that is not to be wondered at. It was ever so. Only a few in the days of Isaiah, as we read in the fifty-third chapter of the book of Isaiah accepted the truth. The prophet said : "Lord, who hath believed our report ?" Only a few. And in the days of the primitive church we find this expression: 

"But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaias saith, Lord who hath believed our report?" 

This dispensation is a time of warning, just as much, I understand, as it was a day of warning when Noah the prophet of God was commanded to warn the people of his day that if they did not repent of their sins and obey the Gospel they would be destroyed. We are told that for a hundred and twenty years the prophet of God labored among that people, but in vain except for the saving of a few souls. A great flood was sent to destroy the people. I say for more than a century we have been preaching this Gospel of the kingdom to the people of the world, and the people of the world are rejecting the message in large measure, excepting a very few. They will meet with disappointment and in some instances condemnation, according to the law that has come to those who have heard and have rejected the Gospel. 

SACRIFICE BRINGS BLESSINGS 

Now in these times of financial stress and business troubles the Latter-day Saints, I suppose, are feeling these things the same as other people. The Lord rains on the just and the unjust alike. But the Latter-day Saints have more to encourage them than have the people of the world. We are here not for the gaining of wealth. That is not the end in view, but a means to a nobler end, that of serving God and working righteousness, striving to save our own souls and the souls pf others; and we can afford to make the sacrifices that the Gospel entails upon us. 

Brethren and sisters, we know that we have the promise, and God's promises never fail, that we shall be rewarded abundantly in time and in eternity for all the sacrifices made for the accomplishment of his purposes. For the past. number of years we have maintained in the neigh40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

borhood of two thousand missionaries in the field; the report is made today that we have seventeen hundred and two missionaries out. You have heard the report of these mission presidents, how the numbers have been depleted in their mission fields. What are we going to do to keep up our record and do the work the Lord requires at our hands ? I have a recommendation for our mission presidents. 

LOCAL SAINTS AS MISSIONARIES 

Some of the presidents told us in our meeting with them a few days ago that they were using the local brethren and sisters, some in one way and some in another. In the closing remarks of President Hinckley of the California mission, who has just addressed us, he said he expected the branches in his mission to ,furnish a hundred local people to assist in this work. I want to relate to you a little experience I had in presiding over the European mission during the World War. I was there from August of 1916 until July of 1919. During that time in the British mission the number of missionaries from home was reduced from seventy-five to seven, including those who were in the mission headquarters. We had seventy-five branches that had formerly been presided over almost universally by Elders from home. Those were now presided over by local men . Men who were able to bear arms had been drafted into the service, ,and those who were not entered the factories for the manufacture of munitions of war. There were very few men left at home. We called as missionaries young men who were not old enough to bear arms. 

When I left that mission there were twenty-two local brethren laboring in the manner referred to, some of them giving part time, presiding over districts or branches, others giving their entire time as missionaries. We called into the service young women and married women, and at one time, as I remember it, we had three hundred and seventyfive of these good sisters working. They rendered their reports to mission headquarters the same as the missionaries had done who were from home. They distributed tracts, they held cottage meetings, loaned books, and did all the work that regular missionaries did. The result was that these missionaries were more faithful than ever before. The tithing of the British mission just about doubled itself in three years. We had almost as many baptisms as had been the case when we had seventy-five or more missionaries in the field. 

It shows what can be done with these local men and women in the world. They are just the same kind of people we have here in the stakes and wards. In every nation he that fears God and works righteousness is approved of him. I see no reason why men and women in the mission field should not labor in the Church as missionaries or in any other capacity where they are needed, just as well as the people in organized wards and stakes. They are doing it in some places. There are some missionaries called from one mission to another. Why not the mission supply its quota of missionaries and send them out into other missions ? These lady missionaries are doing a .splendid work in all the missions where they are used. There are ladies locally who are just as efficient 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 41 

as those who go from the stakes and are willing and could be used to advantage if we would make use of them. 

I remember two years ago when I was going through the Canadian mission with President Hart, at Hamilton we called for volunteer lady missionaries to accompany those who were there from Zion. Instead of sending out two lady missionaries from Zion who were there at such great expense, it was suggested that we take one of these lady missionaries and a local missionary, and have two sets of missionaries where formerly we had but one. Several sisters volunteered. We blessed these people and set them apart and we have reports that a splendid work was accomplished by those local sisters. Why can we not do this, and double the number of missionaries ? Suppose a woman cannot give all her time, if one sister would go out one day and another another day, if it took seven sisters to do a week's work along the side of a regular missionary, the work would be accomplished. Why not do the same with our brethren? 

I heard an Elder reporting his mission recently who said he tried out the plan of taking a little boy and giving him a tract and letting him lead up to the doors of homes, and it had a splendid effect. They would not shut the door on him or deny him. They would hear what he had to say, and his message would be an introduction for the missionary. T say that ,in that case the little boy was the equal of the Elder from home. When they go into a home there is no need for two Elders from Zion in that home to preach the Gospel, one can do all the talking; all he needs is a companion and a witness, and here we have one. 

There are ways and means, and I believe that God expects us to be thoughtful men who have charge of this work in the mission field and at home. I think we can perhaps do better than we have been doing, and, brethren and sisters, all this means that we wash our hands clean of the blood of this generation, for we are as watchmen upon the towers. Our responsibility is to warn the wicked and to call them to repentance and to preach this Gospel of the kingdom to those who are in spiritual darkness. 

A wonderful work is being accomplished. May God be praised for it and the Saints for the work they have done, and may this work go forward to the entire satisfaction of the Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am glad to know that there are people in the world who are not discouraged. For months it has been my privilege to be in different parts of our country and it is rare that one finds those who are not exceedingly pessimistic, because of conditions over which we seem to have no control. Men and women are unemployed and in many cases they will be in dire distress unless ways and means be prepared for them to 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

earn their living. The wise men of the earth are seeking to find some way whereby this difficulty may be overcome. Quite recently the most terrible war of all time occurred, and when that was finished many people thought that would be the end of war. At present there is suspicion and jealousy among the nations of the earth. There are groups that are preparing to take by force what they cannot obtain by honest toil, and "Men's hearts are failing them for fear." 

These things have been predicted. We have been told that in the last days serious difficulties would arise, and before that time the true Gospel would be preached. 

BLESSINGS FOLLOW OBEDIENCE 

In the year 1830 this Church with which we are identified was organized. It was patterned after the Church that had been organized by Jesus Christ our Lord on the other side of the mighty ocean. It was intended to prepare people for the things which were to come, and hundreds and thousands have rejoiced in the blessings that have followed obedience to the teachings of our Lord and obedience to the laws that govern his Church. 

IN THE DAYS OF NOAH 

It has been remarkable to me as I have read the history of the world, both religious and secular, that the children of men so easily forget the Lord and turn away from him. In ancient times it became necessary for Noah to go about teaching the truth for more than a hundred years, and yet people rejected him and his message and the prediction that he made that they would suffer the penalty that always follows disobedience to God. They were drowned in the flood. History discloses the fact that whenever people have served God and kept his commandments they prospered, and when they turned away from him and lost their faith they fell into transgression and they suffered the punishment that they merited by reason of their disobedience. That is not only true of the nations that have dwelt upon the European lands and in Asia and in Africa, but it has been true of those who have dwelt upon this hemisphere. 

THE ANCIENT INHABITANTS OF AMERICA 

When the Lord prepared to people this land, Ether and his group crossed the mighty ocean. This was soon after the confusion of tongues at Babel. They were not able of their own wisdom to cross the ocean, but the Lord taught them how they might make barges, how they should provide themselves with food; and then under the guidance of his Holy Spirit they migrated to this great western hemisphere and were prospered. Then they forsook the Lord and fell into transgression, and the result was that as a people they were destroyed. Then another people came, about six hundred years before the birth of our Savior, under Lehi. They came to this western land led as had been the other people by the power of God. When they observed the commandments of the 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 43 

Lord they were happy, and when they transgressed they suffered the penalty which always follows disobedience of the laws of our Heavenly Father. They separated into two groups after they arrived here, and while they became numerous upon the face of the earth there was a large portion of them who did not serve the Lord, and eventually they became so wicked that the Nephites or fair-skinned people perished, being destroyed by the Red Man. They had builded great cities and wonderful things were accomplished by those who kept the commandments of the Lord, but those who would not obey him dwelt in idleness, or in a way that compelled them, if they would live, to take that which belonged to others. The Lord blessed those who honored him and kept his commandments as long as they were faithful, but eventually they were entirely destroyed, leaving their records buried in the earth, where they remained until they were delivered to the prophet Joseph Smith. History has repeated itself many times. 

THE RESULT OF DISOBEDIENCE 

In several places in the scriptures we read that "the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid," and in the day and age in which we live that is very plainly manifested to the children of men. The condition that has come upon the earth is not the result of righteousness; it is the result of disobedience to the laws of our Father in heaven, and we as members of this Church have been warned of what was to come. We have not only been warned by the scriptures that were given in the days of the Savior and prior to his time, and those that were given after him, but in our own day and age the Lord has spoken and the revelations of our Heavenly Father are found in the Doctrine and Covenants. If we will read these revelations we will learn that the experiences through which we are passing were predicted, that the very promises that the Lord made are now being fulfilled. 

It does seem strange that so many of our Father's children think they are finding satisfaction in doing things that are wrong. The distress of the world today is very largely because men have turned from the teachings of the Lord. Men are seeking the wealth of the world, and it appears to make little difference to some of them how they obtain it. They cannot take it with them. The things that they obtain by selfishness will not be beneficial to them. For thousands of years the Lord has been teaching this lesson, yet today it seems to me that men and women are as disobedient, as unthankful and unholy as they have ever been in any period of the world's history. 

THE ONLY REMEDY 

The message that the Lord has given to the earth, that we have been asked to disseminate, is the only rule of conduct whereby this difficulty may be removed. By following the teachings of the Lord, by turning unto him and repenting of sin, by going about doing good — that attitude will bring happiness and prosperity. Mankind will love 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

one another, and the hatred and the unkindness that have existed so much in the world will pass away. The Lord has not required something that is impossible. On the contrary, he has given us commandments and advice and counsel that it is possible for all of us to follow in this clay and age in which we live. The daily press brings to us accounts of disasters that are everywhere — the sea being tempestuous and loss of life upon it, earthquakes, great tornadoes, such as we have been told would occur in the last days — and it does seem to me, brethren and sisters, if men are thinking seriously, if they are reading the scriptures, they must know that the happenings that the Lord said would occur in the last days are occurring. The fig tree surely is putting forth its leaves, and those who are thoughtful must know that the summer is nigh, that those things that the Lord has predicted as preceding his second coming are now coming to pass. 

As we sit in this comfortable house today and enjoy the teachings that have been given to us under the influence and power of our Heavenly Father, how grateful we ought to be for our blessings, for the fact that the Lord has removed from us uncertainty. There should be no doubt in the minds of this congregation as to what the Lord desires. There should be no uncertainty in our minds as to how we may be happy. There is only one way that we can enjoy our lives, and that is by being obedient to the teachings of an all-wise Father who knows the end from the beginning and has given to us understanding and the opportunity to add to that understanding and to prepare for every vicissitude of life. 

COMFORTS IN ABUNDANCE 

Isn't it a singular thing that what the world has struggled for from the beginning, wealth, power, all those things that make men comfortable, are to be had in abundance today — better and more clothing than ever before, more food than can be consumed, more wealth of all kinds than the world has ever had before. Our homes are more comfortable. The conveniences of life have been multiplied marvelously since the Gospel came upon the earth, and today everything that we have struggled for we have. Education has arrived at its highest point. More knowledge of the things of this earth is possessed by men than ever before. Everything mankind has struggled for from the beginning of time that is considered most desirable is upon the earth today; and notwithstanding that, there is doubt and dread of what the future has in store. 

THE CAUSE AND CURE 

What is our trouble ? It is that we have sought the creature comforts, we have sought the honors of men, we have sought those things that selfishness puts into our souls. We have sought to set ourselves up and have preferred ourselves to our Father's other children. I am speaking now of the world. We have ignored the commandments that we should honor God and keep his commandments, that we should love our neighbors. We have failed to pray in the way that we were taught 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 45 

to pray, and men and women have set their judgment up against the teachings of an all-wise Father, and of course we are paying the price. 

Now if we would enjoy the blessings that the Lord has prepared for us, the things that we have struggled for, there is yet something else for us to do, and that is to love one another. That is to honor God and keep his commandments, obey the laws of the land in which we live, be considerate of one another, observe the teachings that have been given to us from the beginning of the world; and if we will do that all our problems will be solved. The wisdom of men will be added upon, the power of God will come upon his children, and this earth will be cleansed and purified from the evils that exist that are rapidly destroying humanity. 

Knowing that, brethren and sisters, we ought to be faithful. The land that we live in should be sanctified by our lives of righteousness, and we should go about doing good. There should be no doubt in our minds as to the power of God to safeguard our interests. We know that he can do that, and in this wonderful Church, with its marvelous organization, with the authority of the holy priesthood bestowed upon thousands of our Father's sons, with these marvelous organizations that are given for the training of our youth — our Primary, our Mutuals, our Sabbath Schools, our Relief Society organization, our educational facilities — there is everything that should prepare us to know what God would have us do here. All that we need is to repent of our sins, turn from the error of our ways, cleanse our lives of impurity, and then to go about doing good. It does not require that we shall be set apart for that purpose. Every man, woman and child in the Church of Jesus Christ may go about doing good and receive the blessing that results therefrom. 

OUR MISSION 

Looking back through the experiences of those who have lived upon the earth, and remembering the privations and afflictions of those nations that have turned away from our Heavenly Father, let us not be among those who unwisely and foolishly set our judgment up against the wisdom of the Lord. Let us acknowledge his wisdom, let us set our hands to the work that he has entrusted to our care, let us bless our Father's children wherever they may be, and our lives will be enriched and this world will be made happier. This is the mission that has been placed upon our shoulders. Our Heavenly Father will hold us responsible for the manner in which we fulfil it. God grant that in the humility of our souls we will go about with the desire in our hearts to do good to all people wherever they may be, and bring to them the joy that can only come through observing his laws and keeping his commandments. That peace may abide in our hearts and in our homes, that we may radiate sunshine and cheer wherever we may go, that we may prove to the world that we do know that God lives, by the lives that we lead, and receive his blessings therefor, I humbly pray" in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The auditor's report was not included in the statistics given by me this morning. It is as follows : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4th, 1932. President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: — 

It gives us pleasure to state that our examination of the reports of the First Presidency's office, which cover the Presiding Bishop's department, discloses the fact that the Church is entirely out of debt. The accounting system of the Church is modern and complete. 

Respectfully submitted, Henry H. Rolapp, O. W. Adams, John W. Hart, 

Auditing Committee. 

The hymn, "Zion stands with hills surrounded," was sung by the congregation, after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder John M. Baxter, former president of the Woodruff Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock, Saturday, April 9th. 

SECOND DAY 


