Afternoon
09 04 1932


The fourth session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock, Saturday afternoon, April 9th. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, announced that the Relief Society Ladies' Chorus, under the direction of Sister Lottie Sackett, would sing "Recessional," as the opening number. 

After the singing of this selection by the Chorus, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Harry L. Payne, President of the St. Joseph Stake. 

The Relief Society Ladies' Chorus sang the anthem, "Within this sacred dwelling," solo part iby Brother Cornelius G. Van Os. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

There is one thing that has always been evident to me, since I have made a study of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that is this, that there has been a constant, progressive divine purpose in all of the dealings of God with man, and the history of the world is replete with evidence of this fact; that divine purpose is manifest in the coming of all the servants of God, the prophets, the apostles, and in the revelations that have been given in every dispensation of his providence. 

That divine purpose has been stated in the writings of the prophet Moses when he said : "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." That purpose was promulgated before the foundations of this earth were laid. It was considered beforehand, and we are now in the process of the development of that purpose. It is now approaching its great climax, the accomplishment of God's purposes with his children that have dwelt upon the earth. 

It is true that we have only glimpses of these things that took place before the foundations of this earth were laid, but, oh, what light and understanding are contained in those few glimpses that have been given to us. We read in the scriptures : 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. 

"And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 

"And God said, Let there be light; and there was light. 

"And God saw the light, that it was good : and God divided the light from the darkness. 

"And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day." 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 67 

In holy writ reference is made to a council held in heaven before the foundations of the earth were laid. The Lord said to his servant Job: 

"Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. * * * 

"When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" 

These words are very significant. They tell of a time when the sons of God were assembled together and shouted for joy. That particular phrase does not state exactly what it was they shouted for, but in modern revelation that is made clear. It was the promulgation of that divine purpose that God had in relation to his children, and the very plan by which that purpose might be accomplished. 

I am going to read again from the scriptures : 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

"The same was in the beginning with God. 

"All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. 

"In him was life; and the life was the light of men. * * * 

"That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world." 

From these passages of scripture we must concede that Jesus Christ is the light of the world and the power thereof by which it was made. The whole plan then centers in that Son of God that was chosen in that primeval day to carry out the divine purpose. He was sent into the world, 

"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." "And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us." 

This revelation of the Son of God, who was with the Father in the beginning, and by whom all things were made, came and dwelt among us in a mortal body of flesh and bones. That was a vital part of the divine plan. 

The coming of the children of God to this earth was fundamental, for it was to bring to pass their immortality and eternal life that this world was created, that God sent his Only begotten Son. From the very beginning we see the purpose in the course of its development. This Son of God was born of the virgin Mary. An angel of the Lord appeared unto her and told her that she was greatly favored among women; that she had found favor with the Lord; that she would conceive and give birth to a son, and should call his name Jesus, and he should be called the Son of God. Said Mary unto this angel, "How shall this be, seeing that I know not a man?" And the angel replied, "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God." 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thus is recorded the coming of that Son of God in mortal body to dwell among us, the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh. None other was born of God in the flesh, and yet we were all the children of God, but not born of him in the flesh. Let me read again from the scriptures. 

"He came unto his own, and his own received him not." 

No, they crucified him. 

"But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name : 

"Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." 

Here we have it plainly stated that they were not born and begotten of God in the flesh, not by the will of man, but of God, clearly pointing to the fact that we were the children of God born of him in the spirit before the foundations of this earth were laid. But he gave unto even them that believed on him the power to become the sons of God, even as Jesus Christ is the Son of God, of the flesh and of the spirit. For it was to them who are thus born of the spirit that he gave the power to become the sons of God. What was that power? That power was the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is in the divine purpose that all the children of God shall be begotten sons and daughters unto him in body and in spirit, these two component parts of our eternal souls, before they can be received into his celestial dwelling place, before they can become members of his household and the divine purpose be accomplished. 

But, although we were born of God in the spirit before the foundation of this earth was laid, when the sons and daughters of God sang together and shouted for joy upon the promulgation of the divine purpose, it still remained necessary in order to be in very deed his sons and daughters, that we should be born in these mortal bodies of the blood and of the flesh, which were not begotten of him but of our natural parents. Therefore, when Nicodemus asked the Lord : "How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?" he made it plain by answering: "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

Thus it will be seen that the second birth is necessary, which symbolizes the first one — born of the water, quickened by the spirit, and through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, we are made the sons and daughters of God throughout the endless ages of eternity. Thus is brought to pass the immortality and eternal life of man, and the Gospel becomes the power of God unto salvation. Such is the divine purpose. 

The children of Abraham have been called "God's chosen people." That too was in the divine purpose, and people ofttimes ask the question, how is it that God shows such preference to any particular family? Why is it that we who also claim to be the children of Abraham should 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 69 

be preferred before others when it is clearly stated in holy writ that God is no respecter of persons ? 

Neither is he a respecter of persons, but this process of choosing the great and the good in order to carry out the divine purpose was predicated on their faithfulness and did not begin here, but before we came to the earth; and these were chosen for their integrity and because they were valiant for the truth in order to carry out his divine purpose. So it appears that even in that primeval day before the foundation of the earth was laid, God chose the great and noble ones from among his children and elected that they should come through the lineage of Abraham, because he knew Abraham before he was born and that he loved the Lord and would teach his children after him; and also in order to maintain their solidarity as a nation or as his chosen people. 

Let me read from the Book of Abraham : 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me : Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." 

Thus Abraham was chosen to become the father of the faithful, arid he received the promise that in him and his seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed. This was truly a natural selection, or, if you please, a survival of the fittest. In this respect, at least, it seems to be in accord with modern scientific thought. 

This does not mean that all the children of Abraham will be chosen; neither does it mean jthat none other will be chosen. The children of God are again on trial in this their second estate, and the natural selection is still in progress. There will be many of Abraham's seed cast out on account of their evil deeds and many who are not of that lineage, on account of their integrity and obedience to God's plan, will be grafted into the olive tree and become likewise sons and daughters of God and members of his household. 

But before we shall become the sons and daughters of God in body and in spirit we shall have rendered obedience to his glorious Gospel which is indeed the power of God unto salvation. This reconciles the coming and development of the house of Israel, the children of Abraham, as God's chosen people. It also explains the motive for the scattering of that seed that all nations might thereby be blessed, for it was through that seed that the knowledge of the only true and living God was perpetuated in this world. It was through that seed that God has communicated to mankind; through them he has sent his apostles and prophets and they have been endowed with power from on high. They have been the messengers of God to teach the people the way of life. God's chosen people, then, are the children of Abraham through Isaac the son of promise and Jacob to whom the Lord gave the name of Israel; with them he established his covenant. Jacob became the father of twelve sons who became the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

We live in a day when the children of Israel are again to be gathered after their long dispersion. We have heard something of the return of the Jews, the tribe of Judah, to the land of their inheritance, even Palestine; but we are not of that tribe but of the tribe of Joseph, "that bright and glorious morning star," and particularly through Ephraim, his son, and are now being gathered on this the land of Joseph, given to him and his seed as an everlasting inheritance — a land choice above all other lands, the land of liberty, even the land of America. We are of that lineage and are now being gathered, having given heed to the call of the Gospel, hearing the voice of the true shepherd, even as we did in our former estate when we were counted among the great and noble ones; but now as then, many are called but few are chosen. The natural selection still goes on. 

And now comes the great responsibility that rests upon that chosen few. The Savior said, "In my Father's house there are many mansions * * * I go to prepare a place for you * * * that where I am, there ye may be also." When the Lord makes up his jewels which shall constitute the membership of his household you may be sure it will not be limited to those who happen to live upon the earth during a Gospel dispensation. Nevertheless the same requirements will be made of all before they can become members of his household, his sons and daughters both in body and in spirit. This must be accomplished through obedience to his Gospel and by being born of the water and of the Spirit. Those who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel may, if they are honest in heart, be converted and brought to repentance when the Gospel is preached to them in the spirit world, but even as the question arose in the mind of Nicodemus with reference to the living, "How can a man be born when he is old," the question now might nat-. urally arise : how can a man be born when he is dead ? Provision is likewise made for this in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hence baptism and other ordinances for and in behalf of our dead kindred by their living representatives; "For," as we read in the scriptures, "for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." Therefore before that final judgment shall overtake the world, that dreadful day of the Lord, he has sent Elijah the prophet as predicted by Malachi, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers lest he, the Lord, should smite the earth with a curse. 

It would indeed be a calamity if we should fail to do the part assigned to us in the accomplishment of the divine purpose as children of Abraham and descendants of Joseph and Ephraim, namely, performing the work for and in behalf of our ancestors who died without a knowledge of the Gospel, the work which they are no longer able to do for themselves, namely, baptisms and other ordinances in order that they too may become the sons and daughters of God, both in spirit and in body; all this, of course, being conditioned on their acceptance and obedience on the other side. Here again it is seen that God is no respecter 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 71 

of persons but every child of God shall hear the glad tidings and those who believe on Jesus Christ shall be given power to become sons and daughters unto God, even as many as shall believe on him from father Adam until the latest generation of his posterity. May we be numbered among that grand assembly I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

The congregation arose and sang the hymn, "O say, what is truth?" 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to stand before you this afternoon and represent the Mexican mission, as well as the Council of the Seventies. You understand, of course, that in the last six months, since I first stood before this congregation, my entire time has been spent in the Mexican mission. Because of that I shall take the liberty of telling you just a little of what we have done in that mission and what we would like to do, and then I shall take my seat. 

Judged from one point of view we may say that the Mexican mission is in good shape. From another point of view we must say that it is not in good shape. Our Mexican people depend entirely upon the service that they can render others for their food and clothing, and at times like this, when industry is at a standstill, they are usually the first ones to go out of employment. Because of that fact there is considerable suffering among the members of the Church of that race, and because of that fact also thousands and thousands of the people with whom we were wont to make contact in our missionary labors have found it expedient to return to Mexico. 

I think close to a hundred thousand Mexicans, perhaps, from the United States, have been repatriated, as they say, within the last year. I passed one afternoon between Laredo and San Antonio nore than twenty vehicles of various sorts and sizes, laden with Mexicans who were homeward-bound, all, almost without exception, poverty-stricken and forced to retreat because of the lack of employment. That has taken out of our territory just that many prospective candidates, just that many people with whom we would like to make contact, with whom we would like to leave Books of Mormon and tracts explaining the principles of the Gospel. They are gone now from our territory, leaving, however, a great many people. 

Our headquarters are in Los Angeles, and it may surprise you, just as it did me, to learn that the city of Los Angeles is reputed to be the second largest Mexican city in the world. It is, or was just recently, second only to the city of Mexico in number of Mexican inhabitants. It is quite natural then that we should retain for the time-being at least, under existing laws of Mexico, our headquarters in Los Angeles. 

The Mexican people whom we have been able to baptize, most of them are a faithful and good people. Those of you who know Mexi72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

cans know that they come to us, almost without exception, addicted to the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor. Many of them are converted, really, who do not ask for baptism, because they feel as yet too weak to give up those vices; but almost without exception when they come into the Church they do leave off those habits, and they are to be congratulated for that fact. They come to our conferences in great numbers, and we never see them using tobacco. We see none of them, while they are with us at least, under the influence of liquor, and we are told that they leave off the use of tea and coffee. I think that you will all agree with me that any people of their habits, their past, and their history, who can do that, are a worthy people. 

Our missionaries are enjoying health and strength at the present time. We have had one case of very serious sickness in the last six months. Very fortunately that young man is now well and strong, carrying on his missionary labors again. The Elders, however, many of them are struggling, just as the Elders of other mission fields, with a lack of funds. Some of them have had to leave their missions even before completing a full year of service, because of that lack. The boys who have come to us from Mexico, especially, of whom we had a few, have had extreme difficulty, because their parents had no market for their crops and their money had to be divided by three when it was sent into the United States. Some of them have remained in the field with utmost difficulty but with great loyalty. They have done excellent service for us, and we thank them for it. Others of them have had to return home for the same reason — their parents were unable longer to find the funds to keep them there. 

We don't need a great deal of money in our mission to get by, but some money is necessary. We were pleased beyond expression, just a short time ago, to receive a communication which has been referred to here already, from a certain stake presidency in the Church, to the effect that before any missionary from their stake should be released we were to confer with them, because it was their desire that every missionary they had in the field should complete his full and customary term of service. It made me weep almost to think that I didn't have a single missionary from that stake, because I would like to have availed myself of that good offer. 

The most outstanding thing that has happened to the mission, from a missionary standpoint, in the last six months, was the visit of Elder Melvin J. Ballard with me and my wife throughout the mission. We held a series of conferences which began at San Diego and terminated at Albuquerque, New Mexico. We covered the entire distance from San Diego and Los Angeles, to San Antonio, Texas, almost on the Gulf of Mexico. 

When I visit my Elders I travel two thousand miles before I find the Elders in Brownsville and Corpus Christi. You see, it is a long, extenuated district, and there are only thirty-four men and women to serve that territory now. We need more help; we will accept it graciously; but we are going to strive with all our power and all our zeal 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 73 

to carry forward with what men and women we can get, and be thankful for them at this time. 

The trip of which I spoke carried us to the City of Mexico. The last time I was in the City of Mexico I was there as a student, and I left there, as I remember, in the year 1905. It was my pleasure, on this trip, to meet some of the old Saints who were there at that time, still faithful and energetic in the performance of their duties. Some of them wept when they realized that they were looking upon the son of my father, who baptized them there in about 1881, and who are still faithful; and though not strong physically, they are strong in the faith. 

We were really astounded and surprised at the success those people down there are having in carrying on their organizations without our help. Many of you perhaps know that before a man can function as a priest or minister in Mexico, under the present law, he must qualify as a native-born Mexican citizen, and we have few of such among our race. There are a few young men now in Mexico who bid fair to be prospects for that service, should they declare themselves; they are eligible to citizenship by birth; but as yet we have none of them functioning. 

I think, however, it may be considered as an advantage to those people that the law was passed and the missionaries were taken out of Mexico, for the responsibility fell directly upon the shoulders of the native brethren and sisters, and they have carried it on well and faithfully. We dropped in on them as a surprise Sunday morning. We found the Sunday School in session, which was conducted very much like ours here at home, the same subjects being treated, and the classes divided, so far as their numbers would permit, in the same way. We attended a meeting as visitors only, for we were not allowed to do it in the capacity of our calling. We listened to eight or ten of them bear their testimonies and talk, and it was an excellent service. After its dismissal we were allowed to visit with them, to discuss some of their problems and advise them. 

I can't say too much in commendation of the way those brethren, who have come right out of the jacales, as they are called there, the poorer houses of the peasants, are carrying on this work. They are faithful; they are true; they are intelligent. They represent the Indian blood of Mexico almost in purity. You will remember that all of the outstanding leaders of Mexico, almost without exception, owe their prominence and preeminence, I think, to their Indian blood. The greatest of all their statesmen, perhaps. Benito Juarez, (was a pure-bred Indian. Porfiro Diaz had a large infusion of Indian blood. Their present president has also. He is almost pure Indian, I am told. 

We are very expectant that great things some day may be realized from these Indian people. They are very typical. They are very much alike, and they are very, very interesting. 

We had also the privilege of visiting the ruins of Mexico at San Juan, Teotihuacan, and the pyramid which is called the Snake pyramid. They are full of possibilities, from an archaeological standpoint. However, in using them to substantiate the Book of Mormon we have to be 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

extremely careful, because while they apparently give evidence of certain things, archaeologists are not all agreed as to their value. They are, however, extremely interesting. 

Not the least interesting thing to me on that trip to Mexico was my visit to the American Embassy. It is the first time in all my experience that I have ever been in the United States in Mexico. That really is the case, because by fiction of the law the American Embassy is considered American territory. We found the embassy occupied by one of our own people, a man whose faith is unquestioned, and whose friendship we found to be pure and unalloyed. We enjoyed for three days the hospitality of Brother and Sister J. Reuben Clark, and I want to tell you that I learned to love them while I was there, for they are indeed Latter-day Saints right through to the core. The work Ambassador Clark is doing in Mexico is a wonderful work and a wonderful advertisement for our people. They know who he is. They know what people he represents. They honor and respect him for his stand. 

I don't know that I should take more time this afternoon. I have extremely enjoyed the remarks of my predecessors. I wish to bear out, by testimony, the things that they have spoken. I support and sustain and uphold the President of this Church and those who are in authority under him. It has been my privilege to know him and his first counselor, at least, all my life, and I can bear testimony that I have never received, in all those years, which are past fifty now, a single word of counsel that t could not pass on in public to this congregation. I know their motives are pure and unsullied, regardless of all the things that may be said. I bear you this testimony and I stand here to uphold it, and I do it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block 

Mission 

I realize the responsibility this afternoon, for I not only represent the First Council of Seventy but the great mission here at the Temple Square as well. Presiding over this mission as I do, having been called by the First Presidency, I am glad to say something about the mission and also to bear my testimony of the truth of this Gospel of our Lord and Savior. Connected as I am with the University of Utah, I come in contact with hundreds of the boys and girls of this State and other States, and I feel that I appreciate something of the struggles they are making. 

Here at the Temple Square thousands of people come to us yearly. They come here as travelers, as tourists; and the Bureau of Information which has been erected for them is the place where they obtain literature and information concerning the doctrines of the Church. A different type of people come to us now as compared with those who came a few years ago. People came with criticism in their hearts and a great deal of hate of what we believe. But today it is seldom that people 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 75 

do not appreciate something of the beauty of the grounds, the greatness of the buildings, and above all, the message which we missionaries give to them. There are fifteen missionaries connected with this mission and they are a choice lot of brethren and sisters and are doing a wonderful work here. .We try to approach all people with the attitude of mind as expressed by the old prophet Malachi when he said: "Are we not all children of the same God? Is not God the Father of us all?" 

Every day letters come to us expressing gratitude for the message that people have received, and I have in my pocket now a letter that I received only this morning from Dr. Teeling of London, a graduate of Oxford University and a representative of one of the departments of government in London. Dr. Teeling was our guest here for a few days and made a careful investigation of the history and the doctrines of the Church. He wrote us a very lovely letter thanking us for what he had obtained here and asking us to visit him in London. So we receive such letters every day. People are appreciative and we appreciate them. 

Not long ago some prominent students from one of the great universities of America came through. These students were on their way to Southern Utah to study the geological formation of the canyons. They came here and spent the day and I had the pleasure of taking them through the grounds and buildings, and as they went back through our little museum — which by the way one of the attendants of the British Museum says is one of the smallest museums in the United States, but 'for quality one of the finest — they read those lovely mottoes we have in the museum. There are fourteen. I want to read them to you because they were carefully chosen : 

"God created man in His own image, in the image of God created He him." — Genesis. 

"God ever works with those who work with him," is a saying of Aristotle. 

"Reverence for God is the basis of immortality." — The Talmud. 

"Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom."'— Doctrine and Covenants. 

"With malice towards none, |with charity for all." — Abraham Lincoln. 

"Yea, truth and justice then will down return to men." — Milton. 

"My strength is of the strength of ten because my heart is pure." — Tennyson. 

"What a piece of work is man; in apprehension how like a god." — Shakespeare (Hamlet). 

"The grace of God is all powerful." — Stevenson. 

"The glory of God is intelligence. "t — Doctrine and Covenants. 

"Reverence is the chief joy and power of life."- — Ruskin. 

"Faith is happiness, illumination and strength." — Balzac. 

"A gentleman is a man of truth; lord of his own actions." — Emerson. 

"What is true and just and honest, all of virtue shall endure." — Browning. 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

These students read these inscriptions, and letters came back from the university that they represented, asking that we send copies of them. In our conversation with one of the students, this remark was made, that "a people who profess a firm faith and belief in Jesus Christ and could accept the truths of the great philosophers of the world are certainly on the road to a greater faith and religion than any other people he has ever known. Said he : "There is a rare combination among you in your lives of heart and intelligence." 

So we feel that we are getting some results at this mission. The high and low, the rich and poor come to us, but with us there are no high, low, rich or poor. All people are children of God and they come here and take away with them something of the spirit of the Mission, something of the spirit of Christ, the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Now in speaking and thinking of the youth, we have great faith in the youth of the land, and faith in the youth of this State. Personally, the boys and girls in our State university and all other institutions of the State and elsewhere are to me fine types of character. Naturally they need directing and at times they do hear things that shake their faith in God to the very foundation. They hear expressions they cannot understand. They sometimes come with all the honesty of heart and ask what to do under certain circumstances. I have them almost daily in my office. But those girls and boys are precious souls, they are lovely characters naturally, and if they can only be touched with divine truth they will be honest, they will be truthful; if we can only get them to realize above all things that while it is good to know the truth, it is far greater to be a man or woman of the truth. So I feel encouraged when I meet them. Jesus Christ came into the world as described in the second chapter of Sf. Luke, he died for you and me, and the night before he went to his crucifixion he announced to his disciples and to all the world that he is the way, the truth, and the light. "I am the way, and the truth, and the light," said Jesus, and through him we come to the .final understanding of life, a joyful understanding, and as a result of it a happiness that we are all seeking. This is life, and life eternal to live the Gospel because of an understanding of Jesus Christ <and him crucified. It' was an old prophet, Zachariah, who said: "I will stir up thy sons, O Zion, against thy sons, O Greece." That conflict between Greece and Zion began far back in the centuries and it is going on today. We mean by that the conflict between the people who have faith — God-given faith in Almighty God 1 — and the people who without the faith are seeking truth by science and philosophy. What the youth need today is to be stirred to a knowledge of God; to understand that the sublimest thing of all life is the simple faith in God the Father, in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost — the greatest truth for you and me and yet the simplest. This is fundamental, and if the youth can only get to see that after all, civilization has always been based on religion and always will be, and that the religion of God comes from one great fundamental source, namely, revelation — (God is understood throjugh knowledge, God is (known through revelation; and those two great principles, if they are known 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 77 

and can be seen and understood, the faith of the youth then will grow and they will always know that after all, morality, the richness of life, the sublimity of all things, lie in the simple Gospel of Christ. It is beautiful this Gospel, for truth is beauty, and beauty is truth. 

Now if we can come to know the youth, this buoyant youth, we will be better able to teach them, and their faults and failings will be eradicated one by one. They will stand supreme before God as his children, and be masters of selves and servants of each other. "I am the way, the life, and the truth," spoke Jesus. When we come to realize this greath truth, we will open our hearts more and more to the lesson that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good; that the moral world is governed by the purpose and a purpose of love; we will bend to God's will, and everything we experience will speak to us of a Father's heart. Let us look forward with hope and confidence and place our lives in the hands of God. My brethren and sisters: 

"We know the arduous life, the eternal laws To which the triumph of all good is given; High sacrifice, and labour without pause - Even to the death." 

May the Lord bless us all, I ask in Jesus name. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am very anxious as well as desirous that I be under the influence of the right spirit, the Spirit of the Lord. I have no ambition, no desire but to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments and to fulfil and complete my labors. 

I have been very much impressed with one thought, and I have had quite a number, and that is: the number of speakers that have spoken during this Conference. If they have not reached pretty much all the people then they have not fulfilled what I believe. I believe that in this Church and among the children of men there are people — there may not be very many — who understand me. Perhaps I may be the only one among you who can reach my kind of people. Well, if that is true, why not let me be natural and talk to them? You who do not like my talk can go to sleep if you want to. As long as I can reach a soul when under the influence of the Holy Spirit and plant a seed of truth in his heart, it seems to me, with all the experience I have had, it would be a wonderful thing. 

I remember that not many Conferences ago I was called to the stand just hefore the Conference adjourned. President Grant told me I had seven minutes — I took three — and I think it is the only time that President Grant ever shook hands with me after one of my talks. (Laughter) President Grant did not shake hands with me because of what I said; it was because I left him four minutes, and that is more than any of the other brethren had ever done. 

I have had another idea quite a while, and I think I will express it. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

You see that great big clock over there. I cannot see the hands, my eyes are not as good as they used to be. Well, with that great big clock before me and this microphone in front of me then tell a man to get the Holy Spirit! j( Laughter) 

Now, what I am trying to get at is this : it takes intelligent people to understand what I am trying to get at. I do not do your thinking for you, you have to do your own thinking. If I give you a little chaff to get you to take a little wheat, my trouble has always been you choose the chaff and lose the wheat. 

I remember a long time ago when the Mutuals launched the Era. I was on a trip with Apostle Francis M. Lyman — we started in at Sevier and went to Panguitch and the surrounding settlements and to Kanab and St. George; and when we got to St. George, Brother David H. Cannon, the President of the Stake, and Brother Edward Snow, superintendent of the Mutuals, with their buggies transferred us to Panacea. The people had not seen an Apostle for twenty years, and it was Sunday, a fast day. Meetings were begun in the morning and they kept them up all day, and we were fasting. I was pretty nearly dead at four o'clock. After four o'clock Brother Lyman said, "Now, Brother Kimball, get up and tell them about the Era." He had done a good deal of talking himself about the Era. During that trip I think we got four hundred subscribers— $800.00. I wrote out all receipts. It was in September. Brother Lyman at this meeting told me to get up, so I did, and I said : "All you men that will take the Era if we will let you go home, raise your right hand." There was not a single man who did not raise his hand and subscribed and paid $2.00 cash for the Era. (Laughter) Brother Lyman said: "That is the brightest thing you ever did." I do not claim that was inspiration; it was good psychology. Really they paid $2.00 to get out. 

I am trying to say this to you because we never know, if we listen to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, just what it will do for us. 

I am going to tell you a story that I have never told before. When I was president of the Southern States mission, after a year's time I concluded that I would try to hold a conference in a city. Up to that time we had always kept out of cities. So I made my arrangements with the president of the conference to hold such a meeting and to secure some place where we could hold it. We had no money. The only place they could secure was the court house. I told the Elders : "I will do the preaching, and if they kill me you need not bother any further." The people were very prejudiced. When the time came I met these Elders, a fine body of men, wonderful, courageous men, men of faith— they had to be in the South. We went to the court house — all those present were men; there wasn't a woman among them, and we all knew what that meant. When there are no women there is a great deal of danger. It is dangerous enough when they are present. At any rate I made up my mind to deliver my message as fervently and humbly as ever a president of a mission preached. I intended to do all the talking. I went there determined to preach the Gospel. I had my Bible, 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 79 

and I am well acquainted with my Bible. I cannot find anything in anybody else's Bible. I have owned this Bible for forty years and it is well marked and every subject traced in my own penmanship. I would not take money for this Bible. I went there believing that the Spirit of God was on me.as the president of the mission. I was humble as a child. It was the only time in my life that I have ever been far enough away that I could do as I pleased. Ever since that time I have been close in.! I got up to preach the Gospel, faith and repentance, etc. All at once something came over me and I opened my mouth and said to that body of men: (The building was crowded; among them were some of the leading men) "Gentlemen, you have not come here to listen to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know what you have come for. You have come to find out about the Mountain Meadows Massacre and polygamy, and God being my helper I will tell you the truth." And I did. I talked to them for one hour. When the meeting was out you could hear a pin drop. There was no comment; there was no noise or confusion, and we went to the hotel. We had arranged for lodgings at a cheap hotel. After a short time a brass band played. Elder Willard Bean was the president of the conference. I sent him out to find what it all meant. I thought it meant trouble. So he inquired and they told him : "We are serenading that big long fellow." That is the only brass band I have ever had dispense music after one of my talks. What I want to ask you good people is this : Was I moved upon by the right spirit ? The next day when we went to the woods to hold our priesthood meeting, which we always held in the woods — we had no other place — I said to those Elders : "Don't one of you dare preach that sermon; it will cost you your life." And I have never preached it since. 

What I am beating around in the brush to put over is this : Does the Lord God direct his servants? He certainly does. If he doesn't we are a failure and we are no better than others. We do not know just what to say. I don't. I don't know just how to say it, but the Lord being my helper as long as I live I am going to try to be natural and I am going to try to have my mind open with the hope that God will give me his Holy Spirit when I open my mouth and use the talent which the Lord has given me. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I know what that feeling is. I have not had it very often, but I know that there is such a thing as "the still small voice." I have heard it. 

My time is up. But if you people do not believe that I sustain the Authorities of this Church and uphold God's work, I do. I don't know how I could prove it to you any better than I have in my own way. God bless you. Amen. 

An anthem, "Holy Redeemer," was sung by the Relief Society Chorus. 

Elder Samuel F. Smith, President of the Snowflake Stake pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock a. m., Sunday, April 10. 


