Morning
05 10 1897



ELDER FRANKLIN D- RICHARDS 

Books cannot give Authority nor administer Ord. nances — The Gospel is a practical System — No Keligion but Christ's reveals the Resurrection — The Christian Sabbath and its Importance — The only true Gospel and Priesthood. 

In arising to address this vast congregation, I earnestly desire a continuation of that liberality of spirit which was enjoyed yesterday by those whose privilege it was to minister unto us, realizing that without it we shall not be edified in the truth and the knowledge of God. In arising to speak upon and testify of the work of God, it is desirable to know what to speak about as well as what to say about it. Yesterday I felt peculiar pleasure and joy of spirit in listening to the testimonies of the brethren, because of the simplicity and force of many of the truths that were uttered. One of them came forcibly to my mind, as well as to the rest of the hearers, concerning the value and importance of the living oracles to the Church of God on the earth as being the principle of precedence in the midst of God's people over written instructions that are given by men. Inasmuch as the Elders speak by the Holy Spirit, the word of the Lord is that their instructions should be scripture — "shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord and the power of God unto salvation." When the declaration was made concerning the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants how deficient they would be in administering salvation, if they alone  enjoyed by the people. Now we know just how it has worked with all Christendom, to have the Bible without having authority to administer the ordinances mentioned in it. Now we may possess either of these books, 01 all of them, and they can not baptize a single man, or woman, into the Church. There is not power enough in all the books to do it, nor is there power in all the books to give any man authority to do it. Consequently, then, it requires the authority from the Lord to be present to administer in all His ordinances. The highest authority that we have known — the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, stated, that it was not possible without the birth of the water and of the spirit to enter the kingdom of heaven. Said He to the learned Nicodemus, "Except a man be born of the water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." That was a declaration of principle that was inexorable. He who created this earth and causes it to travel round the sun every three hundred and sixty-five days and six hours, established those great eternal principles that rule the heavens, also the law that except a man be born of the water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God; and one is just as much a law of nature as the other. The latter is the law of nature and of grace to man. Who could administer these ordinances except they received the authority from God to do it? These books can neither baptize, nor confirm us. They cannot confirm upon us the Holy Ghost nor a membership in the Church of Christ, neither can they administer to us any other of the ordinances which we are receiving, and in which we rejoice so much, in the house of our God. It requires nothing less than a present living minister in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to administer in all the ordinances, in counsel, and in directing all the affairs of the Church of Christ. We have learned this, and understand it, or else we do not know where our safety lies. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a sys of things which, in order to be known and understood, must be lived. A man cannot preach with effect and power to another the forgiveness of sins through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, or baptism for the remission of his sins, unless he has himself been baptized for the remission of his sins and has faith in the Lord Jesus Christ himself. No man can administer in the ordinances of the Gospel of Christ with effect and with power, unless he has first been made partaker of them himself; and that is how we cannot, any of us, preach the power of the resurrection, because none of us have been raised from the dead. When, by and by, the time of the resurrection comes, men will teach it to us who have been raised from the dead, and who understand and have the power of it and the keys of it. That is why you cannot be baptized for your dead in the house of the Lord, until you have been first baptized and received ordinances yourself. The Gospel has to be lived in order to be realized and its power received. The man who goes forward with real repentance of heart for all his sins and covenants with God that he will serve Him the rest of his days, according to the best of his ability, with the grace of God bestowed upon him, and goes forward and receives this ordinance, rejoices in this Gospel; because this is the first step in it, and when a man does this with full purpose of heart and enters upon keeping the commandments of God he receives the Holy Spirit. The promise made to him is true, and is fulfilled, and everybody under the sound of my voice that has ever pursued that course knows that it is true. They know that in entering into the service and keeping the commandments of God they receive the Holy Spirit, when administered to by those who are authorized of God; and it gives to one the gift of tongues, to talk in a language that he does not know himself. That same spirit gives to another the gift of interpretation of what the first has been talking about, to the edification of all who have listened. It gives to another the gift of healing, that if he is sick, afflicted and distressed, and is living his religion, he can call upon the Elders, receive their bless and be healed. If he is a minister, of the Lord himself, and labors to receive it, he will have the gift to administer the anointing to others, and they will be healed; or he may receive the gift of prophecy, of faith, of wisdom, of visions, of dreams, or to hear the still small voice of the Holy Spirit giving inspiration to his soul. It requires a man to live in the continual state of humility and obedience towards God, of repentance for every imperfection, folly and vanity, and an effort to depart therefrom, and to sanctify himself by the working of the Spirit and the belief of the truth unto everlasting life. This Gospel brings with it the gifts, the blessings and the grace of God, so that the faithful Saint, as he goes along in the straight and narrow path, knows of the goodness of God, that he is in fellowship with the Lord; that he is not alone and without God in the world, but that the angels are about him, and the care of the Lord is over him. 

Well, now, we have a Gospel that is full of joy and consolation. It opens up principles of intelligence, and revelation, of the knowledge of things past and present and to come. There are a great many other religions in the world, and some very powerful ones. For instance, there is the Mohammedan religion, and those people have a faith of their own, and they aire very numerous, about 175,000,000, they estimate, I believe. They have their prophet, they have their faith, they have their ideas of futurity, and they are a sort of cousin in the relation to father Abraham's family. His son, Ishmael, and Isaac's son, Esau, in their seed, constitute a great portion of that class of people. They have had apostles raised up among them, from the seed of Abraham as they say, and they entertain a certain amount of faith. In fact, the promise of the Lord, wherein he said he knew Abraham, that he would command his children after him, is manifest in that people, in that they believe in one God, and they claim one prophet, Mohammed. Then, again, we look to the eastern world, in China, for instance, where are said to be about four hundred millions of human beings, and they believe in doctrines given them by Confucius and by Buddhah, and others. But those four hundred millions are given up to the worship of idols. They are idolaters, with the rest; and so we may go on over the world, and find scores of these great branches of religion that have had their heads and chiefs, their faiths and beliefs. What I want to call your special attention to in this connection, is this: Has any one of them ever had a man of their number pass through death, rise again from the grave and declare to them the principles of having obtained through him or by him, a resurrection — been lifted up to immortality through their faith? "We do not find it in history anywhere in the earth that they have ever had such a testimony or evidence of a resurrection and immortality beyond the grave. All that they have given to them is the exercise of a certain faith that lasts them through this life. But the Gospel of the Latter-day Saints, which is the Gospel of the former day Saints, as well, is different from any believed in by any other people as to all these things, and people who believe in the real Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Gospel that He instituted, have something more and better and beyond what any other portion of the human family have to look to. 

The great Captain of our salvation went into the grave with marks in His hands and in His feet and in His side, and He came forth out of that grave in three days, and He did not go away without being seen. He made Himself known, communicated with them, associated with them, in fact, and gave them a certain knowledge of the truth of the sayings he uttered Himself to Moses a good many years before, on the mountain. He said to Moses: "This is My work and My glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This is His great work. The human family had, through transgression, come under the law of sin and death, and He had come to restore that which was lost, and to bring to pass the resurrection, to open the prison doors to the spirits in prison, them that were bound, and declared the acceptable day of the Lord, and bestowed gifts to men. This is the kind of a Captain of our salvation that we have, one who has re this knowledge. Said He, "As the Father hath power in Himself to lay down His life and take it again, so hath He given unto the Son power to lay down His life and to take it again," and He did so. Now where is there another among those strange religions that do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as their Redeemer that entertain any such knowledge and understanding of eternal life and of the resurrection of the dead? That He has obtained these, we have abundant testimony. Stephen said he saw Him sitting at the right hand of God, while he, Stephen, was being persecuted and stoned to death; and Paul said he had seen and heard things not lawful for a man to utter. And the Savior, after He had done those wonderful works in His own land, came over here to America, and there was here no chance for deception, because He showed them the wounds in His hands and in His feet. He was the same person that went down into the grave and came out triumphant over the grave. Now, if any of these other religions have had any man that has gone through the grave and risen again, they certainly have been very lacking in kindness not to come and show their fellow worshippers of that knowledge and that power and that great attainment. But the Lord Jesus has shown unto the Saints composing His Church in the different parts of the world, the gifts and blessings of immortality and eternal life which He came and brought to light. The Apostles understood the same thing. Paul, in writing to Timothy, says that "life and immortality is brought to light through the Gospel." So then, we have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as something that endures beyond the grave, while the knowledge that the rest of the human family possesses only leads them to the grave, and beyond that is to them darkness and ignorance, and they know nothing about the future, comparatively speaking. 

Jesus came and taught the people upon this land; He came here and ministered repeatedly. The Book of Mormon tells us that He came oft, and broke bread with the Saints here.  instructed them and testified to them; on one occasion He came and told them to gather together their sick, afflicted and distressed, and bring them before Him and He healed them. He made a business of it, as Joseph Smith went through the land of Nauvoo or Commerce and Montrose healing every one who was sick, of the people of God, and as the Savior wished to do in the land of Palestine. There He complained that He could not do many mighty works because of their unbelief; but here on the land of America, He found a greater measure of faith. He called together the people and healed their sick and distressed. On another occasion He blessed their little ones, and those little ones spoke and uttered things incomprehensible to mortals, and angels came down and surrounded them, and ministered unto them. And while the Savior Himself began with a degree of fearfulness concerning their unbelief, before He got through He said: "Now My joy is full." Yes, this great Redeemer, the author of life and immortality, came over to this land and labored among the Nephites, and said here, what we have no account of His saying «in that other land, at any time: "Now, My joy is full." On the contrary, on the other land, He sorrowed and He wept because of their unbelief and their hardness of heart, and He couldn't do many mighty miracles among them because of their unbelief. Thus we have a Savior that has gone through the grave, a Redeemer that has triumphed victoriously over hell, and the grave; and it is said the last enemy that shall be destroyed will be death. 

We see, then, that the Latter-day Saints have not only the advantages of the Holy Ghost here, and the power of faith; but O, the love that fills our hearts when we hear the pure principles of the Gospel taught to us! How happy we have felt as we sat together while the Apostles ministered unto us the bread of life. How joyful the people feel when they are full of love to each other. The principle of charity and the blessedness of the Everlasting Gospel belong to this people as it belongs to no other people. 

I rejoice greatly in this Gospel, be it opens up unto us transcendant joys, blessings and glories in the future, which we have knowledge of, which our Savior taught, and which are taught to us here in our times, and which He has condescended to reveal again in these last days. Think of what this Savior has done for us here, and has gone to the Father to intercede for us, to forgive us of our sins, to heal us of our backslidings; and has condescended, after the lapse of eighteen hundred years, to come with His Father, the glorious Father. The Creator of all came and introduced that Savior, His Son, to the boy Joseph Smith, when fourteen years of age, and taught him to commence a great and mighty work, of which we are today some few of the fruits. The Father said, "This is my beloved Son, hear him." And the Son taught Joseph, and sent His angels to administer to him, to teach, to bless, to bring forth the Book of Mormon, and to build up the Church again, bringing it forth out of the wilderness through great suffering; and we ought not to forget that the truth is a costly article, and always has been. It has cost the best men that have ever lived in the flesh, their mortal lives, and may yet again. It is a work that is made altogether of what has been considered as sacrifice. Indeed, the old Prophet said, "Gather together my Saints, unto me, they that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice." That is the principle upon which we are brought together. We sacrifice our sins, our pleasant enjoyments and worldly lusts, and turn unto God and serve Him. 

This Sabbath day may become a very grave question if we are to build up the New Jerusalem. It was one of the first things that the Lord complained of through the prophets anciently, that they had polluted His Sabbath, and they had profaned it, and they had not observed it: and when they got so they could do these things with impunity, they left off paying their tithing, and the Lord told them they had robbed God, the whole nation of them — they had robbed Him because they had withheld the tithing which they owed Him. And when they could do a few of these things, they went on in their transgressions into fornications, adulteries and murder, from one step to another, to the most heinous crimes, until, finally, they could crucify the Lord Jesus Christ. We must look out that we do not roll any manner of sin as a sweet morsel under our tongue, but strive with penitence day by day to put away from us everything that is contrary to godliness, that would hinder the working of the Spirit within us, that we may be able to get grace for grace, and go from faith to faith, until we can become pure in heart, for we are assured in the word of the Lord that nothing that is unholy or impure can enter into His presence. What a saying! No wonder the brethren said to Him, "Lord, are there any that shall be saved?" when we look at the touchstone, look at the criterion, look at the rule by which these things have to be brought about. And we should labor continually, striving to subdue ourselves and to put away the vices, the sins and the besetments that do so daily and so easily beset us, until we bring this living body of clay into the subjection of the Spirit, that our souls may live. 

The Sabbath is the day that the Lord has appointed for a time of rest. He says that H^ finished His work, and that He rested on the Sabbath day, the seventh day. When the Lord came, in His day, He instituted the first day of the week, and ever since then it has been "His day," and He says, that we may keep ourselves unspotted from the world, we are required to meet together on His day and offer our sacraments, and make our acknowledgements, and our confessions, paying our devotions to the Most Hiarh. It is a common thing for the people to violate that sacred law concerning the Sabbath day. Many of the people, if they go on a journey, take pains in their calculation to make the Sabbath count one day in the trip; and many things are put off for Sunday especially. I would like to have it taken up with the people, and have the women make calculations on Saturday, and have the food cooked on that day, for the Sunday, and then go to meeting, instead of roasting over the stove cook, and see to having a little more leisure and good instruction, and feed the soul, instead of being so much at work and having so much to do on that day. The Lord said to Israel: "Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, for on the seventh day, the Lord thy God rested from His labors; and thou shalt not do any work.neither thy son nor thy daughter,nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor the stranger that is within thy gates." Now it was a strict rule and law and commandment to Israel anciently, and you will find if you will look into the Book of Mormon that it was so there, and is going to become just as binding upon God's people in all time as it ever was with them, and we ought to be looking to it and practicing on it, so that we can do right, so as to be able to do the right thing when we get to it. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this Gospel is the Gospel of all others on the earth, the only one that is worthy the attention of mortals, as fast as it can be brought to their consideration. And as we haVe been blessed to learn these principles and to know them, and to know of the things of the future, and to know of some things of the past, we have reason to rejoice above all other people, and we have reason to deny ourselves of all unrighteousness just as fast as we can, and to learn the way of life and to hearken to the counsels of those that are called of God and to walk in His ways, and to receive continually the word of the Lord and His direction in all our affairs. I rejoice greatly in the work of the Lord, and I pray that His blessings may abound unto the people, that He may incline our hearts to keep His laws, to walk in His ways, for the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimonies of the Lord are sure, and they even make wise the simple. 

Now a word about the Priesthood and its restoration: Think of it! This same Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery Apostles by Peter, James and John, His servants. Joseph and Oliver having received this apostleship, confirmed it upon twelve brethren of the Church, and those  have conferred it upon us who are in the stand today; thus some of us received this holy apostleship but the fourth in succession from Jesus Christ. And the fact is that the Priesthood has come down to us as the Lord promised when He said He would be with His Apostles always "even unto the end of the world." And He says to us concerning Peter, James and John: "Whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be Apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry, and of the same things which I reveal unto them; unto whom I have committed the keys of My kingdom, and a dispensation of the Gospel for the last days and for the last times; and for the dispensation of the fullness of times in the which I will gather together in one all things both which are in heaven and which are on earth." These are the men that have received this Priesthood — these that sit around me this morning. It was received from those resurrected men that have come to labor with us. This is the Priesthood by which we officiate, and it is not something that has come down through the ages and been lost. This is the Priesthood that was taken away into the wilderness anciently, and has been restored in these latter-days in its purity, in its simplicity and its power, And those who give themselves to it fully and faithfully in all humility, receiving the instructions and counsels of those holding that Priesthood, should be worthy of all acceptation, and we ought to realize it and avail ourselves of the benefit of it, and be found in no case speaking against each other or the Lord's anointed. 

May the Lord give us His Spirit, intensify it in us, in our hearts, and train us in the principles of righteousness and truth, and help and inspire us in every good word and work, and then He will do better for us than we know how to ask or even to think. Amen. 

ELDER LORENZO SNOW. Personal appearance of the Savior— Promises 

made to the Elders— Have ihey been Fulfilled — 

Union of the Priesthood — Proper respect in 

Families. 

Brethren and sisters and friends, I hope during the short time that I address you this morning I may have the  of your prayers, and the exercise of your faith. 

At these general Conferences it is the privilege of everyone who attends to receive instruction, suited to his individual needs and benefits, of great worth, and if we pay proper attention to what is said and exercise the proper faith, there will be no disappo'utment. 

Now, I wish to read a few verses from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110, which describes one of the most important events of our day. 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and the hair of his head was white like the pure snow. His countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last, 1 am He who liveth. I am He who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. Behold your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name. For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here, and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house, yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house. Tea, the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house; and the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands, and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen." 

We have heard, brethren and sisters, very excellent principles, explained to us yesterday, and this morning by Apostle Richards, and our hearts have been made to rejoice in the contemplation of the positions that we occupy, of the prospects that are before us, and of the glorious records that many, and I hope all, have made in the past. It is strange, that there are so few that have come to an understanding that God has revealed Himself unto His people, that His voice has been heard, as I have just read to you.and for what He has accomplished through the Holy Priesthood that He has caused to be conferred upon many of His servants. Thirteen hundred or thereabouts of the servants of God are now traveling through the world as oracles of God and testifying of these most extraordinary facts, and are promising in the name of the Almighty, by virtue of the divine authority they possess, that those who will obey the Gospel which they are authorized to administer, shall receive a knowledge of these important truths. It is a marvelous fact that there are thirteen hundred men who are now promising in the name of the Lord and explaining how every person may know, and know effectually, know by revelation, that their promises are of the Almighty, that they have authority to thus prophesy, prophesy of that which is most important; in fact, there could be nothing of greater importance to mortal man than that which pertains to their prophecy, and all men have a right or the privilege of ascertaining, in a very simple way, whether that prediction is from God. 

This is indeed strange and wonderful. Jt is strange and wonderful to the world because such things have never been heard of or known for centuries. What is their prediction that is of such high importance to all people? Why, this: Having stated before the cangregations of the world that they are authorized to preach the Gospel of life and salvation, that they are authorized to promise the gift of the Holy Ghost, that shall lead into all truth and show things to come, and shall testify in reference to their authority, then to make this prediction that such as will obey the simple principles of the Gospel, shall receive a perfect knowledge, a knowledge not by the reading of books, the Scriptures or any past revelations that may have been given, but they shall receive a knowledge of this from God Himself. Well now, all that is required of these individuals to know that which pertains to their salvation, exaltation and glory i-- simply to do that which has been  plain, very plain indeed by Jesus Christ and by. the Apostles, as contained in the Scriptures of truth; to perform a few acts in relation to the principles of life or a few acts that will put. them in possession, after 1. roper preparation, of this important knowledge. 

Jesus Christ went down into tht; waters of baptism and was immersed there by John the Baptist, who had authority thus to do; and many others, in the days of the Apostles, performed those ordinances that pertain to the everlasting Gospel. They were baptized for the remission of their sins by one that possessed the authority which, those Elders that I mentio;i now, possess. They possessed the authority to administer those ordinances  — immersion ir. water for the remission of sins, the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. These simple acts were actually performed by the Apostles in former days, and by the Seventies that were sent forth, and by all who were sent to preach the fullness of the Gospel. All that these Elders require in order that their predictions may be fulfilled is that people now shall do likewise. 

Jesuf, said on a certain occasion, that He would build His Church upon revelation: that is, Peter having received a revelation that Jesus was the Son of God and so saying Jesus replied, "Upon this rock will I build my Church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The system of salvation and exaltation and glory was of such a character that there was this grand feature about it, all persons might receive a perfect knowledge of its divine source. 

When we take into consideration the difficulties those have to meet who obey these principles we see the necessity that they should have a perfect knowledge of that which they have received, and thus the Lord bestows upon them the means by which they can contend against the difficulties and the persecutions and secure the blessings connected with these promises. When people follow the counsels of these servants of the Lord who are abroad preaching the Gospel, if they do not come to a knowledge of  truth of these promises from heaven after they have obeyed, they ought to declare this: they should announce this failure to their friends, and to the public. I suppose, I am now addressing six or eight thousand people, and probably three-fifths of them have come 'from the distant nations of the earth, to these mountain vales, and these are the principles that we taught them, that they should receive a knowledge of this work, they should receive the Holy Ghost that would testify to them of the truth of the saying of these Elders that they had authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel. Now, I ask, why are you here? Why are you sitting upon these seats? Why are you teaching your families and friends that these principles are of God, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Jesus came down and talked with His people, the sons and daughters of God, as He did in former days? Why do you teach these principles, and why do you sit here instead of repairing to your homes and declaring that you never received any such divine testimony, as was promised you? 

I think if strangers came to me, as Elders now go to the nations, and testified to me that they had authority to promise that the Holy Ghost would rest upon me after repenting of my sins, forsaking them, and obeying their message, and I did not receive any extraordinary or miraculous manifestations, I certainly would not leave my friends, country, and home, as thousands and thousands have done. But it is a fact that I am speaking to thousands here that have come from long distances, from many nations of the earth, that are here and have been here for years and years; why is it they do not rise up and deny that they or their friends ever received this testimony? In these verses that I have read in your hearing, it is declared that the Son of God appeared in the Kirtland Temple sixty- one years ago, and spoke there to His friends. 

Years ago on my Palestine tour, I was one day upon the Mount of Olives, where Jesus left the earth and ascended to His Father, witness3d by  that were there present, and I did not doubt that I was at the place where, as T read in the Testament, that Jesus took His departure from. While I looked around and gazed about, I believed that I was there at that place; I believed that Jesus did actually take farewell of the world and go to His Father, because certain individuals say and did make a declaration that that was the fact. Now I did not see these persons that testified to this extraordinary occurrence. I saw no such persons; because it was over eighteen hundred years ago that this extraordinary circumstance occurred. But this that I have been reading in your hearing, occurred in this age. I was personally acquainted with the parties who saw this wonderful manifestation — intimately acquainted with Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years. And I know Brother Oliver Cowdery to have been a good man, honorable, honest, and truthful; although years after this, Oliver Cowdery left the Church for a while. He became proud and exalted, and left the Church; but the spirit and the testimony never left him, and after suffering the afflictions of the Lord, he repented and was very glad to come back into the Church, and he got back just in time to go into the other world, and that is just about the whole of it so far as Oliver Cowdery was concerned. 

Well now, these things are worthy the attention of the Latter-day Saints, and when we take them into consideration and bring them home to our understanding, what follows? Why, that we should be the best people that God has upon the earth, and far better than any other. The Lord has given us a Prophet, to give counsels in reference to that which pertains to the general interests of the Latter-day Saints continually, and He has blessed him abundantly. There is not one that can dispute the honesty and integrity of Brother Wilford Woodruff,our President. We know him. Years and years he has been testifying of these things of which I have been speaking, and he says he knows them, he says he understands them distinctly; and we ourselves should know them. PerGENERAL CONFERENCE.  not quite as extensively as he knows them. For instance, an astronomer may know a thousand things in reference to the revolving of the earth in its orbit around the sun, and know a great many facts in reference to the sun that thousands are ignorant of; and yet these thousands that are perfectly ignorant of those many things, know one thing that this astronomer knows, they know that there is a sun, they see there is a sun; they know it just as well as he knows it. In reference to this Gospel and our prospects in the next life, there are thousands that know it just as well as President Woodruff knows it; and when the resurrection is spoken of, they know it just as well as President "Woodruff knows it. In reference to "Mormonism," as it is sometimes called, there are thousands that know it just as well as Joseph Smith knew it. They know it because God has revealed it to them perfectly. 

There is no man that knows the truth of this work more than I do. I know it fully; I know it distinctly. I know there is a God just as well as any man knows it, because God has revealed himself to me. I know it positively. I shall never forget the manifestations of the Lord; I never will forget them as long as memory endures. It is in me. There is something to labor for, there is something to sacrifice for. When the Elders go forth among the nations, they dare to say this; they dare to say that God has revealed himself. They dare to say that God has spoken to His sons and daughters as He did in former days, and they dare to say that He has heard the prayers of the house of Israel, He has heard the prayers of the honest in heart, and He has come down as He did in the days of Israel when they were in Egyptian bondage to deliver them; He has come down to relieve the distressed, and to confer upon them knowledge, intellectual^, spiritually, and to place them in a country where they can be blessed and saved from that half-starvation in Avhich many have been found where the Gospel reached them. 

Well, these are glorious principles that God has revealed to us, and our prospects are grand and glorious. Why, we could talk through all the days, the  and the months about the grand things that the Lord has prepared for those that are faithful and continue to the end. There should be greater union in our midst than we find today. There is a perfect union in the quorum of the Twelve. Should there not be a perfect tinion in that quorum? Most assuredly, every one would say Yes, a perfect union in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles; and whoever may be appointed to fill the places of those that are vacant, this union will still continue with us. And there is also a perfect union with the First Presidency, and should there not be? Every one will say, certainly, there should be. And should there not be a perfect union with the seven presidents of the Seventies? There most assuredly should be; we all say Yes. Should there not be a perfect union with the High Councils of the various Stakes of Zion? Certainly there should be, and there is a way to accomplish that union. And the same way with the various other organizations and quorums. Should there not be a perfect union with the presidencies of Sta.kes? Certainly, and if I were a president of a Stake, I would not rest day or night until I had union with my counselors. Should there not be a union with the Bishop and his Counselors? Most assuredly there should be. 

Well, what is more important? Should there not be union in the family? Should there not be union with the husband, who is the High Priest in his family and expects to be with them in the next life, should there not be a perfect union with him and his wife, or wives, and his sons, his daughters, his sons-in-law, and his daughers-in-law? Most assuredly there should. And why should any man be satisfied, why should any husband and father of a family rest satisfied until he effects a perfect union, that is, just as far as a perfect union can be accomplished? And in this matter the father should make himself just as perfect as a man can in this life be made perfect before his family. And the wife should make herself just as perfect as a woman can possibly do in this life. And then they are prepared to make their children just as perfect as they are willing and are capable of being made perfect. And the father  the mother should be very careful. The wife should never in the presence of her children speak disrespectfully of her husband. If she thinks her husband has done wrong (he might have done), she should never speak of it in the presence of her children. She should take him out of the presence of her children and there tell him of his faults, in a pleasant way, but never in the presence of the children speak disrespectfully of the father. And the father the same. He has no right to speak disrespectfully of his wife in the presence of her children. And I pray God to give the husband and wife the spirit and the understanding to correct themselves in such matters. I know that a great many of the difficulties that now appear, and the disrespect that we find in reference to the Priesthood, among young people, arises from this fact, that there have been difficulties in the home circle.and there has been disrespect expressed in their presence, of the father by the mother, or of the mother by the father. Now I know these things are so. 

Well, I see my time has expired. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and fill you with His Holy Spirit, that we may become sanctified, that we may be worthy to stand in the presence of God in time to come. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F- SMITH. 

The Law of Tithing— Blessings Predicated upon its Observance — Practical Illustrations of its Results — Personal Testimony. 

I cannot say that I feel in excellent condition to address the Conference this morning, but it is desired that I should say a few words, or read a few words, to you, as the Spirit may direct. Before entering, however, upon my remarks, I, perhaps, should make an apology, for it is really not agreeable with my feelings to diverge, in the least, from the channel of the remarks which we have received during this morning's service and throughout all the day yesterday; for the brethren have been led on spiritual matters, and they have spoken to us, by the Spirit, and have given unto us many very important truths, suggestions and admonitions, and I would delight to continue in the tenor of those remarks for the short time that I may occupy,  if I do not, it will be because I feel impresed that there is a duty resting upon me which I will endeavor, by the blessing of the Lord to perform. 

I desire to remind the congregation that we are coming to the close of the fruitful season of the year, and while many of the people have perhaps not gathered as heavy crops as they would like to have gathered, and as they may have gathered in the years past, yet, taking our country, and valleys, as a whole, we are led to believe that the harvests have been bounteous, and that the Lord has blessed the earth this year, and has given to the husbandman excellent fruits for his labors; and it is desirable that we should reflect upon this matter for a little season.In connection with this thought, I will take the liberty to read toyou a few of the written words of the Gospel on temporal matters, which I think apply to us in our present condition and at this time. 

In answer to a question, "O Lord, show unto thy servants how much thou requirest of the properties of the people for a tithing?" the Lord answered: 

"Verily thus saith the Lord, I require all the surplus property to be put into the hands of the Bishop of my Church of Zion, for the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the Priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay onetenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them for ever, for my Holy Priesthood, saith the Lord. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass, that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you. And this shall be an ensample unto all the Stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen. (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 119.) 

Again it is said: 

"Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice and a day for the tithing of my people, for he that is tithed shall not be burned at His coming, for after today cometh the burning. This is speaking after the manner of the Lord; for, verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble, and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of hosts, and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon." (Doc. and Coy., Sec. 64, v. 23, 24.) 

I do not read the following words because I think they are entirely applicable to the Latter-day Saints, nor because I suppose for a moment that there is not a large proportion of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who have never in their hearts even thought of robbing God. But there are those among us who, even though they may not liave thought seriously that they were .guilty of robbing God, they carelessly :and through their negligence place themselves in a position in which the children of Israel found themselves .anciently when the Prophet uttered 'these words against them, and I propose to read them as they are, and let them apply to whomsoever they will, :and whoever are not guilty, of course, "will feel clear in their consciences toward the Lord. 

"Then shall the offering of Judah .-and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years. And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith the Lord of hosts. For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye said, wherein shall we return? "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse; for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the store house, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of Tieaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough io receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruil  the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts. And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts. Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee. Ye have said, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon His name. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not." (Mai. iii, 4-18.) 

Now I want to read another little passage of Scripture. It is ancient, however, but it has an application; and if I read it, you who hear it will be able to make the application, possibly, to suit yourselves, or to suit your neighbors. Rather let us make the application to ourselves, each ol us, and let each of our neighbors do the same. 

"And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought, in abundance, the first fruits of corn, wine and oil and honey and of all the increase of the field, and the tithe of all things brought they in abundance. And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the Lord their God, and laid them by heaps. In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord and His people Israel. Then Hezekiah questioned with the Priests and the Levites concerning the heaps; and Azariah, the chief priest of the house of Zadnck, answered him and said, 'Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty, for the Lord hath blessed His neople, and that which is left is this great store.' Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the Lord, and they prepared them." (2 Chronicles xxxi: 5-11.) 

No doubt, a good deal more could be read from the Scriptures in relation to this principle of tithing, which God has revealed to us in this dispensation, and which He requires at our hands, that we may sanctify, by obedience to His law, this land that it may become indeed a land of Zion unto us; and the promise is, that if we will obey the laws of God, if we will put our trust in Him, if we will draw near unto Him He will draw near unto us, and He will reward us with His favor and His blessing'. He will rebuke the devourer, and He will cause that the earth shall be fruitful, that it shall yield in its strength to the husbandman, the tiller of the soil, and to the herder of flocks, He will increase his kine, and will prosper him upon the right hand and upon the left, and he shall have an abundance, because he puts his trust in God; he draws near unto Him, and he is willing to prove Him, to see whether He will not open the windows of heaven and pour out blessings upon him that he shall not have room to contain them. Let every man who has received the Gospel of Jesus Christ receive this saying, and hearken to these words, for all they are worth. Some men may esteem them lightly, and those who do will, without doubt, fail to draw near, they will neglect to prove the Lord, they will not fulfill the commandments that He has given, and they will never know that God tells the truth, and that He is able to fulfill His word and promise unto His people when they are willing to obey and keep His law. While they who appreciate these promises, who obey these laws that were given anciently, and have been renewed again in the dispensation of the fullness of times, for the blessing of the people, for the building up of Zion, for the feeding of the widow and the orphan, for the spreading of the Gospel of Christ to the nations of the earth, and for the gathering of the people from the four quarters of the earth, those who hearken to these words, prize them as the truth, and apply them in their practice throughout their lives, will come to know that God is a rewarder of those who diligently serve Him, and that He is able to fulfill His promises unto them. 

A short time ago I met with a brothei*— I need not call his name, for he is but one among thousands who can bear the same testimony that he bore, and he bears that testimony not only by the word of mouth but by the evidences of thrift, of prosperity, of progress and of improvement which surround him in the midst of the deserts, this season he has gathered in rich harvests, his farms having produced in abundance, while the farms of many of his neighbors are clogged with weeds, and their harvests have been only one-half or one-third what his has been. How do you account for it? I account for it in the fact that God has blessed him, and so does he, for he is an intelligent man, a man that not only labors wisely and prudently, but in the fear of God, and in the desire of his heart to obey His laws. Said he to me and my companion with whom we were travelling: "God has blessed me because I have striven to keep His laws, and because I have been true to my family." He went out there upon the desert seven or eight years ago, impoverished by persecution and exile, being driven from his home and from his affairs, compelled to wander in exile for years, part of the time preaching the Gospel. He returned seven or eight years ago, and settled down upon the desert. Today, out of the earth, the burning sands, he has produced beautiful homes, he has fruitful fields, which are spread out before the eyes of any man who wishes to go and look upon them. He pays his tithing, he remembers his offerings, he is obedient to the laws of God, and he is not afraid to bear testimony to his friends and neighbors that it is through his obedience that God has blessed and prospered him, and made him what he is today. He is not the only one, there are others that are prospered in like manner. And I testify it is because God has blessed him, and his soil, and his labors, and has given him the increase, securing to him the blessings for which he sought and labored. He has acted in good faith with the Lord, the Lord has known his heart, and has blessed him accordingly, and he is prosperous today in that desert, while as to many of his neighbors — go and look for yourselves at their broad acres. They tell the story for themselves. His lands are clear from noxious weeds, because he has labored, and taken care of his lands, and that by his industry and intelligent application of labor, showing that God has inspired him, and enlightened his mind. The Lord has blessed him in his basket and in his store, in his labors and in the thoughts of his mind, he has been inspired and enabled to accomplish the work that he has done; I testify that it is because of man's . faith in the promises of the Lord, and his desire to obey His laws, that he is blessed and prospered of Him. 

I have been blessed. I have been prospered. I might have been more faithful, and I might have been more greatly blessed. But the Lord has blessed me insomuch that I have not lacked for anything that was needful for my welfare. I have not had luxury, nor "rolled in wealth," but God has fed and clothed me, with all of mine, and He has given us health and strength of body. And yet we might have done our duty better and been entitled to greater blesings, no doubt. I aim to pay my tithing. Now there is no use of my saying this unless it be true, because the evidences are there in the books. If I say I pay my tithing when I do not, Brother Heber J. Grant or some of the brethren who look after these things, men of figures, would go to the books, and they would say, "You said you pay your tithing, but you do not. We know just about what your income is, and here is what the books say." So I would stand condemned at once if I were to say to you that I paid my tithing when I did not pay my tithing, because not only the Lord would know I had not done it, but my brethren would know also that I had not done it, because the books show exactly what I have paid. No matter about that, the fact is this, I believe what I preach, and I do not preach that which I do not believe. I am not here for that purpose. I have not been called to that mission, or for that business. I preach that which I believe and that which I do know to be true; and I do know that if men will obey the laws of God, God will honor and bless them. I have proven it  my life through. I saw it manifested in circumstances which occurred in my childhood, and I know that God has blessed the widow and the fatherless when they have been obedient to His laws and have kept His commandments. 

I can tell you the history of a widow woman, with a large family, who was more particular,if possible, to pay to the Lord what belonged to Him than she was to pay to her neighbors to whom she might be indebted, and she never was indebted to her neighbors, thank God, for anything that she did not pay to the last cent, because the Lord blessed her with plenty, and in her latter years she did not have to borrow of her neighbors, nor did she have to call upon the Church for support either, but she paid thousands of dollars in products and money into the storehouse of the Lord, although she was a widow with a large family to support. I know this. I can testify of this, and that the Lord Almighty blessed her, not only in the products of her fields, but in her flocks and herds. They were not devoured. They were not destroyed. They did not lie down and die. They increased. They did not stray away; and thieves did not steal them. One reason for that was, she had a little boy that watched them very carefully under her direction, and prompting. Her eye was upon everything, she had supervision over everything, she directed those whom she employed, and her children; and I am a witness — and here sits another witness [Patriarch John Smith] — that God, the Eternal Father, blessed her and prospered her while she lived.and she was not only enabled to maintain herself and children that were left to her in poverty, in a day of trial, and when she was driven out into the wilderness, but she was able to feed scores of the poor, and to pay her tithes besides. "Verily the Lord prospered her, and she was blessed. I remember one time when that same widow went to the tithing storehouse in this city with a load of potatoes in the spring — they had been kept over winter. And one of the tithing office 

clerks said to her, "Widow , I 

don't see any use of your having to pay tithing; you ought not to pay . You ought to keep what you have." She said to him, "William, you don't know what you are talking about. I pay my tithing that I may be blessed." "Would you deprive me," she said, "of a blessing?" "No," he said, "I would have you keep your tithing and bless yourself with it." Said he, "There are a number of ablebodied people here that are well qualified to work and produce their living, but they are living from the tithing, and I don't see that a widow should be required to pay her tithing to feed those that are not working for it." Now these are about the words of this man, who was employed at the tithing office. But "no," said the widow, "I propose to pay my dues to the Lord; I propose to pay my tithing, and any man that would prevent me from doing this would deprive me of a blessing." Where is that man and his family today? He apostatized. He didn't last long in the Church. He turned away, and went back to the east somewhere and took his family with him. He probably long since has gone to his rest. And not one of his family is in the Church. I bear testimony of these things because I know what I am talking about. I want to tell you a little more: While this widow was paying her tithing and being blessed, there was a little boy who really thought that tithing office clerk was about right. That widow's boys had to work very hard, and they knew how those potatoes were raised. They knew how the corn and other grain ^was raised, they knew what it was to lake care of the sheep, and the horses and the cows that were tithed, and all about it. They knew how it was done, for they had it to do. And one of the little boys of that widow thought that clerk was more than two-thirds right about it. By and by the widow died, but she left very comfortable property for her children, dug out of the desert here: the children were young, and I confess to you that they were not as faithful in paying their tithes and their offerings as their mother was; they had lost their mother, and what was the result? In a few years, everything that she left them had gone to rack and ruin. That was the result. The cattle were turned out upon the range, and that was the  they ever saw of them. The neighbors' cattle broke into the fields and destroyed the crops, and they did not reap the harvests they had done before; and it was only a few years after the death of the widow when the children had not much to show for what was left them, and it was not until they became old enough to appreciate the truth, and to commence to obey the laws of God and keep His commandments, that the Lord began to bless them again, to build them up, to increase their substance, and to give them what was necessary for their good. And as they have obeyed the commandments of God, the Lord has blessed them. He will continue to do it while time endures, if they continue faithful; and throughout the countless ages of eternity they will reap the reward of fidelity to the cause of truth and to the laws of God; and so will all the people of Israel. I testify of this to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn commencing: 

Come, let us anew our journey pursue. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Edward Partridge. 

The choir sang the hymn which commences: 

Com 2. dearest Lord, descend and dwell, 

By faith and love in every breast. 
