Morning
04 10 1897



PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF. 

OPENING REMARKS. 

I thank God my Heavenly Father that I have again the privilege of meeting with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the capacity of a Semi-Annual Conference. This is our Sixty-eighth Semi-Annual Conference. We have passed through a great variety of history from the organization of the Church until the pi-esent day. I trust that while we are assembled together during this Conference the Spirit of God may be with us, and with the Apostles and Elders who are called upon to speak to us", that we may be edified by the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and be prepared for that work which still rests upon us to carry out. We have a great work upon our hands. It has been a labor from the organization of the Church until the present time. We have the world to preach to. That is one of the duties God requires at the hands of the Elders of Israel. We are held responsible for this work and the building up of the kingdom of God according to the best light and knowledge and revelation which God has given unto us. We ought to be thankful to the Lord for His mercies unto us. I feel as though His hand has beer visible in the establishing of His Church here in the Rocky Mountains, from our first arrival as Pioneers in the valleys of the mountains, when we found a barren desert, until the present. The hand of the Lord has been with this people and with the Elders of Israel, and will continue to be. The Lord is in earnest, in fulfillment of His promises from the creation of the world down to this day, with regard to His dispensations to man. I hope and trust that while we dwell in the flesh we all may realize and understand this. It is a great blessing to receive the Gospel of Christ, to receive the Holy Priesthood, and to be called to labor in the Priesthood for the salvation of the children of men. This labor is upon us and will remain upon us until the coming of the Son of Man in the clouds of heaven, to reward every man according to the deeds done in the body. 

I pray God to bless you and to pour out His Spirit upon us all, that while we are assembled together in this capacity we may have union of heart and spirit, and the Spirit of God resting upon us, to dictate and direct us in our labors. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. 

Missionary Work Effective.— Good Effect of Conferences.— Object of the Saints to Build up Zion 

I am pleased to have the privilege this morning of meeting with you, my brethren and sisters, and of hearing our President address us. I am glaa that he is with us and able to talk so that we can all hear him. This has been our Jubilee year— fifty .years since we arrived in these mountains, and we have all reflected more or less upon the history of Zion since the people arrived here when this region was a wilderness. We have made comparisons between today and then, and all have, no doubt, felt to thank the Lord that He has so richly blessed His people, and though they have gone through times of trial, yet they have seen His overruling providences in their behalf. Zion has prospered; the people have been blessed, both temporally and spiritually; and while they have tried to build up Zion at home, they have not forgotten the great duty resting upon them of sending men to the different nations to preach the Gospel. And the Lord has been with them, so that they have been able to bring thou into the fold of Christ. The best of reports are coming to us from the different missions, showing that the Lord is still with His servants, and that their efforts are crowned with more success than has attended their labors for many years past. This makes us rejoice, seeing the work of God prospering. 

We have come together this morning to attend our Conference. I have often thought what a great blessing to the Saints are these conferences, bringing them together from the different parts of Zion, to where they can renew their old acquaintances, and where they can meet together under the spirit and influence of the Lord, and listen to instructions given them which are calculated for their best good. These are times of refreshing unto the Saints. And this is not something which has been evolved out of the system that God has revealed; but it was at first ordained and appointed unto the Saints to come together on these occasions. There its this difference between the work of God and the work of man — the worK of God has a perfect Author, what He commands is not an experimental thing, but is something that was seen beforehand. The consequences were known before the law was given. By studying the word of God as given through His prophets, we find that He knew as well thousands of years ago what was for the best good of His people as today, and that when the prophets spoke of Zion they saw it, understood how it should be built, and could foretell the Lord's dealings with His people. 

We have come to this country to build up a Zion unto our God. I hope that we have not forgotten the object of our coming. I hope that we can be classed among the laborers in Zion. The Lord has declared that the laborer in Zion shall work for Zion, and he adds, "if they labor for money, they shall perish." I believe it is the Prophet Nephi who wrote these words. He wrote them in a chapter that is devoted to our time. After having described what should come to pass between his day and the present period of time, he speaks of the com forth of the Book of Mormon and of Zion. I have often thought how strange it is that men cannot see the internal evidence which the Book of Mormon contains of its truth, when they can read passages so plain. 

The idea of building up a Zion was not a common idea among the different denominations that Joseph Smith was acquainted with. Men have thought that Mormonism is a system made up of other religions. We deny this. We hold that it is given of God; that it is the same Gospel, the everlasting Gospel, as given in former days to the people, and again restored today. When you examine the Gospel as restored through the Prophet Joseph, you find that it has many characteristics which are not found among other denominations or religions. The idea of gathering was not believed in by any of the religious people then; but in the Book of Mormon, published before this Church was organized, we are plainly told that there should be a gathering; that the people should be gathered from the different nations of the earth. 

The Prophet Nephi, in speaking of Zion, gives us characteristics that should be found in the Zion of the latter days. Among them was that there should not be priestcraft; and he defines priestcraft as preaching for gain and for influence among the people. This the Lord forbids. He says that the people should work for Zion. That should be the object of their coming together, the one aim and purpose of their lives — to work for Zion, and not to make anything else the object of their lives. If they make money their object, He says they shall perish. How often have we seen this fulfilled! Those who have forgotten why the Lord called them from their homes and gathered them here, and who have made money their sole object, have perished spiritually; they have lost the faith which was once so strong in their breasts that they were able to leave everything that was dear unto them and gather here. We want to take this lesson to heart. We want to be laborers in Zion, and work for the  of Zion, and not for other objects—that is, not to make them the only objects of our lives. It is not forbidden us to work for money. We have to do this, to make our living; but the Prophet meant that we must not make it the sole aim of our lives, to enrich ourselves and gain wealth. The love of money is the root of all evil, has been said, and said truly. Not the money itself; for rightly used, I believe it is a blessing. But I am afraid that many are not willing to use this blessing aright. We certainly should not make it the one thing that we seek. We want to place our labors where they can do the most good for the upbuilding of Zion upon the earth. If we seek first the kingdom or God and His righteousness, these other things, He has promised, shall be added. We have found the kingdom of God; but we want also His righteousness. That means that we do right in all things between man and man, and that we do not forgec to do right towards our Heavenly Father, and also towards ourselves. 

The Lord has asked us to do certain things. We will find that they are for our own good. These commandments have been given by a kind Father to His children. He has seen our conditions and our circumstances, and what He has ordained has been calculated for our greatest benefit. When such is the case, we should all feel that we want to keep His commandments. We want to benefit ourselves. In fact, this feeling is so strong with us that often we forget what is righteousness, on. account of our selfishness. But if we will work truly for our own benefit, then we will keep the laws of God, we will seek His righteousness, we will try to build up His Zion upon the earth, and we will listen to the counsels which He gives us through His servants. If we do this, the greatest amount of happiness will be ours, and we will be able to do our share towards carrying out God's purposes on the earth. 

May God bless His Saints. May His kingdom prosper. May His servants be blessed in their labors. This is niy prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

The Divine Origin of the Church,— Officers not Self-appointed, — Profanity Condemned, — Obedience Brings Harmony, — Each May Have a Witness of the Truth, — A Prediction Fulfilled,— Safety in Counsel. 

I have an evidence of the truth of this work. I have a testimony from the Lord. I know that this work is true. I know that Joseph the Prophet was chosen as an instrument in the hands of the Lord to establish the Gospel in the earth in this dispensation. I had evidence of this a great .many years ago. It has been over forty-four years since I became associated with the Saints in these mountains, and I have been like the rest of you, I have had my trials, my dark times, and periods of affliction and sorrow. I believe that all Saints have their trials, if they are trying to do right and serve the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord has not always been with me. I have been left to myself many times. But in these times of trial, the testimony that I had from the Lord of the truth, of the divinity of this work has been a great consolation to me. I have not lost it yet. I hope I may never lose it. I believe it is possible for people to lose the testimony and evidence they have had in regard to this work, and to get into the dark, and become dissatisfied, and complain and find fault with the brethren. I have always looked upon it as a very dangerous thing for a member of the Church to find fault with the servants of God, to criticise the actions of the Priesthood, because in my experience here with the people I have witnessed many, apparently good men and good women, turn away from the Church through indulging in this spirit of fault-finding and criticising the actions of the Priesthood. 

Now, we must remember that there is not a single officer in the Church who has selected himself. There is not one of the Presidency, nor one of the Apostles, that has sought the position he occupies today. These men have not desired the position, and have not asked for it. But the Lord, in the dispensations of His providence, has placed them in office in the Church. And when we complain, and find fault, and criticise, we must surely know that we are criticising the ac of the Lord, because He is the one that has brought these things to pass and placed these men in their positions, for the reason, I suppose, that they were the ones He wanted to carry on His work. The officers of this Church have been called to these positions, and we ought to remember this. We ought to sustain this work, sustain the organization of the Church, and sustain the Priesthood. Let all other things be a secondary consideration. The Savior said, "Seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness." That is the first thing for us to do; then other things will be added unto us as we may need them. As I said before, I know this work is true; and if I deny the work of the Lord, it will be because I get into the dark and lose the spirit of it. We are liable to do this. Hence it is not safe for a Latter-day Saint to forget his prayers, and to forget the Lord. We should make it the practice of our lives to entreat the Lord in the morning, and in the evening, and at midday, and have within our hearts the spirit of prayer. 

I am aware that there are families in the Church that neglect their prayers. Heads of households neglect to call their families around them and entreat the Lord for His protecting care over them during the day or during the night. Is there anybody under the sound of my voice that neglects to do these things? If you do, you fail that much in living up to the requirements of the Gospel. There are in some parts of the Church people who profane the name of Deity. Now, they ought to know that this is wrong. Yet this spirit of profanity is too prevalent in some parts of the country. As officers and as members of the Church, we ought to rebuke such conduct in our brethren, and tell them kindly that it is not a proper thing to do. It is a bad example. It brings the displeasure of the Lord. It drives away the Holy Spirit, and we are not in a position to have the heavens opened to us, and to have our prayers reach into the ears of the Lord. If there are any Latter-day Saints here that indulge in profanity, I want to exhort you to cease from this time forth, and turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart. 

When we are living in the light of the Gospel, our feelings will harmonize with the Presidency and with the Apostles and with the Elders that are trying to carry on this work. I say our spirits will harmonize with theirs, because I want to bear record and testimony to you that they are doing the very best they can for the people and for the advancement of the work of God, and the Lord is with them and He will bring them off victorious. Hence the importance, my brethren and sisters, of trying to cultivate the spirit of humility, of meekness, and of kindness, and attending to the labors, that pertain to us in the Gospel. There is something for everybody to do. We have all we can possibly do if we live the .religion of Jesus Christ. We cannot afford to neglect our duties in the Gospel. Life is too short for us to think of such a thing. We are liable to be called to an account any time. Scores of people that were here at the last Conference are not here now perhaps, because of circumstances and conditions which they have passed through. This may be the case with some of us who are here. We may never come to another Conference; we may never hear the voice of President Woodruff or the servants of God again. We do not know that we will, unless God has revealed it to us. No man knoweth the things of tomorrow, unless God reveals them to him. We know the things of yesterday, if we have not forgotten them; but we do not know of the things of tomorrow. Hence the importance of all Latter-day Saints living according to the light that has been revealed to them. 

Every man and woman has the right to have a testimony of this work. We may have the evidence for ourselves. The hands of the Elders of the Church have been placed upon our heads, and it has been said unto us, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," and we have a right, if we have sincerely repented of our sins and turned unto the Lord with full purpose of heart, to a witness. My conviction is that no man need be without a testimony of this work, whether he be young or old. The Lord is no respecter of persons, and we may know for ourselves, for our private use and good. Not  we may have revelation or a testimony for somebody else, only for ourselves. The heavens have been opened, and they are open to the faithful people of God today. Our prayers may be heard and answered, if they are right and inspired by the Holy Ghost. This is the privilege of the Latter-day Saints. The world do not have these things, because the Lord has not revealed the Gospel to them, only as He has done it through His ministering servants. He has organized His Church in the earth, and the Gospel is being preached as a witness to the world. 

How literally the words of President Woodruff have been fulfilled that he uttered when the Temple was dedicated! He said that the scale would turn, and the people of the world would be more kind to us than formerly. We have seen this verified wherever our Elders have gone. They find people raised up to comfort and to bless them and to listen to them. It is so in these United States, more so, I presume, than it ever has been; it is so in all the world. The words of the servant of God have been verified in regard to these things. We have many testimonies before our eyes daily with regard to this work, and woe be to the men and the people that fight against God and against Zion! Woe be to us who have had the truth and have once known the light, if we turn away from the work of God! Our condition will be far worse than that of those who have never heard the Gospel. 

Hence, my brethren and sisters, the importance of our listening to the counsel of the servants of God. We have a perfect organization existing throughout the Church, so that no man or woman need be left in doubt with regard to the counsels of the Priesthood. We can listen to them if we are so disposed; and we ought to do it as much now as we ever have done. I can remember in my experience here when, we thought it not wise or safe to enter into enterprises or do things without counseling with our brethren. We thought in the midst of counsel there was safety, and in former years we sought the counsel of our brethren more than we do now. Not that every man shall run to the Presidency of the Church or to the Apostles to get advice, because, as I said before, the organization is complete, and you need not go far from your own wards to get the mind of the servants of God. If the Bishop is not able to give the necessary counsel, the President of the Stake may be. If he is not able to give it, he may apply to the Presidency of the Church for it. If this organization was considered and respected by the Saints, everything would work harmoniously and smoothly, and every man and every woman would get the proper counsel for their guidance. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, the importance of our being humble and consistent in our lives, in shunning evil and the appearance of evil, and to teach our children in a proper manner. Do you not know that it is a very bad example for any family of Saints to neglect their prayers before their children? The children will grow up and they will not know what it means to have family prayers. The Lord has said He will be sought after, and He said to ancient Israel that if they would draw near unto Him, He would draw near unto them. "We need to draw near to the Lord, that He may draw near unto us. We need the guidance of the Holy Spirit. We are not able to stand alone. We need the counsel and encouragement of our brethren: we need the advice and encouragement of each other. We may think we can stand alone; we may think we can go on our own responsibility; but we will fail in the end, because the Lord has designed that the counsel of His Priesthood shall be respected among the Latter-day Saints. We ought to sustain our Bishops, and not speak evil against them, or against the Counselors, or the Teachers, or the officers of the ward. Let not our tongues be found speaking evil against our brethren. It tends to darkness and to sin, and will lead whoever indulges in it out of the Church, unless he or she repents speedily. It is a dangerous thing to be found criticising the authorities of the Church— not that they are perfect men, because no man is perfect. It is possible that " may do wrong— that I  give some wrong counsel; but that can easily be corrected, because here are the living oracles of God, and they are worth more to the Latter-day Saints than all the Bibles, all the Books of Mormon and all the Books of Doctrine and Covenants that are written. The Bible is a good thing, the Book of Mormon is a good thing, and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants is a good thing. They are the words of the Lord. But I say that the living oracles of the Church are worth more than all of them. If we could have but one of them, give me the living oracles of the Priesthood for my guidance. Of course, it is proper and a good thing to have it all, 'because the living oracles of the Church work in harmony with what is written, and their counsel will not come in conflict wth the words of the Lord in former ages. But the conditions of mankind change. The counsel that was suitable for the Saints forty years ago may not be so suitable today. Hence the imDortance of having in our midst the living oracles of God to guide us day by day in the performance of our labors. 

I feel that it is a good time to be Saints. It is a good time to turn unto the Lord and live, and not turn away from the Lord and die. I tell you that God has revealed himself in our day and time. He has raised up our Presidency and the Apostles for the guidance of the Church, for the establishing of His work and the building up of Zion on the earth; and we cannot do without them. We would be scattered to the four winds if we did not have the living oracles of God in our midst for our guidance. I feel happy in this work. I hope I will continue to the end. I have not only had one testimony from the Lord of its truth, but many have been added from time to time. I have seen the marvelous workings of God visible in my behalf, and I feel this morning to praise the Father because of His goodness and mercy, and because of His sparing my life to bear record of His name and to bear testimony to my brethren and sisters and friends of the truth and divinity of this great work. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

The Written Word Insufficient, Prophets Kaised up at Different Periods, — God has Revealed Himself also in those Last Times. 

Dear brethren and sisters and friends: I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may direct me in what I shall say this morning. I feel to bear testimony, to commence with, to the truth of the remarks that have been made by those who have preceded me. I desire to draw the attention of this congregation to a statement of Elder Merrill wherein he said that the Jiving oracles are of greater importance than the written word. I desire to dwell somewhat upon this point, in order to bear testimony to this position; for it is a sweeping assertion. As Elder Merrill made this remark, my mind reverted back over the history of the world and the dealings of God the Eternal Father with the children of men ever since the days of our father Adam. We find in the beginning that the children of men multiplied from our forefather Adam and became very numerous upon the earth, and they had in their midst the written word of God. But they departed from it. What was needful under these circumstances? Why, it became necessary for the Lord to raise up a prophet, and he inspired His servant Noah to call the people unto repentance I mention this fact to show you that while they had the written word of God in their midst, yet they had all departed from it. They needed the living word. As the prophet says, "the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life." Another ancient prophet says, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." Under the circumstances that I have alluded to, it was necessary for the Lord to raise up a mighty prophet, and Noah therefore began to preach the Gospel of repentance unto that people. He preached for about 120 years — with what success you all know who have read the scriptures. Eight souls, including himself, were saved in the ark. 

Then when these eight souls began to multiply and replenish the earth and they became a great and numerous people, while all the dealings of God with His people were carefully  and the word of God, as far as it was written, was handed down to them, was that sufficient to save and to guide them? No. It was necessary for the Lord to raise up another prophet; and various prophets in turn were raised up. But the people went so far away from the truth that they became idolatrous and offered hnman sacrifice. While the Lord had given them commandments concerning the principle of atonement by the blood of animals, etc., they began to enlarge upon God's law and instituted the practice of offering human sacrifices. The Lord was very much displeased with this. Nevertheless they had the written word before them, but they gave no heed to it. It became necessary to raise up a mighty prophet. Therefore, the Lord came down in the midst of these idolaters and appeared unto Abraham, who was the son of Terah by his second wife. The Lord had respect to Abraham, for he was a good man, and He said unto Abraham: 

"Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee: 

"And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and tfcou shalt be a blessing: 

"And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed." 

The Lord commanded Abraham to leave his father's house, because his father, Terah, was preparing to offer him as a sacrifice unto his god. 

Here is another instance where you will see the necessity of the Lord revealing himself and raising up a prophet, because all the children of men had gone into idolatry and had gone astray from the plan of life and salvation which the Lord had previously revealed unto them. Nevertheless they had the written word in their midst. Did the written word save them? No. Would the written word have accomplished the object of turning that great people from idolatry? No. What was necessary? It was necessary to do just what was done — for our Father in heaven to come and make a personal visit to Abraham. Afterwards the Lord said, in speaking of Abraham, "I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to do justice and judgment." Therefore, He pronounced upon him the great blessing — that his posterity should become as innumerable as the stars in heaven and as countless as the sands upon the seashore. When the children of God understand true wealth and that which will make them as God, they will find it in presiding over their posterity in their turn, as our Father is now presiding over His, and in the fact that they have wives and children, their posterity increasing and multiplying, and the principle of the continuation of lives committed unto them for ever and ever. 

I desire to pass along a little further. The children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob began to increase and multiply upon the face of the earth, and became a great people. Nevertheless they fell short of keeping the commandments that the Lord had given unto them. But they had the written word in their midst. Did that save them? No, it did not. They went into bondage unto the Egyptians. What was the matter? Was it ^hat there was nothing written in regard to the dealings of God with His people prior to their day that they were in this dreadful condition? No. It was because they had transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, and had turned away from the laws of life and salvation. Under these circumstances, what was necessary? It was necessary to raise up a man who could communicate with God the Eternal Father. Again the written word failed to save the people. The Lord appeared unto Moses in the burning bush, and commanded him to go forth and call to his assistance his brother Aaron, and say unto Pharaoh, in the name of the Lord, to let His people go forth into the wilderness. Would the written word ever have prevailed upon King Pharaoh to release the people of Israel? No. It was necessary for the Lord to show forth His mighty power in bringing upon that people the plagues of the earth, according to the voice of His servant Moses, whom He had inspired. It was necessary also for the Lord to  down the first-born of all the Egyptians. Would the written word have accomplished that? Moses went forth, after having conversed with God, filled with a portion of His Spirit and power. He did not go forth with the written word of something that had transpired in the days of Noah, saying, Behold, Noah was called of God to preach righteousness, and the people did not repent; therefore they were destroyed with a flood. -.o; King Pharaoh undoubtedly was acquainted with the history of the world, but that had no more effect upon him than the blowing of the wind. But when the Prophet Moses came into his presence, and the plagues were poured out, one by one, upon the people, according to the will of God as predicted by His servant Moses, he began to soften in his heart. Finally, when the firstborn of Egypt were destroyed, the Israelites had time enough to get out into the wilderness; but they had no sooner got out than they were immediately followed by the hosts of Pharaoh. 

I mention this to show you the necessity of another prophet being raised up. I tell you there might have lived in ages past hundreds and thousands of prophets, but that is not sufficient for the day and age in which we live. I will pass on rapidly, for I have only four minutes left in which to speak; but I desire to talk to the subject as well as to the "mark" while I am on my feet. 

There is another remarkable circumstance I wish to refer to. The Lord our God desired that a mighty temple should be built unto His high and holy name, after the days of which I have spoken. Was there anything in what the Lord had said to the Prophet Noah, or to the Prophet Abraham, or to the Prophet Isaac, or to the Prophet Jacob, that would teach the children of men how to build a temple unto God? No; there was no written word of this kind. What was necessary, therefore? It was necessary that the Lord our God should reveal His mind and will unto His servant the Prophet, that he might know how to build a temple; and He raised up a man to build a temple unto the name of God. This was King Solomon. A little later on we find an peculiar circumstance which transpired, verifying the ideas of Elder Merrill in his testimony here today. We find that King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream concerning some of the future history of this world, portraying what the mind and will of God was concerning some things down even to the day and age in which we live. But the dream went from him, and he wanted this dream brought back to his mind with the interpretation thereof. Could he by reading the instructions of God to Solomon as to how to build a temple learn how to bring that dream back again to his mind? No; it was necessary for the Lord to call upon His servant Daniel, who went forth, and by the power of the Holy Ghost he told the dream and gave its interpretation to Nebuchadnezzar. 

I tell you the changing scenes of life are such that we need men, living men, that are inspired of God. As Christ said to the devil, when he tempted Him, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." I desire, my friends, to bear this testimony unto you. Let me quote from the 12th chapter of Paul's first epistle to the Corinthians, and pass by all the remarkable circumstances wherein God the Eternal Father had to continually keep raising up Prophets and Seers, in order to straighten the people out; for the history of this world shows that just as soon as the people have a little time to multiply and to increase, they have turned away from the word of God. When Christ came, He instituted a peculiar system among the children of men, and Paul speaks of some things that He es~ tablished in His Church. 

"God hath set some in the Church, first Apostles, secondarily Prophets, thirdly Teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues." 

In his epistle to the Ephesians, Paul also speaks on this subject. He says: 

"And he gave some, Apostles; and some, Prophets; and some, Evangelists; and some, Pastors and Teachers; 

"For the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: 

"That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive." 

We are told also in the same epistle that God has placed these in the church "till we all come in the unity of the faith." I ask you, my friends, have we come to a unity of the faith in the world? We are divided, and subdivided, into hundreds of sects and parties. Then what is necessary? Why, as in the other circumstances to which I have referred, it is necessary that the Lord our God should raise up a mighty prophet, to correct the children of men in this great error which they are making all over the world. And in accordance with this necessity, the Lord has in this time, as in all ages, come to the rescue, and He has raised up the Prophet Joseph Smith, as a prophet, seer and revelator. He came down and communicated His mind and will unto the Prophet Joseph in person, as He did unto our father Abraham, and unto Jacob, and unto Moses; and He has commanded, as President Woodruff has said here today, that this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, for a witness to all nations, and then shall the end come. Is not all the sectarian world today praying, "Our Father who art in heaven, thy kingdom come.and thy will be done?" Let me say unto you, my dear friends, when it does come it will come with apostles, with prophets, with inspired men, with men who are raised up as men were in olden times. Peter said, "If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God." In those days they spake not as the Scribes and Pharisees, but as men having authority. They spake not according to the will of man, but whatsoever was revealed unto them that spake they unto the children of men. 

God bless you, my dear friends, and lead you into the ways of all truth. May He pour out His Holy Spirit upon every soul that is in this Conference, that the Latter-day Saints may be made to rejoice, and that those who are not of us may be pricked in their hearts and come to a knowledge of the truth, that we may all be saved and exalted in His kingdom, is my prayer, in tLe name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

The Doctrine Preached by the Saints the Same as that which was Taught by Christ. 

I am grateful unto God our Eternal Father for the privilege of attending this Conference. I think the Latter-day Saints may congratulate themselves in the testimony that hath been given unto us, that has relieved us from all doubt or anxiety concerning our spiritual welfare today or in the future.The doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ is different to anything else. To believe on the Lord Jesus Christ is to believe in His doctrine. If we believe in His doctrine, we believe in the ordinances of the house of God. "We understand somewhat concerning our relationship to our Father in heaven. He taught His disciples to pray, 'Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name, Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven." This is the sentiment of the Latter-day Saints — those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, who have accepted the doctrine of Jesus Christ, who worship the living and true God, who have repented of their sins, who have been baptized by immersion, by one having authority, for the remission of their sins, who have been sanctified in the precious blood of Christ, which follows the water, and who have received the witness of the Spirit in the gift of the Holy Ghost that was given unto them by the ordinance of the laying on of hands. The principles that we advocate are the principles advocated by the Lord Jesus Christ in His day; and are the only way to be saved from death, hell and the grave. 

We have our missionaries, in large numbers, preaching this everlasting Gospel, who are taking the glad tidings of great joy to the inhabitants of the earth, testifying that God has again spoken from the heavens, that He hath restored to the earth His Church, that He hath living Apostles and Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors and Teachers, for the work of the , and for the edifying of the body of Christ. We also testify to the truth of these principles, because in our experience as individuals we know that the signs follow the believer; we know that the path of counsel is the path of safety; for whenever we have followed it we have always been well satisfied. The ways of God are not the ways of man, neither are His thoughts their thoughts; but as the heavens are above the earth, so are His thoughts andHis ways above ours. Men for ages have had the Scriptures. They have had the dealings of God with the inhabitants of the earth in the records that we have. But have they been enabled to understand the philosophy of salvation? Have they been enabled to understand why it was necessary that all men must repent, and be baptized (immersed) for the remission of sins? Have they been enabled to understand why it was essential that they should be born of the water and of the spirit, or they could in no wise inherit the kingdom of God? These principles are made plain to us, because the Lord has revealed them. He has restored His new and everlasting convenant. He has restored His holy Gospel. We are His witnesses of this, and we testify that which we do know, and we bear testimony to that which we have seen and that which we have felt. 

But the world will not receive our testimony. We take the Bible and show that these principles are in harmony with those taught by the ancient Apostles. It is no new doctrine. It is the old doctrine. It is the straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life. And we are endeavoring to train our children and the people to have faith in God, to trust in the Lord, to honor Him, to reverence His name, to love Him, and to keep His holy commandments. In our Sabbath schools we show the children what has been done by faith. In our exhortations to the people we refer them to what has been accomplished by faith; believing in God, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him, believing in His ordinances, and practicing them, that they may make their calling and election sure. We are striving to do this ourselves, simply because we want a salvation; we want to be associated with the Church of the firstborn; we want to see the kingdom of God established upon the earth in power, that the kingdom of heaven may come and the will of God be done upon the earth as the angels do the same in the heavens. 

I will say to our friends visiting at this Conference, if you have not heard this Gospel before, I want to bear testimony to you that I came out of the world; that I heard this Gospel in the world; that I accepted of its principles, and the promises made to me by those who introduced it to me have been fulfilled. I know that the spirit of prophecy exists. I know that the gift of tongues exists. I know that the power of God is manifested, when faith is exercised, in the laying on of hands unto those who are sick and afflicted, in the anointing with oil and the prayer of faith. I know that the signs follow the believer, as the Lord Jesus Christ promised eighteen hundred years ago. The Lord has again revealed His will. He taught His servant Joseph Smith His doctrine and the necessity of these ordinances of His house, and has taught the necessity of adding works to our faith. 

What would be the use of the Scriptures to us if there were no living men having authority to officiate in the ordinances of the house of God. Where there is no authority of the Priesthood there cannot be any ordinances, to be of any effect. You can easily understand that the things of God are not known by the spirit of man, but by the Spirit of God; and when the Lord withdraws His Spirit, and when His authority is taken from the earth, then men of wisdom, so-called, change the ordinances, break the everlasting covenant, and instead of baptizing by immersion, that men may be buried with Christ by baptism, they pour or sprinkle water upon a child's face and call that baptism. Now, if the ordinance of baptism that was given unto us by the Lord Jesus Christ was being buried with Christ in baptism, how would it be possible for us to be justified by having a little water sprinkled in our faces when we were little children and knew nothing about it? So much for  wisdom of men. No man knoweth the things of God, except by the Spirit of God. When they had living Apostles and Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors and Teachers, sent of God for the work of the ministry, then the proper ordinance of going down into the water and coming up out of the water was performed. 

The Lord has taught us these principles today in the revelations that He has given. He has given us the ordinance of baptism, the ordinance of the laying on of hands; and when we look into the Scriptures we find that it was just the same eighteen hundred years ago. The Scriptures bear testimony, or we can quote from the Scriptures to show the people that it is no new doctrine. We have a living testimony, too, in the which we know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that there is efficacy in His precious blood, and that if we walk in the light as He is in the light we have fellowship with our brethren, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin. We have faith in these principles, and we honor God. We manifest it in our works. We are not teaching false doctrine. We are not deceiving the people. We are teaching them the truth, and we call upon all men everywhere to repent and to come unto God with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and worship Him in the name of Jesus Christ. 

If you are honest in your hearts, and desire to know God, whom to know is eternal life, He will lead you into His fold, as he has done us; He will reveal to you the principles of life and salvation, as He has done to us; He will give you a living testimony, as he has given us. We invite all men to come unto Christ. We prove our doctrine by the Scriptures. We know that these principles are true. We know it in our experience and in our associations; we know it by the signs following the believer, and we are grateful to God our Eternal Father, beyond expression, that we have the privilege of being called by His name, and we love to do His will and honor His ordinances. Every man that has the fellowship of the Spirit of God loves the ways of the Lord. He cannot help it, it is so GENERAL CONFERENCE. . The Gospel has been of great benefit and worth unto me. It redeemed me from the darkness I was in; it redeemed me from priestcraft, from superstition and folly, and has given me the privilege of the glorious light that shines in Zion. But the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not. Why do the people love darkness rather than light? Because their deeds are evil. That is the interpretation that Jesus Christ gave, and I believe it. Why should we not be united in the worship of the living God? Why should we not be laboring for the building up of His kingdom? What is the use of broken cisterns that hold no water? What is the use of trusting in the wisdom of men, or in the arm of flesh? Why not trust in the living and true God? Why not wait upon Him, and place our faith in Him? Why not dedicate ourselves unto His kindly care and protection? I know that He lives. I know that He hears and answers prayer. I know that He blesses the administrations of His servants. How do I know it? Why, in my experience. There is scarcely a day passes but we have some witness concerning the mercy of God and His goodness. I have never been enabled to express my gratitude to my Father in heaven, and I have always been willing to preach this Gospel, because it has been such a blessing unto me. 

I remember during the time I was on a mision I published two tracts — "The Glad Tidings of Great Joy" and "The Restoration of the Everlasting Gospel." What did I do it for? Because this Gospel has been such a benefit and blessing to me that I wanted to do all that I could to tell my brethren and sisters of the world everywhere concerning it. We are the friends of mankind. We have shown it by taking our lives in our hands over and over again to teach them the truth. We plead with them to be reconciled with God, and to embrace these glorious principles. I was trained in the scriptures. The people say that we do not believe in the Bible. If that be the case there are no people on the earth that do believe in the Bible. We do believe in it, and we believe in the doctrines of Christ. It was a simple tract that  into my hand— The Only Way to be Save*, by Apostle Lorenzo Snow— and then afterwards the Voice of Warning, that caused me to reflect and brought me to associate with this people and to wait upon the Lord. It aroused the spirit of faith in me. 

Now, my beloved brethren and sisters, let me say unto you, as the Apostle said of old, have faith in God; for without faith it is impossible to please Him. This is what the Lord requires of us. He will be enquired after. As far as salvation is concerned, it is between the individual and God, between the child and the Father. He is our Father in heaven. We entreat you to put yourselves in harmony with Him; humble yourselves before Him and cry unto Him as a repentant sinner, and ask Him for light and truth. He will not deceive you, and truth. He will give it you. He will not deceive you, but guide you in the strait and narrow path which leads to everlasting life. 

I bear my testimony concerning the Presidency and the Apostles, with whom I have been associated for some time. I know that they are men of God. I know that they labor for the establishment of the righteousness of God upon the earth. I know that they are men called of God. I have had their hands on my head, and they have predicted concerning me, when I have been sent on missions, and I know that they had the spirit cf prophecy, because those predictions were fulfilled. Then in my associations with them in the work of the Lord. I know that they are men of God; and I know that the Latter-day Saints who are living their religion are the happiest people on the face of the earth, and the Lord blesses them and gives unto them the righteous desires of their hearts. I am grateful unto God for this privilege that I have of bearing my testimony this morning in this Conference, and I pray that we may be kind to each other, that we may love God and keep His commandments, that when we shall have finished our probation upon the earth, we may enter into His glorious rest, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: Lift up your heads, O ye gates. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith 
