Afternoon
05 10 1897



PRE ST. GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Importance of sustaining the Authority of God — Good effects of reading the Written Word — Skepticism in secular literature — Evil results of ignoring the Counsels of God's Servants. 

In standing up this afternoon to address you, my brethren and sisters, I do so with the hope that I shall have your faith and prayers, and that the spirit that has rested upon our brethren who have spoken thus far during the Conference will be given unto me also. To arise before a congregation of this size is almost appalling, and no man that realizes the responsibility or teaching the people, it seems to me, would dare do so unless he felt that the Lord would assist him and be with him. 

"We have heard a great many excellent instructions during yesterday and .this morning. We have had spiritual instructions, and also instructions concerning practical duties, although there is nothing connected with our religion that is not really practical. We can apply that word to all the duties that devolve upon us as individuals and as a people. 

We have heard considerable concerning the authority that God has restored. I feel that this is an important theme, and one that cannot be dwelt upon too much in our hearing. There has been noticeably, it seems to me, considerable change in the Church in relation to that authority, and its claims upon and its standing among the people. Anything that contributes to weaken that authority or to lessen its value in the minds of the people is something to be avoided and, I believe, to be dreaded. The success and the triumph of the work of God thus far can only be attributed to the fact that the Lord has placed in His Church His Priesthood, and has given it authority; for to its guidance, to its influence and activity among the people, can be ascribed the prosperity of this work of our God. To no other cause can we attribute the deliverances that have been wrought out in our behalf. Its operations have been most beneficent. We have heard considerable concerning it in the remarks that have been made. But I have noticed myself among the Latter-day Saints that where the people of God pay attention to the written word, and cherish and observe the written word, they are always better prepared to hear the oral instructions of the servants of God; they are better prepared to receive those instructions; they have greater interest in seeking to obtain instructions, than they have when they are careless about the written word of God. I have felt for some time that there is an indifference, not to call it by any  name, among the Latter-day Saints in regard to the word of God. I would like to ask this congregation, how many of you read the Book of Mormon, the Bible, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the discourses of the Elders as they are published? How many of you make a practice of reading the word of God as it is in these records, and as it appears in published discourses? I am afraid that if you were interrogated upon this point many would say, "I have not read the Bible for such a length of time; I have not read the Book of Mormon for such a length of time; I have not read the Book of Doctrine and Covenants for such a length of time; I do not read the discourses of the Elders that are published; I do not take the paper that contains them; I prefer other papers." 

I hope I am not doing the people of God injustice in making this statement; but I believe that comparatively few of the Latter-day Saints are in the habit of reading the words of God that He has given to us in the records that have come to us. I believe there are families, from what I hear and what I notice myself, that do not open the Book of Mormon, or the Bible, or the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, from one month's end to another. These books, if they are in possession of families, too frequently lie covered with dust, untouched, and not read. Do I do any injustice in making this statement? It I do, I am glad of it — that is, I would be very glad if what I say is not correct, and that the Book of Mormon, the Bible, the Doctrine and Covenants and the discourses of the Elders are perused regularly, and sought for with avidity. If we talk about the living oracles and want to pay respect to them, how shall we do this? Shall we do it by never reading their words — by paying no attention to that which they say? That is a very poor way of doing. We ought to listen to their words. When we cannot hear their words, we should read them; for they are the words of the authorized servants of God. I feel that there is a great neglect among us in this respect. I notice it in my own family, I notice it in other families, and still in my own  I do the best I can in these matters. But you will find that, among certain classes, scientific works are more read, magazines are more read, novels are more read, publications that do not contribute to faith are more read, and the result is that we are in danger of a wave of infidelity and unbelief sweeping through our land, to the injury of the faith of the rising generation. It is a thing that fills me with more fear than almost any thing else concerning ourselves and our children. Tou cannot take a magazine up — the best and most popular magazines — without finding articles in it that are — I was going to say designed — but their purport and the drift of their arguments are opposed to the truths that are contained in the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. Talk with young men who go to universities and colleges, and you will find that many are more or less imbued with these ideas. I need only refer to a few — the age of the earth, prehistoric man, the creation of man, man's entrance upon the earth, the nature of man's descent. The truth concerning these principles, is being undermined and weakened so that at the present time, if it were not for the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, we ourselves would be at sea. But those who do not receive the Book of Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants as divine are in a deplorable condition; they do not know what is true. Many of the clergy are in the same position as the rest of the world; they have adopted the new ideas concerning these scientific discoveries. Hundreds of clergymen, who call themselves ministers of the Gospel, do not believe in Adam and Eve and their creation; do not believe in the Mosaic account of creation; do not believe that man is a son of God, descended from God; but they believe that the earth has been in existence and peopled by man ages before the period given in the Mosaic account. There is no doubt that the earth is much older than many of us think it is. But they mingle truth with error, and they build up fallacies, and they are propagating them; and the Latter-day Saints, who  this literature.and do not read the word of God, are in danger of losing their faith. 

We have in these three books to which I have referred the pure word of God— at least in two of them— uncoirupted, undefiled; and we can read them with a knowledge that they are true. We have the word of God in the Bible; but it has been translated by uninspired men. And no matter how men may pile up arguments and build theories— they may build them as high as these mountains of ours, and they may appear to be true, yet we know they are not true where they come in contact with these records of ours, because we know that these records are true. Godhas revealed them, and the Book of Mormon has been translated by a man of God and has come to us in purity. Therefore, when we read about our father Adam and our mother Eve, read about the fall of man, the creation of the earth or the peopling of the earth, about the Son of God and His atonement to redeem us from the ''ill, we know that those principles are trueand from God. 

It is important that we as a people should understand these things, and that we should build our faith mv pregnably upon the rock of revelation, constant revelation; not alone the revelation given two thousand years, ago but also the revelation given today] and which comes to us in its purity. 

I have been impressed very much of late with the danger to which our young people are exposed. When the parents neglect to read the word of God, when they prefer novels, magazines, or any kind of light reading, and do not set the example by reading that which God has given to us, you may expect the children to do the same. They will not take up the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants to read, because when they read these illustrated papers, these catchy prints, these light novels, everything of a serious nature loses its interest. To people who are fed on highly seasoned food,, a plain diet is not inviting;men who have been accustomed to stimulants crave stimulants. People who read the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of literature I refer to are in the same condition mentally; they desire the sensational, and reading which does not have some of this element in it possesses but little interest. The result is, our books and our discourses', — that which God reveals — go without being perused. 

I do not want to dwell on this — it is not necesary. I leave it with you to reflect upon it. I look upon it as a most serious matter that should be called to the attention of this Conference. I Wish I had language to make you all realize the danger we are in from mischievous literature, and the necessity for a reformation in our reading habits. Do not wonder at your sons and daughters going astray and losing the faith, when they do not read the word of God. 

Do you know what I believe about the living oracles? I believe that the bondage we are in today — I want you all to hear what I have to say, for I want to say it considerately — the bondage we are in today is due to the neglect of this people in listening to counsel; and not only in not listening to it, but in not seeking it. We are in bondage — in debt. As a community we groan under a load of debt. We have, it is said, hundreds of unemployed people. I do not know how many there are, but reports come to the effect that they are numerous. Why is it? If this people had listened to the counsel of the servants of God, or had sought it, would this be the case? Certainly not, in my opinion. God has not led us here to these mountains to starve. He has not given the spirit of gathering to these Latter-day Saints in the remote parts of the earth and brought them here to walk the streets in idleness, with their hands in their pockets. He has not given his spirit to such an extent that the authorities may have to repress it, and say to the Elders abroad, "Restrain the people; do not let them come here for the present." Why, what an incongruity, what a strange thing, to say that God would give the spirit of gathering to the people to come where they could not get employment, and where they would go hungry and have to live on charity; or, after they had come, return to their own lands, as some have . To me, the very sight of this condition is an evidence that there is something wrong, or something has been wrong. 

Let me refer to the railroads here. How many Latter-day Saints are employed on the railroads in this State? I wonder who can answer. Who built these railroads? How many railroads are there in this State that the Latterday Saints did not build and own? There are but few in this State ol Utah that they did not build and own or control. Hundreds of Utah men were employed on these railroads. Suppose that every man that had owned any share in them had said to himself, "I shall not part with my stock in these agencies, if I can help it; I shall maintain my holdings in these roads, so that my fellow citizens can get employment on them, and the policy not been adopted in our State of sending to remote states for people to do the work that our own citizens ca,n do," what would have been the result? Why, today, instead of our people walking around unemployed, as many have to do, they would find abundant employment. I do not want to risk a guess at the number that would be employed; you can guess as well as I. 

Herein we are reaping the consequences of our selfishness and want of prudence. Do you wonder at it, when God has told us so plainly what we shall do? When God has placed men to guide us and to counsel us, and their counsels have been neglected and disregarded? I wonder that God has been so merciful with us as he has been in these things, and that He has not scourged us more than He has. I look upon the highest duty that I have in connection with the service of God — after personally laboring to make myself pure and to conform to all the requirements of the Gospel — my first duty after that is to build up Zion. God sent me to earth for that. He has given me His Spirit for that. He has gathered us together to build up Zion. It is the highest, the noblest, the plainest duty that God has assigned to us, as a people and as individuals. Up to this hour I have never labored for anything else. I would not go anywhere to build up anything else. I have never had the inclination to do it. I wanted every  of my time, every faculty of my mind and body, every power and talent that God has given me, to be devoted exclusively to the building up of Zion. I have no other aim in life, and I want no other aim. Now, if this be my motive, I should not do anything at any time to injure Zion. If I own stock in a railroad, or in any other public enterprise, and am offered a good price for it, I should first ask myself, Is the sale of this consistent with the building up of Zion? Through the invitation of President Young, I was one of the original incorporators of one of our railways. I could have sold my interest in that at several times for a considerable sum of money. But I desired the control kept here, and I said, No, I will not sell. But the control passed out of the State, and though the stock has decreased very greatly in value, I have had the satisfaction of knowing that I have not contributed in any manner to the bringing about of the condition of things which I now deplore. 

Now, when I say "building up Zion," do I mean by that, building up a system that is peculiar to the Latter-day Saints, and that will exclude all but Latter-day Saints? No. There is where the misconception arises in regard to our views and aims. Whenever Zion is built up as it should be, we will have a condition of things that will be the admiration and the attraction of the whole world. There will be no heavy taxation. There will be no officers working for enormous salaries. There will be no bribery. There will be no unthrift, money being spent lavishly, improvidently, and in a way to oppress the people. Whenever Zion shall rule, the very opposite of this will be the condition of society. The widow can live on her lot, and not be taxed to deprive her of it. The workingman can have his acre and a quarter, with his improvements on it, and can hold it without being taxed out of it. That will be the condition when Zion shall prevail. There will be no oppression. There will be no sin permitted that the law can reach. There will be a condition of society that all honest, virtuous and upright men will admire. I labor with all my might, and have  since I was old enough, to bring to pass that happy condition. I pray for it with all the faith I can. It is my constant thought, by night and by day. I labor for it as well as pray for it. For I want a reign of righteousness to be ushered in. I want to see a condition of things in this State that shall be such as I have feebly attempted to describe. And I know that the Latter-day Saints have the same desire. We may be mistaken at times; we may be misled; we may do foolish things; but underneath, underlying all our thoughts and all our acts, is the intense desire to see a better condition of things brought about, not for ourselves alone, but for all. And I want to say to you here to day that it never will be brought about until the voice of experienced men, especially inspired men, will be listened to. In any other community, where right prevails, men would not say concerning these men that are around here what they do about us. It is because we are members of a church that we are assailed; because they do not want the influence of that wisdom and that experience felt among the people. Here are men on this stand who have helped build this commonwealth. They laid the foundations of it. They carried it forward. They helped enact the laws that have governed it. And when this Territory passed out of the control of those who were influenced by the policy of these men, it was in a condition that was most admirable. It was out of debt, and lightly taxed. It was in a condition that people look back to now and admire, and regret that we cannot have such a condition exist today. Do not mistake me, and think that I mean the Latter-day Saints should have exclusive control of civil affairs; not so; no more than others should have exclusive control. 

Brethren and sisters, we talk about listening to the oracles of God. Do you listen to them? Do you think them entitled to your support and your confidence? If you had offered to you a good bargain in selling out some important enterprise, would you jask yourselves, "How is this going to affect the interests of Zion?" Or would you say, "I can make money out of GENERAL CONFERENCE. , and I will take care of myself?" I say to you that whenever Latter-day Saints come to the latter conclusion they will lose by it. The money that they get will not do them nor their children good. I only state a truism when I say this. To prove it we have only to look around us and see results. The men that have sought counsel and followed it have been blessed in all they have done. The money they have made has been prospered, because it has been made properly — it has been made with a view to carrying out the purposes of God. 

I would like to bring these questions home to us in a practical manner. Let us look at them as practical men. We are here in the State of Utah. It is our duty to build up this State. Not for the Mormons alone — do not mistake my position — not for the Mormons, but for every man and woman that wants to live an honest and upright life and to be a good citizen. With the views and the knowledge I have, I should deplore a feeling that would prompt us to build it up for ourselves alone. We are in the world, and a part of the world. God has given us a mission in the world, and we know how to fill it. We cannot be accused of egotism if we say that we know how to build up this country. We know what policy to pursue to make this community a happy and prosperous community. The proofs are in sight. We do not talk as men who have not had experience. We understand the question. And we know that if the people would listen to the counsels that are given to them, they would be led in a path of safety, a path of peace, and a path of prosperity. But there is every effort being made, and has been for some time, to destroy this influence, and many of the Latter-day Saints, apparently, have not had discernment enough to discover the spirit that actuates those who are making these attempts. 

I pray God to bless us in this Conference, to fill us with the Holy Spirit, and to give unto us the words of life and salvation and cause our hearts to rejoice. I want us to see our errors. I want to talk about these errors. I want to warn, where we need warning : — and we do need warning. I know we are not as we should be. I am not  myself with my own condition. I am not satisfied with the condition of the Later-day Saints. I do not want to say anything to lull you to sleep. I do not want to sing any siren songs in your ears. It is pleasant enough to talk about those pleasant things; but here is a condition of things before us that we cannot close our eyes to. How shall this condition be remedied? How shall this people be led and guided out of the difficulties in which they are involved? What can we say to you, to point out the dangers that you are in. and to show you the path that you should tread to escape these dangers, and to be the people that God designs we shall be. There is only one way — and we will all have to come to it — and that is to listen xo the voice of God in our midst, and ask for it, and not be as some are, "Don't talk to me. I don't want any church interference. I don't care how much you know; you may have all the experience in the world; but I don't want to talk to you, you are an officer in the church, ana I don't want any ecclesiastical interference with me." Why, that spirit — where will it lead us to? You can answer that question yourselves, each one of you. I believe in the principles of government. I have my views concerning them; you all have, no doubt. But shall We, who know what we do, accept party as the paramount issue among us? When I heard the proposition that the Latter-day Saints should divide on party lines, I advocated it. I have not changed my feelings in regard to it. I know that it is better for us. But we need not set up party as an idol and worship it, as though it was a new-found idol, which we should bow down to and worship. That is the other extreme. We should not go to these extremes. We should act like wise people, and do that which is the best for us in every way. I do not, in saying this, wish to say one word about politics, only to clear myself from any suspicion of saying anything in opposition to the maintenance of party lines. As I have said, I believed in the division on party lines when 1 heard it was being attempted. I knew it was the right thing to do. I have  glad ever since that we did it, and I would not have it changed if it could be helped — and it can be helped. We should not interfere with each other in our party rights, our party beliefs, or party allegiance. But do not go to such extremes; do not be carried away by them. 

I pray God to bless us with his Holy Spirit, that during this Conference we may have a time of rejoicing. I humbly ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

were presented to the Conference by President George Q. Cannon, as follows: 

Wilford "Woodruff, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world. 

George Q. Cannon as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Joseph F. Smith as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Lorenzo Snow as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles — Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill and Anthon H. Lund. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

Patriarch to the Church— John Smith. 

First Seven Presidents of the Seventies — Seymour Is. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, B. H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball and Rulon S. Wells. 

William B. Freston as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton as his first and John R. Winder as his second counselor. 

Franklin D. Richards as Church historian and general Church recorder, with John Jaques and Charles W. Penrose as his assistants. 

As the General Church Board of Education — Wilford Wcodruff, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith and John Nicholson. 

As Trustee-ii'.-Ti ust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jpsus Christ of Latter-day Saints- -Wilford Woodruff. 

John Nicholson ?s Clerk of the General Conference. 

All of the voting to sustain the authorities was un?mimous. 

In presenting the names to fill the vacancies in the quorum of the Apostles and the First Council of Seventies, President George Q. Cannon said: 

It is well known to the Latter-day Saints that there are two vacancies in the quorum of the Twelve. Apostles, one through death, and another through the severance of a person from the quorum. We now propose to fill those vacancies, and present to the Conference the name of Matthias F. Cowley to be one of the Twelve Apostles. 

It may be well to state to this Conference that Brother Matthias F. Cowley is at present the second counselor to the President of the Oneida Stake of Zion. He is a man that has labored in the ministry very zealously, and is known, to all acquainted with him, as a man of worth. 

(His name was then put to the Conference, and he was sustained by unanimous vote.) 

It is now proposed that Abraham Owen Woodruff be ordained one of the Twelve Apostles. 

He has been a missionary to Germany, has acquired the language there, has labored very zealously in that mission, and since his return has been very zealous and indefatigable in his labors here among us. He is a youthful, but a promising man. 

(His name was then presented, and the vote to sustain him was also unanimous.) 

I may say, before sitting down, that the mind of the Lord was diligently sought for in relation to these appointments, and we can say to you that the mind of the Lord was obtained, and we know that the men who have been chosen are the men whom the Lord has designated to us to fill these positions. 

There is a vacancy in the Seven Presidents of the Seventies. It is now proposed that Joseph W. McMurrin be ordained to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Elder Edward Stevenson. 

(His name was presented, and he likewise was sustained by unanimous vote of the Conference.) 

I wish to add in relation to this appointment, the mind of the Lord was also sought, and this is as it came to us. Elder McMurrin is now on a mission in Great Britain, and is one of the Presidency of the European mission. 

"We wish to say to the Saints who are assembled here that neither of these brethren has known of this till now; so you must not be surprised if they are embarrassed. "When we decided upon it, it was understood that we should keep this to ourselves until they should be presented here. We did not want anyone to know about .it or to talk about it, and they are as much surprised, I suppose, as any of you can be. 

PRE ST. WILFORD WOODRUFF. 

said: I want to say to these two young men whom we have called to fill these places, they are occupying a very important position, a position of great responsibility, and we hope and trust that, although young men, they may have the spirit and power of their calling and Priesthood and Apostleship, and be enabled to magnify it and fulfill the duties required at their hands. "We will give our brethren time to express themselves now with regard to their views of the kingdom of God and the Priesthood unto which they have been called, and their purposes in magnifying and fulfilling this duty that is now resting upon them by the vote of the house of Israel. 

ELDER MATTHIAS F. COWLEY. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very weak on this occasion, and I do not know how to express myself. But I accept of the call with the same feeling that I have always accepted of the calls made of me by the authorities of this Church. I am in full sympathy with the organization of i the Holy Priesthood, and every sentiment which has been expressed at this Conference finds a cheerful and a complete response in my heart. I am grateful  the Lord for the testimony which He has given unto me in my youth concerning the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the work which he was instrumental in the hands of God in establishing upon the earth. I know that it is true. I am grateful for this witness, and I trust that I shall be able, by the help of the Lord and hy your faith and prayers, my brethren and sisters — for I ask them, and I need them, to be able to show my appreciation of the truth and the work in which we are engaged, by my course in life. I recognize the fact that there is no amount of profession or pretension which satisfies the injunctions of the Gospel and that which goes to constitute the characteristics of a true Latter-day Saint. It requires that we shall square our lives by the precepts of the Gospel and the commandments which have been delivered unto us by the authority of God in this dispensation. 

I do not know that I need to occupy more of your time, my brethren and sisters. I feel weak and humble; indeed, I feel unworthy; for I know myself better than my friends know me, and I cannot express my feelings on this occasion. But I will endeavor to do my duty, by the help of the Lord. I will endeavor to keep the counsel of the servants of God, and to obey the requirements that are made of me from time to time, by the servants of God that are appointed to preside in the Church of Christ in this dispensation. I know that these men are Prophets of the living God. And I know this day that a prophecy has been fulfilled which was uttered by Apostle John "W. Taylor many years ago. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and all Israel, and enable us to accept, not only in sentiment and theory, but in actual practice, all the counsel that is given unto us bearing upon the duties which the Gospel enjoins upon the Latter-day Saints; and if we do this I know that God will bless us and sustain us as his people, and no power will prevail against this work. May God bless you, and may I have your faith and prayers in my calling. I humbly ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFF. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very weak in attempting to express myself on this occasion, and I pray that the blessings of God may rest upon me, that I may enjoy your sympathy, while I seek to do so. Though I have not placed myself in this position, I have no doubt as to the inspiration of those men who have called me; and in occupying it I realize that I am not called to a position above the people, but to be one of them and a servant of the people of God. I feel that this is my mission. As Brother Cowley says that this day a prophecy was fulfilled which was uttered some years ago by one of the Apostles present today, I can indeed say the same as being fulfilled in my case. My father intimated as much to me something over three years ago, while I was upon a mission to Switzerland, Germany and Austria, although I have never mentioned this matter to a living soul. He told me that that was the mind and will of God concerning me at that time. T have sought to overcome my weaknesses; and in standing before you I realize that I stand before my God, stripped of everything which will hide any of the deeds of my life, and realize that I appear in His eyes in a different light to what I appear in your eyes. I realize that I have had weaknesses, but God knows that I have sought with all my heart to overcome them and to fit and prepare myself for any call which He might make of me. It will be the pleasure of my life, and my greatest object and desire, to be your servant, and to assist in building up Zion. I believe that Jesus is the Christ, and that there is a living God. I have been placed in circumstances in my short life where I have had to prove this to be the case or to prove that belief in God was a deception. I also believe that Joseph Smith was a true, inspired servant or the living God, and that the principles which were revealed through him, of faith in God, of repentance, of baptism, of the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and the other principles connected with this Gospel, are of God and are necessary to salvation. I believe that the organ that existed in the primitive church exists in this Church today; that we have the living oracles of God, and that these men who have been called to these positions are inspired servants of God. My Father in Heaven is a witness that I have never sought or desired any prominence in this world, but have rather desired to lead a quiet life, thinking myself not worthy to be anything but the least in the kingdom of God. And I know not why I should have been called to this position, were it not that I am the least, or have cause to be the most humble among you all. 

May God help me, and give me strength to do what is right and to discharge my duties, and be true to the confidence which my brethren have placed in me, and which you place in me upon this occasion. This is my greatest desire, and that I may be true and faithful, and useful in doing good, proclaiming the word of God, sustaining the authorities of the Church, and in looking out for your general welfare. May God give me this power; and if so, I will covenant —if He will give me strength, to overcome my weaknesses and to resist the evil of this world. I do covenant with you, as I have done with my God and do now with my God, that I will seek with all the power which He will give me and which He has given me, to be a faithful servant unto you, and to dedicate my life and all the energies which God has given me to the building up of His kingdom and to the proclaiming of His word. May God help me to this end, and help us all to fulfill our duties, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF. 

Some experiences connected with the Ministry— His call to the Apostleship— The Saints to be Afflicted if they do not Labor for Zion— Redemption of the Dead 

I feel thankful to God my Heavenly Father that I have lived to see the day when I have one of my own posterity called to this office— a privilege which all my predecessors, presidents and counselors, who are in the spirit world, have had. Their sons are sitting before me here. I need not mention them; you know them yourselves. GENERAL CONEERENCE 

I have had this desire in my heart, and the Lord has granted it unto me, and I am very thankful for it. I am satisfied that these two young men we have called will magnify their calling. I am satisfied that it is in their hearts to do it. 

I want to remark here the difference — I was thinking of it while the brethren were talking — between the position of my son and our brother here and my positon when I was called to the Apostleship. While in the worst apostasy we ever had in this Church, when Apostles and leading men were fighting the Prophet of God, the Lord told me to rise up, choose a companion, and go to Fox Islands. A great deal that I have done, and in my missions, I have been led by inspiration of Almighty God to do. I knew no more what was on Fox Islands than I knew what was on Kolob. I chose Brother Jonathan H. Hale as a partner. We went through Canada, and there met John E. Page, who was laboring there. We administered to one woman that was possessed of the devil, which was cast out. We healed the sick, and the blessings of God were with us. We crossed on Lake Ontario, and from there down to Albany, and Farmington, my native place. I there met my father and my mother. It was the first time I had seen them since I had been a Latterday Saint. I held a meeting among them. I baptized my father, my stepmother, my sister, several uncles and aunts, and organized a small branch of the Church, composed of all my relatives except one — a Methodist preacher, who was boarding at my father's house. Old father Smith told me, when he blessed me, that I should bring all my father's house into the Church. I certainly baptized everybody that was in the house at the time I was there. I then went on my way to Fox Islands. When I got there I found two congregations — a Baptist minister, a meeting house, a Baptist congregation, on the north island; a Methodist minister, a Methodist congregation, without any meeting house, on the south island. I commenced preaching there, and very soon saw why the Lord had sent me there. There was a people there wishing for  ancient order of things. I baptized most of those congregations. Without dwelling upon it, I will say I baptized over 100 while there. 

While in the ministry there I received a letter from Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God, in which he told me that the Lord had given him a revelation, and named to me the persons that were called to fill the places of those who had fallen. My name was among them. He said that he wanted me to gather up the Saints I had baptized and bring them to Zion. What were the circumstances? I was on an island of the sea. There was not a horse or an ox on the island. There was not a man or a woman that knew how to harness a horse. I told one of the brethren, who had some money, that we must furnish a train of horses, wagons, harness, etc., and he proposed to advance the money for that purpose. He went with me ana we bought about fifty horses; anu then I had to match these horses, and get harness to fit them. I went to a wagon-maker and engaged twenty or twenty-five wagons. I did this in order to prepare the people to go with me, according to the words of the Prophet. I arranged everything, agreed with this brother to furnish the money, and left in advance with the understanding that they were to leave the first day of September. The letter to me was dated the first of August. I went to Maine, as my wife was there with her first child. I waited for this company to come to me, but they did not come till the first of October. We had then to travel from Maine to Missouri through snow, rain, and mud. However, we passed through it all, and got up there, according to the commandment of the Lord to me. 

That was the way I was called to the Apostleship, and what I had to go through. I have felt from that day to this that it has been good to serve the Lord, good to honor God and to obey His commandments. No matter what we may be called to do, or what office we may be called to fill, if we trust in God and do our duty, we will be carried through. Of course, I am here among you now. But I have been on the sick list a good while. Still the Lord has blessed me, and I have got  to my former state, in a measure, of health and strength. How long- the Lord will permit me to live I do not know anything about; but I have to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all these affairs with myself. I have been edified at the teachings that have been given us at this Conference. What President Smith has said, what President Cannon has said, is true. They have spoken upon principles that we should lay to heart. 

I tell you, brethren and sisters, the God of heaven has set His hand to build up Zion, in fulfillment of all the revelations of God to man from the days of Father Adam down to this day. The counsels that have been given here today are just and true, and we ought to observe them. I cannot sin, you cannot sin, we cannot turn from the commandments of God in anywise, but we are the losers by it. Again, I will say to this congregation, God Almighty will afflict these Latter-day Saints if they do not pmsue the course they are called upon to pursue. The Lord will build up Zion and carry out His purposes; but we will be chastised unless we listen to the counsels of the servants of God. If these Latter-day Saints turn to the right or the left, on political questions or on other principles, to separate themselves one from another and from the commandments of God, the Lord Almighty will hold them responsible, and they will be chastised for doing it. I know this as well as I know I am alive. I am anxious for the salvation of the Latter-day Saints. I do not know anything about what you are on politics, but we should be united together and labor together to build up Zion. We have been called from the nations of the earth to do that; and if we do not do it, the judgments of Almighty God will rest upon us. I feel myself that the time has come when we ought to look around and about ourselves, and see what we are doing and what we should do. My prayer to God is that we may open our eyes to see, our ears to hear, our hearts to understand the word of the Lord and the responsibilities we are under. We stand here, a little handful of men and women in the eyes of the world, but we are called to build up 

Zion. 

Here we have four Temples, thank the Lord our God! Into those Temples we enter and redeem our dead. We have blessings which have never been given to any other generation since the days of Jesus Christ and the Apostles. The Lord has raised up a people for this purpose. You hold the keys of the destiny of your fathers, your mothers, your progenitors, from generation to generation; you hold the keys of their salvation. God has put that power into your hands. But if we do not do what is required of us in this thing, we are under condemnation. If we do attend to this, then when we come to meet our friends in the celestial kingdom, they will say, "You have been our saviors, because you had power to do it. You have attended to these ordinances that God has required." 

I will say to this congregation that the very men whom God raised up to lay the foundation of the American government — those noble men, from Washington down — have been to men in these Temples and required the ordinances of the House of God at their hands in their behalf. They have told them the position they occupied in the spirit world, and those men have gone forth and fulfilled these requests, and those noble men have received the ordinances of the House of God. A great many things have been required of us as a people, and as far as we have fulfilled them, so far we are justified. But do not let us lose the hold we have got. Do not let us turn our backs upon the commandments of God, and do those things that will place us in difficulties in days to come. 

The eyes of the heavens are over us; the eyes of God himself, the eyes of every Prophet and Apostle in the spirit world, are watching you, watching this Priesthood, to see what they are doing and what they are going to do. It is of far more importance than we realize and comprehend. Let us awake to the ordinances of the House of God and do our duty, that we may be justified, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

"We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." Benediction by Elder Seymour B. Young. 