Afternoon
06 10 1897



ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG
A visit to the Irrigation Congress — Old landmarks—The Missionary field. 

My brethren and sisters, I was informed this afternoon when I first came into the building, that the brethren with whom I associate in the Council of the Seventies had had the honor and privilege of speaking this forenoon; so I thought that they had done my part as well as theirs. Nevertheless, I acknowledge that I am honored to stand before you in this vast assembly, and if I do not have the Spirit of the Lord to impress me with something to say, my standing here will have been in vain; for without that influence that comes from the Holy Spirit, as was truly said here yesterday, . no man can edify this vast congregation. 

I had the pleasure of visiting the Irrigation congress in the town of Lincoln, Nebraska. That is the town where the state prison is located, where my fellow laborer, Brother George Reynolds, was kept in durance vile for a short time for the Gospel's sake. I did not know the exact cell that he occupied, or I should have visited it. But I rejoice, for more than one reason, for the privilege of visiting the city of Lincoln. It lies about fifty miles from the main line of the Union Pacific, which is located on the old Pioneer road on which Brigham Young and his Pioneer band traveled on their way to Salt Lake valley fifty years ago. As I journeyed over the plains, I could locate many old camping places that we used to stop at during our transit across these arid regions by mule and ox teams, years before the railroad was established. 

During our session of the Irrigation congress, no person from Idaho, or from Arizona, said anything about irrigation, and that was the avowed theme that we all expected to talk about, read about and write about during the congress. There seems to be an idea that irrigation started somewhere in the state of Ohio. I am not really informed as to whether they associate that fact (which is not a fact, however,) with the original home of the Mormons in that state. Then they drift along the lines into Nebraska; and one of their foremost publications, after the coming congress had been located at the city of the plains, known as Cheyenne, published an item on the following morning to the effect that it was a great mistake to hold the Irrigation congress at Cheyenne; it ought to have been located at Chicago, the central place of the irrigation district, Cheyenne being on the extreme western limit of that district. The western portion of the congress unitedly favored Cheyenne for the coming season, where the congress will no doubt be held, as it was so decided by the congress;andl believe that some idea of the irrigation system and the plan by which the pioneers and their followers were so successful in wringing bread and other necessaries of life from the desert region upon which they located, will no doubt be more fully understood or at least discussed in that congress. We had a very pleasant time, however, and were greeted with great kindness and shown great respect, not only by the members of that congress, but by the citizens of Lincoln. The governor gave us a reception and ball the evening after my arrival, in which we were greeted and feted to our heart's content. Nebraska's people are something like our own people: they evinced by their language and by their hearty welcome accorded to us the true western hospitality. 

While there I hunted up the missionary headquarters of the Nebraska conference, and visited with the sister who keeps the house and four of the Elders who are located in that district. I enjoyed myself very much in this association. I was invited very cordially to remain over a few days and attend their conference; but I had a kind of longing to" be present at this greater gathering, and on that account, and some others of minor importance, I hurried home. 

I rejoice because I have a testimony to bear of the truth of the Gospel and of the organization of the Holy Priesthood upon the earth, and seeing so many of my brethren and sisters together this afternoon who, like myself, have the testimony and the witness for God in their hearts and shining through their countenances. By the spirit which is in the house, I judge that you have come together for the purpose of being fed and strengthened and built up in your most holy faith. I rejoice that we have had a great celebration during the Twenty-fourth of July and the days previous. A great deal of information concerning this people has been scattered abroad throughout this continent, especially the Avestern and the eastern states, through representatives which they had here — newspaper reporters and publishers, and prominent men — during that celebration; and the fame of the Latter-day Saints will continue to spread over the land. 

A gentleman asked me, during a recess of the congress, how many Elders we had in the missionary field. I told him that we had something more than twelve hundred at this present time. He said it would almost seem incredible that the Mormon people, so small in numbers as they were and so isolated as they had been for many years from their neighbors upon the East, could possibly have so many Elders in the field preaching the tenets of their faith. But I assured him it was a fact. He asked me how they were traveling, and how they were supported from day to day. I informed him that many of them traveled as did the ancient disciples and Apostles of the Lord Jesus, without purse and without scrip, trusting in the kindness of the people and in the spirit that prompted them, to win the hearts of those among whom they traveled, that they might be ministered unto, and be fed and clothed. The gentleman said that this was another feature of the disciples who associated with our Lord and Savior in His ministry, and one that was worthy of commendation in any religious denomination, and one which  thought was calculated to try the faith of those who traveled in this condition. I said that it did not require the wealth of great religious denominations, or the wealth of individuals, to spread the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; that one living witness, with a testimony of the truth in his heart, could go forth and win his way among the people, and preach the Gospel to thousands; and the few that would embrace these principles, in their turn became witnesses for God; ana the Gospel was continuously spread in this manner. Granting that to be true, said he, how much greater is your chance for spreading the Gospel with twelve hundred missionaries constantly in the field. 

I bear witness that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; that the organization of the Holy Priesthood is correct and true today, and after the ancient pattern; and that if we are faithful to the truth and to the trust committed to us, we shall not fail of salvation; for the Lord has promised it to us, and He never fails. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and increase your faith and your power to do good, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER C. W. PENROSE. 

God is -with His people— The Purpose for which he has Gathered them— A Mission for All— No Work done for the Dead will be in Vain— The Earth and its Inhabitants to be Kedeemed. 

I have greatly enjoyed this Conference. It has seemed to me that' the Spirit of the Lord has been poured out in great abundance upon the speakers and upon the hearers. At every meeting which we have held we have received valuable instruction, and the testimonies that have been borne to us concerning the work of God have been prompted and inspired by the Holy Spirit, and all the proceedings of this Conference have been joyful to me. I thank the Lord, in the midst of the congregation, that I have been permitted to be present and to enjoy the good spirit which has been poured out upon us. 

I also have a testimony to bear concerning this great work, and feel willing now, as I always have felt ever since I joined the Church in my boyhood, to bear that testimony, in public  in private, when called upon so to do. I know that this work is the work of the Lord. I know that God has been with His people from the organization of the Church to the present day. I know that His Spirit was not only with His servant Joseph, whom He called to lay the foundation of this work, but that it has been with those who have succeeded him. They have been prophets, seers and revelators, and the Lord has been with them. This work has not been built up by the power of man, by the learning of this world, by the riches and influence that come from the world, but it has been by the power of God. And I rejoice to know that that power is still with His servants and with His people, and that, notwithstanding our many failings and weaknesses and shortcomings — some of which have been pointed out during this Conference — we are the people of the Lord; that He has gathered us from afar— from the east and the west, and the north and the south, and has brought us up here into these chambers of the mountains, that we may build up Zion, that we may help to establish righteousness in the earth, that we may be witnesses for God and for .the truth in the midst of an unbelieving generation. I feel very thankful in my soul for the testimony of Jesus which has been planted in my heart through obedience to the Gospel. God gave me this witness when I was a boy, when I came out from my friends and my associates and joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He put His Spirit into my heart, and I thank God that it has never departed from me. The Lord has been with me, as with the rest of His servants, in traveling in the ministry; and I have seen His power made manifest in various ways. While I have been in this Conference, my mind has reverted to many things that occurred in my history in connection with the Church in the past, and in all these things I have had cause to rejoice, and to thank and praise the Lord. 

God has brought us here, my brethren and sisters, to these mountains not merely to gather around us the things of this world, to make us happy and comfortable temporally; but He  called us here with a mission to build up Zion, to publish the Cospel of peace to all nations, to gather His people, to establish His kingdom, to prepare the way for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ to reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and all the promises which God has made to us will be fulfilled. Every word that has been spoken under the influence ot His Spirit by His servants will come to pass. The blessings pronounced upon our heads when we were confirmed into the Church; the blessings promised to us by the Patriarchs when they laid their hands upon our heads and blessed us; the blessings promised to us in the House of the Lord — every word will be fulfilled; not one thing will fall to the ground. We may fail, and fall by the way, through our own follies and our own transgressions, and our own weaknesses and shortcomings; but the work of God and the word of God will abide forever, and the kingdom and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heavens will, as the prophet predicted, be given to the people of the Saints of the Most High — a people whom Christ will have prepared for His coming. 

We should take to heart the counsels which we have received while we have been gathered in this glorious Conference, and carry them home with us, and, if our families have not been present, teach them to our households. The brethren who have come from distant points, who bear the Holy Priesthood, should carry home with them the spirit of this Conference and the teachings that have been given, and disseminate these things among the people, that the fire which has been kindled upon this altar may be taken to every part of the land of Zion, and the hearts of the righteous be made to rejoice. I know that it is a good thing for us to be in perfect harmony with those who preside over us in the Holy Priesthood — the officers in our wards, and in our Stakes, and with the Presidency and Apostles of the Church. The mind and will of the Lord is with them, and when we are in harmony with them we shall be in harmony with the powers that are on high. This is what God desires to accomplish on the earth — to bring a people to Him who shall be in harmony with Him, in whom His Spirit can have free course and be gorified; a people who shall be sensitive to the whisperings and operations of His divine Spirit flowing down from His presence. For He designs to regenerate and redeem the earth upon which we stand;' and we, His people, whom He has gathered from afar, are to be the instruments in His hands of bringing about this great work. The earth is to be redeemed, and all the inhabitants thereof; and our mission on earth is to labor with the Lord for the accomplishment of this purpose. And this should be first and foremost with us. All other things should be put aside as subordinate. Not that we need to cease from our exertions to make ourselves happy and comfortable with the things that come from the earth — not by any means; but that these should be consecrated to the Lord; that all our efforts, all our exertions, should be with a view to building up Zion and establishing His glorious purposes in the earth; that we may help to save the sons and daughters of Adam — those that are living on the earth and those that have passed away and gone behind the veil. 

This is our work. To this God has called us. This is what we are here for. This is why we have been sent from the courts on high — our first birthplace — down on the earth. We are the children of God, and the Lord has called us to dwell on the earth in the later days, that we might work for Him and bring about this glorious purpose — the redemption of the earth and the inhabitants thereof. We are to preach the Gospel; we are to gather Israel; we are to go into the houses that have been prepared, to minister in behalf of our dead, that they may be redeemed. And we need not think that anything we do. there will fail, or be done for naught. It will all count. I have heard people say, "How do we know that the persons we are baptized for in the House of the Lord will ever have any benefit from our administrations? We do not know whether they will receive the Gospel. We do not know whether they will repent. Are we not working in the dark?" Not at . The Lord has promised that the time shall come when "every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father." So, then, our works performed vicariously in the House of God — our work for our dead — at some time will count. It will not be thrown away, if our friends who have gone before us into the spirit world do not immediately obey the Gospel. The time will come when they will be glad to receive it, and then the ordinances performed for them will stand to their good. As the Prophet Joseph declared, when he wrote on this subject, that which is recorded on the earth is recorded in the heavens, and though the books on the earth might be burned we shall find that a record is kept on high, and that in the heavenly archives the names of those who have been baptized for, and those who are baptized for them, will be written and will stand to the credit of those for whom these services have been performed. So that our work for our dead will abide and will stand, and the time will come when every one who is administered for will rejoice and be thankful that some good friend or relative has been in the House of the Lord on earth and ministered in his or her behalf. . 

This is a great work we are engaged in, and no tongue can tell its magnitude. When our minds begin to open concerning it, we feel as though we could talk for a year about it, and then we could not tell all about it. It comprehends the salvation of all that can be saved on earth, the living and the dead; and then the redemption of the earth itself, its purification, its sanctification, that it may be brought up among the ransomed and redeemed worlds, and shine in its own glory, being graced with the presence of its eternal Creator, where the ransomed of the Lord shall walk in white, where perfect harmony shall abound, and where every soul living shall praise the Lord, in the earth, around the earth, and under it, and in the sea, and all things that pertain to it will be filled with praise, with joy, and with glorious life. This is the work we are engaged in. We are called to this, my brethren. 

Now then, let us lay this to heart. 

Let us be stirred up in our souls in regard to this great work that God has called us to. Not only has He called the Prophets and Apostles and leaders of the Church, but every man and every woman and every child born in Zion. We are all called with a holy calling. We are the Lord's people, and He has put this work upon us, and it is for us to do it. If we do, great shall be our joy, and eternal shall be our reward. You need not think that any good you do escapes the notice of Him on high, who shall be our Judge. Our acts are recorded. God understands us. He knows the motives that move us in our souls. He knows the intents of our hearts. And though we may sometimes misjudge each other, we shall not be misjudged by the Almighty. He understands us, and He knows our failings, our weaknesses and our shortcomings. Now, let us see to it that we keep in view continually that we are God's people, that we must be different from the world, that God has called us out of the world, that we may be His people, and His servants, to build up Zion, to establish righteousness, to bring about all things prethat are past. For, these are the times that are past. For these are the times of the restitution of all things; this is the time for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother; this is the work preparatory to His coming. 

Now, let us unite in spirit. Let us put away from ourselves all things that offend, everything contrary to the genius and spirit of the Gospel and to the counsel and direction of the Lord; and let us look for light and intelligence to the sources that God Almighty has put in His Church for that purpose. I have been very much startled, quite recently, to know of people who are opposing certain movements simply because they understand that the leading authorities of the Church want them. Just think of that now for a moment! The idea of men, holding the Priesthood too, opposing a thing because they believe ' that the authorities of the Church want it! What condition of mind must they be in? 

Brethren and sisters, let us take to heart the counsels that we have received in this Conference, and carry  the spirit with us. Let us remember that God Almighty has established an order in His Church— the order of the Holy Priesthood— for the guidance of His people, that they may be one. They cannot be one unless they unite on this principle; and His Spirit will not be in their hearts to harmonize and unite them except they listen to the guides that God has placed to lead them in the path of life. These are important things. I know the time was in the Church when every man desired with his whole heart to find out what was wanted of the Lord through His servants, and then he desired to accomplish it. That should be the spirit dwelling in our hearts today. Do we not need guidance now as much as we ever did? Do we not need the hand of the Lord to lead us along and take us out of our difficulties— our financial troubles, our labor troubles, these social difficulties that are around us as well as around the world I say we do. We need the light of the Lord, the voice of the Lord; and God has placed in His Church, just as much today as He did anciently, 'Apostles and Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors and Teachers, for the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, for the edifying of the body of Christ." If God has anything to reveal to this people as a Church, He will reveal it through the head, through the man that He has placed to hold the keys; and He will bless all His servants who are Prophets, Seers and Revelators with the spirit of their calling, if we uphold and sustain them, not only by our faith and our prayers, but by our works. 

I desire with all my heart to be faithful and true to the Gospel, to endure to the end of my earthly career; and then I know I shall be safe when I get on the other side. I desire to do all I. can while I breathe the breath of life to build up this glorious work. I know of nothing that a man could be engaged in that is worth as much. My whole soul was in the Church when I came into it; I feel glad that I am the same today; that my heart is set to help to build up the kingdom of God in any way that GENERAL CONFERENCE  services can be available. I thank God for the testimony of the truth. I thank God for the spirit that has been present at this Conference. I thank God that He has given me this witness, and I desire to serve Him and keep His commandments, and to aid others in doing- so to the extent of my ability. May God bless this people, and may Zion grow and increase and spread abroad, and become the joy of the whole earth. I know that God will redeem His people. I know that Eden will bloom again. I know that Paradise will be restored. I know that Satan will be bound.with all his hosts, and that this earth, and the children of men that belong to it, will come forth from darkness and death, each in his place and time and season; and God will save His children, and He will glorify those who labor for righteousness, and crown them with eternal life and everlasting joy. God help us to be faithful, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON 

Mission of the Saints — How Satan will be bound — Approaching Judgments — Wickedness of the world — Cleansing process in progress — Who are the children of God? — The Spirit of Revelation with the Church — Return of the Ten Tribes. 

The hopes and anticipations of the Latter-day Saints are probably different from those of any other people in Christendom, if not in the world. We are looking forward, as Elder Penrose has said, to the time when primitive conditions will be restored; Avhen we shall have paradise on earth, when Eden will be restored to the earth, when Satan will be bound, when a reign of righteouness will be ushered in, when sin will be banished from the face of the earth, when what has been termed Millennial glory will be ushered in. We anticipate that this will be brought about not entirely by the Lord's intervention, but by man, directed by the Lord, laboring to accomplish these results. I do not know any other people on the face of the earth who indulge in these anticipations, or who expect these results to be brought about in the manner in which we do. It is generally thought that this will be done by the manifestation of God's power, independent  of human agency and effort; but we have been taught that we are the children of God, and that He works out His results by aiding His children, teaching them, and having them exercise their agency in the direction that He points out. This being the case, we should take to heart the instructions we have received, and realize that the Lord has given unto us a mission, and that we are called upon to exert our utmost abilities to accomplish the ends that have been predicted. I think if all of us would do this, and feel that the accomplishment of these results depends upon us, individually as well as collectively, it would have the effect to stimulate us and to stir us up to great diligence. I believe that those of us who will not labor to accomplish these ends will be removed from the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I do not believe that people can stay in this Church, as the end approaches, and remain inactive, indolent, indifferent, and sinful. God has called us to do this work; and when He calls men, as we have seen, to go on missions to accomplish certain results in the preaching of the Gospel, if they do not labor in that mission as they should do, He takes His Spirit from them. So also, having this great mission assigned to us, and it being made incumbent upon us, and having received charge concerning it, if we do not seek to accomplish that mission, the Lord will withdraw His Holy Spirit from us. He will not permit us to go on and live lives of indifference and sinfulness in regard to His work. It is individual salvation that is to be accomplished. If I am saved, and if Satan is bound as .far as I am concerned, it must be by my doing that which God requires at my hands. God will not take away from me my agency. If I am determined to listen to Satan and to be influenced by his spirit, He will suffer me, in the exercise of my agency, to do that. But I must take the consequences of thus doing. We see that illustrated in the history of Abel and Cain. Cain* loved Satan more than God and he listened to him; he became the servant of Satan, to the extent of doing that which he required of him. Now, he could have done otherwise; he could  done as Abel did; but he chose to do differently, and he had to endure the consequences of his conduct. 

We talk about Satan being bound. Satan will be bound by the power of God; but he will be bound also by the determination of the people of God not to listen to him, not to be governed by him. The Lord will not bind him and take his power from the earth while there are men and women willing to be governed by him. That is contrary to the plan of salvation. To deprive men of their agency is contrary to the purposes of our God. There was a time on this continent, of which we have an account, when the people were so righteous that Satan did not have power among them. Nearly four generations passed away in righteousness. They lived in purity, and died without sin. That was through their refusal to yield to Satan. It is not recorded that Satan had no power in other parts of the earth daring that period. According to all history that we have in our possession, Satan had the same power over men who were willing to listen to him. But in this land he did not have power, and he was literally bound. I believe that this will be the case in the millennium; and 1 reason upon it as I do upon that happy condition that is described in the record of which I speak. I expect that before Satan is fully bound the wicked will be destroyed. You are familiar with the history which the Book of Mormon gives of that period. There was a great destruction among the people. The Lord visited them in a most terrible manner. Dreadful calamities fell upon them, and the wicked were literally wiped out, just as much as the antedeluvian world was wiped out by the flood. That wicked generation was completely extirpated, and those only were left who were righteous. I look forward to the same kind of destructions preceding the glorious events that will take place in the near future. The earth will be visited by fire. President Smith yesterday told us that "he that is tithed shall not be burned (at His coming.") I believe that there will be literal fire come upon the earth, and calamities and destructions of so universal a character that  earth will be burned, so to speak, so that there will be but few men left. If the covering could be taken off our city, and of the cities of the world— I would not compare our city to many; but even if it were taken off our city, we who are here today would be appalled at the sight. The abominations and secret wickedness that are practiced among the nations are intruding themselves among us. Unspeakable practices are creeping in. They are varied in character. If we spoke of them at all, we would have to disguise their abominable character. In our own nation, and in the nations of the earth, there is a condition of things that, if we knew of it, would appall us. Let me allude to one instance. 

In England a short time ago a man who had posed in society as a man of culture and of taste, and who lectured upon esthetics, was found to be guilty of a most abominable crime — a crime for which under the old law the penalty was death; a crime which was practiced by the nations of old, and caused God to command their destruction and extirpation. This crime was proved against this man, and some of his associates were what are called noblemen. He was sent to prison. His term of imprisonment having expired, he comes from prison, and is now engaged, it is so published, in writing a book, and, we suppose is received into society, though guilty of this nameless crime. And is this common? If we may believe that which is told to us, without going into researches ourselves, it and other kindred wickedness, is far too common. The same sin that caused the utter destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah! This and other abominable crimes are being practiced. How will these be stopped? Only by the destruction of those who practice them. Why, if a little nest of them were left that were guilty or these things, they would soon corrupt others, as some are being corrupted among us. In coming to these mountains we hoped to find a place where we could live secluded from the abominations of Babylon. But here in this secluded place wickedness intrudes itself, and is practiced in this land which we have dedicated to the Lord as a land of Zion! How can this be stopped? Not while those who have knowledge of these filthy crimes exist. The only way, according to all that I can understand as the word of God, is for the Lord to wipe them out, that there will be none left to perpetuate the knowledge of these dreadful practices among the children of men. And God will do it, as sure as He has spoken by the mouths or His prophets. He will destroy the wicked, and those who will be left .will be like the Nephites after the wicked were all killed off; they were righteous men and women who lived for over two hundred years according to the law of heaven. 

The duty that devolves upon us is to live pure ourselves, and to have our children live lives of purity. There is too much looseness among us. Much as we are taught concerning virtue, we occasionally hear of acts that cause us the greatest pain — young people indulging in unvirtuous actions; children born two, three, and four months earlier than they should be. It is an extraordinary condition that the first children of some marriages are born sometimes five months and even less after marriage. This is an evidence of something very wrong. And this is not all. We cannot tell what is done in secret. This is made public, because the evidence of sin comes to light and cannot be concealed without the commission of more hideous crime. And this among a people such as we are! It is a disgrace to us. Yet much of it is due to our neglect. Fathers and mothers do not pay that attention to their children, to their habits and their associations, that they should do. If ,hey watched them with care, and enquired of them where they went and with whom they associated, and threw safeguards around them, such things would not happen. There are conditions of society, even among other nations, where such things are very uncommon, because of the habits of the people. Fathers and mothers guard theiidaughters with the greatest circumspection and vigilance. France is one of those nations. Although France is said to be a corrupt nation, the daugh of the people are watched and their association with the other sex is guarded so that nothing of this kind scarcely ever happens. But with us there is too much familiarity between the sexes. It is wrong; it leads to bad results. The commission of sin makes lives of unhappiness. No woman can forget the trespass of her husband, and no man can ever forget his own sin. It is painful through life for them to think about. We should, as a people, guard against these things. All sorts of evils are introducing themselves. We have men here with whom a woman can no more be trusted than she could be in the den of a wolf — and men of respectable appearance, and who act as though they might be gentlemen. Parents would be as safe in trusting a daughter to a wild beast as to one of them. This class of men prey upon the other sex, and have brought themselves to think that it is neither sinful nor wrong. They destroy virtue wherever they can, and take pride in it. They do not believe there need be any virtue among men, and all women whom they can induce to comply with their wishes they view as their lawful prey. And these people come among us, and consort with us! Our young men, too, consort with them, and some of them take lessons from them. We have heard lately of an occurrence of this character that has stirred our souls to the very center. 

When will these things end? When God visits the wicked with His judgments, as He will do. Then these practices and the wicked and the knowledge of their wickedness, will be destroyed. Then, I hope, the filthy details and the exact forms and methods of these abominations will be kept secret, as the Prophet Alma counseled his son Helaman concerning the secret oaths and covenants of the Jaredites, that had come down from the days of Master Mahan, of whom we read in the new translation, and who was the head of that secret organization that banded themselves together to commit murders and works of darkness. Alma said to Helaman: 

"Therefore ye shall keep these secret plans of their oaths and their covenants from this people, and only their wickedness, and their murders, and their abominations, shall ye make known unto them; and ye shall teach them to abhor such wickedness, and abominations, and murders; and ye shall also teach them, that these people were destroyed on account of their wickedness, and abominations, and their murders." 

So, I trust, it will be with us. The knowledge of the wicked and their destruction will be preserved in our midst; but the abomination and the wickedness itself will be concealed from human knowledge, so that wickedness may be abolished in the earth, and the reign of righteousness be ushered in. 

My brethren and sisters, in talking in this strain I am not indulging in any theory. I do not wish to deal in the least exaggeration concerning conditions that exist. My duties have called me to mingle with the world considerably; but I have avoided knowledge of things that were open to me if I had chosen to look at them or to enquire about them. Notwithstanding this, it has been impossible for me to avoid knowing considerable about many wicked practices, and how little of sin is attached to them by the people of the world. It is this that is the fearful feature in society. Men may seduce; men may be guilty of vileness; men may get disreputable names for their association with the other sex; and yet society will receive them and condone their offenses; in fact, it has seemed to me sometimes as though men of this character, with a certain class of women, were more attractive than pure, modest, diflldent men. They seem to think more of them because of the fame they have achieved in their conquests of virtue. But a poor girl that falls in such a way, she is trampled in the dust and becomes a lost soul! And her own sex, while admiring the seducer and receiving him into their society, will frequently be the most fierce and vehement in their denunciations of their poor sister who has fallen by the wiles and seductive influences of the man. Now, all this is wrong. Yet this feeling is among us to some extent, also. Men ought to be held, and I believe  Lord does hold them 111 such cases, to a far stricter accountability than he does women. The woman has her own passions to contend against; but when she has the man's importunities added to these, shall not the woman be viewed with mercy, and be looked upon differently ,to that vile creature who, possessed of strength and power, adds his importunities to her weakness and overcomes her, and makes her the victim of his unholy lust? I say, Yes, Yes! Such men will be damned; and if there is any deeper damnation than another, they will be consigned to it. 

Now, if we want our generations to live in the earth, and to have them go down through the thousand years; if we want to have representatives among the children of men during that happy period, we have to lay the foundation for that now. As we have been told during this Conference, the day of the Lord cometh: it is near at hand; and if we and our children live, it will be because we try to be pure. No generation from this time forth can live for any length of time unless they are pure; for God has said it, and His word does not return unfulfilled. Even now you can see how this Church is being cleansed as we go along. Look at the families that we have known in the Church, and see how they are being thinned out, just as though we were passing through a sifting machine. And when we see how few of those whom we have known have clung to the iron rod and maintained their faith, we are led to ask, who then can be saved? Then how many families there are who, after the death of the father and mother, are not numbered among the Saints of God! This is a cleansing process which is going on, and it will continue to go on more and more, because we are advancing. The Lord will hold us to a stricter accountability than He ever has done, because we have more light, and because of the near approach of the end. The end does approach, and the Lord Jesus will come in the clouds of heaven, as has been predicted, and He will reign on the earth, and over a pure people. His people will be cleansed and made pure by the destruction of the wicked and the preservation of the righteous. That is the reason every wise man and woman observes the Word of Wisdom. They want to live and be preserved when these calamities and judgments shall sweep through the earth. We ought not to have to preach it for a minute among a people such as we are. Every man and woman should be determined to keep that Word, that they may have the blessing, that they and their children may live and not be killed with pestilence and sickness. Such persons will desire every child of theirs to avoid violating the counsel of God in these things. Thoy will also say, besides observing the Word of Wisdom: "I want to pay my tithing. I expect there will be a burning some day, and I want to be preserved when the day of burning comes. I want to keep the law that will bring the fulfillment of the promises of God." Should not we here in this year 1897, live in this way? 

Many have supposed that by this time the Lord would have come in His glory. He has not yet come in that manner. But He is coming, and His coming is near at hand. Therefore, we should each endeavor to live so that we shall be prepared for His coming; Ave should prepare the way by keeping His commandments and living so that Satan will be bound, so far as we and our families are concerned. It is incumbent upon us that we should live this way; for the Lord will not, I can assure you  CI speak having knowledge upon this point), always bear with us. Elders cannot wear themselves out as they have done in the past, and as they are still doing, in preaching the word ' of God to this people, and the Lord not hold tho people accountable for their disobedience, if they reject that word. The Lord will have a pure people. He will have a people whose hearts are changed. 

Some religious societies, you know, believe altogether in faith as the only essential to salvation. On the other hand, I have heard some of our Elders go to the other extreme and almost look upon work as being all that is necessary, because of the saying of James. But the word of God which we have teaches us that we must be born again, and our hearts must be , and every evil desire crushed out. Our whole natures should be changed by the operations of the Spirit of God and the principles of the Gospel. I think it was Brother Cowley who spoke concerning some apostates whom they found while laboi'ing in the mission field in Missouri. When they belonged to the Church they had not received and enjoyed the Spirit of God. There are some probably here today who have never had their hearts changed, never had new desires, never been converted from their old desires, and the "old man" is with them still. There have been people whom, probably, we have all known, who would cheat, and lie, and get drunk, and do other evil things, just as much as if they never had been brought into the Church of Christ. Are these the children of God? No; God does not own such people. When men and women join the Church in sincerity, they repent of their sins, and they have new desires. The desire to Jo evil is taken from them. The Spirit of God will not dwell in a man that has evil desires and does not try to quench them. We as a people -rhould seek to be converted in this respect, if we have not been. If we are as wicked and have as wicked inclinations since our baptism and our association with the Church as we had before, then we need to be converted and be born again. 

We hear a good deal of talk about re-baptism, and the First Presidency and the Twelve have felt that so much re-baptism ought to be stopped. Men, when they commit sin, think if they can only get the Bishop to rebaptize them, they are all right and their sins are condoned. It is a fallacy; it will lead to destruction. There is no such thing in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is repentance from sin that will save you, not rebaptism. If you have been baptized, then, if you commit sin, repent of the sin, confess it, and make the confession as broad as the knowledge of the sin; confess it to your brethren and sisters, and ask their forgiveness; and do not imagine that when you commit sin you can slip into the waters of baptism and you are all  again. Do not delude yourselves, brethren and sisters. Sinners, be not deceived by such a fallacy. Something more than this is necessary. "We need to repent of our sins, and to confess them to God. We need to come before the Lord with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and before the Church with the spirit of confession. We should not be afraid to confess our sins; for there is no man among us that is not a sinner. Of course, there are different degrees of sin, and there is a difference in the degrees; but no man or woman, in listening to the confession of another, need pride himself or herself and say, "I am not a sinner. Here is this poor creature, a sinner; oh, how I pity him!" If we come to God m humility, He will show unto us our sins, and our imperfections, and our faults; and we will feel merciful to our brethren and sisters who, like ourselves, are weak and erring. We will be full of pity for them, and we will forgive them. This is the feeling that should exist in every bosom when men and women who commit sin come and confess their sins and are humble and contrite. When Latter-day Saints hear such things, there is a feeling of pity wells up in their hearts, and their souls overflow with sympathy, and they say, "Yes, yes, we'll forgive you, and we'll try and forget all about it. Go on, dear brother, (or sister) repent, and do better from this time forward, and we will give you our faith and prayers." That is the way Saints should feel when their brethren and sisters commit sin and repent of it. 

The Lord, also, is moved with compassion; the angels are moved with mercy and sympathy; and the Lord Jesus, who stands as a Mediator between our Father and ourselves, is filled with compassion for His brethren and sisters when they commit sin and repent of it. Oh! all heaven is moved by the repentance of a sinner, and stirred up with a desire to help the poor creature who confesses his sins and repents truly and sincerely. 

Brethren and sisters, now that this Conference is drawing to a close, let us endeavor to profit by the teachings we have heard. I have been gladdened  this Conference over one thing. I believe the nomination of the two brethren who are appointed to fill the vacancies in the quorum of the Apostles came as a surprise to the community, if not to the Saints. 1 have not seen what the papers have said at different times; but I understand they have been picking and choosing and mentioning the name of every man that is at all conspicuous in the Church, as likely to be chosen. It is evident that the Lord did not tell them anything. Since these names were presented yesterday I have had several come to me and tell me that the Lord had revealed to them that these men would be chosen. One man said to me that last April, when they were presenting the names of the authorities in the Stake to which he belongs, it was made manifest to him that Matthias F. Cowley would be one of the Twelve Apostles. He said so to his companions, and told them to write it down, as it would be fulfilled. Several instances of this kind have come to my knowledge. I have not mingled much with the people, because wo have been so busy; but I have been gratified beyond expression to learn from these instances that the Lord is a God of revelation, not to the First Presidency and the Twelve alone, but that the Latter-day Saints as a people have the spirit of revelation. It is a blessed thing to live in an age when God reveals His mind and will to those who seek for it. It is not always that we have everything told to us; but when we want to get light upon any subject, the Lord has provided the way. He is a God that hears and answers prayers. He does not conceal Himself. I am thankful that we are not as Israel was in the days of Elijah. The prophets of Baal cried aloud, jumped upon their altar, cut themselves with knives, and indulged in all sorts of extravagances to reach the ear of their god, while Elijah taunted them and said, perhaps he was asleep or had gone on a journey. That is the condition of the world to a great extent. I speak this without intending any disrespect, because there are just as good people in the world as we are; but I say it because there is no revelation among- them, nor any idea that it can be obtained, and therefore, men call in vain when they do call; though there are honest souls who believe the Lord will hear their prayers, and whom He does hear. When the Prophet Elijah called our God heard and answered him. So it is with this Church. It is the Church of Jesus Christ, and when its members call upon God they get revelation from God, according to their faith and diligence and the responsibility that rests upon them. As I said last night at the Priesthood meeting, there has never been one minute since this Church was organized that it has been destitute of the knowledge of God and the voice of God. The will of God could be obtained; it has been obtained. And the Church will never be left without it. The authority is in the Church to lead it, as Brother Reynolds said. The angels and heads of dispensations that have been upon the earth have come and restored the keys they held and bestowed them upon the Prophet Joseph Smith; and he sealed them upon the Apostles. The same authority, the same keys, the same power that had been conferred upon him, he transmitted in their fullness to the Twelve Apostles. In this way the keys and that authority have been preserved pure and in the fullness of their power on the earth, and are here in the midst of this people. In this respect we stand at the head. 

It is written that the ten tribes will come forth from the north country, and they will come here to those who hold the keys in this dspensation, to receive the blessings they do not have themselves. Here is Ephraim, and Ephraim holds the keys. The ten tribes are there, but the authority to hold the keys is here. God is doing a mighty work among the nations of the earth, unknown to us to a great extent. Powerful a.gencies are operating under His direction in all the nations, to bring to pass the fulfillment of His designs. While this is all going on, and we may seem only like a little handful in the midst of the millions of the earth, here in the midst of this people the authority is held which God recognizes, and here are the keys by which the purposes of God will be ful. ' All that has been spoken by the mouths of the holy Prophets will be accomplished. There will be a highway cast up; the ten tribes will return, and they will come to the children of Ephraim to receive their blessings. 

There is everything, therefore, to encourage us. Let us live so that we shall be heirs and recipients of these great blessings. Let us endeavor to have our families live so that we shall be prepared for the coming of the Lord; that we will not listen to Satan, that our children will turn a deaf ear to his persuasions, and that we ourselves will set them the example; that we will teach them to remember, above all things, to never commit any sin that will cause them to lose their standing in the Church of Christ. 

God bless you all, bless everyone who has attended this Conference, and fill us with the Holy Ghost, and help us to do right. God bless our beloved President Wilford Woodruff. God be praised! He has heard the prayers of His servants and people in His behalf, that his life might be preserved, and he is with us today, filled with a vigor — considering his age and his sickness — that is really astonishing. God bless him, and bless all that pertains to him, and preserve him. We would like to have him live forever, if we could. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRE ST. WILFORD WOODRUFF. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

It is time to close this conference; but before closing I want to say a few words to the Latter-day Saints. I have attended conferences under the presidency of Joseph Smith during his life time, from 1833; I have attended conferences under President Brigham Young nearly forty years, from the time of the death of Joseph Smith until his own death; I have attended conferences under the presidency of John Taylor, and I have attended conferences as President of the Church myself since that period. That responsibility has rested upon me, and rests upon me today. Sixty-four years of my life have passed away as a member of this Church. I do not know that I shall ever address you; I cannot tell anything about this; but I feel strongly impressed to say a few words to you upon principle, although it is late. 

I want these Latter-day Saints to lay to heart what has been said to you by the Apostles and Elders who have spoken at this Conference. I want to say another thing. I prophesy, in the name of Israel's God, the day has come when the mouths of Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, and these Twelve Apostles, should not be closed because of the opinions of the children of men. There have been feelings that these men holding high positions — the Twelve Apostles and Presidency — should say nothing about politics. I want to say to you here, the day has come when God Almighty requires at your hands to unite together in your temporal business, and in your politics, so far as it is wisdom. I do not care whether a man is a Republican or a Democrat, in that he is free; but it is your duty to unite in electing good men to govern and control your cities, your local affairs, and I will state that when you do not do this you are losers of the blessings of Almighty God. I want to tell you this upon this occasion. My mouth shall not be closed upon these principles. I know it is the duty of the Latter-day Saints to unite together in your local affairs, the election of your city councils, the election of men to act for you in the affairs of state. Lay aside your extremes in democracy and republicanism, as far as is wise in that matter, and in other than local matters as Latter-day Saints  together within your party lines and appoint good men. When you do that, God will bless you. You won't all be taxed to death and lose your property, if you will appoint good men and pursue this course. 

I take the liberty, as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of making these remarks. No matter what the feelings of men may be towards me; I shall not stay in this country very long. But I realize very well that this people are groaning under poverty, under affliction, under taxation, and in positions that they ought not to be if they would. only unite together and do their duty. And this idea of a person being afraid of somebody because he is a Democrat or a Republican, it is all wrong. I feel like saying to you, as the President of this Church, and do state, that it is your duty to unite together and appoint good men to act in every capacity for the public welfare. Therefore let us do our duty, walk uprightly before the Lord our God, and leave the consequences with Him. "Do what ic right, let the consequences follow;" which may God grant, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, The nations bow to Satan's thrall. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 
