Afternoon
06 04 1918

At 2 o'clock the conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith, who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "High on the mountain top." 

The prayer was offered by President Adolph Merz, of the North Sanpete stake of Zion. 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," was sung by the choir and congregation. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH. 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church.) 

Never before in all my life have I been so grateful that I am a member of the Church of Jesus- Christ of Latter-day Saints as I am today. My heart swells with blessings for the faithful in Israel, for the faithful Latter-day Saints, for God's blessings are upon the people of this Church. The Lord has blessed the leaders of Israel. He has blessed the people of Israel who have entered the fold of Christ. He has blessed the Church in all its ramifications throughout the world, and I pray that he will continue to bless the Church and those whom he has called to lead and direct its affairs upon the earth. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ for which we are so grateful contains very many simple principles, but they are principles of power, and I suppose every heart swelled with gratitude and emotion when President Smith in majesty and in power declared his testimony, that this is the Church. I believe it with all my heart, and testify that it is the Church of God, the Church of Jesus Christ which God honors in the earth, for we have seen his power made manifest in our ministry and in the ministry of His servants, many of whom are here before me, the presidents of stakes of Zion, the bishops of wards, their counselors, and their associates, elders in Israel. The power of God has been made manifest in their ministry, in love, in harmony, in the teaching of the truth, in the bringing of the blessings of joy and happiness into the lives of many people from many lands. I know that the power of God is with the elders in Israel, those who are faithful and true to their covenants and privileges. My heart is also filled with compassion and pity for those who are not true and faithful because we dislike to ,see. our brethren and our sisters, or our friends, who cannot enjoy the blessings of happiness that we are enjoying, and so our hearts go out to the world and to those who are not of us, wishing and praying that they might enjoy the same blessings of comfort and joy and peace of heart and soul that we are blessed to enjoy. 

There are many people of the world, some of them in our midst, that when we declare these glorious principles of joy and happiness, they turn away from them sometimes very much in disgust, not being able to understand them as we do, and the words of a poem, one of our hymns, frequently comes to my mind upon this subject. The words are these: 

How foolish to the carnal mind The ordinance of God appears! 

Men count it as a puff of wind, And greet it with contemptuous sneers. 

What! buried now beneath the flood, To wash away our guilt and sin? Are not some other means as good, Nay, better! Why appear so mean? 

Thus they despise the proffered grace, And die and perish in their sin; 

So the Assyrian leper thought — What! wash in Jordan to be clean? 

And, in a rage, he turned away, And would remain a leper still; 

But lo! his humble servant's sway Prevailed at last and changed his will. 

He washed in Jordan's rolling flood, And found the foul disease removed; The virtue of the word of God Thus by experience Naaman proved! 

Poor sinners now would fain perform Some great and meritorious deed; 

Bow to the systems mortals form, That from their sins they may be freed. 

But why not yield to simple means? 

The Gospel is the power of God; 'Twill save the vilest from their sins, 

And turn away His chastening rod. 

P. P. Pratt 

There are many who say, "What a simple thing it is to go down into the water to be baptized," but it is the gateway to the kingdom of God when performed by proper authority, and there is no other way for us to enter that gate. A simple thing to be baptized for another that he might live again! Many of us go into the house of the Lord, the temples of God, and perform this simple ordinance that our friends or our kindred dead may enter this glorious kingdom as we have entered it, they having failed to perform that duty here in their lifetime, we say "Oh, what a simple thing it is," and how little we appreciate it, yet what a glorions principle is back of it. Did you ever see anyone who offered a gift to a friend or to a loved one but what his heart was filled with joy? The giver of a good gift is always blessed with joy. I have witnessed this joy upon the faces of my brethren and sisters who have performed the simple act of going down into the water and being baptized by an elder in Israel in behalf of dead kindred or a dead friend. The joy of giving a good gift is great, but the joy that fills the soul of one doing something for someone else who could not act for himself is a joy beyond measure. 

I suppose all of the people of the world who believe in Jesus Christ have a faith that he died for us,  he died to make possible the resurrection from the dead, a simple thing, perhaps, but a wonderful thing for us; and it gives us an example of doing things for others which they cannot do for themselves. Had it not been for the atonement of Jesus Christ there would not have been a resurrection. There would have been death in the world since Adam died; but for the atonement of Jesus Christ there would have been no resurrection from the dead. In the atonement of Jesus Christ we have the example of the glorious principle of doing for others what others cannot do for themselves. The Latter-day Saints are blessed with that glorious privilege of doing for their loved ones and for their kindred dead what they did not do for themselves, so that the acts of the gospel, these simple acts of going down into the water and being baptized by a proper authority, the simple act of laying hands upon the sick for their restoration, the simple act of laying hands upon our brethern and our sisters to confer the Holy Ghost, they are all simple acts, simple ordinances, but ordinances of power, which are acknowledged both upon earth and in heaven. 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for these simple truths. I am grateful for the blessings of the gospel, and for the power of the holy priesthood, the authority to act in the name of God, to rebuke disease, to rebuke the powers of the destroyer, and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this power is in the Church today; it is the power of God to speak and act in his name, and in all humility I feel and sense the responsibil that has come to me to officiate in the name of the Lord. I pray that I may do so in the spirit of wisdom and in the spirit of humility. I have received many testimonies that the Lord has blessed me, that he has given me words of inspiration for the comfort, counsel and benefit of his children, and I solicit earnestly your faith and prayers to the end that the power of God in the earth may be used in wisdom and in justice by his servants; and particularly in my behalf I do feel that I need your faith and prayers, that I may labor earnestly and faithfully for the progress of the work, and that the blessings and counsel given to the sons and daughters of Zion may be given under the proper inspiration and guidance. There have been many of our boys received counsel and instruction under this influence, and they have gone out now to face danger in the world. They have gone out, many of them, bearing the holy priesthood. They have confidence in the power that they possess, and I testify to you that, if those brethren, our boys, will honor that priesthood — the power of God which has been given them, and the promises made unto them through that power, they will stand under the protection and in the favor of God and be honored servants in his hands; for this is God's work and it is going forth and will triumph in the earth. The prophecies of his servants are being fulfilled hourly and daily before our very eyes, and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the work of the Lord will continue to grow in the earth until its mission is fully performed. 

May we be true and faithful, may the blessings of our Father be in our homes and be with our sons and daughters, that we may grow daily in faith, in repentance, that we may have the spirit and practice of prayer in our homes, that we may honor the priesthood of God as it is held by the elders in Israel, the different officers throughout the Church, may our hearts be filled with gratitude that we are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and live in this day. God's blessings be upon you, my brethren and sisters; and upon the presiding authorities throughout the Church. I join my brethren in praying for God's choicest blessings to be upon the President of the Church, that his body may be made equal to his mind, that he may be equal to the great responsibilities that are upon him. May his associates receive like and similar blessings according to their needs. May the blessings of Israel be upon Israel, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I presume it is known generally that the last speaker is the Presiding Patriarch of the Church, and he is beginning to possess the spirit of blessing in goodly measure, I am happy to say. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

I esteem this a rare privilege to meet with you, my brethren and sisters, in this conference, to come up to Zion and cast with the Church the patriotic vote that has been already cast during the previous session of the conference. I wonder  long the criticisms will obtain as touching the patriotism of the Latter-day Saints! 

In the mission where I am honored to labor there are numerous criticisms being manufactured of whole cloth, in which we are looked upon as beingalien enemies with an organization working inimical to the interests of this great and glorious government. I wonder how people can believe these things after what has been said in this conference! From my earliest childhood I have been taught that this Nation has a definite and specific mission to perform among the nations of the earth, and to that end we are pressing forward, despite the fact that we sometimes become embittered toward each other on account of political opinions. I am still of the opinion that God is at the helm, and that this Nation is performing its mission nobly in sending the law of liberty from Zion unto the uttermost part's of the earth, and that its mission will not have been completed until democracy is made safe for the world. 

We wonder what steps might be taken to put an end to this internecine war. We wonder how long it is going to continue; and yet in our faith in God, we are called upon to press forward with sacrifice of life and of means in order to liberate from the hand of oppression those whom we have never seen. God's plan of government is that of the people, by the people and for the people. In the early ages of the world, or just immediately previous to Christ's coming, monarchies were established and with the iron hand of rule, not law, men and women were ground under the heel of op. When Jesus of Nazareth came, he came with the perfect law of liberty, but it was so high, so grand, so far beyond the conception of man that he who gave the law was crucified upon the cross of Calvary. Continuing on down the ages we have the same rule of monarchy, absolute monarchies in the world with but one church that held its subjects under a religio-political regime to the extent that the one who stood at the head of the nation in civil affairs declared that he himeslf was the head of the church. In the sixteenth century the Lord raised up men of courage who made one long stride toward the liberation of mankind, recognizing in a measure men's right to think and act for themselves. It was quite impossible for any one who had been brought up under a monarchial form of government to institute any government different to that with which he was most familiar. Therefore, in the early reformation the churches that grew up patterned after the civil form of government that then prevailed upon the earth, and there was the aristocracy in the church as there was the aristocracy in civil life. We come down to the time when the Constitution of this government was framed and written with the pen of inspiration, designed of God to be the fundamental law of that form of government that should reach out to every nation, every kindred, every tongue and people. I desire to read to you a statement given on December 16, 1833, in a revelation to Joseph, the prophet, whose praises we have already sung : 

And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their ene- . mies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and , by the hands of those who are placed as rulers, and are in authority over you, 

According to the laws and constitution of the people which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles. 

Why, I ask, should this Constitution be enacted before the restoration of the gospel? Let the Lord answer : 

That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I hve given unto them, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

We read from this scripture that the Lord was responsible for bringing about this great and glorious instrument known as the Constitution of the United States. Strange as it might seem, God's purposes are worked out, not suddenly, but by generations. W e mortals expect him to deal in a radical manner by hours, or days, or months, or years. Such is not his way. Joseph Smith was not born under English rule upon this land. Sixteen years after George Washington had taken the oath of offiqe there was born the prophet of the Lord in the Green Mountain State, Vermont; and when he grew to manhood and was commissioned of the Almighty with the authority of the priesthood to organize his Church, he did not pattern after the strong and powerful nations across the water, but organized it after the pattern of that inspired form of government, the United States, through which has been given unto us as Latter-day Saints the greatest .democracy that is known in any religious organization upon the face of the earth — that organization running parallel in liberality with that of this great nation. For instance, as the rail splitter of Kentucky aspired to and occupied the chair in the White House, so the plow boy became prophet. There is no aristocracy in this Church except the aristocracy of righteousness. There is no aristocracy in this Government outside of the aristocracy of fit and splendid citizenship. 

I wonder at what cost this war will end, or what expenditure will be made in order to bring about this liberty and freedom to all men. I have here a clipping taken from one of the New York papers, giving some very interesting data as touching the cost of the war. As we are about to be called upon individually to subscribe for Liberty Loan Bonds, let us forsake some of our own pleasures and contribute liberally to a cause so worthy, the cause for which we are willing to suffer, bleed and die to establish and maintain upon the earth : 

Washington, March 7. — Should the war continue until August 1, as it gives every promise of doing, the cost to the nations involved will reach approximately the stago-ering total of $160,000,000,000. This is the estimate of Representative Frederick C. Hicks of New York, who has compiled a mass of interesting data on the war in response to inquiries from his constituents as to the resources and fighting strength of the nations at war and as to the number killed and wounded. 

According to the figures of Mr. Hicks, 15,116,000 men have been killed, seriously wounded, captured, or were missing on all sides up to Aug. 1, 1917. Of these 8,827,000 were on the allied side and 6,289,000 on the side of the Central Towers. 

The cost of the war to all nations was $98,500,000,000, on August 1, 1917. To convey an idea of the immensity of this outlay, Mr. Hicks figures that this amount would construct 257 Pan Canals; would build a railroad which would encircle the earth at the equator fifty-six times; would build such a vast number of standard steel ships, that, placed bow to stern, they would form an unbroken floating bridge from New York to Liverpool and from New York to Panama; would construct 2,042 stone highways of standard specifications across the United States; would purchase 220,000,000 Ford automobiles— probably before the price was raised: or if laid out in one dollar bills placed end to end would make a chain .of notes that would circle the o-lobe 464 times and would make forty-eight bands of money between the earth and the moon. 

That stupendous sum, remarks the Representative from New York, represents an expenditure of $138,240 for every day that has passed since the beginning of the Christian era, and, if distributed equally among the hordes of humanity, would give sixty-six dollars to every man, woman and child upon the world today. It would build 6,533 National Capitols at Washington, and, if it were in one dollar bills, would require 621 years to count with the operation going forward at the rate of five bills a second. 

Making still further comparisons, Mr. Hicks directs attention to the fact that the cost of the war to last August was three times the total deposits ,of all the banks in the United States, seven times the annual value of our agricultural products and fifteen times the value of our yearly foreign trade. For every month that the war continues, he says, an expenditure will be made greater than that made during the entire Russo-Japanese war, which lasted eio-hteen months. It means that the cost of the FrancoPrussian war is being spent every five weeks, and that the American civil war, which lasted four years, is being duplicated in cost every eighty-five days. 

History records no other war or combination of wars which offers a parallel in the expenditure of money to the present conflict, asserts Mr. Hicks. In fact, the total direct cost of the six greatest wars which occurred in course of 125 years preceding the present world war was $21,000,000,000. One of these six wars lasted twenty-one years and another four years, yet this sum equals the cost of but eight months' fighting at the present rate of expenditures. 

The direct cost to the United States for the year 1917, is estimated at $6, 700,000,000, of which amount $3,000,000,000 are loans to the Entente Allies. The amount of money appropriated by the last Congress for expenditures and authorizations was about $18,000,000000, which represents a daily gross cost of the war to the United States of $49,000,000. 

Disobedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ is tremendously expensive, think you not? 

What a wonderful saving there would be in the world if men would only heed the gospel of Jesus Christ which plants peace in the hearts of men! 

I have here a pamphlet that is being distributed widely throughout the East, which is the verbatim copy of a discourse .delivered by John D. Rockefeller, Jr., before the Baptist Ministers' Association, in one of the prominent hotels in New York City. He is picturing the church of the future. I am curious to know if Mr. Rockefeller hasn't overlooked our splendid organization which is a hi.ss and a byword on the streets of his own city, and the work it is performing. He says : 

Let us picture for a moment what this re-born church would be^_ 

It would be called the Church of the living God. 

So we are called the Church of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who liveth forevermore 

Its terms of admission would be love for God, as he is revealed in Christ, and his living spirit, and the vital translation of this love into a Christ-like life. 

Its atmosphere would be one of warmth, freedom and joy, so sympa and distinctly manifest as to attract and win into its fellowship the followers of the religion of the Inarticulate. 

Further on he says: 

A life, not a creed, would be its test; what a man does, not what he professes; what he is, .not what he has. 

Its object would be to promote applied religion, not theoretical relio-ion. This would involve its sympathetic interest in all of the great problems of human life; in social and moral problems, those of industry and business, the civic and educational problems; in all such as touch the life of man. 

As its first concern, it would encourage Christian living seven days a week, fifty-two weeks in the year, rather than speculation about the hereafter. 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if he has not read the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants where God declares, "I, the Lord, cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." 

Continuing, he ,says : 

It would be the church of all the people, of everyone who is fighting sin and trying to establish righteousness; the church of the rich and the poor, the wise and the ignorant, the high and the low — a true democracy. 

Its ministers would be trained not only in the seminary, but quite as much in life, with the supreme emphasis on life. For it would be an important part of the preparation of each that he should spend months, years possibly, working with his hands in the fields or the shop, doing business in the store or the office, so thaf he might not have merely a laboratory acquaintance with the problems ot human life, but the practical knowledge which alone comes from actual experience and contact with them. 

Yes, the ministry of this church would live in vital touch with humanity; it would understand and sympathize with human difficulties, and would exert its influence as much in livino- as in preaching. I think it is a most excellent hope that John D. Rockefeller, Jr., has, and if he would turn his eye Westward he would see that splendid organization, that splendid ministry, where men and women are called from the various walks of life into the ministry, who know how to touch human sympathy just as Christ was made mortal that he might know the needs of mortal men and mortal women. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and .sisters, for it bears witness to every fiber of my soul, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that we are engaged in a great and mighty work which must be performed preparatory to the second coming of the Son of God, for whose coming we are anxiously waiting. 

God bless you all, God bless all Israel, God bless our missionaries, God bless those boys who have g'one abroad to fight in this great war. I want to say for the soldier boys, those who are upon the Atlantic sea board, that they are impressing the people of the East with the sincerity of their lives and they are performing a wonderful work. There were six hundred or more of Utah boys brought to the cantonments on Long Island; but instead of being allowed to remain together, they were used as "chinking" for every regiment stationed at those various cantonments, and it has appeared to me that with the splendid example of these boys, they would preach the gospel while they are upon duty to a greater number than if they were confined to a single regiment. 

If I might be spared the time, President Smith, I would like to read one testimonial or two of our . This letter was written by a very prominent person in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The family are keeping a Y. M. C. A. division, that is, one of the Y. M. C. A.'s in which the Navy boys are being taken care of; and they are prominent to the extent that when Secretaries McAdoo, Baker or Daniels go to Boston they are entertained by these estimable people. Two young men enlisted in the Navy, their homes being in Brigham City. I hope their mother is here, because this leter was written to her, but a printed copy of it came to me in New York. I shall read only extracts. The woman writing is the good wife whose husband has gone to France : 

My husband and I loved the boys from the first, but as they have lived with us they have grown into our hearts until now we feel we shall have them in spirit for the rest of our lives. And we must owe so much of it to you two who have made such noble, beautiful sons, so full of courage, devotion, highmindedness. You mus:t be proud and happy; we are. Lou was given the best ship on the list this week because of his fine work. * * * * * He has grown bio-ger and heavier and is a superb looking fellow — the dearest combination of a baby and a man that I ever saw. He is a man in all the essentials of a fine character and a dear innocent little boy in spirit. Yesterday my Reginald left for France for eight months' service for the Y. M. C. A. with our troops. He said before he went that the only good thing the Kaiser ever did was to give us our boys, and that he went away much happier for having them here. Fern will be with me for one week more. Certainly wherever he goes he will do the most splendid things. He is a young crusader, born to fight against sin and injustice wherever he finds them. He is the noblest young fellow T have ever known and we both love him with our whole hearts. 

Now. in conclusion, note the language : 

Dear friends, may I tell you that I get much comfort from the firm faith that both these children are sent out directly from God's hands and are very directly and preciously in his care. I know that they will be taken care of and guided at every step. I look ahead for them with the most confident heart, but I wish so much you could see them. I just cannot express my sympathy for you, nor my admiration and respect. In looking after the boys I keep before me all the time the thought that I am doing it for you as well as to satisfy my own heart. They have filled the place of the boys I have lost as I never could have believed possible, and my own love helps me to understand yours. 

With my warmest greetings and sympathy, affectionately yours, Louise Daley. 

P. S. — I want to write to you from time to time about our children if you will let me share them with you that way. 

There is the blending, let me tell von, of patriotic service to country "and fidelity to the gospel. Such are the living testimonies our soldier and sailor boys bear when they go into the country's service. God bless us with like testimony and like courage, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An instrumental solo, a French ballad, was plaved on an English horn bv Prof. Kellersbere:er with Tracy Y. Cannon, at the p : ano. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

The responsibility which was placed upon the shoulders of the priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a tremendous one. It now seems greater as we look back over the years that  passed since the organization of this Church, and since that priesthood was given. I am just beginning to see, in a small way, I think, some part of the responsibility which I, together with my brethren and our fathers and grandfathers, have borne, and I am beginning to feel and understand better than I ever have heretofore, how significant and how tremendous was the mission that was given to the prophet Joseph Smith. 

It wasn't an easy task, and never will be, for the elders of this Church to carry the particular message which the Lord delivered to them. xA good many of us have felt very much like Jonah did, who was sent to warn Nineveh. . We have trembled, we have feared to raise up our voices on the street corners and elsewhere and deliver the message of warning. We believe the promise made by John has been fulfilled when he said;, that in due time another angel should fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, crying with a loud voice, 'Tear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." We believe that the message the angel delivered has been committed into the hands of the elders of this Church, and it has been a message of warning to the children of men. 

God our Father knew what was coming. We shall not charge him with the responsibility of the war nor of the distress among the nations, for as we sow, as nations as well as individuals, so shall we reap And the Lord knowing what was coming, though he were God himself, he could not avert it. The natural consequences of sinning or wrongdoing, men must reap. Knowing that he sent this message to warn men of that which was to come, we have delivered it; but we have been filled with fear sometimes in delivering it, because we have been unwelcome. But we remember that those servants of God who were given the commission to warn men of dangers, and troubles that were coming, were never welcome, whether it was John the Baptist, who stood before the wicked king and told him of his sins and suffered to lose his head because of it, or whether it was the Christ, who because he chastised men and called them to repentance was despised and finally put to death. 

It is not an easy thing to meet men and- women and tell them they are wrong, tell them they are in sin and they must repent, for we don't get a very glad hand from the majority of the people when we tell them these things. And so some of our missionaries have trembled very much and have been very fearful to meet the people and deliver the message which the Lord committed into their hands, and yet, my brethren and sisters, when I look back over the valiant and faithful way in which the elders of this Church have discharged their duty towards the nations of the earth, and under the command of our Father, I am proud to be an elder in this Church and to be affiliated with a band of men who have rid their skirts of the blood of this generation. From the day that President Young, President Woodruff and others of the earlier brethren, left their families and their homes, as they were just driven out of Missouri, and went on that unknown journey across the water  suffered much during that period, until this time, thousands and tens of thousands of the elders of this Church have gone without purse and without scrip delivering this message. Nothing has turned them away from their course. Whether gold had been discovered in California and the whole world was afire with desire, the elders of the Church have not been deterred from the delivery of their message. They have acted like men who believed they had a real mission. 

How would you feel if you knew above this city or any other city where you lived there was a great dam, and reservoir, containing an immense quantity of water and you had been given to understand that there was danger and that at an approximate time that dam would break and the lives of the people would be in danger, what would you do? Sit down or find a place of safety yourself and look upon the distress that should come? No, you would bestir yourself, you would go up and down the valley or through the streets and warn men and women to flee from the danger that was to come, and if they did not believe you, you who knew what was coming, with all your heart and soul, you would try to impress men and women to escape from the calamity that was coming. How then should men act if they have indeed received a message like the elders of this Church have received? 

Recently I have had the opportunity to read carefully and ponder over the many very wonderful things which the Lord has delivered to this Church, in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. You do not need to hunt out in the world ' the monks of the past ages some supposed prophecy, coming from some hidden or obscure source. Read the open revelations of the Lord, and you will find that there everything that we now see and witness we were told about distinctly many years ago. The warning has been given to the nations of the earth and they were called upon to escape from danger and I say that men who had this kind of commission could not in honesty do other than the elders of this Church have done: they have acted as if they believed what they said. All honor to them. 

I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, that when the warning comes, always from the very beginning until this time, there has been connected with that warning the means of escape. God provided a means of escape from this war. When God restored the everlasting gospel through his prophet Joseph Smith, he gave the invitation to the world, in connection with the warning of judgments that were to come, the invitation that provided the way of escape. It may seem a very bold thing for me to stand here and say, but yet I say it, for I have a living testimony that it is true: that if Germany, instead of imprisoning the elders we sent her, if instead of banishing them she had repented of her sins and accepted the Lord's invitation, Germany would not have plunged the world into this war. 

Over in the cantonment, at American Lake, where all our drafted boys from this intermountain country first went, we held a conference in connection with brother George Albert Smith and President McMurrin and a great many of those  were present. We heard the testimony of brethren who had been engaged in the missionary work when the war broke out. They stood up, six and eight and ten of them at a time, eager to bear testimony — men who were in Germany, some of them had been banished. They saw the mobilization of the German army. They had been preaching wherever they could, warning Germany of the dangers that were to come. There were men who were in Liege who fled before the oncoming Germans. There were men in France and all those nations, who now stood up in the uniforms of the United States. They were witnesses that they had delivered to those nations the means of escape. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I am just as anxious as any man that lives to see established the principles of freedom and liberty for which we fight, and I think we ought to fight for them. I feel that President Smith's words found echo in the heart of every true Latter-day Saint. With every bone and fibre we believe in this country and its institutions and we want to see America and America's principles succeed, but let me say to you, brethren and sisters, there shall be something else necessary, if we shall find peace on earth and good will to men, in addition to the establishment of the principles of righteousness in political government and freedom; let me tell you that the nations that have passed the way of all the earth did not come to their destruction because their governments were particularly bad,but they came to wreck and ruin because they were wicked and they sinned and broke the law of God. The most perfect law of political liberty will never save men and women except they shall obey the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in connection with the principles of righteousness in political government. I want to say to you that while I shall rejoice in seeing the standards of liberty and freedom carried forward among the nations of the earth, I see in that only the preparatory way, and there must necessarily follow that which is indeed the fundamental of peace, the go.spel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I do rejoice to know that we have here those men who are inspired to tell us what we shall do. When the nations of the earth do not accept the invitation which was given, providing the means of escape, then they must take the consequences; but I thank the Lord that there are in the hearts of the majority of the civilized nations of the earth a willingness to defend the principles of righteousness in government. Thank God for that, and for their stand; and there is nothing else for us to do than to co-operate with them in defending the glorious principles of liberty which they have espoused and which are ours. O how my heart rejoices to know that instead of a- little band fighting as our forefathers fought for those very principles in the establishment of this country, we have now allied with this the migthy nations of the earth; and this is the day of the triumph of the truth, when political liberty shall come! 

But O, brethren and sisters, I want to say to you that the Lord does not love a wicked American any better than he loves a wicked German. I want to say to you tlfiat  heart is touched when I look at my America. I love America, but I know that my America shall not succeed, nor shall she survive, except by and through her own humility and repentence and turning away from sin! 

I have had the opportunity to talk to thousands of boys in the cantonments, and this has been my plea to them : You are entitled to the blessings of the Lord. Your cause is just; and that it shall succeed means that you must humble yourselves, cease to take the name of God in vain, keep yourselves morally clean, and you will have a power and a strength that no soldiers have ever experienced who have gone into the battle. 

Brethren and sisters, what shall we .do, we who have been called here — one of a city and two of a family, away from these troubles? When the Lord knew that the nations would not accept the invitation that was given, he called our fathers out from them. What for? To save us? Yes, but for something else than to save us, just for ourselves. He has committed into our hands the most precious and sacred things in all the world to hold the nations of the earth. 

In British Columbia we have a conference. We have had soldiers go out from that section, you know, for three years now, and this is what I witnessed : when these boys left their homes and got into the front of the battle, you know the death rate was very high in the beginning of the struggle. Thev fell on the right and on the left and when the casualty lists appeared each morning there were thousands of fathers and mothers who began to pray who never prayed before  their lives. When they learned that their boys were prisoners or lying wounded in the hospitals, the spirit of humility and repentance came. In the last year we have had an increase in our baptisms in that conference. There have been ten times as many baptisms in that conference, in the last year, as we have 'had in any preceding - year with the same number of missionaries. When I saw it, I wondered if the same good blessings should not, in God's providence, come to all this goodly land. I see it coming. The by-products of this war shall be the saving of our own blessed America, for her salvation, her perpetuity, her being favored of God, .depends not only upon the money that we put up, and upon the boys we send, but upon the righteousness of our own lives! 

O my America, humble yourself, and turn unto God, your Father, and keep his commandments, and he will stand by you in the battle for right. 

That is my testimony; and let us listen to the voice of these servants of God. You do not need to go anywhere else, all that the Lord wants us to know he will give. I. have that confidence. He has inspired these brethren. Let us follow their leadership, and listen to their warning voices. O that more of us had believed the message which President Young gave us concerning home industry and the things President Smith has referred to. O that we had believed it with all our hearts, and practiced it. We would have been better. 

We stand in the most favored position of the nations of the earth. We .shall sit at the first table always, but we will share with others. God  thus favored us that we stand in the best place in all the earth, but let us improve that place and that opportunity, and let us conserve the things that God has given us; and when the war is over and when the wounds need healing, behold here is the balm that- shall heal the wounds of the nations! God help us conserve it, prepare ourselves to be ministers in very deed, in the calling to which we have been assigned, that we may be faithful and not disappoint him, and that we may be triumphant in the struggle for eternal and everlasting peace, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER G. E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of the Northern ^States Mission.) 

In the National Congress of Defense, held in the Midnah Temple, Chicago, about six weeks ago, I listened to one Hammerlin, a peasant from Bohemia, who said that he came to this country thirty-seven years ago. His first work here was to drive a mule in a coal mine, but, he said, "today I am president of the foreign newspapers of America, and I am occupying this position together with the great and the educated men of this Nation, in the second city in the greatest country of the world. What other nation under heaven," he continued, "could have given me such a glorious opportunity?" 

When I faced this audience, and as I sat in my seat and listened to the testimonies of those who have occupied the pulpit, I have said in my heart : What people or what organization under (heaven fcould give men such a glorious opportunity as that which we enjoy? One of a city and two of a family from every nation in the earth, peasant and otherwise, have been drawn together in this organization and have been given opportunities the like of which could not have been found in any other place in the world. 

Continuing, our Bohemian said : "My home in Bohemia, which is seven hundred years old, had been destroyed twice during this great war. It was destroyed first by the Russians and next by the Germans, but I am happy to stand here today and tell you that no matter if it is destroyed and all other homes in my beloved native land, the day will come when peace shall be established in the earth, and democracy rule all people; "for," said he, in his broken language, "Nick has gone and Will vill go." So I say, brethren and sisters, if Nick has gone, with reference to the Russian government, and Will of Germany will go, so also, in the end, Old Nick will go, and truth and righteousness will reign in the earth. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been established in this day that all mankind who will hear and obey the voice of the Lord might have an equal opportunity, but it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that our extremity has been God's opportunity to bless us and to lead us into the straight and narrow way. I am reminded of the struggle with the powers of darkness that the Prophet Joseph Smith had in the beginning when he asked the Lord for light and knowledge concerning which way he should go; I am likewise reminded of his asking the 

Father concerning baptism, which was answered by the coming of John the Baptist, under whose direction Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were baptized. Again, when divine assistance was needed, came the glorious visit of Peter, James and John, who bestowed upon them the holy Priesthood and the right to officiate in the name of the Lord in behalf of all the children of men in the earth. 

From the very beginning of the Church, it seems to me that when we have gone either as individuals or as a Church to our very limit, divine Providence has stepped in and rendered assistance, until we have grown to understand our dependence upon the Lord and his great love and mercy for his children. I am reminded of the time when I stood in the road, having gone to the limit of my strength in searching for the honest in heart who would receive me into their homes as a messenger of light, my eyes were opened, and I bear witness that God's promises were fulfilled with reference to his missionaries : that he sends his angels before their face to bear them up and to prepare the hearts of the people to receive them. The testimony of all the elders in the mission field is that when they have gone to their limit, and turned to God our Father he has never forsaken them, but has opened the way, leaving impressed upon their hearts the testimony that he is willing to come to the assistance of those who diligently serve him.. So in the history of this great Nation — it seems to me that man's limit has been God's opportunity to come in and guide the ship of state. You remember Christopher Columbus, as he lay bound in the bottom of his ship, pleaded with his sailors to go on at least three days before they should throw him overboard and start back to Spain. You remember our Pilgrim Fathers were about to sail back ' from the rock-bound shores of New England, when timely and needed assistance came. You remember, too, Washington at Valley Forge, his soldiers barefooted, his sick men had no medicine, and the well had no food, sent his last appeal to our ministers in France that they must come to his assistance now, that anything they would do in the future would be unavailing; and how this Nation, this experiment in government, was saved in the seeming very last hours by the coming of men and money from France. Again, the spirit of the Lord was upon those who gathered to form the constitution of the United States that liberty might not be banished from the earth, that the divine right that God our Father gave to his children before the world was might be securely established in the last days. 

This Government has grown and increased in the earth, in strength, in knowledge, in wisdom and in toleration for their fellow men. Other nations of the earth have partaken freely of the spirit of liberty planted in this goodly land. These liberty-loving nations have now banded themselves together in a mighty struggle to extend and perpetuate this sacred heritage. If we go to the limit of our ability and strength trusting in the Lord we cannot fail, for it seems that God is using these nations who have been the most liberal with respect to government, that the rest of the world might partake of that which  have enjoyed in such a full measure; so in our extreme hour heaven will not forsake us. 

As citizens of this great government, we have not only enjoyed the liberties 'that have been implanted in this land of Zion, but as Latter-day Saints who have heard the gospel we have enjoyed another glorious blessing, even the liberty and light of truth that has pointed the way back in to the presence of God our father. From Norway and Sweden and Denmark, from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the countries of Germany and Holland, and all Christian nations of the world we have come to this land in response to the sound of the gospel of Jesus Christ; and in our coming we have sung : 

"O Babylon, O Babylon, We bid thee farewell, 

We're going to the mountains Of Ephraim to dwell." 

How could a people, no matter what the nation, be anything but loyal and true who feel, who hold such views ? 

In the Northern States mission we have today quite a population of German people. At the outbreak of this war they thought I was hard on them and their nation as to the responsibility for and the outcome of this war, but Americans of German birth who have accepted the gospel should be and are true and loyal to this nation, for it is the land of Zion to them. About three weeks ago, in Milwaukee, during my sermon, the whole audience breathed amen and amen with a spirit of love and devotion to the principles of this government and to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ that we have never felt before. They are beginning to reconcile themselves ' to the fact that this great war is the chastening hand of God upon those who have refused the light of the gospel and the liberties of mankind. Why, I told them that if they had not found sufficient reasons in this government and land of ours to rejoice and praise the Lord and be glad because they are here, surely in the gospel of Jesus Christ they ought and find sufficient to make them sing praises to the God of heaven. Why? Because they had come out of the land of oppression in response to the call of light and truth and liberty of the gospel. They had all received a knowledge from the Lord that this is the land of Zion, a land of freedom, a land choice above all other lands. 

Latter-day Saints in Germany, in Holland, in Switzerland, or in any other country in the world, no matter whether they have ever been here or not, feel in their .hearts that this is the land of Zion and that God has prepared this nation in order that he might establish his kingdom in the earth, and gather the honest in heart from all nations. The members of this Church now living in Germany ought to feel in their hearts a spirit of loyalty and fidelity to this nation because they have been taught that it has been established by God. Even though they may be numbered soldiers in Germany, fighting under the marshaled power of their Kaiser, yet I feel sure their hearts beat in sympathy for the land of Zion. With my brethren before me, I feel that God our father is at the helm, and while this may be a dark hour in our history, the Lord will come to our rescue in the end. Will will  Nick, and after Nick and Will and all others who have usurped the right of man to be free and govern himself, then also the old Nick himself will go. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in my testimony of this gospel. I rejoice to bear witness to you that I know that God our Father lives. I know that he does send his messengers before the face of the missionaries and lead them to the doors of the honest in heart, and in the way of those who are prepared to receive them. I am sure that he will go before the face of all the sons of the Allied nations of the world and grant that victory may perch upon their banners. While we may be scourged and while we may be called upon to offer a sacrifice for these great and glorious blessings we are seeking, nevertheless in the end and in our extremity victory shall be ours. 

Some of your sons in Camp Dodge, Iowa, and in Camp Grant, Illinois, and in one or two other camps I have visited, have said to me: Brother Ellsworth, I feel, O so lonesome. I would sooner be a private with the Utah boys than an officer here alone, away from my people. I have said to them invariably : "My good brethren, it may be a little lonesome, but I feel absolutely sure that it is better that you should be here alone as an officer or even as a private, providing you will live your religion and set the example which you should set before your fellow men; for you have been called, and the majority of you have been ordained of God that you might minister in the things of our Father in heaven. I am sure that the way will be opened for you not only "to be a soldier  to be a comfort to your comrades. The way will be opened for you to strengthen them and to offer courage to them, and in the end, when peace shall be established, what a wonderful opening there will ibe for the soldiers from among the Latter-day Saints to go to the soldiers of every state and every city in this glorious land of ours. You will not find a man among the soldiers of Illinois who will ever permit any one to say anything against Utah or the Latter-day Saints, if they have fought side by side or under the leadership of a 'Mormon' officer. What is true of Illinois may be true of every other state in this union, and every country in the world; for after this great war it shall not be : I am a citizen of this state or that state or the other state, but I am a citizen of America or a citizen of the world." So, I feel that though it may be a lonesome, time for some of our boys, yet if they live their religion, if they keep the commandments of God and keep themselves clean and unspotted from the world and offer themselves as a willing sacrifice, it shall be as the leaven sent out into the world to leaven the lump. Our missionaries who are now preaching the gospel breathe the spirit of war, and sometimes breathe a desire to go out and fight that peace might be hastened in the earth. They are given five days in which to report for military service after finishing in the mission field. Some have even reported a month before being released in order to be ready for a service that must be that the gospel principles might be spread abroad. 

The Lord bless our leaders, and may God our Father touch our Prophet with his finger, as it were,  heal him from his infirmities; that we may hear his glorious voice and his powerful testimony yet many years. When I heard that he was not well it seemed to me that my very own had been stricken. So I pray, with all Zion, that God will bless him; that he will bless us all; that we may keep clean and pure and do our full part that we may be worthy of the glorious opportunities that our Church and our Nation afford, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A sacred solo, entitled, "Sunshine and Rain," was sung by Edna Gottberg. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the auditors ' report which was unanimously approved; the names of the General Authorities of the Church which were unanimously voted upon and sustained as follows, including also the Trustees of the Brigham Young University : 

AUDITORS' REPORT 

President Heber J. Grant stated : "The auditors have made a very voluminous report. This is only a brief one. The entire report is on file With the Presidency of the Church." 

Salt Lake City, Utah. April 5, 1918. 

Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, C. W . Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Dear Brethren : We the undersigned Auditing Committee of the Church beg leave to report that, having examined the books and accounts of the Presiding Bishop's Office, as well as those of the Trustee-in-Trust, we have found them in excellent shape and the various items of receipts and expenditures clearly expressed and correctly entered in the books. And it is our pleasure to say that the methods of bookkeeping" employed meet with our approval. We also desire to commend the voluminous, interesting - , and useful collection of vital and other statistics of the Church by the Presiding Bishop's Office. The value of these statistics can scarcely be estimated. 

Very truly, your brethren, W. W. Riter, John C. Cutler, Henry H. Rolapp, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards and Richard R. Lyman. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and 

Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cumming-s, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir : Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and 

Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. 

TRUSTEES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 

The Articles of Incorporation of the Brig-ham Young University requires that the Trustees of said institution shall be presented to the General Conference of the Church triennially, and, in acordance with that requirement, we present the  named persons as Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Joseph F. Smith, Jesse Knight, Wilson H. Dusenberry, Susa Young Gates, Reed Smoot, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Richard W. Young, Joseph R. Murdock, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Joseph Reece, Zina Y. Card. 

The Relief Society choir, Lizzie Thomas Edward, conductor, sang: "Lead, Kindly Light." 


