Second Overflow
07 04 1918


A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 o'clock p. m., Elder J. Golden Kimball, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding. 

The singing and music were furnished by the united choirs of the Granite stake of Zion, Professor Evan Stephens, conducting. 

The choirs and congregation sang: "America." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Rodney C. Badger. 

The choirs and congregation sang: "Loyal to the true and the right." 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of the California Mission) 

In the remarks made by Elder David O. McKay this morning, he stated that "the hour and the day have come when the nations of the earth must accept the reality of Jesus the Christ." He summarized the reading of some books with the statement that men believe that Jesus is an etherial, incorporeal spirit, not a personality. In other words, that even Jesus Christ who tabernacled in the flesh among the children of men, has become a principle or a spirit, such as they have contended that God the Father is. 

I take it that they may be pardoned in a way for not being able to account for some of the passages of scripture, namely, of St. John's wherein he says that "God is a Spirit," and that we must "Worship him in spirit and in truth." Another of Paul's statements, wherein he says that "there is one God, who  above all, and over all, and in you all, and through all," and a statement of the Master's that "the kingdom of God is within you." Because of these statements they sometimes spiritualize, possibly God himself, more than they otherwise would have done. One of the greatest labors upon us in the mission field is to harmonize the statement that God is a personal being with his divine immanence. Having been created in the form of God; knowing that he walked and talked with Adam in Eden's garden; that he taught Adam how to prune the vine and dress it; instructed Noah in the art of shipbuilding; dined with Abraham on the plains of Mamre; wrestled with Jacob, and gave him a name so pregnant with big results or blessings, namely that he was not a usurper, as Jacob indicates, but "Israel," one who had prevailed among princes with the Most High; his meeting with Moses, speaking with him face to face as one man speaks with another, and not in dark sayings; being beheld by five hundred elders and others; announcing his pleasure in the baptism of his Son at Jordan's flood; speaking of him again upon the mount of transfiguration; and revealing himself anew in this dispensation to the Prophet Joseph Smith — to us is sufficient testimony that God is a personal being. 

It is true that Paul said of the Christ that he is "the express image of his Father's person," and the Master himself said, that "he who hath seen me hath seen the Father." The Christ was born of woman, as men are born in the flesh. He grew up as children grow up to manhood. He suffered the distress and 117  of mortality, and was taunted by the physicians of his day because he healed not himself as he healed others and raised the dead to life. He was spat upon, smitten and crucified as a malefactor, as other men have been misused, abused and put to death. 

One of the procurators of Judea, Publius Lentulus, writing to the Senate of Rome, describes the Christ, his form, his person, the color of his beard, his eyes, said he was accounted as a prophet of truth among his followers and a man of exceeding 'worth among the Gentiles, and he speaks of him as a man with divine power : and so to the people of that day he seemed a man among men, except to those who believed in his divine begetting. It was aftefr his triumphant ascension from the tomb, when the bands of death had been broken, when he stood before his disciples as an immortalized being, that they came to know him for a verity, as the living Son of God. He stood in the midst of his brethren, and they were afrighted at first, thinking they had seen a spirit, but he told them to put forth their hands and touch him, and he assured them that it was he, even the Christ, and invited them to handle him and said, " a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have. "He even partook of broiled fish and honey with them, convincing them that he had again taken up his body from the grave. He ascended into heaven, and the angels, who stood by, declared that as he ascended, so in like manner should he descend. And John, the beloved, said, "We know not what manner of men we shall be, but when he comes we shall see him as he is, and we shall be like him." 

This doctrine is confirmed in the minds of the Latter-day Saints, and of many other people, that Jesus is not a spirit in the sense that he is "incomprehensible," as the creed of the fathers declared, that he is not diffused throughout all space, but that he is an individual and not a spirit merely, as so often taught in the philosophies of men. 

I cannot hope in the few brief moments that should be mine to make a full exposition of this truth. But I want to read to you a little from the gospel of St. John, and then, without reading, quote some of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this day which enable us by the light of truth to harmonize these two principles that seem paradoxical or opposed one to the other. 

John tells us : 

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. 

In "Elijah," rendered so beautifully by the tabernacle choir, we read the following words, from the Book of Kings, modified a little by the poet to suit the rhythm and melody of music : 

Behold, God the Lord passed by, and a mighty wind rent the mountains asunder, and break in pieces the rocks, and they passed before the Lord, but yet the Lord was not in the tempest. Behold, God the Lord passed by, and the sea was upheaved, and the earth was shaken; but yet the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake there came a fire, and yet the Lord was not in GENERAL CONFERENCE.  fire. And after the fire there came a still small voice, and in that still small voice .onward came the Lord. 

Men have declared that God is found in the blade of grass, in the flowers that bud and blow, in the rivers and in the rills; that his voice is heard in the thunder-bolt, and that he is found in all animate and inanimate nature. But here in the Book of Kings, we read that he was not in the tempest, he was not in the earthquake, he was not in the fire, but in the still small voice.  

I have read to you the key that will harmonize the statement that God is through all things and in all things, and that he is a personal being. He was the "life and the light of men," and the Prophet Joseph tells us that in his divine immanence "it is the light of Christ," the light of truth, that it is in the sun and in the moon and in the stars, that permeates throughout all space, and even the stars of other universes than ours are lighted by his spirit, and "his curtains are stretched out still." That light that is millions of years coming to us from some distant sun is the "light of Christ" as much as it is the light of men. His spirit is through all things, he hath made all things, he was the Word in the beginning, and was made flesh and dwelt amongst men; he is the life and the light of men. This the Latter-day Saint understands. 

To illustrate it in its immensity and wondrous glory and beauty is beyond my power; and yet, here in this building, during the night hours, we have the light from these arc lamps that light up the entire section of the building. And yet  is not the light itself that permeates the room; it is not the sun itself that comes to us today through the clouds, and makes it possible for us to behold each other's countenances, but it is the light of the sun, not the sun itself. And so it is with the light of Christ that is in the sun and in the moon and in the stars and in all things — "in them all and through them all," and by which all things are made and are sustained. And when men of the world understand this divine truth, there will not be the trouble that exists now in harmonizing the statement that God is a personal being and that God is a Spirit as well. 

May the Lord guide us to his praise, enlighten us by his Spirit, give us the courage and faith to .walk in his paths, and set our affections upon the things of eternal worth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES W. LESUEUR. 

(President of the Maricopa Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I pray for the Spirit of the Lord while I shall speak to you. It was fortyone years ago, on the 17th of last March, when the colonists first went to the Maricopa stake of Zion, sent by the President of the Church to do missionary work among the Indians. I thoug'ht this afternoon it might be of interest to you to know what the Church is doing for the Indians in Arizona. 

We have living in our stake some three hundred members who are Indians. We have two missions there, with headquarters. The 119 

Church is very liberal in helping these good people. Our missionaries go out among these Indians and work with them on the farm, helping them to prepare the ground for the purtting in of their crops, building their homes, and in providing for them the necessary seed, and the materials with which to build their homes. We get splendid results, for they are a good people. I doubt if in all the Church there are any who live their religion more strictly than do the Lamanites of the Maricopa stake of Zion. At one time we had a bishop who did not keep the word of wisdom, who was in charge of these Indians. He reported at one of the conferences that he was the only person in his ward who did not keep the word of wisdom. — Brother Kimball wants to know what we did with him. He was released. 

We have in our stake a high councilor who is a Lamanite. We have an Indian who is a superintendent of Sunday schools, and a very faithful brother. We have also a number of Indians who are faithful missionaries, and these faithful Lamanites have done 100 per cent ward teaching, and their average attendance at their sacrament meetings is over 50 per cent. 

A good work is also being done among the Indians in our stake, at the Indian school. The government of the United States has permitted us, with the other churches, to have our Indian children twice a week, and preach the gospel to them. The children are all brought into a main building, where the different churches have the privilege of teaching their own children twice a week. This was at the solicitation of our people. We are  a great deal of good among them in that way. 

Our people have known of these tribes of Indians in Arizona for a great many years. When the boys of the "Mormon" Battalion made their historic march from Santa Fe to the coast they met some of these Indians, and learned something about them. 

In our stake, too, we have evidences of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. We have there the ruins of a great city, probably at one time fifteen miles wide and thirty or forty miles long. And that immense Salt River valley was once peopled by the Nephites with a larger population than occupies it today. Just a mile from Mesa are the ruins of great buildings which those people erected. There is a building 450 feet long' by 350 feet wide. I estimate that it had at least a thousand rooms when it was being used, and around this building are the signs of a great wall that used to protect it. 

When our people went to the Salt River valley forty-one years ago, the people were poor, and unable to get the water out. But they found the signs of a great canal those Nephites had used. They cleaned out that canal for twelve miles, made a dam across the river, and turned the water out on to the thirsty soil, and for a number of years our people had the use of that canal. Then the government came and built the great Roosevelt canal. But after careful, scientific investigation by the best engineers, this old Nephite canal was found to be built just where it should be, and was followed. There are parts even now of the Salt River valley that are not being irrigated which GENERAL CONFERENCE.  used by those Nephite people in times past. 

The Indians of the Salt River valley have traditions of the time when there was a great flood. They point you to the great mountain, the Superstition mountain, and they say that is the place where a great boat landed when the flood was over the earth, and a bird was sent out, and brought from that mountain twigs, and the boat was steered that way and landed on that mountain. Then the water receded from both sides of the mountain, and left only two streams, one the Salt River on the north, and the Gila River on the south. They have traditions of a time when the Supreme Being was among them, doing a wonderful work, and they look forward to his coming again. A great many statements of the Book of Mormon in regard to the history of their forefathers are borne out by their traditions. 

I take great joy in laboring among these Lamajiite brethren and sisters, and there are some ten or twelve thousand of them in Arizona. 

The people of Arizona are very friendly to the Latter-day Saints. Not long ago, when we were in the prohibition campaign, they asked us to go and give talks in Phoenix on prohibition. During a talk to a great audience there some one spoke up and asked about one of the apostles. 

I thanked him for calling attention to the fact that I was a "Mormon," for I told them that if there was anything I was proud of it was the fact that I am a "Mormon." And I told them that the Latterday Saints have what they call the Word of Wisdom, that they do  believe in using liquor, tea, coffee or tobacco. What is the result? In Arizona, out of 469 inmates in the insane asylum, we had two, while in proportion to population, we should have twenty. I told them that one of the chief reasons for that was that we are a moral and a temperate people and we keep the Word of Wisdom. Out of 169 in the penitentiary we had but one who claimed a membership in the Church, while in proportion we should have nineteen or twenty. In the industrial school we had none; at the poor farm none; in the various hospitals we had none. Hence, I told them that I was proud that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I also told them the fact, that the birth-rate among the Latter-day Saints compared with the death rate was five births to one death, while the statistics of the state the pervious year showed a very much smaller proportion of births. I told them they ought to be thankful that the Latter-day Saints saved the state. There would have been more deaths than births if we had not been there. So I had the privilege of giving my testimony in regard to the vital statistics of the people. 

I am proud to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and I pray God to bless us all that we may be faithful and true, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, entitled, "Make the home beautiful," was sung by Margaret and Lillian Summerhays, the singing being preceded by a brief explanatory of the song by Professor Stephens. 121 

ELDER WILLARD L. JONES. 

(President of the Moapa Stake of Zion) 

It is in humility, my brethren and sisters, that I stand before you for a few moments, this afternoon, and I trust that the spirit of truth will direct my utterances while 1 am here. 

i I am grateful for the opportunity I have of attending the general conference of the Church, coming here and listening to the testimonies of President Smith and of the leading brethren who are associated with him, who are the leaders of the Latter-day Saints. I esteem, khis a great privilege, 'my brethren and sisters, and I rejoice that I can come here and worship the Lord with you, and partake with you of the Spirit of the Lord enjoyed upon these occasions. 

I am grateful for the testimony that I have concerning the great Latter-day work and its divinity, and I pray that it shall be an abiding one. I hope and pray that my ligjit in life during the remainder of my sojourn upon the earth shall be among the Latter-day Saints, because I love the truth. I love the associations of my brethren and sisters. I love the association of those whom the Lord has called to preside over his people. 

I believe that if there has ever been a soul who spoke as one having authority, it is the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the man who stands at the head of this great work at the present time. I believe that he is indeed the servant of the true and living God. I believe also that the Presidency, the Twelve, and the seven presidents of Seventy are  after the Lord's  own heart, who have been chosen to direct his work in the earth. I rejoice in listening to the words of encouragement and instruction from these our beloved brethren, and I am thankful that I have been born of goodly parents, who in their own native land had sufficient faith to come to these valleys of the mountains, and that as their son I have been privileged to be reared in the gospel covenant. I pray that I may always be found doing the things which are right and pleasing before our Maker. 

I am reminded of a saying of President Lincoln. During a critical time that confronted him and the Nation, some clergymen came into his office, and in conversation with him one of them said : "Mr. President,' do you think that the Lord is upon our side?" President Lincoln replied to this effect : "That is not a matter that concerns me so much; but the thing that concerns me most of all is, are we upon the Lord's side?" I think that that statement can be applied to us as Latter-day Saints. I think the thing that concerns us most of all, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is, Are we upon the Lord's side ? We have been brought into the Church, we have had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have repented of our sins, and have gone down into the waters of baptism, and have had hands laid upon our heads for the reception of the Holy Ghost. We have entered that straight and narrow path that will lead men back unto the Father. Having done this, it is for us to follow the admonitions given : add to our faith virtue; and to virtue, GENERAL CONFERENCE. ; and to knowledge, temperance, and to temperance, brotherly kindness. The apostle says that if these things abound in us then we will not be barren nor unfruitful. But, further, he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and he has forgotten that he has been purged of his own sins. So, in our lives, if we undertake to follow the path which the Lord has marked out for us, and fail to follow after the admonitions of our leaders, I feel then that we are on a path that leads to destruction, and are not on the Lord's side. But if we are continually adding to our faith works, doing those things that the Lord points out for us, then I believe we may feel that we are on the Lord's side. As we are told in the old scriptures, the Lord's arm is not short, that he will not save, nor his ear heavy that he will not hear, but if you are divided from your God it is because of your iniquities. So it is with us. 

I bear witness to you that if we are faithful, and not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, but will bear witness of the truth of this great work, as we have opportunity from time to time, the Lord will hear our prayers, inasmuch as we ask not amiss. 

I remember one of the brethren attending our conference some time ago relating an instance of a man who had lived among our people most of his life, and upon his death bed the elders of the Church were called upon to administer cheer and the necessaries of life unto him. In the course of their conversation they related to him the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the gospel of the Redeemer, and what the 

Latter-day Saints were endeavoring to accomplish in;, ithe /fearth. Though this man had lived among our people most of his life, he had never known our doctrines, having never taken advantage of listening to the servants of the Lord. Neither had the brethren and sisters who were his associates taken advantage of their opportunities to explain to him the principles of truth. And this man, upon his deathbed, demanded of them the reason why they had not been faithful and diligent in warning him and others who were in similar condition, of the judgments that were to come and of the blessings that were in store for those who obey the commandments of the Father! I wonder if there are others among us who are in a similar condition. I wonder if we are neglecting our opportunities and failing to teach our brethren and sisters not of our faith, of the blessings that are in store for them, provided they accept the gospel and live according to its teachings. I feel that many times we neglect the responsibilities placed upon us. Not that we are ashamed of the work that the Lord has given us, because I believe there are not many of us who are afraid to bear our testimonies concerning the prophet Joseph Smith, or who are afraid to speak of the gospel, and of the great work that the Latter-day Saints are endeavoring to accomplish in the earth. But in some instances we are negligent and careless towards our neighbors who know not of the blessings in store for them provided they accept the truth. 

So I pray we will avail ourselves of the opportunities God has given 123 , that we may rid our garments of the blood of all men, and when we shall appear before our Maker, we will have done our duty toward the children of men; having explained upon every available and proper occasion the message of eternal truth, that men everywhere may be left without excuse in the day of the coming of the Lord. 

You remember the responsibility placed upon one of the prophets in olden times, referred to by Ezekiel the prophet. The word of the Lord to that prophet was to this effect: "Son of man, I have set thee a watchman over the house of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word of the Lord at my mouth, and warn them from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die, if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked of his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thy hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, if he do not turn from his way he shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul." I believe that these words can be applied to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to the members thereof. 

Any one can bear testimony that the leaders of this people are taking advantage of their opportunity to send men to go out and officiate in the name of the Lord for the benefit and the salvation of (tone souls of men. 

I rejoice in such a work, and that I am a member of a Church that is looking after the interests of my soul and your soul and my neighbor's soul. The leaders of this peo are going from the north to the south, and from the east to the west, organizing- the people into stakes, wards and branches, and bringing about the purposes of the Lord. Everywhere responsibility is being placed upon men and women, and the people are being warned that this is the day of repentance. I hope and pray that we shall always be proud of the name that we bear among the children of men. 

I well remember the words of President B.' H. Roberts, in his last speech before Congress, when he had been denied his seat there. He said : "I shall walk the earth with head erect, and with brow undaunted.'' These words to me are most beautiful, and I think they should enter deep into the minds of the Latter-day Saints, the sentiment that they will walk the earth proud of the name that they have among the children of men, proud that they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I thank the Lord for the organization of the Church, and for prophets and apostles to lead Israel, and that we are trying to keep the commandments of the Lord. I rejoice always in the truth. I have a testimony that God lives, that Jesus Christ was indeed his Son, that Joseph Smith was indeed the prophet of the true and living God, and that the men who preside over the Church are men called of God to lead this people in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I pray that we shall be true unto the sacred covenants we have made, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER EDWARD C. RICH. 

(President of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion who was introduced by President J. G. Kimball as a son of Joseph C. Rich, and a grandson of the late Elder Charles C. Rich, of the Council of Twelve.) 

I trust that the Lord will bless me while I stand before you. I rejoiced in listening to the opening song, "America." It made me feel proud that I am an American, the citizen of a country which stands for all that is good in a governmental way, — 'for right, justice, and liberty, and these principles will extend from this government to all the world. 

I am also proud that I am a member of this Church, the Church of Christ, and partaker of the obligations that have been placed upon this Church by the Lord. To know the way in which these obligations have been carried out makes me feel proud of my calling and of my Church and people. Jesus said, this gospel shall be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. From the very beginning the Church has sensed the obligations resting upon it. They have sent missionaries to every land and clime, both in their poverty and in their prosperity. They have faithfully observed this admonition of the Lord. 

I am thankful to have had the opportunity of raising my voice in defense of the principles of the gospel, both upon the streets and in the assemblies of this land, and also in foreign lands. I feel that the Lord has blessed us, and if we are faithful he will continue to bless us. But if we neglect to observe what has been commanded us to do, we shall suffer for that. It means  each one of us is given responsibilities. Certain thing's we must perform. We must preach this gospel to the world, not only by precept but by example. There is something for those who are left at home to accomplish. We can preach the gospel by living up to its principles and its precepts. These will sanctify the earth. Jesus said, no man can see the kingdom of God unless he is born again, of the water and of the spirit. It matters not what we may think; we must abide by these teachings. We must receive a birth of the water and of the spirit in order to enter into the kingdom of heaven. And if it is necessary for us, it is necessary for every creature to comply with this statement of Jesus, and with the obligations which he placed upon his twelve apostles. After he had been crucified and risen from the dead, and associated with them for forty days, the last commission he gave them was to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned. 

These requirements rest upon this Church today, as it has ever rested upon the Church : to proclaim faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and confirmation into the Church and the reception of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. These are some of the observances and principles of the gospel necessary for each one of us to receive in order to be saved in the kingdom of God. As we hope for that salvation, it is necessary also that all other people must accept the same conditions. They 125  receive the same principles that we observe. Not only is it necessary that we comply with these principles, but it is also necessary that we follow Jesus even as he required of the rich man who came to him and asked him what it was necessary for him to -do to be saved. He told him to go and sell all that he had, and give it to the poor, and come, follow him. We think sometimes we are absolved from serving the Lord. We think sometimes that we have accomplished all that is necessary for our salvation, but there will never be a time while we live upon the earth that we are not required to do something. We must add to our faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge, patience, and to patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness. 

We must add to our lives these saving principles of the gospel, and observe them, and then teach them to our fellows. These are a few obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church. The nations of the earth must hear them and receive them, or be condemned by them. When the disciples of Jesus asked him, Master, are there few that be saved? he said, Enter into the straight gate, for maay shall try and not be able. I wonder why it is if they are desirous of entering the kingdom of God that they will not be able to do so. If in our hearts we feel that the blessings of the Lord shall come to us, and we desire them with all of our hearts, I feel that they will come to us. To my mind, the reason they will not enter in is because they will not live up to the requirements of the gospel. 

I don't believe that we can make  sacrifice for life eternal. Some of our seeming sacrifices are only privileges that come to us. The calls that come to us to perform missions, — are they not glorious privileges to us, and not sacrifices? And so in our work at home. And if we are faithful and true, the Lord will bless us because of our fidelity to the truth, because we love him by keeping his commandments. And that is the only way that we can show our love to our Creator. He says, if ye love me keep my commandments. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may attend the Latter-day Saints wherever they may be. Every part of my being testifies to me of the truth of this gospel. I am proud that my father and mother were members of this Church, and taught the gospel to me, and that my grandfather and grandmother were members of this Church, and that they were not afraid of the hardships incident to the settlement of this state. I am proud of these facts, and I want to maintain their good name in the earth. I don't know how it can be done better than by keeping the commandments of God, by serving him, and accepting the principles of the gospel that our fathers g'ave, and for which they suffered so much. 

I will conclude by quoting the sayings of our Savior : "Whosoever heareth these .sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was built upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the wind,s blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall thereof." 

I pray that those of us who have received the gospel will maintain it all our lives, by our actions and by all that we have. I don't know of any Church in the world that demands so much from its members as does this Church, in time, means and talents. On the other hand, there is no Church in the world that gives so much in return as does this Church. It gives us joy and happiness here, and eternal life in the world to come. 

I pray that these blessings may be for each and every one of us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred duet, entitled, "Stay thou with me," was sung - by Myrtle W. Doelle, and Joseph Kjar. 

ELDER HENRY H. BLOOD. 

(President of the North Davis Stake of ZionO 

The lateness of the hour and the presence on the stand of other brethren that the people like to hear, and that I feel .should be heard by this congregation, admonish me that I should occupy but a very few moments, indeed, this afternoon. I do want to bear testimony, however, as to my feelings. I have never felt more grateful in my life for the knowledge that I have of the gospel than I feel today. 

I can scarcely conceive of the feelings of the man who has no faith in God, and no belief in revelation and in prophecy, when he  the calamitous condition of the world today, without that hope that comes to the heart of the believer. 

This is a day, my brethren and sisters, when more prophecy is being fulfilled, perhaps, in a given space of time than has ever been known to be fulfilled in the history of the world before. I speak not only of the prophecies that have been uttered and written predicting the establishment of the Church of which we are proud to be members, although these prophecies are among the most important that have ever been uttered by men under the inspiration of the Spirit of Gorl. These prophecies are being fulfilled, and have been fulfilled in the establishment and building up of this Church, all the time, from the first manifestation unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the spring of 1820, that marvelous manifestation which made clear unto men again that God lives, and that his Son Jesus Christ lives, and that both are in the likeness of men, or rather that man is in the likeness of the Father. Xo greater revelation can come to man than that; for "this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Testis Christ, whom thou hast sent." If I had time I should like to dwell upon that but as it is I shall only say that any man who receives the testimony, that God is a perfected man thereby is inspired, to fashion his life, his being, like unto that of his Father. That great manifestation has taught us the truth about our Father, and has thus pointed the way to our perfection. 

The very fact that we are in this building, assembled here upon the tops of the mountains, organized 127  established here, is proof of the fulfilment of another great prediction that is recorded in the book of Isaiah. The fact that we have been gathered from every nation under heaven and brought here, that we have been taught the ways of the Lord, to walk in his paths, are all in fulfilment of predictions that have been made. 

We did not come here to gain ease in life, nor to amass wealth. We came here for the purpose, and so did our parents, of learning the ways of the Lord and training ourselves in righteous living: and if we are failing in that we are failing in everything. It matters not how much we may acquire of this world's goods, we are failures in the .eyes of God unless we are living according to his commandments. 

Then there are other predictions that have been fulfilled and are being fulfilled. This condition of war and strife in the world that exists today has been predicted, and the world has been warned and forewarned by the Lord of its coming, for it is true that "surely the Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." We have been called out of the world, and the world has been warned that the time was coming when war should be poured out upon all nations, when everybody that was wicked and would not repent should feel the wrath of God upon them. These things are coming to pass and, as I said in the commencement, there has never been a time since the beginning of the world when so many important predictions were being fulfilled except at the time when the Savior came into the world as its Redeemer. 

How are we preparing ourselves for the part we are to take in the regeneration that is to come after this great war has passed and has scourged the people? I know this Church has a mission to perform, and I know that it has been established for a wise purpose. The Lord expects us, this people, to assist in regenerating the world and in re-establishing conditions that are better than they have been before. More righteousness must be in the world. Men and women must learn to acknowledge God. They must know him, and they must receive a testimony as to his attributes and being from those who know. Here in the valleys of the mountains a great people, a multitude of men and women, can stand up and testify, in all soberness and solemnity, that they know that God lives, that he is not an essence merely, not merely a spirit, but that he is a being and a personage of body and spirit combined. This knowledge will go out into the world, and will spread among the children of men. There will ultimately be established a brotherhood that will give to the world an everlasting peace. 

I pray that a testimony of the truth and value of the gospel may be with us all, that we may be clean and pure and virtuous, observing that closing article of our faith that so beautifully portrays what we should be, wherein it says : "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul, We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anyGENERAL CONFERENCE.  virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

If we could only bring- ourselves to that! Self-analysis can prove to us whether we are progressing along these lines. God will be pleased with our effort to improve ourselves; and when we have set ourselves right, we can go out and teach these principles to others. 

God grant that the way may be opened for us to promulgate the gospel of peace, the gospel of brotherly kindness and charity throughout the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The united choirs and soloists sang, "Song of the Redeemed," solo part by Dot W. Bolto, and Don C. Priestly. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

I shall endeavor to divide the time that is left with President Kimball and I will try to astonish you by being brief. 

First I desire to read a verse from the prophecy of Daniel : "And in the days of these kings shall the God of heavea set up a kingdom which shall neyer be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not be left to other people^ but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms and it shall stand forever" (Daniel 2:44). 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, many years ago (in the early days of the Church), and during his temporary residence in the state of Missouri, was arrested on a charge of treason, because he alluded to the fulfilment of this prophecy of Daniel in the coming forth of the Church  Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and, together with other men — his faithful co-laborers — he suffered several months in prison. The main accusation against the prophet was, as I have stated, treason, but of course it was a trumpedup or unwarranted charge. 

The passage in holy writ which I have quoted is a part of the interpretation given by Daniel the Prophet to King Nebuchadnezzar, when that mighty monarch had a vision of a great image which symbolized certain great kingdoms which should flourish in regular succession upon the earth, and in which interpretation Nebuchadnezzar himself was referred to as the head of gold, or a world regent — a "ruler over them all." 

But the Lord became very angry with Nebuchadnezzar because of his pride and arrogance, and because he would not acknowledge the God of heaven and earth, and as a punishment God took away the king's reason, after which that once mighty man spent seven years among the animals of the fields, eating herbs and grass like some of the beasts. His grandson Belshazzar attempted to mock the God of Israel by using the 'holy vessels ( that had been taken from the temple in Jerusalem), in a drunken feast with his nobles and harlots. The Lord was so angry with him because of his wickedness that he allowed the Medes and Persians to break into his capital city that very night and kill him, thus destroying the great kingdom of Babylon, and verifying the interpretation given by Daniel to the inscription on the wall : "God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it; thou art weighed in the balance and art found wanting; thy king129  is divided and given to the Medes and Persians" (Daniel 5: 26-28). 

Another man who in course of time aspired to become the ruler over the whole world was Alexander the Great who, after subduing all the nations of the earth known to him, wept because there was nothing more to conquer. It must be remefnbered in this connection that men did not at that time know the size of the earth; it being long before America was known to the people of Europe and Asia, and also long before the southern part of Africa, and many of the islands of the sea had been discovered; but Alexander set himself up as the great master of all, the great ruler of the whole world, and took upon himself, like ihis predecessors, to deprive men of their free agency and to make them slaves. But the Lord soon humbled Alexander and his days in the role of an arrogant and proud ruler were only of short duration. 

Next we have the Roman empire which endeavored first in a political way and later as an ecclesiastical power to rule the world with an iron hand, and crush the people who would not yield to the dominion of Rome; but that power was also broken and the aspirations of the usurpers of authority were never fully gratified. 

The great Napoleon Bonaparte tried to conquer the world about a hundred years ago. From his individual standpoint some of his plans were perhaps intended for good. He aspired, it seems, to be a great liberator of men, but he also arrogated to himself that which the Lord has reserved for Christ, the Redeemer of the world who is the only one who, according to the di plan, is destined ultimately to rule the whole earth; but the rule of Christ will be one of righteousness under which the free agency of men will be respected. 

I refer to these matters in connection with an important theme which has been dwelt upon by many or the speakers at this general conference of the Church, and in reference to our views as Latter-day Saints. We have in the world at the present time another man who is not mentioned in Daniel's interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Nevertheless he is following in the wake of Nebuchadnezzar and his other predecessors, who aspired to power and unrighteous dominion. He also wants to arrogate to himiself that which belongs solely to the King of kings and Lord of lords, and aspires to rule the world according to his own notions and behests; but we know that the German kaiser will not succeed. It is only a matter of time till he will go the way of all his predecessors. 

But as Latter-day Saints we know something in regard to the kingdom of God which has been set up upon the earth in these the last days by the God of heaven, in fulfilment of Daniel's prophetic utterances. The Church and kingdom to which I refer and to which the Latter-day Saints belong has quite a history already, and I will just mention at this point to Brother Lesueur, president of the Maricopa stake, that the last thing I did at the Historian's office, before this conference commenced, was to write the history of the Maricopa stake of Zion, including a history of the Papago ward — the Indian ward — which was organized in Arizona many years ago. We are endeavoring to write a true GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the Church and kingdom of God as it has been established through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Personally I have not only had the privilege with many others of my brethren, to preach the gospel in many lands and climes, but \ have also had the opportunity of studying and writing the history of the Latter-day Saints — the people who stand alone and separate in many respects from all others in their day and generation — the people who are destined to exercise a great influence in the world, but not to rule with arrogance and oppression — a people who will be accepted by Christ when he comes to reign as the King of kings and Lord of lords. We firmly believe that at some future day the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will become known and accepted for what it really is, and that millions of people shall not only know the Prophet Joseph again, but shall also know many other faithful men who have labored for the . salvation and liberties of humanity. When that day comes, the people of the earth will become immensely interested in the history of the Church out of which shall grow the kingdom of God. 

For many years some of your brethren at the Historian's office have been busily engaged in important historical labors, aside from other duties. We have written histories of every stake of Zion, and of every mission field throughout the entire world, and it may be gratifying to the hosts of Zion, including those who are present here today, when I say that we have almost completed this task which was commenced thirty-one years ago. We have proceeded so far with the histories of missions, , wards, and conferences that we now need a more thorough cooperation with some of those who constitute the membership in the various stakes and missions. I have already suggested on a number of occasions that a historian be appointed in every stake of Zion and in every ward throughout the Church to co-operate with the Historian's office, in order to make our histories accurate and complete in every detail. 

We have already prepared a great deal of material which we expect in the near future to read to the people, and in order to complete our labors, we expect before long to make a trip throughout the stakes of Zion and read to the old settlers and others in the different wards and settlements of the Saints such parts of the history as pertain to their particular ward or stake; and when this is done and the local historians otherwise have had an opportunity to assist us, we hope to possess the most complete and accurate history that has ever been prepared and written about any people in the world — a true history in the fullest sense. It may not be amiss to state here that historians sometimes are the servants of those who will pay them for their labors, but the histories which we have prepared and are preparing of stakes, missions, and individuals are written from an impartial standpoint, as we have worked independent of any favors on the part of any individual, except that common Latter-day Saint hospitality and assistance which we have met with almost universally everywhere in our travels. 

In the various stakes of Zion there are still alive many men and women who have figured as faith131  and successful workers in the Church; and there are many others now dead who from the beginning took a most active part in the establishment of God's work upon the earth. These faithful workers in the good cause should not be forgotten, and we are endeavoring at the Historian's office to record certain facts concerning them which will cause their memory to live forever. 

Those of us who are working faithfully in the Church today will, like our predecessors, grow old and pass to the great beyond, and our children and grand children will, as time rolls on, include us among the founders of the great kingdom which Daniel speaks about. I will say here that your historians have been pursuing a plan by which faithful men and women can be placed on record without being sold into the hands of strangers who come into our midst for the sole purpose of financial gain. These strangers have charged from twenty-five to a thousand dollars or more to write a biography of a man or a woman who has figured prominently among our people, omitting, of course, those who could not raise the amount required. It is not necessary to submit to this method of having biographies written because the work done at the Historian's office is of such a nature that even the poor are given credit for what they have done. If a letter should be received by any of our leading men emanating from the Historian's office concerning biographical matters, let me assure you that it is not based on selfish motives, but only intended for the good of the people, and calls only for proper co-opera on the part of those who are entitled to credit. Here is, for instance Apostle Charles C. Rich, whose grandson has addressed us to day, and many others, whose names and deeds should not be forgotten, but in order to preserve their memories it is necessary that histories of their lives should be written. Think of the members of Zion's Camp, the Utah pioneers of 1847, the members of the "Mormon" Battalion, the martyrs of the Church, the missionaries who have died abroad, etc. The great majority of all these would be forgotten in a generation or two, were it not for that which shall be recorded about them in history. By co-operation we can perpetuate the memory of all faithful workers in the Church, rich and poor alike, and that is what we have aimed to accomplish. 

May God bless us who are now workers in the Lord's vineyard, and enable us to be faithful and true, even as our fathers and mothers before us have been faithful and true; and if we can, Nephi like, do greater works than our fathers have done, it is our privilege to do so, because we have better opportunities in many respects than they had. May God enable us to be what he wants us to be and remain true and faithful to the end, and may we to the very best of our ability do our part to promote the interest of this great kingdom which Daniel speaks of — a kingdom that shall endure forever! and by and bye will come our turn to be rewarded for our faithfulness. 

That God may bless Zion and her interests everywhere is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of the Seventy.) 

There is only a few minutes left, but we will presume upon your time as we have two duets that we desire to have sung. There isn't any part of our services more inspiring than the singing and at no time have I heard anything better than the music and singing during these services. 

"Stay Thou with Me" was rendered as a duet by Myrtle W. Doelle and Joseph Kjar, preceded by the following remarks : 

PROFESSOR EVAN STEPHENS. 

I want to say a word in explanation of this duet. I was requested to put this piece on, through some of the brethren hearing it in one of our wards, last Sunday night. I want to say a word about it for fear you will misunderstand the object of it. You might take it to be a secular, or what is sometimes termed a "love" duet. The idea is this : I have been asked thousands of times, probably, by different people who have good voices and musical ability: "Brother Stephens, I have a gifted son, a gifted daughter, would you advise me to send them abroad to study?" "Would you advise me to take or send them away from home for study?" This piece has been written for an answer to that question. My answer is, "No," and this song, "Stay. Thou with Me," is partly the answer. We have developed some splendid talent by sending it away, but as a rule, I think it is safe to say, if our young people have ties to cling to, in nine cases out of ten, it is better for them to "Stay thou with me : from  side may it not lure thee." The subject in this duet is in that way really a reply. Do not go from home; and so "Brother Stephens has not put on some 'love' duets in conference." This one is a sermon in itself. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

This is the first time in twentyfive years of missionary service that I have been honored to preside at a public meeting connected with the Semi-annual Conference of the Church, and I would like to preside with a good deal of dignity, and have tried to do ,so. 

I am a little nervous when given an opportunity to speak, knowing that what I say will be taken down by a stenographer, and when my discourse is written in cold type, it /loesn't read well or sound good to me, as it has but little spirit, and no feeling in it. I am now speaking of my discourses. 

My most fervent desire is to speak of what I know and how I feel, but it's a great fight to be able to express your real feelings. I am looking ahead, and worrying about some things that are useless and a waste of energy. At times I am exercised about death and the hereafter, but as Charles Frohman phrased it, under spiritual enthusiasm, "Why fear death? it is the mo,st beautiful adventure of life." I would like to die, if I can, without fear, in fact, die like a Roman. 

My purpose is not to discourse on wonderful things, that I have achieved and experienced, but my wish and desire is to reach the hearts of men. I only wish I was better understood; but unless men are of my temperament and see 133  as I see them, with a moving picture mind, they can not comprehend things in the way I do. 

I may not .stand blameless before God at the last day, but I am not afraid to meet my God and be judged by the Lord as to my desires, efforts and works. I understand the gospel of Jesus Christ well enough to know that God is perfect and 'deals out justice and mercy to his children; Jesus Christ is the door to the ,sheep-fold, and with all my many imperfections and weaknesses, if I am invited by the Master to come in at the door, all men who try to block my way will get run over and pushed aside. 

I .do not trust in man, but I honor and respect men who hold the Priesthood of God. I haven't given my life for this work, but have shown forth a willingness to place the little I have on the altar. I haven't been called, nor asked to do anything, that I have not responded. No appointment has been given me that I have not filled, in my way, and to the best of my ability. 

I can do anything I am set apart to do, if I have the .spirit of my appointment and am humble and prayerful. 

I know the sick are healed through the laying on of hands, as well as any man in all Israel, as I have witnessed the healing of the sick. I know we have the spirit of prophecy, for I have tried it out, and it works all right, if you get the spirit of prophecy. This work is true. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but when you so' testify it ought to be Hone bv the spirit of prophecy and revelation. 

As far as the Government of the United States is concerned, I feel  like General Pershing did when he offered to the Allied nations the army of the United States. We parents give to our country our sons just as gladly and freely to enter Into this great struggle for justice and liberty for humanity. 

If you can grasp my meaning you will know exactly how I feel towards the Church and the Priesthood. The Lord knows I love the Church, her people, and my Country, and. I have no fear that the Lord cannot overrule and overturn nations and people, until they shall repent and serve him. The Lord has taken care of me, and I have learned to trust him, as he is a good Master, and he is full of mercy, justice, kindness and love. 

I feel to say, "God save the people, not kings, but the people." If I had written that poetry, I would have .said, "God save the people" — 

and to with the kings, but as 

I didn't write it, will refrain from saying it. 

Brethren and sisters, this work is true, for I have worked and labored in it until I know of its truth: I am now going to ask you a few questions : "Do you know of anything in all this beautiful world that is more important than human life?" You don't, do you? I will ask the same question in another way : "Do you know of anything in all this great universe that is dearer to the Father than a human soul?" You don't, do you? Of course, you don't, as the Lord said in the Doctrine and Covenants, "And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great will be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father." To be saved in the kingdom of God is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation. Then "soul hunting" is of far greater importance than spending one's life in money seeking, and the accumulation of wealth. I can see that the things of God must be made more interesting than the things of the world; that the things of God must be better advertised than the material things of the world. 

I almost forgot the one thing I desired to say, and that is : God bless the choir, the .singers and musicians. I know as well as I know anything that the Lord will bless Brother Evan Stephens; and as a servant of the Lord, I promise him he shall have the Holy Spirit to comfort and console him, and he shall not be lonely or desolate among this people. God bless all these sweet singers he is training. Little do you people know what it costs in time, effort, and study, to acquire the art to sing; if we as a people put forth a tithe of the effort they do to sing, in studying the word of God, we would be the most intelligent people in all the world. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

After .singing, by the combined choirs, "Grant us peace," President Rey L. Pratt pronounced the benediction. 


