Outdoor
07 04 1918


An open air meeting was held at the front of the Bureau of Information Building, Elder Rulon S. Wells, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding. 

The music was furnished by the Ensign Stake Male Chorus, Henry Giles, conductor, A. B. C. Ohlson, organist. 

The chorus sang : "We are sowing." 

Prayer was offered by Elder C. E. Dinwoodey. 

The chorus and congregation sang: "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

Brethren and Sisters: I am pleased that I am privileged to join with you in the worship of the Lord on these historic grounds. Many years ago,, when members of the Church emigrated from England to Utah in quite large numbers, Charles Dickens went to see a ship-load of the emigrants. He admitted that he went to bear testimony against them, but when he observed the good order, discipline, religious fervor, the excellent manner in which they were organized as a company for the voyage, the great English author, in a published account of his visit said, "Some remarkable influence had produced a remarkable result which other organizations have not been able to accomplish." Like the man who went to meeting to scoff, but remained to pray, Dickens went to criticise, but remained to praise. 

When President Joseph F. Smith and his party visited the South, in November, 1914, the Mayor of Atlanta had a pleasant interview with them. The latter related to the President the favorable impressions he (the Mayor) received when he visited Utah. As he surveyed the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  work done in the west by the "Mormon" people in reclaiming the desert, establishing communities devoted to industry, orderly and law-abiding, as he viewed the comfortable homes, the fine school buildings and churches, the Atlanta executive said that he could not help but feel that surely a power higher and greater than human power was with the "Mormon" people. 

You and I know what that "remarkable influence"is, brethren and sisters. It is the influence, the Vjower of the gospel and the priesthood operating in our lives. "Now," said Jesus, "ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you." The resurrection does not cleanse the soul : it does not wash away sin : for the wicked shall come forth unto the resurrection of damnation. "But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light," said John, "we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin" (John 1:7). The precious, atoning blood of Jesus Christ is applied to our ,sins by and through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel. "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are: First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third. Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost." 

God has given unto us the Holy Priesthood, but the power of the priesthood is not exercised in the spirit of compulsion or coercion : it is exercised in brotherly kindness and charity, persuasion, service. In answer to an inquiry concerning his great and good influence with his , the Prophet Joseph is said to have replied : "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." 

The Savior impressed upon his apostles the spirit of service. "Whosoever," he said, "will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant; even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many" (Mathew 20:26-28). King Benjamin taught his people wisdom when he said: "Learn that when ye are in the service of your fellowbeings ye are only in the service of your God" ( Mosiah 2:17). Your sons, husbands and brothers on the bloody battlefields in France are in the service of their fellow-beings, and therefore in the service of their God. "The cause of human liberty," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, "is the cause of God." W r hat a noble and sublime thought! We hold that Joseph Smith was one of the foremost exponents and champions of human liberty. Our soldier boys are fighting for the cause of human liberty. They are battling for a cause which God looks upon and approves. 

We gather strength and comfort, my brethren and sisters, in contemplating the life of our Savior and the spirit in which he worked. He was "touched with the feeling of our infirmities," said Paul. The same apostle said that our Lord"was sent into the world that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man." He is the captain of our salvation "made perfect through suffering." "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being- made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." We are perfected through suffering and fitted for entrance into eternal life. The man who has not suffered and sacrificed for the right has not accomplished much for the uplift of humanity. 

Jesus "was in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin." Not to yield to temptation, but to resist and overcome it is a glorious victory. We are prone to think that we have temptations and struggles which others have not, but Paul says : "There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man : but God is faithful, who will riot suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but with the temptations also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it" (I. Cor. 10: 13). 

We grow great in giving. It is not what we receive which makes us great, but it is that which we give that secures greatness. The Latterday Saints are a great people because they have sacrificed and given for the benefit of their fellow-beings. They send their sons and 'daughters to preach the restored gospel in the world; they pay their tithing to build temples and meeting-houses, seeking always to build up the kingdom of God. The mission of the Church is to preach the gospel as a witness unto all nations, to prepare a people for the glorious second coming of the Lord. This is our message, "Forget me, if you choose, but I plead with you not to forget the message we bring unto you." I  invite you, my fellowbeings, who are not in the Church "to come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye also may be par of the fruit of the tree of life." 

Before this Nation entered the world war, it was regarded by many across the water chiefly as a big, rich, commercial nation. But today this mighty Republic is great in the hearts of the people of the nations of the earth. America is filling her Godgiven mission by carrying (to mankind the gospel of freedom, the pearl of human liberty. The heart of the President of the Church beats true and in sympathy with the hopes and aspirations of his fellow-men to enjoy the rights and principles which God has given them for their heritage and for their happiness and protection. Every one of us is called upon to make sacrifices. The Lord loveth a cheerful giver. Let us give comfort and strength to our country by purchasing Liberty Bonds, thrift stamps, and we will be blessed of the Lord for doing this. I bear my testimony to the truth of the gospel, the power of God unto salvation, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. ELISON. 

(President of the Raft River Stake of ZionJ 

My dear brothers and sisters: There may be some in this audience before me who do not understand what "priesthood" means. It is the power of God delegated to man. Man cannot act for God, and it be approved of God, unless he have power from him so to do. Joseph Smith, the prophet, had first to receive the priesthood before he had the right to act for God. 

I want to quote a simple scripture here. We have heard and read it a great many times. But I wonGENERAL CONFERENCE.  if the force of it appeals to us. The Savior said, "Ask, and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find." If Joseph Smith, the "Mormon" prophet, had not sought, had he not knocked at the door, God the Father, and Jesus his Son would never have come from the portals on high in answer to his seeking; this dispensation would never have been opened, had it not been for that prayer. My friends, and brothers and sisters in the world, if you want to know God, seek him : he does not push his work upon you, he will not force his work upon you — -but you must seek him. Very much contrary and opposite is the work of the evil one — he forces himself upon us — we do not have to ask; give him half a show and he will take a whole show — that is the difference. It illustrates that beautiful law of free agency. If you want what is good, seek it, go after it, get the development and the experience — evil comes of itself. 

On the 15th day of May, 1829, as recorded in the revelations written by the prophet, we find these words in answer to prayer: "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of the Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron." What a splendid thing was there given! God showed it was necessary to deal in first principles — consequently gave that power to Joseph Smith and his associates, so that they could act in things pertaining to godliness; and in the beginning of this great work, consequently, they received a portion of the power of God — but not all of it. 

What was the Priesthood of Aaron? In the days of Aaron it dealt with the priest's office, things  to the temple, pertaining to the consecrated material things. But this priesthood also holds the keys and has the right to certain spiritual blessings : it holds the keys of the ministering of angels and of the gospel of repentance. Joseph Smith, like you and me, had no right even to call men to repentance until God gave him the right, and that right came through holding the priesthood. This priesthood holds the power to the keys of the ministering of angels, preaching the gospel, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and it shall never be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering in righteousness. 

Brethren and sisters, do we want eternal life? Do we want a place in the kingdom of our Father? If so, we ought to seek for and honor the priesthood. Now this may seem peculiar to our friends in the world, but it is very plain — no man can enter where God the Father dwells, unless he holds the priesthood, and he must hold the higher priesthood. If we read the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we find there defined three distinct but general classifications of the children of men. We sing about seeing God, being with our God, but there is something required first, the power that is the means in our hands to reach God, to know of his ways — and that power is the priesthood delegated to man, which God has given in this dispensation. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that every man will know what that power means. Does it mean anything to you to be able to rebuke the influence of the adversary? If so, it requires that you 109  the Melchizedek priesthood to rebuke that influence. 

If any of you wish to call your neighbor or your friend into your home to assist in administering to any member of your family, and through the power and the right that you have through that priesthood, ask God to heal your wife Or son or your daughter — is that worth anything to you? If so, the priesthood is valuable to you in that respect. You cannot do without it. 

Is it worth anything to know that you can carry a message of truth to the nations of the earth? If so, you must hold the priesthood, or the power of God, to act. 

Is it worth anything to detect the power of evil, the adversary? If so, that priesthood will help you to discern more quickly than any other way. Hence, my brethren, you should desire to hold the priesthood. 

In other words, is it worth anything to you to have at your command and in your possession the means of reaching God and knowing his desires concerning you? If so, the priesthood is valuable to you, and is that means within your command. 

It is useless to say, or sing, or preach that we shall dwell with God the eternal Father forever and ever, and then lie idle. I had an experience at one time as bishop of a ward. Someone came to my home quickly and said, "Will you come and administer to my wife? She is very low." And I asked the nearest elder I could get to accompany me. He was a seventy, but had not been very active in the priesthood. He came with me, and I asked him to anoint the sick. He did so, but said nothing. "Brother," 

I said, "say, 'I anoint you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.' " He said it. We administered to the sister, and she was restored. I had a good chance to instruct the young man afterwards, and he saw the need of knowing what the uses of priesthood were with which God had entrusted him. 

We hear of men being ordained elders to go through the temple to be married for time and eternity — and the object of some of our boys seems to be the bride; but the greater purpose in being ordained is to receive the marvelous power of the priesthood. Without it you cannot receive the blessings of that sacred place; but some of our brethren seem to want that power only because, it is necessary to enable them to go through the House of the Lord. They little understand the obligations they assume. I believe it is the duty of every man who holds this God-given power to learn its uses. 

Brethren and sisters, the power of God is upon the earth. I hope that men holding the priesthood of the living God will learn its uses. Then the keys of the ministering of angels will mean something to them, to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God will mean something to them. I hope that the time will come very quickly when our boys who hold the lesser priesthood will consider it a privilege to go into the homes of the people to exhort them to live right and to pray, to expound the Scriptures to them. When this great conflict is over that we are engaged in, I believe that men who hold the full power of the priesthood will be needed to carry the gospel message to the nations of the earth. I have always been a believer that what God orGENERAL CONFERENCE.  for a certain purpose should be used for that certain purpose. Teachers should be used for teaching the people at ihome; priests should be used as ministers at home. When the lesser priesthood comes into its own, I believe that ward teaching will be no trouble I believe there will be no difficulty in it, and men who hold the higher priesthood will be carrying the message of life to the souls of men. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints and the work they are doing. I re-' joice in the fact that I am a member of the Church. There may be men and women within the sound of my voice who wonder why it is that we testify concerning Joseph Smith. Well, briefly, this power of which I speak, this priesthood which the Latter-day Saints have in their possession, without which man cannot legally act for God, came through Joseph. No one represented God the Father on earth. In fact, men denied revelation, they did not want it. Joseph Smith says that the door of heaven was opened through prayer. God the Father appeared, he brought with him his Son, and he said, "Joseph, this is my beloved Son, hear him." That was the first introduction of his Son since the days of the apostles of old, that God had given to any man. And thus this great work began. It was followed up by this priesthood being restored to men upon the earth. And Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of God. He was what the world may call a lucky man, but he was lucky because he went after luck, and he received the answer to his prayer. Brethren and sisters, Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. President Joseph F. Smith said (I believe in the November number of the Im Era,) concerning Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob : "They live, they are prophets as they were prophets, they are patriarchs as they were patriarchs. They live, and so does Joseph Smith; he is a prophet today, as he was a prophet." He lives, my brethren and sisters, and this work is going forth. He was the instrument of the Lord to begin it in the last days, and it will fill the immensity of space; truth shall reign on the earth, wickedness shall cease, and the world shall know that God lives, I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM S. HARRIS. 

(President of the San Luis Stake of Zion) 

I will take for a text Jesus' lament over Jerusalem, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that stonest the prophets and killest those that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not. Now your house shall be left unto you desolate, until you shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 

Jesus also said, A tree is known by its fruits. "Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles ?" 

I wish to talk to you a few minutes of what the gospel has done for the Mexican people, the Lamanites, the peoples to the south. I have been in nearly every state in Mexico, and have been in Central America, and South America — on the River Sidon, .seen the Land of Zarahemla — seen many of the hieroglyphics and temples and objects of that character, manifesting that 111  has been a great civilization on this land of America. 

I had a conversation with one of the cabinet officers of President Diaz, and took him some of the products of the "Mormon" colonies in Chihuahua, and I will tell you a little of what they did there, the fruits of "Mormon" work, and how the people to the south esteemed it. They are of the blood of Israel, and there is not so much enmity in their hearts toward us and our message as there is in the north, for I have preached in both countries. 

President Diaz had said, "I have robbed your people." And he sent an expert, a German, by the way, to the colonies to investigate. He said, "I have heard so much about those people and the work they are doing, that I want you to go up there secretly. Travel among them, visit them, see them in their homes there, see how they are worshiping, and what they are doing, and come to me again and report." 

There was a national fair before this in the City of Mexico, and I was at that fair. We brought a carload of canned fruit, jellies, apples, butter, cheese, shoes, harness, and quilts, etc. And they gave us a prominent place in the show grounds, and we had our apples beautifully polished and our splendid harnesses and shoes, and everything first class; and when the Mexican people came in — rich people who had gold and diamonds, they opened their eyes and drew up their hands. "Where did this come from ? This is from Mexico ? No, this is from California, or some of the best cities in the Union!" 

California never did outdo us in fruit-raising. We were equal to any fruit country that I ever saw  the world — and I never saw anything nicer than when they came up and we distributed those apples, nearly a carload of them; and we cut our cheese — hundreds of dollars worth of it, and distributed it to those people, and they ate it. And everything they saw they marveled at, and they went away with praises, took the apples and set them on the shelves in their offices, and to the hundreds and thousands of friends that would come there they would say, "That was raised in Mexico," and they would uplift their chins with pride. This is the product — what our people are doing in Mexico. 

I had business with President Diaz, and nearly all of his cabinet, with Madero — and I have been in prison three times, and have had the dagger over my head ready to let fall. I know the evils as well as the good things of the people. Now, in this conversation with the minister of education, L. Fernando, a great lawyer, one of the leading lawyers of the republic, when I took him some fruit and jelly and other things that were sent to him — for the Church finally, through our solicitation, appropriated $200 or $300 to be distributed in gifts to these important people, lawyers and statesmen and great men of the nation, when I took the little gift to him, he said, "Mr. Harris, tell me something about your people and their social relations, for if they can do what I see they appear to have done, I want to know something about them and their system of worship and what they are." 

I was a student then at the National School of Jurisprudence. I was in the sixth year. I was with young men from every part of the GENERAL CONFERENCE. , who had come there to be lawyers, and to be educated. We were studying morality,the laws of right and justice, by Spencer and the famous German authors on morality, and the boys would learn by rote the principles of morality as discussed by Spencer and the leading moralists of the day. I was personally acquainted with nearly all of the three hundred that were in the school, having been there so long, and they were immoral, and I knew they were immoral. 

"Now," I told him, "we are studying in our school (he knew me well) the principles of morality; but Paul says that 'the letter killeth, it is the spirit that giveth light;' and morality — the boys can give you the rules number 1, 2 and 3 better than I can, but they go out and sin against the laws that they are studying and learning; while our little boys, in the Primary Association, where they are sent, and the most capable, pure women and girls in the land take charge each week for one hour, learn that they have a Father and God in heaven, as they have on earth. They are taught to pray, to reverence God, who has ears to hear and a heart that can be touched by the prayers and the supplications of the little ones. Therefore, faith and spirituality is begotten in their little souls. After that, they go to their Mutuals. There the same lessons are being taught and reinforced. Thev go to their Sunday Schools and to their priesthood meetings." I outlined the work of each to him, then that the young ladies and girls on their side have the Young Ladies' Association, and the Relief Society, and then I outlined the work of these. And I said, from  points of view they are great, because of their physical perfection, because of their spiritual, and because of their mental strength — and the most perfect man must combine the three, and he can not be converted unless he has each one developed. 

Now the world is trying to develop the intellectual and the physical to the detriment of the moral and the spiritual, and I say the life of morality is spirituality, and without spirituality there can be no vital living morality. We can talk about Spencer and all the other theorists, but I know and you know, and I can bring your whole company of students here to bear the same testimony* that the morality that we study without spirituality is dead in their lives. 

Now, we teach spirituality to our little ones. We teach them morality, and teach them to sing and pray; and we not only teach them by having others do it, but the little ones are called out by these young or old women, and there they say their prayers. Every one in the association learns to pray, and learns to sing. The esthetic part of their nature is developed in their singing. Another little girl is called up and she recites. Then they play their little games, and are taught to march, to straighten up — and their little physical natures are developed. 

And I explained these things to that great man in the Mexican republic, and when I got up to leave — and he was due at a cabinet meeting with President Diaz — I said, "I have talked longer than I thought I would — I have talked an hour and a half." He did not seem to be uneasy, and when I apologized, he grabbed me with both 113  and thanked me, and said, "You have no need to apologize, for the things that I have heard are so grand and so great." 

Now I want to say to you that it is so with our children, for I am a witness. I was in the mission and presided over the mission for four years. I was the first President of the Relief Society in Mexico, and we set them to work sewing. We organized a little Sunday School, and all these associations, and they began to work; and today you go to their Sunday Schools and their little entertainments and hear their prayers; and you go to the Relief Society and see what they have done; and if you had been there you would have seen that the fruits are just as uplifting, just as splendid with those Mexicans as they are with the Anglo-Saxon, with the Germans, with the Americans, or any other people on the earth. What is it? The gospel has done it, the system that we teach and advocate. 

Now, I bear you my testimony that I know the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, in things temporal, spiritual, moral, and physical. May we be true to it is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER E. FRANK BIRCH. 

(President of the Tintic Stake of Zion) 

My dear friends, I assure you that it is a surprise to me to be called on here today to speak. It reminds me something of a mission field to stand before an audience in the open air.  

You who have been on missions in the world will recall that many times you have been asked if you believed in Christ, and you have  in Christ, and you have asked, "Then why are you preaching to us? We also believe in Christ. What is the difference between your Church and our church ? You are Christians and we are Christians. Why spend your money and your time to preach to us people here?" 

For a moment you wonder, and you stop to think. But if you will think long enough, you will realize the great difference, the wonderful difference. It has been explained here today — the difference of service, the difference between a Church holding the priesthood and a church not holding it. 

There is a quotation in the New Testament by Paul to the Corinthians. In it he says, in substance : Some of you have the gift of healing, some will have the gift of prophecy, some of wisdom, some one thing, some another. I often think of that when I attend the meetings of the different churches in the world. No reflection — it is only a matter of a difference of opinion with them — but I often think of it, when I see one man who prays, one man who preaches, one man who blesses, one man who dojes all in the church. The rest merely stand or sit and listen. 

We know that it is service that makes us in this Church. We know that this Church gives us an opportunity to grow, to serve the Lord, to exercise his priesthood. 

I am working at the present time at a mining camp, in Tintic. I can bear testimony that this principle of service and of the priesthood is making thousands of good men and women. We have an opportunity there to meet the younger people who come from the "valley towns" as we term them, from your GENERAL CONFERENCE. , from other cities in this stake and other stakes. They come there and the first thing we do, we get them to meeting. And they do not attend long before they are being encouraged to attend to meetings. They soon become ward teachers. Then you will find them holding the higher priesthood, presiding in the organizations, bishops of the wards, and so on; they are growing and improving. Now I do not exceed the truth when I say that we have over a thousand at least who are keeping the Word of Wisdom, who hold prayer in their homes, who are good and true to their families, who are growing to be intelligent, good, true, honorable citizens of the United States. And what has done it? I can see the greatest thing that has done it — service in the priesthood, service in the Church. 

When I attend other churches, I often think of the young lady who was asked if she could play the piano. She said she did not know, she had never tried. I think of the many people in the world. How do you know that you have the gift of prophecy, as Paul said some have? How do you know that you have the gift of wisdom, the gift of healing, if you never take part? If you never try, if you never cultivate those gifts that God has given you, you will never know it. 

I rejoiced when I heard today of the great work that is being done in Mexico and in the mission fields, the work done in other stakes, and think of the work that is being done in the mining camps, in the Tintic mining camp. A few years ago there were very few Latter-day Saints in the Tintic camp. A few years ago it was said that they could not work there, they would  have them; but our people now form thirty-five or forty per cent of that population; and I am thankful to say that they are preaching the gospel by their exemplary lives, by their cleanliness, their purity, their patriotism to our great government. And today our people are requested, almost more than they can attend to, to look after the great things that need looking after during these extraordinary times. 

I thank the Lord that I have the privilege to speak to the people on the principles of life and salvation, and rejoice in the greatness of the gospel. I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints, bless the honest in heart the world over, and I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

By brethren and sisters: You have had the privilege of hearing fron men whom God has chosen in this dispensation to represent a number of the stakes of Zion, and also a voice from the mission field. I think that you must have been impressed as I have been impressed, that all is well with Zion when such men with such testimonies are in the lead and guiding and directing the affairs of this Church. I rejoice this morning in the testimonies which we have heard, in the work that is being done, for I know that it is indeed the work of God. I know, too, that the work of God is one that harmonizes with the spirit of human liberty, as was stated by the first speaker here. 

What are the things that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ stands for? It is to make men free, not 115  only by having possession of their civil rights, but to make them free indeed, free from that terrible bondage which is the bondage of sin — for we know that the whole world lieth in sin and under the bondage of sin. And the truth that has been revealed from heaven will make men free. And it is that truth that is being promulgated and proclaimed to all the world through the agency of the priesthood to which also reference has been made. The men whom you have heard form a part of that, and are the instruments in the hands of God of carrying this messag^ to the world, that our Father's children may be made free from the sins of the world. And the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, because it wages war on sin and undertakes to relieve our Father's children of the consequences of that sin. 

This government of which we form a part has been established for the same purpose, that men and women might be free, and that is the reason we say that the Constitution of this land was inspired of God for the same purpose, that we might have meted out to us a measure of civil liberty. That is what we are enjoying in this country, and we are willing to extend it to all of our Father's children, wherever they dwell. We read in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal, and that they are possessed with certain inalienable rights-, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This is what the gospel stands for. Right to live upon the earth is the boon from heaven, which emanates from God, the privilege of living upon the earth. That  life, but what is life without liberty? Our great patriot, Patrick Henry, said, "Give me liberty, or give me death." That is what we feel in regard to this system of human liberty and freedom. These things may not be valued by those who understand them not, they think it is a trifling thing, but to us these are precious gifts worthy of offering our lives and sending our boys out into the mission field for. Then let our hearts go out with them and let us be willing to do our part to sustain them, to provide them with the necessaries, and let us contribute of our means. 

We are called upon to contribute to the Third Liberty Loan, and there are some with plenty of means who are loath to lend to the Government. Let me tell you, my brethren and sisters, every one of us, the time will come when we must give all that we are able to get (or at least loan it). Which would you sooner do? Lend it to the United States Government, that has been established by the inspiration of God that men might be free, or pay it in tribute to the German government without getting any interest on it, that you might be brought into servitude? Which would you do? One or the other will come to us, you may be sure. Let us then be loyal American citizens, and contribute freely to this Liberty Loan by subscribing to the bonds of this government that holds up the banner of liberty to all the world, the precious thing that the gospel stands for. May the Lord help us to appreciate it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Benediction was pronounced by Captain C. M. Hawser, of Georgia. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 


