Second Outdoor
07 04 1918


A second outdoor meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information Building, at 2 p. m., Elder Charles H. Hart, of the First Council of Seventy, presiding. 

The music and singing were furnished by the Ensign Male Chorus. 

The chorus and congregation sang: "Let Zion in her beauty rise. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. E. Evans. 

The chorus and congregation sang: "Lo, the Gentile chain is broken." 

ELDER LEWIS ANDERSON. 

(President of South Sanpete Stake of Zion.) 

My dear brethren, sisters, and friends, I do not know whether I shall be able to make you hear what I may have to say to this vast congregation gathered upon these grounds. I am very grateful to my heavenly Father for the blessings that we enjoy through his Holy Spirit, poured out in great abundance upon the Saints who have been gathered in this Conference. The blessings of our heavenly Father have come to the people in these valleys of the mountains. His gracious care has been over them. Prosperity has attended the efforts put forth by the people who have gathered from every land and clime, and God has been merciful unto them. He has granted unto them health and strength, the comforts of life. 

My reflections have gone out to the time when I first saw this spot, in 1859. The first worship that I attended was in a little building that was located here in the southwest corner of this block, as I remember it. There were none of these elegant buildings erected at that time — the holy temple here, the tabernacle, and these other magnificent buildings of worship erected for the 135  and blessing of the Saints and the preaching of the gospel. All these have come since that day. I remember vividly the instructions given by the late President Brigham Young upon several occasions, not only in the services held in the tabernacle, but I also remember vividly the instructions given by him on the tours that he made of the various settlements of the Saints in- the southern part of the country, where I was reared. 

I remember the counsel and instructions of a practical nature given unto the gathered people. I remember distinctly the counsel in relation to being self-sustaining, frugal, and building up homes and cities in this land of Zion. Those practical words of instruction have been followed up, as we heard, too, in the opening session of the Conference from our beloved President Joseph F. Smith. 

I believe in a practical religion. I believe in that which shall build up, advance, comfort and bless man upon the earth. I believe in that which shall bring about the preaching: of the gospel of the Son of God, both at home and abroad, and aid this great work that God has established in these the latter days. I am thankful for the work that has been accomplished in the building of temples in our midst, in which the gospel of salvation can reach the living, and the dead as well, for the gospel is not all to the living, it is also to the dead. I believe in the literal scriptural sayings of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his apostles. I believe they are literally true, and that our Master, when he went into the spirit world, preached the gospel to those who had gone before, who were some disobedient in the days of Noah when the ark was preparing. I believe in the mission of the elders of Israel who have gone before. I believe that the gospel is to be preached on the other side as well as on this side. I also believe that it is the duty of Latter-day Saint elders to preach the gospel in every land, clime, to every people — for I believe that the Lord has said that when this mission shall be finished that the end will come. The testimony of the message of life and salvation must go to all people of the earth, before the consummation of that which has been spoken by the prophets of the Lord. 

The gospel means a great deal to us, not only in the word but in the living of it. I believe it is right to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in his mission and being. I testify to you of this knowledge, and I am grateful for the testimony T have that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Son. I am thankful, my brethren and s : sters, for the principles of the gospel wherein repentance is brought to those who need repentance; and I am grateful for the blessingfs of baptism for the remission of sins, the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holv Ghost. These are principles of salvation, and no one, according to the holy scriptures, can enter into the kingdom of God without these ordinances being administered unto them. This is the word of the Lord, and these principles are plain scripture. Thev are set forth for our guidance. But these are not all that Latter-day Saints need to observe. They are the ordinances that are reauired. Then there is the living- of the gospel of the Son of God, there is the putting into GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the teachings which he gave unto men while he was upon the earth. These sometimes are difficult for us to observe as we ought to. If we did so, we would be the best people upon the earth. Notwithstanding-, I say, that we tvould be the best, we are the best people upon the earth, inasmuch as we observe the commandments of the Lord. Ours is a practical religion, it is an every-day religion — with us it is not simply going to the house of worship upon the Sabbath day. That is required of Latterday Saints, and a great many of them forget this great blessing that they enjoy of observing the Sabbath day and assembling in the worship of our heavenly Father. I believe that wherein we do not observe the day set apart for the worship of him, we become spiritually sick, and become dead branches, as it were; and the Spirit of the Lord will withdraw from us, inasmuch as we do not observe this commandment of the Lord. 

I have had a great deal of pleasure, my brethren and sisters, in the work of the salvation for the dead. I have had the honor of associating with my brethren wfto have presided over the Manti temple from the beginning, in 1888 — President Daniel H. Wells and President Anthon H. Lund, President John D. McAllister, President John B. Maiben, and others who have been there. I had great pleasure in associating with and partaking of the spirit with which they were imbued. I remember very vividly the instructions of our beloved President Daniel H. Wells, who was the first president of that temple. I remember what he said relating to the preaching of the Prophet Joseph 

Smith in the city of Nauvoo, and of his own conversion into the Church of Christ. It will be remembered that at that time he was not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but a staunch friend of the people of God who had assembled there. And he said upon one occasion that there was nothing in the gospel of Jesus Christ that so appealed to him as the principle of the redemption of the dead, brought forth by the revelations of God through the Prophet Joseph. He had, he said, gone to many denominations. His father had not been a member of any church. His anxious question was as to his father. Where would he be? Of course, he was answered that there was no redemption for him; he was entirely lost — 'his father and mother were lost, and they would not associate together! That was the word that he received. But the Prophet said that we should be joined together with tho.se of our kindred who had gone before; that there was salvation for those who had gone behind the veil, for the dead; and the gospel was being preached to them the same as to the living. We have an abundance of scripture relating to that matter, which gave him comfort and joy, and which upheld him, and he said, "Where my father is and my mother, there is where I desire to be, and with my kindred." 

That is the doctrine of Christ, who gave it. His apostles who followed him, also preached it. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the blessings of our Father unto us as his people; and in the gifts and blessings that we enjoy in this land. I am thankful for the freedom that exists here, the blessings 137  have been poured out upon this land of Zion, land of liberty; and I trust that we will be found worthy, and in the ranks of those who shall defend the principles of right and liberty all the days of our lives. It has been said in times past that as a people we have not been loyal; we have been falsely charged with not being a loyal people to our Government. I do not know of anything that speaks louder than the works that have been and are being done by the Latter-day Saints today in offering our sons and our daughters to go to uphold and sustain the principles of right and liberty; and in contributing of substance freely for the cause that we believe to be right, and for the upholding and sustaining of the great Constitution of our land. By the blessings of God, no king shall rule upon this land! God has decreed it, and I know that his words will not fail. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this opportunity to bear testimony to you who have come here to receive the word of the Lord. The opportunity and privilege which is afforded us to assemble as members of the Church, to receive instructions at these conferences, will at the end of the ordinary life prove a liberal education in the vital things of life. And I do most sincerely hope that we shall not only come here to listen, but to believe that which we hear, and that we shall adopt it into  in our lives. I have observed that it is easy to listen, and that it is difficult to practice that which we know we ought to do. I have occasion to know that many times we have to be reminded and told over and over again the things we ought to do and we know we ought to do them, but we do not have the courage to do them. I remember a physician advising a certain man that if he did not quit the use of liquor, he was going to suffer a premature death. The man who was then advised ceased the use of liquor; but the physician who had administered the admonition died a drunkard himself, notwithstanding he knew he was doing wrong. What we lack is the moral courage to carry into execution our convictions. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that many of us Latter-day Saints have treated very lightly the instructions and the counsel that have been given to us by the leaders of this Church, we have not profited by their advice, and we will reap only that which we have sown. We shall discover that we will not escape the chastening hand of God, after having been taught and admonished, and we shall find God will not be mocked. 

I believe that this is the day of judgment. I believe that we are approaching a time when men and women cannot mock God and live in open defiance of his law without soon coming to answer for the responsibility that rests upon us to act as we please. I believe, brethren and sisters, that we live in the most important age the world has ever seen, a time foreseen by the prophets of old whose minds were lit up by inspiration when they GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and talked of our day. There is not a man or boy here with whom Abraham would not have exchanged places. There is not a man that any of the worthy prophets of God would not rather have changed places with and lived in this day of wonderful opportunity, this day of the consummation of God's great purposes in the earth. They would rather have been where you are than where they were. 

I think sometimes we live too close to wonderful things to r eaHy realize them. I often have the opportunity of standing on Portland Heights, west of the city of Portland, and looking sixty miles east. On a beautiful, clear day, I can see rising majestic above the Cascade range of mountains, Mt. Hood, eternally crowned with snow, and its very base is the summit of the mountains — rising 11,0:00 feet to a distance approaching the storms' home; and I always go away feeling more inspired. My backbone is a little stiffer, and I feel a little more that spirit of worship and adoration of God; for not only do the heavens declare the glory of God, but his works around and about us, if we will only open our eves, preach sermons to us. And 'I always wanted to go up to the mountain. I had the opportunity a few years ago, and when I reached the base of the mountain, the 6,000 foot elevation, I thought I would be filled by the wonder of that scene — but instead, I was up against the face of a great cliff that rose thousands of feet above me, and I could only see about a hundredth part of the mountain, and I was disappointed; but as I passed through that experience I said. 

"How that is like life : we are often too close to the big and the great and the grand things to really realize and understand them. We have to get a little further away to get a proper view and understanding. I understood then why it was that he who stands out as the most illustrious character of all the ages, who is the Summit of all peaks, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was not understood by his own generation. They were too close to him to see him. You have to get nundreads of years away before his greatness, his majesty, and his power can be seen and comprehended by the multitude. And I understood, too, how it is that the rrophets have not been without honor, except in their own country and in their own time. It has taken one or two generations to elapse before men began to see the worth and the merit of those who have been the world's greatest benefactors. And so it has been with " Mormonism," and with the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was too close to the men and the women of his own time. They felt with him as they did with Jesus. Wasn't Jesus the carpenter's son? Didn't they know his father and his brothers? Just so men thought that they knew all about Joseph Smith, and that he did not have a message of any particular consequence to them! And so they chose to turn their faces away from him. But as we recede from his day, and contemplate the man and his message, we discover that he begins to rise to his own place and position, for he will stand as one of the pinnacles in the midst of the children of men; and that which he did, men shall yet come to acknowledge was 139  of God, for the salvation not only of a few Latter-day Saints, but of the whole world. When the Lord has a message to give, he does not ask us, "Whom would you like me to speak through?" It is his business and right, to take a shepherd, a tax collector, or if he chooses a farmer's boy, like Joseph Smith. That is his business. 

And the big thing is not after all the man through whom the message comes, but the message itself. Joseph's was a message of repentance to this generation. The Lord Almighty is deeply concerned over the men and the women of our own time. He has been pleading with us as Latter-day Saints to do the work he wants us to do; but we have sometimes been very stubborn and indifferent to the message, and we have had to be forced, by circumstances that surrounded us, to do the things the Lord wanted us to do, because we were unwilling otherwise. But he has in his mercy N hedged up the way and provided the means by which we would move where he wants us to, and do the things he wants us to do. 

And as he has been dealing with us, so is he dealing with the nations of the earth. And so I have this testimony — that God loves the whole world, and will save all men if they would repent — and yet not one single soul will escape the consequence of wrong doing, except he repent. I say that this is a day of judgment; and I want to testify to you that the judgments of Almighty God are only beginning, and the war will go on, the judgments of God will go on until his purposes shall be accomplished in the earth, which is the humiliation,  repentance of the children of men. 

I want to testify that what Elder Whitney said this morning with reference to God compelling men to obedience, is true; this has been witnessed many times in this generation. 

I recall a circumstance that happened some six weeks ago in British Columbia, one of the conferences of our mission. A certain man had been approached to obtain permission to have his daughter baptized. The wife and some of the children belonged to the Church. He first gave it and then rejected the elders and withdrew his permission. They labored with him two or three nights in succession trying to persuade him not only to give permission for the daughter to be baptized, but to be baptized himself; and at last he became bitter, abused them, refused to have anything more to do with them, and said he was sorry he ever met the "Mormon" elders. When they left him they told him that they had borne witness and testimony to him of the truth, that he knew enough to condemn him, that they would be witnesses against him in the day of judgment, and that the Lord would deal with him. He simply laughed and said, "I am not afraid of the consequences, don't you worry at all about the judgment." The next night about 9 o'clock he was stricken with a malady that the physicians who were called could not diagnose, only that he was dying, that he was filled with pain from head to foot and he writhed in agony, and refused to respond to the treatment that was administered. He suffered for hours, until his proud, haughty GENERAL CONFERENCE.  was broken. And then he turned to his wife and said, "You g"o find those 'Mormon' elders." It was one o'clock in the morning when the brethren were brought to his bedside; he began to cry when they came in, and said, "I have been in hell this night. I have been taken at my own word, and God has punished me." And he humbly begged their forgiveness and said, "I will not only give consent for my daughter to be baptized, but I will be baptized myself." They laid their hands upon him and blessed him, and his malady left him. He arose the next day, and with his daughter was baptized. I saw him three days later, and heard his testimony, and he said : "As Paul was stricken on the road to Damascus, so have I been stricken, and I am now willing to do what the Lord wants me to do." 

I want to say that while the Lord may be swift in some instances and slow in others, just as sure as we live, he will not be mocked; and we shall come to judgment. We may hide our sins, we may try to cover them up, but every one of us shall come face to face with the judgment, sooner or later. O, may the Lord be merciful to us and chastise us before we have to go too far. 

I spoke yesterday concerning the war and its effect as I witnessed it in some of our Canadian territory, where we have seen the spirit of repentance coming over the people, and men began to enquire after the gospel. When our elders came to the homes of the people where the son or the father had been taken — for there was a terrible loss of life in the first companies of Canadian soldiers who went to Europe, and there was scarcely a block where  was not somebody weeping for the loss of their dead — the thing they wanted to talk about was the dead loved one. The sweet comfort of salvation for the dead, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, has brought consolation to many thousands of people; and many began to pray to God who never prayed before. When a man begins to pray, he begins to repent and turn from the wicked things which he has been in the habit of f'oing. A spirit like this took possession of the people until we had an increase in baptisms of ten times as many as in any preceding year. I am expecting to see that same thing start all over this and other lands. 

We received the word of God not only for the Latter-day Saints, but for the whole world, to avoid the use of intoxicating drinks, to observe a more strict diet in the use of meat, not to use tea and coffee; and only the Latter-day Saints have believed this doctrine. The result of obeying it has been that when our boys go to the cantonments, their physical examination stands higher than any other class of men. When some of our boys from one of our "Mormon" settlements in Idaho recently passed their examinations, the physician said, "Where did you boys come from?" they told him. "Well," said he, "I have never examined as clean a bunch of men in my life." There were not one among them that was not physically sound and perfectly clean. 

A major in the army, a "Mormon" boy, said to me: "I never appreciated the teachings of my father and mother until I came out here. I did not pay much atten141  to the Church, but when I came here and found the truths I had been taught were the very things now demanded of me by the officers of the army, I have a greater respect for my Church and parentage than I have ever experienced before. 

One of the greatest commercial advertisers, and organizers of commercial bodies, spoke in our chapel at Portland a few years ago, he had experience not only among the Latter-day Saints, but all over the world. He turned to a company of "Mormon" missionaries, and said, "If you want to win the laurels and the plaudits of the world in the future, you just stay by the standards of your fathers and mothers, and you will come out on top with your colors flying. Do not abandon the things that they have held dear." He died last year, but this was his testimony, and this is my testimony to you, brethren and sisters. It is being demonstrated in the cantonments where our "Mormon" boys are now reporting for service. But the beginning of the reformation, and the change that the Lord wants to spread all over trie world, until the whole world shall keep the Word of Wisdom, too, is coming. We have been preaching prohibition, the abstinence from the use of liquors — and I want to tell you that it would have taken fifty years to have accomplished the change among the nations of the earth that has come during this war. The Lord has forced the circumstances of nations so that they are abandoning the use of liquor. 

We will come to the day when we will abandon the use of tobacco. Instead of sending train loads to our boys to undermine their health,  will be loading those trains with food for them; and instead of using the acres that are now planted to the raising of tobacco, we will raise wheat and other .substances that shall be needed. We will come to the day when we will have to conserve this land for raising of more beneficial things; so the leaven is working and God's purposes are being accomplished in the nations of the earth through the chastisement that is coming. 

Now, brethren and .sisters, I do not think there is an experience through which we have passed but that has its lesson. What is the lesson to us ? The lesson to the Latter-day Saints is this, that we who have been called and chosen to be the ensign, the pattern, the example to the world, .shall set our houses in order, that we shall turn our faces toward the Lord. And we know many of us have neglected him. We know we have failed to keep the commandments of the Lord. We must repent, for if we do not repent, we shall be chastised too, for the Lord does not look upon sin and wickedness in a Latter-day Saint with any degree of allowance, any more than in anybody else; but because of our knowledge, greater responsibility rests upon our shoulders. 

Brethren and sisters, be not alarmed or disturbed if our boys go into battle. Be not concerned if some of them lay down, their lives — for if so, it shall be that we too need to be touched, and have our hearts turned back to the things of God that some of us have almost forgotten. In our mad zeal in the accumulation of the things of this world, we have almost lost .sight of the purposes that God had in bringGENERAL CONFERENCE.  our fathers to these valleys of the mountains, giving them more precious things than gold and silver. The blessed heritage of the gospel has been entrusted into the hands of the Latter-day Saints. The world has riches beyond anything we have, but we have the one precious thing that they do not have, and it is worth more than all other things in the world — the saving principles, the priesthood, the virtue and the power of the gospel of the Son of God. And that is the thing the world will desire more than they want anything else,, and they will come to it. Shall we be prepared to give it to them? We will be, if we are wise; and this is the day when I say we ought to set our houses in order, a day when we ought to repent. And if we need chastisement, it will come to us, and sorrow will come to us, only for the purpose of turning our hearts to the Lord in humility and faith to obtain and maintain the blessings God has promised to the faithful. 

My brethren and sisters, I have a testimony as I have labored among the soldier boys who have been in these camps, that their faith is growing. I have listened to their testimonies, I have had the pleasure of ordaining to the Melchizedek Priesthood a score or more of them, some were not even deacons, when they went into the war, but they hav been reading, associating with their companions, returned missionaries, and corresponding with their bishops, and thev now seek the priesthood; and I never have been more inspired in my life than in laying my hands upon their heads' and blessing them and conferring the priesthood upon them, and I  never seen men more eager than some of them are. Do not fear for them, for my testimony is they are going to be on their mettle and keep the commandments of God, they are preparing themselves if necessary for the great sacrifice. 

When General Green, the commander of the Ninety-first Division at American Lake, returned recently from France, he wanted every man in that cantonment to obtain a Bible, and said, "I want them to read over and over the story of the God-man who died for men, that you too may learn how to die for men." His statement to me was that he wanted our boys to have all the benefits of their church, all of its instruction and inspiration possible; this spirit is dominant among those men, and I say to you that I have a testimony that the majority of our boys will come back again. 

The Lord Almighty made a promise that in the last .days he would mark his servants, even as the lintels of the doors were marked in ancient Israel, and the destroying- angel who passed by spared those houses, so shall his servants be marked in their foreheads and spared destruction in the last days. I may not see the mark but the destroying angels shall, and in the midst of battle his servants shall receive protection. 

We have had some ten of the brethren, members of the Church, in this battle since the very beginning, three years ago. They have been in all manner of .difficulties. A shell exploded near one of them and threw him forty feet in the air, and he fell on a pile of bricks. Three vertebrae were dislocated, but he recovered. They have been 143  the midst of fire, but not one has lost his life, although they have been wounded. One of the brethren told me that he was in charge of a squad of men carrying the stretchers that picked the men up right where they dropped, in the battle field; and he was in the midst of bursting shells for hours, and he said, "I never went a step of the way that there was not a prayer in my heart to save those poor wounded men and .save my own men and escape, and many times the inspiration of the Lord came to .me, 'Take this road out,' 'Stop there,' 'Turn there,' and immediately I have seen where I stood; a shell drop that tore everything to fragments, and we would have gone into eternity." 

I do not think the Lord will take hold of the shell and turn it away from your boy, but I think the Lord will put it into the heart of your boy to be in a place of security, and those who command him will place him where he will do his 'duty and where he will be safe; and the angels of the Lord shall be there, and it is my testimony that a majority of them shall come back home. 

I listened to the testimony of Harry Lauder, the great Scotch comedian. I heard him make a statement recently in Portland, and I give it to you as an evidence of that changing sentiment that is coming over the children of men. To young men usually death seems a long way off, but not so to the soldier boy. When we get old, we know we mav be sick and near the time of death, but these tens of thousands of young men, feel that it may be only a month or two and they will be slumbering in France, They want to know what shall hap when their young life shall be cut short; so many are now interested, and we have baptized three of these young men, as a result of our labors in the cantonment at American Lake. 

I now see some of the comforts and blessings of fathers and mothers having more than one son, for if I have ever seen a thing that is heart-breaking, it is to go into a home where there is only one child, one boy, and he is gone, and they are all alone. There is comfort 'left for those who have more than one son, if accidents do come; but there are some families whose names will be wiped out, they have had only one child. Harry Lauder had but one child, never thought he would perish, but he did, and when the blow fell upon him, he was dazed, and said for days he was beside himself in grief. "At times during those first days," he said, "I almost questioned the justice and wisdom of a God who would allow such a thing to happen." And then he said : 

All this time while I had been raging against the cruel fates which had taken my son, there had been comfort and peace in store for me, and I had not known it. And that comfort and peace lay in my belief in God and a future life beyond this sphere. 

Now, while the pain and grief had been blinding my eyes, God had been waiting- patiently for the first sharp agony to pass away, and when it did he gently lifted the veil from my eyes and showed me the promised land beyond. T mean that suddenly I realized that I had not seen the last of John, and that we were sure to meet in another world. 

Oh, that I could convey unto you the healing balm that that thought was to my soul! I would that I could picture to you the joy of the thought that T was to see my John again at some future date, just as if GENERAL CONFERENCE.  had simply gone on a long journey, and was waiting for his mother and me to come to him. And I brought his image before me, and imagined him holding out his arms to his mother and myself to fold us within his loving embrace, and in the joy created by that picture I was able to assuage some of my pain and distress, and return to an almost normal state of mind. 

And because of the great comfort that my belief and faith in the future life have brought me, I have become humbly grateful a,nd thankful that I never mocked the name of God or cast, him from me at any period of my life. Because I know, I am convinced, that he has helped me to bear this great blow by making my conviction that this life is' not the end stronger than ever. 

This spirit is sweeping- over the world. And now the doctrine we believe that we shall live again, and be the same individual after death as in this life, though at one time believed only by few others than the Latterday Saints, has become the source of comfort and happiness among the children of men, and now they know they would not be satisfied if they could not meet the very John they laid away. They want to see him in the exact form and features, the very same individual. And now the blessed hope of salvation for the dead will come naturally into their lives. O, how wonderful are the provisions of our Father to meet all the emergencies of life — its joys, its sorrows, its distresses. Here is a gospel that meets all emergencies. 

But unless we keep the commandments of God, we shall not reap the results of joy, and happiness, and security, and safety in the midst of troubles that are to come. My brethren and sisters, this is my testimony, that God lives, that this is  hour of judgment, the day of repentance, and that men will be forced to yield even through much sorrow and affliction if not otherwise, for it is the time when they must yield to the will and the purposes of Almighty God. 

May he bless us and help us as members of his Church to stand in our place and discharge our duty, and come out victorious whether we live or whether we die, that we shall be prepared to come into his presence and into that realm where we shall meet the blessed, and redeemed, and saved in his celestial kingdom, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ORVIL S. THOMPSON. 

(President of Millard Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters: I am overwhelmed with the sense of the responsibility of this moment. I think I have never before been so thoroughly impressed with the responsibility that attaches to an elder of the Church in occupying this position, as I have been during the sessions of this conference. The thought has come to me that here are men and women who have traveled great distances, from Canada, Arizona, Mexico, Idaho, our surrounding states, and from the furthermost points in our own state.who have come up here to be instructed. And how brief and how precious is the time in which to recieve the many instructions given! So, I pray, my brethren and sisters, and ask your faith and support, that the time I have been allotted shall not be wasted, but that the Lord shall inspire that which I may be led to say. 

I wish to express my approval, 145  hearty approval, of the spirit and business action taken in this conference from the beginning until this moment. I want to express my approval of the selection; of the man who has been called to fill the vacancy in the quorum of the Twelve Apo.stles, caused by the death of Elder Hyrum M. Smith. I have known Richard Lyman! for many years. I bear record of his virtues, of the uprightness of his life, and of his ability. I see in him a worthy son of an illustrious sire, worthy to carry on the splendid work left by his father. Since the death of Elder Smith, questions have come to me frequently, "Who do you suppo.se will be the new apostle?" It is a natural curiosity that comes into our minds on these occasions. But in answer to that, universally I have said, "It is not my business to choose, not my business to select, not my business to nominate — it is only my business to be in a position of faith and confidence in regard to the leaders of my Church, that shall lead me to sustain and support any one who shall be selected under the inspiration of the Lord, through his servants whose duty and privilege it is to nominate to these important positions. 

That faith and confidence and devotion which I desire to show to the authorities of the Church I extend also in a very large measure to the authorities of our Nation in this hour of our national crisis, that I shall not destroy their influence by destructive criticism, but rather that I may help them if possible,, by my helpful work and sympathy. 

I rejoice in the testimonies of the conference, in the splendid instructions, at the opening session, by 

President Joseph F. Smith; and I have thought that if the Latter-day Saints had obeyed the instructions that were given in the early days of the Church, in the conservation of their resources and in the patronizing of home institutions inaugurated for the manufacture of the things necessary for the support and comfort of the people, that we would indeed be in a splendid condition at this day and time, and the necessity of teaching conservation and supporting home industry would hardly be necessary among this people. 

I thought of the splendid work in the past of the Relief Society, of the thousands and thousands of bushels of grain stored in the granaries of our people by the officers and members of that organization — of the instructions given by President Brigham Young and with what enthusiasm his counsel was taken up in the early days of the Church by the sisters. But we went along in a kind of a haphazard easy-going way, the necessity for that grain in the future seemed to grow more distant, we lost interest, the wheat was sold, the money invested in other things. The thought came to us that with the increased means of transportation, with our immense resources of land and water, there never could come a time again when men and women would suffer for the necessities of life, for the staff of life, the bread necessary for the support of the body. 

We took up with the idea of the world, as announced just previous to the outbreak of the great war by a great educator, even within the walls of our Tabernacle, that a great international war for the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  was an impossibility, because men had become too intelligent, the financial magnates of the earth would not finance another great struggle, and we might never expect to be engaged in another great conflict. But the Lord had declared that the people would be chastened, and one of the means of chastening was through the effects of war. And it has come — and the benefits of those early teachings are now more apparent to us than they have ever been in the history of this people. 

I rejoice in the testimony of Elder Melvin J. Ballard in regard to the condition of our soldier boys located in the cantonments of our country. The United States Government issues daily an official bulletin, which contains a descriptions of the orders and activities of those located at the seat of the Government. One of the items which I usually read with interest each week, in this official bulletin, is the health conditions of our soldier boys in the cantonments in the United States; and the particular feature that I have paid attention and interest to is that which refers to the moral condition of our young men who are in training for the defense of our country. There is a list given of the various diseases and ailments which drive men into the hospitals each week — so many cases of pneumonia, so many cases of scarlet fever, so many cases of other diseases which affliict our boys — and among these, so many that enter the hospital on account of breaking of the laws of purity and virtue, an average perhaps of from 1200 to 1500 "of the latter class within the cantonments of the United States each week. I have  occasion to notice the comparison as between Camp Kearny and American Lake and other cantonments throughout the country, as they compare with the entrance into the hospital from these causes; and I rejoice to say that in these places where the men are assembled from these intermountain states and where the "Mormon" boys come from chiefly, that we find the lowest percentage of those who go into the hospitals from the breaking of the laws of virtue and personal morality. It is a testimony to me that the teachings of the parents have had effect in the lives of our young men, and that they have carried the principles of virtue and honesty and uprightness and honor into the service of their country. I rejoice that this is true. 

My brethren and sisters, I have confidence and faith in the young men of Zion. I think they will not be recreant to the responsibility and obligations that are upon them, they will not bring disgrace upon their parents many of whom have come from foreign lands and established themselves in the tops of these mountains, and have taught correct principles to their children. I would be a .despicable character indeed were I recreant to the name of my honest old Scotch grandfather, the only one of a large family who was touched by the influence of the spirit of the gospel, who left his home and friends and family, all that he had, for the gospel's sake, and came to this country. I would indeed be a despicable character if I should be recreant to the memory of my grand-mother, who came from the highlands of Scotland, and whose body was left in one of the temporary abiding places 147 

of the Saints, in their journey to this land. I would be a despicable character indeed if I should be recreant to the sacrifice made by my °Tand-father and my grand-mother in laying the foundation so that I might live here in peace and plenty, enjoying the society of the ser— f s of God. As President Smith delivered that splendid testimony that here within these mountain fastnesses is the power and authority to act in the name of God, my soul was thrilled with the truth of his testimony, and I repeat it, and bear it unto you at this time, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER PETER G. JOHNSTON. 

(Of the Church Auditing Committee.) 

My brethren and sisters, in the humility of my heart, I earnestly desire your sympathy and faith, that I may speak the truth. 

This is an historic spot, the "gates of Zion," where 

Zion stands with hills surrounded — Zion, kept by power divine; 

All her foes shall be confounded, Though the world in arms combine; 

Happy Zion, happy Zion, What a favored lot is thine! 

and we will feel the inspiration of that verse and thank God that our lot is cast here. 

No doctrine or article of faith do we teach our children more sacredly than that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of this Country are inspired of God the eternal Father; and therefore they must of necessity square with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it might be well to examine into the truth of that statement for a moment. For example, the cor upon which American liberty is built, the very rock in which the flag staff of equal privileges is planted, are these words : 

We hold these truths to be selfevident, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that, to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. 

Look at that for a moment carefully. "All men are created equal," say the fathers of the country, holding it out as self-evident to every thinking man, making a statement that all the world, if they desired to candidly judge the cause of America at that time, could see what was the truth. Well, is it true? Certainly, as God lives it is true, and the Kaiser will discover it is true, and the powers of the earth have felt the truth of it, and they have said, as John Jaques said: 

The sceptre may fall from the despot's grasp, 

When with winds of stern justice he copes, 

But the pillar ,of truth will endure to the last, 

And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. 

Let him or any other autocrat or despot, listen to that, for anent that stands the doctrine declared by autocracy that God gives to one man the special right to rule others. That is not true, that comes from another source, with which we have in the past had to deal. 

There have been other wars than this, and we have taken part in one of them, in the heavens, when there GENERAL CONFERENCE.  presented to us the identical doctrine, not of German "kultur," but that we should be saved whether we would or no. And we said, "No, we reject the doctrine." Lucifer, the master of it, and the designer of it, with a third part or thereabouts of the hosts of heaven, were thrust out because of that autocratic feeling, that he wanted all the glory, and to save us whether we would or no. And we will thrust that doctrine out again, because we are free men! 

Thank God for the declaration that all men are created equal and endowed by their Creator with these certain privileges. Oh, how magnificently that squares with the statement of the Prophet Joseph to Mr. Wentworth, when he asked for something that would express the faith of the Latter-day Saints. It begins this way: "We believe in God the Eternal Father." Yes, and the Declaration of Independence believes in the same truth and advocates it to the work!; and the framers of the Declaration, with a firm reliance upon divine Providence for the support of that truth, pledged their all, including their sacred honor in its maintenance. It will stand, no matter what the cost, because God the Father has brought forth the truth in this land that" he prepared for the restoration of the law of human liberty, and the law of eternal liberty, the perfect law of liberty. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ must needs have such a government to come forward under, and for that reason, it was revealed and brought forth in this goodly land; and, as has been said before, it can be said aagin, when the time comes in which the kingdom of God shall be^- rule upon  earth, the flag of this country, the flag representing liberty and equal rights, will proudly float in the breeze, hoisted aloft by those who have the power and right to defend its sanctity. 

There is an inspiration in the sight of your faces. There is the belief that comes from my heart, that I feel you realize and have the testimony of this great truth, that it is unto God the Eternal Father we look for protection. It has been declared in the history of this country, as has already been made reference to by one of the speakers, that no king shall ever reig'n upon this land, save He whose right it is to reign — provided, however, that the people of this land will fear God and give glory to him and serve him. It is not necessary to go into the sacred history of this country, the Book of Mormon, to find that spirit — it has permeated the leaders of this land and the men that God has raised up for the preservation of human liberty; and the great Commoner, Lincoln, standing on Gettysburg, dedicating the field there for the resting place of those who had given their last full measure — if yon will remember the words, the inspiration of them will come to you, when he said that it was "for us, the living" — think of it, whoever reads that will be those who live — "for us, the living, to ,see to it that this Nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom." He understood, he realized the necessity of fearing God and giving glorv to him — and in the dedication of that field, and in the dedication of us to the purpose of the preservation of liberty in the earth, he benueathed to us the privilege of living under God, in order that the 149 

"government of the people" might 'not perish from the earth. 

And the same inspiration comes down to this good day when the President of the United States said, "God helping, we can do none other than strive for the establishment of the principles that give us life." And in keeping with the same spirit, he said, ''the purpose is to make the world safe for this principle of equal rights." 

Latter-day Saints, of all people, have a right to feel grateful to Almighty God, and should live so that the inspiration and freedom of their lives from sin will bear testimony to the fact that we do have in keeping these .statements, these sacred revelations : for it is a wonderful thing for the Church to have the statement that Almighty God inspired the framers of the Constitution under which we live; and we have that, it is contained in the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Wonderful! Read it and get the fire of it. 

And oh, how thankful we should be: 

Thou hast led us here in safety, Where the mountain bulwark stands, 

As the g-uardian of the loved ones Thou hast brought from many lands: 

For the r,ock and for the river, The valley's fertile sod; 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God. 

Amen. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Of the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City) 

My brethren and sisters and friends; this ,of course, as has been remarked by the other speakers, is a  inspiring sight; and it occured to me while I was sitting here that if we could remember half we have heard, and put into practice even a tithe of the counsel and instruction given, that we had been amply paid for attending this conference. I rejoice in the good work. I rejoice with you, who are one with me in the same faith, in the instructions that we have recieved. And yet, it occurs to me that possibly in this vast audience there may be some who are strangers to our teachings, who understand not the doctrines as taught by us, who have not received into their hearts the testimonies borne by our elders. 

It is my province to be here daily, meeting strangers who are not of our faith. I often think, no matter how large the congregation, there are some of that class amongst us; and it may be there are some right here. We distribute our literature very freely to them. We hand out our tracts, sell them the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price. What effect it has upon them we little know. We are casting bread upon the waters, and we have the utmost faith in the truth that it will be seen after many .days. 

A few days ago, however, I received a letter from the Northwest, which I refer to my friend, President Ballard, who goes back there. Some of our friends who have been here have scattered the literature abroad, and I am going to take the liberty, therefore of reading this letter to show the effect that it may have upon some. After saying that the letter is from so-and-so, and giving -the address — giving the number and the street and the town — the letter commences, "We GENERAL CONFERENCE.  not want any more of your tracts. The Holy Ghost .dwells in this home, and we have no room for the doctrine of men and devils. We believe in a real communion with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Praise the Lord!" 

Now, I suppose to the Latter-day Saints who are here, that that appears very foolish. I want to appeal, however, to Saint and sinner who have been here this afternoon :Have you heard the doctrine of men and devils in this meeting? I appeal to those who have had our literature, who have read our tracts, who have sought to understand why we believe in God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost, you who have known that the "Mormons" believe in faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, the priesthood that exists amongst us, men having recieved authority to minister in the things of God, holding the Aaronic or the Melchizedek priesthood, laying hands upon the sick that they may recover, sending their Sons and daughters into all parts of the world to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ — in all of this, have you detected any of the doctrines of men and devils ? 

But I appeal to you with regard to one statement in the letter that I have referred to : "We believe in the real communion with God the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost." I make the declaration here, and every Latter-day Saint can say amen to it, that nowhere upon the face of God's earth is there a people who have had more communing with the Father, with the Son, with the Holy Ghost than  Latter-day Saints. What does the man want? What does theworld want more than it has already received? We declare in all soberness that in this day God has given to us a prophetjoseph Smith. We 'declare that when but a boy he went out into the woods to pray, and that he recieved a revelation from God. The Father appeared unto him, Jesus Christ appeared unto him, they talked with him. Can any man have a more real communion with God than that ? We believe that God has manifested himself to his prophet, that through that prophet he has given unto us the authority, and that through his labors we have recieved the Church of God. 

Now then, in this conference, from the begining, on Friday morning, up to the present time, have you received anything that is calculated to inspire you to go on with the work of God? I have felt the very blood in my veins tingling as I listened to the prophets of God. I have vowed more fervently before God that I would live nearer to him, that I would endeaver to keep his commandments, that my life should be a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. These are the feelings that we have had in our meetings, you have had them. Now, what are we going to do ? This conference is nearly over. You are going to the various wards and stakes of Zion, and in going there, I exhort you, my brethren, sustain the brethren who have given you these instructions, let your hands be raised, let your hearts send forth prayers, that God will bless all Israel. I think we have a splendid example in Holy Writ. Let me refer to it. 151 

There was a time in the days of ancient Israel when they had struggles just as we are having now. The time was when all Israel had to go forth to battle. You are familiar, no doubt, with the travels of Israel toward the promised land. I draw your attention to Just one story. When in the midst of their affliction, when they were beset by enemies, when they were going out through the lands of the heathens, Moses, the leader of Israel, said to his commander in chief, who was going out to battle, "Joshua, choose out men, go out, fight with the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand." And Joshua went out to fight, and Moses went up onto the hill, and it came to pass that as the hands of Moses got weary and began to lower, on account of his age, and on account of the time, that the Amalekites prevailed over Israel; but Aaron and Hur came to his side. They placed a rock for him to sit upon, one on each ,side, they held up his arms, and as long as those arms were extended to heaven, Israel prevailed, the heathen were destroyed, and those hands were raised until the going down of the sun, and victory came to them. 

I have only one thought in this — when you go to your homes, when we all go to our homes, let us get upon our knees. "Not to your tents, O Israel : to your knees, O Israel!" With one voice raise your hands to heavens and pray that God will sustain the president of this Church, the apostles who are with him, all who are laboring to build up Zion, and let us feel, with one heart with one mind, that we are maintaining them in their position  prophets, seers, and revelators. Go to our homes, yes, and pray that God will bless the President of this Nation, the Cabinet, all who are endeavoring to maintain this struggle for freedom! To our homes, yes, and upon our knees pray that God will bless our boys, to guide them in their struggles, and send them home again! God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

The Constitution and its makers inspired — 'Distinguishing characteristic of the Constitution — Illustrations from the Bible and Book of Mormon showing why it is undesirable to live under kings — Germany disregarded the lg.st five of the Ten Commandments — |We are making war because war is wrong — Let us do our full duty, and sustain our country to the uttermost. 

This is one of the mo.st stationary and attentive outdoor audiences I think I have ever seen. You have listened with great interest to the important topics that have been presented to you this afternoon. I am sure that we have rejoiced, those of us who have attended these conference meetings, in the spirit and teachings of these meetings. I thought this morning in viewing the beautiful decorations of the Tabernacle with the national colors, how appropriate it is to have so decorated a hall, at a conference meeting in which an appropriation of a quarter of a million was made for the purchase of Government bonds! 

I have rejoiced in the references we have had made by various of the brethren to the fact that the Constitution of the United States was an inspired document. I want to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to the conviction that that is true, a conviction reached by me not only from a belief in the revelation which so informs us, but also from a knowledge of the document and a historical .study of its formation. [\ Had the document not been inspired, that grand old statesman of England, Premier Gladstone, would not have said that it was the greatest document ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man. 

Had those delegates not been inspired, another jurist of our land would not have said of them that it' was "the goodliest fellowship of law givers whereof this world has record." 

Had those men not been inspired, Lord Bryce, the author of The American Commonwealth, would not have paid the splendid tribute that he does to the Constitution, giving the characteristic and underlying principles of it in substantially the same way as they are given in that revelation referred to by Brother Johnston, the 101st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing at about the 79th verse, showing the purpose of the Constitution, that men might be free, that they might have their free agency, and be responsible. 

Some think that the distinguishing characteristic of the Constitution of the United States was its bill of rights. That is not true. The essential rights set forth in our bill of rights were known to mankind from an early day, from the time when the barons at Runnymede forced old King John to give them Magna Charta; and it was known in those various charters of English liberty which we inherited as Amer citizens, and which we brought with us as a birthright and a heritage when we came to this country. But the distinguishing thing, the pioneer work that was done by these delegates, was in declaring the fact that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed; and that is a principle that I think the Lord has desired that his people should adopt in the various ages of the world. 

You read the Old Testament, I Samuel 8, where the people were desirous of having a king. Read what Samuel says to theim He is pointing out here some of the things that make it undesirable for them to have a king: 

And he [Samuel] said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots: and he will appoint them unto him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he will set some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots. And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers. And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants. And he will take your menservants, and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work. He will take the tenth of your flocks: and ye shall be his servants. And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you; and the Lord will not answer you in that day. 

There are some very striking things here in the Book of Mosiah. I had my attention called to it this morning afresh. In the 29th chapter of Mosiah, when Mo.siah grows old, and his sons have abused the trusts of government reposed in them, and the people desire a king, Mosiah says to them : 

Now I say unto you, that because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you. 

For behold, how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed! yea, and what great destruction! 

Yea, remember king Noah, his wickedness and his abominations; and also the wickedness and abominations of his people. Behold what great destruction did come upon them; and also because of their iniquities, they were brought into bondage. 

And were it not for the interposition of their all-wise Creator, and this because of their sincere repentance, they must unavoidably remain in bondage until now. 

But behold, he did deliver them because they did humble themselves before him; and because they cried mightily unto him, he did deliver them out of bondage; and thus doth the Lord work with his power in all cases among the children of men, extending the arm of mercy towards them that put their trust in him. 

And behold, now I say unto you, ye cannot dethrone an iniquitous king, save it be through much contention, and the shedding of much blood. 

For behold, he has his friends in iniquity, and he keepeth his guards about him: and he teareth up the laws of those who have reigned in righteousness before him: and he trampleth under his feet the commandments of God; 

And he enacteth laws, and sendeth them forth among his people; yea, laws after the manner of his own wickedness; and whosoever doth not obey his laws, he causeth to be destroyed; and whosoever doth rebel against him, he will send his armies against them to war, and if he can, he will destroy them: and thus an unrighteous king doth pervert the ways of all righteousness. 

There is more along the same line. Read on to the 32nd verse, and then the 38 and 39th verses, showing the outcome of the matter, whereby the people selected judges to rule over them. 

I have rejoiced in the teachings of the conference which will enable us to be strong and steadfast in the work which lies before us. On the matters in which our nation is involved, some plain things have been said. The truth is that a military system has developed which has disregarded the last half (the last five) of the Ten Commandments. Very largely, at least, their system stands for the disregard of those commandments. While the world slept, nor dreamed that there was great danger for the people, this military caste looked out over the land of their neighbors to the north to the Baltic, to the south to the Mediterranean, and to the west to the English Channel; and f orgot the commandment, "Thou shaft not steal." And in planning to extend the borders of their country, they forgot also the other commandment, "Thou shalt not kill," and the commandment — in their system of espionage in other nations, particularly active just now in Mexico — "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." And other commandments their soldiers have disregarded in their work of taking forcible possession of those lands. 

When we read the story of the outrage upon Belgium, of the hundreds of thousands of Armenians who have lost their lives, of the awful tragedy in Rumania, and of that great highway along which the Polish Russian refugees passed, leaving now a highway carpeted with the rags from their clothing GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the small baskets which once held"" little babes — and the .small bones only of fingers and toes, the large bones having been gathered up, so the correspondent tells us, for phosphates and fertilizers! When we think of these things and sense the responsibility upon us as our "brother's keeper" — in a way we realize the necessity for our position today. You say war is wrong, but it is because war is wrong that we are making war. We remained out of this as long as we could and maintain our self-respect. We had been taught as American citizens that an American citizen had rights which should be respected everywhere. The Supreme Court, at an early date had announced that principle — that an American citizen, whether upon the high seas or upon foreign lands, had rights which other nations were bound to respect. When we saw the rights of American citizens disregarded, as in such instances as the sinking of the Lusitania; and after a promise against ruthless submarine warfare and a system of destruction of the lives and property of our citizens resumed — the only thing that we could do and remain true to our traditions and the heritages of the past, and retain our self-respect, was to do as our government has done. 

The President of the United States said yesterday, among other things : 

Germany has once more said that force and force alone shall decide whether justice and peace shall reign in the affairs of men, whether right, as America conceives it, or dominion, as she conceives it, shall determine the destinies of mankind. There is, therefore, but one response possible form us, Force, force to the utmost,  without stint or limit — the righteous force which shall make right the law of the world and cast every selfish dominion in the dust. 

Therefore, it is that we stand against the system which enables men, full-grown men to drop bombs upon sleeping babes and upon sleeping communities, to destroy helpless women and noncombatant men, and we realize the responsibility that rests with us. In the language of our national hymn : 

In the beauty of the lilies Christ was 

born across the sea, With the glory in his bosom that 

transfigures you and me: As He died to make men holy, let us 

die to make men free. 

May the Lord bless the proceedings of this conference — those who have come up here, that the words that have been given here may be borne home to the people; that we may return to our homes with a determination to do our utmost as citizens of the United States to defend the heritages which we have. With us it is a religious duty as well as a civic obligation to sustain our country to the uttermost. And may the Lord help us do this, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

After the singing of the "Doxology," benediction was pronounced by Bishop Percy Goddard. 


CLOSING SESSION. 


