33
Outdoor
09 04 1916 
Elder Geo. Albert Smith.
31
123-124

None 

Similarity of missions of Parley P. Pratt and his grandson, Rey L. Pratt — Prayer for success of missionary work.  
  
I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that the eyes of many of this congregation have been moistened while listening to the pathetic discourse of President Rey L. Pratt with refernce to our Lamanite brethren and sisters. He comes naturally by his love for the Indian. His father and grandfather both were missionaries to the dark-skinned natives of America. He is a grandson of Parley P. Pratt, who was called by revelation, and his was the first name called by the Lord in our day to take the Gospel to the Lamanites, as I will read to you from the 23rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants:  
  
"And now concerning my servant, Parley P. Pratt, behold, I say unto him, that as I live I will that he shall declare my gospel and learn of me, and be meek and lowly of heart;  
  
"And that which I have appointed unto him is that he shall go with my servants Oliver Cowdery and Peter Whitmer, jun., into the wilderness among the Lamanites."  
  
I think it is a beautiful thing that today his grandson is permitted to stand in our midst and testify of the hope that he has of the fulfilment of the promise of our Father to our Indian brethren and sisters who are dear to him, who live in this and the adjacent nation. I am sure you have been glad to hear from Brother Pratt and that the mission still goes on notwithstanding the difficulty they are having in that unhappy land.  
  
Let us each pray to the Lord that His promises may be fulfilled in the interests of these our brethren and sisters, let each of us live so that if we should be called, that the Lord may be able to work through us for the amelioration of the condition of millions of His children who know not the Gospel of our Lord as we have received it. Let us go to our homes each with the determination that, the Lord helping us, we will serve Him and keep His commandments and fulfil the obligations resulting from receiving His word.  
  
May you, my brethren and sisters, carry the spirit of this great gathering to your homes. May you have the desire to disseminate the truth taught among your associates, that your experience here may thereby be more profitable. May this conference be treasured in your memories as a time of refreshing from the Lord. And that each of us may magnify our opportunities and be worthy of the blessings of our Father in heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
