4
Afternoon
06 04 1916
Prest. Francis M. Lyman. 
16
24-30

None

Temporal salvation of our people carefully considered — Worthy and capable persons selected for Church offices — Each President of Church specially qualified for time of ministry — Astonishing outlay by Church for educational purposes, etc., — Successful efforts in home industries — Great advantages in obeying Word of Wisdom — Honest tithe-payers also pay their debts — The habit of saving inculcated.  
  
I feel very grateful for our presence on this occasion and for the splendid Spirit that has attended the First Presidency in their discourses to us today, for they have been superior. They always talk well, but I feel that they have talked a little better today than usual. I am sure that the Latter-day Saints have felt fed with the word of the Lord. Our understanding of the Gospel has been enlightened, and our faith strengthened; and I trust that we will do better in the future, serve the Lord more perfectly and have His favor and fellowship abiding always with us.  
  
I am reminded occasionally, as I presume all the brethren are, of the necessity of employment for the Latter-day Saints. I suppose the Presiding Bishopric are advised of these necessities and are doing everything in their power to find labor for those who are unemployed. In our state, as I suppose in other states as well, there are armies of people quite generally at labor, and yet always some needing employment. We are admonished of the necessity of production from the rich soils that we enjoy and the resources about us to provide for the temporal salvation of the people; for we not only need salvation spiritually but we need salvation temporally. I thought of this today, when looking over one of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, that refers particularly to the temporal salvation of the people. I was led, a few weeks ago, at one or two different conferences, to draw the attention of the presiding brethren and the people generally to the temporal salvation that is necessary for us; and I believe that it is not only good for Latter-day Saints but for everybody in the world. It is a doctrine that secures temporal salvation and prosperity to all people who will observe it. It has been given to us now for a great many years, at least, before I was born, and has been before us. It has been taught us continuously and we have undertaken to observe it, and have done so fairly well in very many instances. Still, hardly any of us have been quite perfect in that law. I don't know that there is any other revelation in which that same expression is used, except the one — a revelation for the temporal salvation of the Saints, and yet applicable and good to everybody else. I have discovered also that many other people have been imbued with this doctrine and principle, and are advocating it. It looks to me as though the Lord was working among the children of men for their temporal salvation as well as ours. I thank the Lord for this word and will, doctrine and counsel, which He gave to us so early in our history, and I thank Him for the hold it has upon the Latter-day Saints. I am proud to discover, as I have been able to do, that our chief brethren at home and abroad, those who are entrusted with responsibility and are required to be the shepherds of the people, and who stand as men sounding a note of warning upon the walls of Zion, for the welfare of the people — that these men as a rule are well established in the faith and in the practice of the doctrine I refer to.  
  
I listened on fast day to a very excellent discourse by President Smith in which he drew our attention to the splendid elements that have been developed in our posterity, in our children, who are born unto the Lord under the new covenant; to the integrity that has been inherited by them, and how reliable and trusty and true they are to the cause of Zion. I appreciated it, as I am sure all did who heard him speak. Since that my mind has been turned also to the field of labor which I have been in since I was twenty years of age; practically all my life, so far as that is concerned; but since I was twenty years of age it has fallen to my lot to be associated with leading brethren, presiding brethren in quorums and wards, and in stakes and missions. I want to say that the testimony given by President Smith in regard to the results of our family relations, the fruit that has been produced under the covenant, the reliability and trustworthiness of our children, can also be borne concerning the remainder of those brethren and sisters, produced among the Latter-day Saints, who hold responsible positions. And a feature that I discover and bear in mind is that in our organization, so complete and so perfect, so valuable and so saving in its nature, it is the rule that we seek always, under the direction of the Lord and His counsel, for the very choicest and best men and women for positions of responsibility; and I want to bear this testimony in the presence of this congregation, that almost universally, we have been well satisfied, and have rarely ever made a mistake. It is very seldom that we find a brother or a sister who is not trustworthy. I want to say this for those upon whom this authority and responsibility rest at this time. There may be quite a percentage who are not, possibly, doing the very best they can, yet are all struggling to do the right thing. But when we go into the field we never find competition among the brethren and sisters to see who shall obtain positions of responsibility. We do in politics, but not in any of our religious organizations. In the wards and in the stakes of Zion, in the councils and quorums and associations and departments of Zion, we take time to deliberate, to consider carefully, and to weigh men and women for positions, and always try to find the best suited, the best qualified, those that fit the position and responsibility best. We have done that and are doing it all the time; and it is a delightful thing to us that there is no struggle one against another and no anxiety to see which shall overcome. We advise with our brethren and sisters in regard to the positions in which they are interested; and I want to say in their behalf that it is a very rare thing, I can hardly tell when one has been censured, or fault found with. Changes are made, must be, necessarily so, occasionally, as circumstances require on account of removal of people or the arising of new conditions; but it is a rare thing that one is ever dismissed because of transgression, either at home or abroad. I wanted to say that much for the record of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
When I heard the President's report as to what has been accomplished in fourteen years, I was brought to remember that his administration is just about the same length as the Prophet Joseph's, just about fourteen years. I have, during the last few months, referred on some occasions to the various administrations. There have been no two of them alike. There never has been one just like the present, never was one just like President Snow's, never one just like President Woodruff's; never one just like President Taylor's; never one just like President Young's, never one just like the Prophet Joseph's. His was the first, laying the foundation. He was the law-giver, giving the word and will of God, and establishing it and perpetuating it to his successors and the Church. I spoke of these administrations and I felt as though it was very proper I should. There may be those here present who heard me speak on that subject. I would not wonder if there were; but I drew attention to the fact that every administration had its peculiar features, for which it has been remarkable, and that this administration is the administration for building, at home and abroad, and the establishment of Church schools and their support. It is astonishing the amount that we have done for the cause of education. We have all helped with our tithing and offerings, our labors and our intelligence. We have done marvels; no people in the world that have made such an effort in regard to Sunday schools and the training of young people. I sometimes think we have pretty near overdone, by the efforts we have made, and there is a rule to regulate and put everything in order as it should be so that no one could slip out or be lost. The efforts of splendid scholarly men who are gathered together in our general boards and associations, the best that we have among the people, with all the advantages that can be brought to their assistance, are being employed now for the benefit of the rising generation.  
  
It is astonishing what is being accomplished, but I want to say just briefly that it is very desirable for the temporal salvation of the Latter-day Saints and of the people of our state. (I speak of the Latter-day Saints because we are talking of them, and to them, and our work is with them; but we are also with the people of the state), it is necessary for the temporal salvation of the people of our state that there should be employment and home industries established. The earth should be cultivated and give forth its rich fruits in all the various lines that are necessary. We have done wonders in a few lines — just what should be done in very many others. The sugar industry is one of the most prominent achievements. It was the ideal thought apparently of President Young in his day, and of President Taylor following him, both of them together making efforts for that purpose. It just seemed as though it was the most important industry, more important than anything else that could be established. And now it has been made a grand success. Now, those who grow the fruit, and vegetables should arrange for canning and taking care of them and supplying them to our neighbors; instead of our buying from our California neighbors and other neighbors, we want to be selling to them. We want to do the same and make the same success in the canning and taking care of fruits and meats that we have done in the sugar business, so that we shall bring means into the country, furnish employment, that there shall be nobody in Zion without labor, but all have something to do, to remunerate them.  
  
Then further, I want us to bear in mind this doctrine that I have been referring to. I shall not read the whole revelation but just a little of it that was given for the especial temporal salvation of the people, and I would like to emphasize some parts of this revelation that possibly we have not thought so much of as we should do; for it is given not only that we may have health and strength in our bodies and live a long time, that the destroyer may pass us by as he did in the days of Israel, but it is for our temporal salvation, that is, that we should have all our temporal necessities met and that we should not be clamoring as of the poor and those that are needy.  
  
SECTION 89.  
  
Revelation Given Through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27th, 1833.  
  
1. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and church; and also the Saints in Zion.  
  
2. To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days.  
  
3. Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints.  
  
4. Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation,  
  
5. That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before Him.  
  
6. And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make.  
  
7. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies.  
  
8. And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill.  
  
9. And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly.  
  
10. And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man.  
  
11. Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving.  
  
12. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; etc.  
  
And the things that are thus forbidden in the law, — strong drinks and wine, and tea and coffee, (called hot drinks that were in vogue in the days when this revelation was given), and tobacco, — these things that are expensive, extravagant, destructive of life and health and destructive of means, it is more than wasteful, it is very serious and dangerous to the people to indulge in them, and they tend to poverty. They may be of some profit to those who deal in them, those who buy and sell them, but it is poverty to most of those who engage in the use of these things, which are altogether worthless, improper and wicked, injurious, hurtful, taking life, shortening life and giving us trouble. For if the tea and coffee, and the tobacco and the liquor and the beer that are used in our state, were let alone and the means turned to its proper use and purpose, everybody would be suitably clothed, suitably housed, and all our obligations would be reasonably met, and we would not be in debt. We would be out of debt and have everything that we require, instead of suffering and having those among us begging for employment. We would know how to save our little means, as it should be taken care of. For the tobacco money and the liquor money and the money for tea and coffee, every dollar of it, as a rule, should be saved, except that which is used for medicine, carefully used, as it should be in case of sickness; and we would find that the Latter-day Saints would be thrifty and prosperous, and we would now be living more perfectly under this law, given long before I can remember, and which we have struggled to observe and done fairly well. As I say, the leading men and the leading women of the Church as a rule have made a splendid effort and have set good examples before us. I was delighted, in regard to our financial matters, to find what the President has reported today, the truth in regard to what has been accomplished in fourteen years. Only fourteen years ago, if you will remember, the Church had passed through a very serious struggle under the administration of President John Taylor and President Wilford Woodruff; and when it came to the inauguration of President Snow's administration, it was the burning question with the leaders of this Church, to know what to do and how to do it, to redeem our obligations. Brethren had to come to the rescue of the Church at that time and before, as the Church was embarrassed and was struggling under difficulties. But when the Lord in simple language to President Snow, said, "Let my people pay their tithing," and the people responded in such measure that, as reported by the President here, in 1906 we met our obligations and have been in good condition ever since. And those who have been faithful in the meeting of their obligations to the Lord have also, I have no doubt, been faithful in their obligations to their brethren; for it is as great a virtue for a man to do by his brother as he would do by the Lord. His obligations to his brother are just as sacred as the obligations to the Lord. Hence you will find, as a rule, those who are very strict and careful in regard to settling with the Lord and in due season thereof, will do the same with their brethren, so that our neighbors will not suffer because of what we owe them. Our merchants, bankers, and business men will receive their own; those that labor for us, build for us, we will meet these obligations honorably, and thus the circulating medium will pass with the people and all our obligations be met, and the necessities of those who help us will be met also. Hence, I want to exhort my brethren and sisters, that we remember this law and that we observe it so that we shall have the sinews of life and of business that are necessary to meet the requirements of our present condition.  
  
It takes a world of means to supply our missionary field. I don't know that the President quite gave us that information, but you would be astonished if the figures were shown to you of what it costs to handle the missionary work of the Latter-day Saints; including the time of the men, and the means that they have to furnish, to pay their own expenses. It amounts to figures of large proportions. The Twelve are laboring constantly to try and have the brethren be just as economical and careful as they can in their ministry.  
  
We want to be economical and careful in our home ministry, in our affairs at home, and every man and every woman should have faith enough in their employment and in their posterity to lay by a little something in the savings department, so that they always have something ahead instead of always being in debt. I teach that lesson to the boys, I teach it to the girls, so that when they start in life they start with the understanding that it is possible for them to save a little something. And I want to tell you what to save — save all the tea and coffee money, all the tobacco money, every dollar of it, every dollar of the beer and liquor and whisky money. Let no money go for these things at all. I fear that sometimes young people are growing up with an inclination to using those things that are forbidden. They should be restrained. We should take great care with our children, and with our neighbors, and with each other to prevent the waste of means upon those things that are destructive to human life and destructive to our temporal interests. Let us look out and be careful in this regard. Let the Latter-day Saints take this warning and advice and see that there is a saving in this respect; for in the way of every family, there is none so poor but what there are times and opportunities where something can be saved. No family so poor, if they are so inclined, but what they can furnish tea and coffee, and no man so poor that he can't buy his cigar or tobacco or cigarette; no man so poor that cannot find his beer and his liquor if it is in the country. They have resources to meet those things, and those are the resources that should be turned to savings accounts, so that all may have something to help them on a "rainy day" and in times of sickness. I want to make that exhortation in your presence, my brethren and sisters, and trust that the Latter-day Saints may profit thereby, and our friends and neighbors as well.  
  
May the Lord bless and sanctify to our good the things that we have heard this day and that we shall hear during this conference, that it may be a time of rejoicing. I don't know when I have ever come to a conference that I felt more delighted and happy than on this occasion; and I leave my blessing, as I am sure you have the blessing of my brethren. The testimony of President Smith as given in our favor here today, I think is wonderfully fine, and I want to bear the same kind of testimony for our brethren that are "treading the winepress" in their various stakes and wards and missions, and the sisters who are laboring in their various positions, seconding our efforts and labors for the salvation of the people. May the Lord bless us and bless all Israel, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
