5
Afternoon
06 04 1916
Authorities Sustained. 
10
30-31

None

None

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith. George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage.  
  
Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham IT Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his first and second Counselors.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Williard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman.  
  
Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson.  
  
Auditing Committee: William W. Writer, Henry IT. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, and Joseph S. Wells.  
  
Tabernacle Choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; John Drakeford, librarian; and all the members.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference.  
  
Elder Heber J. Grant read the annual report of the Church Auditing Committee, as follows:  
  
Salt Lake City, Utah,  
  
April 6th, 1916.  
 
Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose,  
 
First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Dear Brethren: The Church Auditing Committee begs leave to report that we have critically examined the books and accounts for 1915 of the Trustee-in-Trust and of the Presiding Bishopric, as well as the reports made by the various Stakes, Wards, Temples, general auxiliary organizations and other institutions in which the Church is interested. All of the accounts of receipts and disbursements of the Church funds are set out in full detail, and have been accurately kept and recorded.  
  
Your committee is especially pleased to comment again on the diligence and careful bookkeeping exhibited in all accounts that have been inspected. Our audit discloses not only faithful and accurate work, but also skill and devotion in using the funds contributed by the Saints for the best interests of the people. It is pleasing to make special mention of the liberal appropriations that have been made for the support of the poor, both at home and abroad, for the education of the children of the Saints, for the erection, enlargement and improvement of meeting houses in the Stakes and Wards of Zion, and in the Missions abroad.  
  
May the blessings of God continue to abide with you in discharging the great responsibilities connected with the work of the Lord,  
 
Respectfully submitted.  
  
Your Brethren in the Gospel,  
 
W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, Church Auditing Committee.  
  
On motion, the foregoing was accepted, and approved, by unanimous vote of the congregation.  
