9
Morning
07 04 1916
Elder Rudger Clawson 
7
43-45

None

The Prophet Joseph Smith the most striking figure of the 19th century — His first glorious vision — Authorized to re-establish the Church of Jesus Christ — Priesthood restored — Established saving ordinances in behalf of the dead — Translated the Book of Mormon — Many glorious revelations received, and published, by him — Head of the greatest, the last, dispensation.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers this morning while I stand before you for a few moments, that I may be led, like others who have spoken, to say something that shall be instructive and faith-promoting.  
  
Joseph Smith, the prophet, was by far the most striking figure of the nineteenth century. I realize that this is a very bold declaration and while many will readily concede to it, others will regard it as presumptuous, but let me say to you, brethren and sisters and friends, that there is ample evidence to sustain it. The following are a few things that make Joseph Smith, the prophet, conspicuous among men:  
  
In the first place, he was favored with a personal visit of God the Father, and of Jesus Christ, His Son. He testified that he knew they lived, because he had seen their faces and heard their voices, and that they were in the form and likeness of a man. Thus was restored to the earth again the knowledge of God, at a time when many supposed Him to be a being without body, parts or passions. This first glorious vision of the prophet swept darkness and doubt, ignorance and unbelief from the minds of men, at least hundreds and thousands, and a great flood of light burst in upon them and filled their souls.  
  
Joseph Smith, the prophet, under divine guidance, founded the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church under the heavens in this age of the world known and called by that name.  
  
In connection with the founding of the Church, Joseph Smith received and transmitted to others the holy Priesthood, representing divine authority, by which the Gospel is preached and the ordinances thereof administered for the salvation of souls, or, in other words, by which men are baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins and have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Jesus said: "Except a man is born of the water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." The gift of the Holy Ghost is the key that unlocks the deep and hidden mysteries of God.  
  
The Church founded by the Prophet Joseph Smith not only provided a plan of salvation for the living but also for the dead, being broad enough in its scope to reach every child of God, whether in this world or the world to come. The latter-day Church, like the former day Church- is built upon the foundations of apostles and prophets, evangelists, high priests, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers and deacons, Jesus Christ being the chief corner-stone.  
  
By the power of God, Joseph Smith translated into the English language the Book of Mormon, a record which is quite as sacred and precious as the Bible itself. He also gave to the Church the Doctrine and Covenants, a book containing the revelations of God's will to His prophet and His people; also that wonderful little record, the Pearl of Great Price. If all other books in the world were destroyed in an instant and these four hooks still remained — the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price — they would constitute a library of priceless value, and would form a solid basis from which and by which to regenerate the world.  
  
In the providences of the Lord, and by His word and power, Joseph Smith the prophet restored to the earth again the everlasting covenant, called the new and everlasting covenant, a covenant that binds the husband to the wife and the wife to the husband for time and all eternity, thus securing to them  power of eternal increase and the blessing of endless lives, and emphasizing, as no earthly covenant alone could do, the sanctity of the marriage bond, and by inference or contrast, condemning the monstrous evil of divorce, when resorted to for trivial causes.  
  
Brethren and sisters, these are a few things which, I contend, raised Joseph Smith head an! shoulders above his fellows and attracted to him and to the Church converts from the nations of the earth, until the Church has prospered and grown to an extent beyond our expectations.  
  
The Lord said to Joseph Smith: "And verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever you seal upon the earth shall be sealed in heaven, and whatsoever you bind upon the earth, in my name and by my word, shall be eternally bound in the heavens, and whatsoever you loose upon the earth shall be loosed in heaven; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth, shall be retained in heaven."  
  
And again: "Verily I say, whomsoever you bless, I will bless: and whomsoever you curse, I will curse, saith the Lord; for I, the Lord, am thy God."  
  
Thus to Joseph Smith, like Peter of old, was given the keys of the kingdom of heaven and thus was Joseph Smith, unlike any prophet that ever lived, placed at the head of this great last dispensation, the dispensation of dispensations, even the dispensation of the fulness of times, when all things will be restored to their proper place and order and all things gathered into one.  
  
Brethren and sisters, I again solemnly repeat — Joseph Smith, the mighty prophet of God, was the most striking figure of the nineteenth century. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
