Afternoon
04 10 1929

President Grant, who presided, announced that the congregation would sing, as the opening hymn, "Come, Come Ye Saints." 

After the singing, Elder Harry Edward Sutton, President of the Oquirrh Stake, offered the invocation. 

The hymn, "Though Deepening Trials," was sung by the congregation. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Amplifying sets have been arranged to accommodate the deaf. Those not having ear phones may secure them for each session, upon application to the Bureau of Information. Those desiring further information regarding them may secure it from the Bureau of Information. Seats will be reserved in the rear of the building for the deaf. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

I am happy to be at home once more after a brief absence in the East. I have seen nothing, heard nothing, found nothing, in my travels that could wean me away from the love of my mountain home; from my dear ones who dwell here; and from my kindred and friends of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

LAND OF BEAUTY 

When I was in Switzerland, the loveliest land I was ever in, I told the people there that I had come from the Switzerland of America, and I congratulated them on living in the Utah of Europe. This is a beautiful land, beautiful by nature, and beautiful in spirit. It is the home of the Saints of God, the home of the prophets of God, the home of a people who possess the powers of the Priesthood and the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel. That is what makes it so beautiful. 

IN THE NORTHERN STATES 

During the month of September, in company with Elder Noah 

S. Pond, the able and amiable president of the Northern States Mission, I traversed six states of the Union, namely, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin. We held forty meetings with the missionaries, saints and investigators, and addressed in the aggregate fully fifty percent of the Latter-day Saint population of those states. We dedicated two chapels in Ohio, one at Cincinnati, the other at Dayton, and organized a branch in that town. We also organized an Elder's quorum in Chicago, the first quorum of its kind known in any of the missions of the Church, so far as I am informed. I much enjoyed my labors, and the Lord was with us in our journeyings and in our work. 

ADDRESSING THE ROTARIANS 

On the 10th of September, I had the honor of addressing the Chicago Rotary Club, a distinguished body of professional and business men, at their regular luncheon in the Sherman Hotel, having been invited to deliver the invocation. I was billed upon the program as "Bishop Orson F. Whitney of the Mormon Temple, Salt Lake City," the maker of the program evidently thinking of the temple as a church, with me as its pastor. My daughter Margaret (Mrs. Lester C. Essig), who resides in Chicago, was asked by an outside friend, "Who is this Mormon priest that's going to pray at the club luncheon?" Margaret answered : "It happens to be my father" — and there was silence in that vicinity (if not in heaven) "for the space of half an hour." 

I was given a mo'st cordial reception, a Jewish rabbi being particularly gracious in greeting me. After 1 1 had spoken, for I made a little prefatory talk before offering the prayer, a gentleman sitting near leaned over to tell me that he was well acquainted with President Heber J. Grant and prized his friendship highly. He also spoke kindly of my deceased brother, Horace G. Whitney. I do not recall the gentleman's name, but doubtless the President will. He said the President's autographed photo hung upon the wall of his office in San Francisco. 

I sat upon the chairman's platform, right next to Colonel Archer, the speaker of the occasion, who gave a splendid talk on "Sanitation and Civilization." He began thus : 

"While Bishop Whitney was speaking, I was reminded of the story of the two oysters at a church festival. One of them inquired, 'Where are we?' The other replied, 'We are in the soup at a church festival.' 'Must be some mistake,' said the first, 'what need had they for both of us ?' " 

Brisbane's admission 

And now, to change the subject. Some months ago, I clipped from a newspaper a paragraph, part of a column furnished to the syndicate press by Mr. Arthur Brisbane, who is said to be the highestnriced editorial writer in all the world. Speaking of Supreme Court Justice Holmes and quoting the latter's motto, "Rest is not the destiny of man." Mr. Brisbane added this comment; "A big monument would reward Justice Holmes if he could tell us what the destiny of man really is; how we got here; whence we came; whither we go from here; what happens after we go. But about such questions a learned Supreme Court Justice knows as little as an Eskimo watching for seals in an ice-hole." 

"An honest confession is good for the soul." So runs an old proverb. I admire Mr. Brisbane, not only for his vast learning and his brilliant writings, but for his courage and candor in admitting that there are some things he does not know. For what he says of Justice Holmes applies inferentially to himself. I would not put either of these learned men on a level with an Eskimo watching for seals in an ice-hole, but if Mr. B. confesses to a lack of information as to man's origin, destiny and the purpose of his creation, I for one shall not dispute him, but content myself with honoring his frank and open admission. 

Whether he was authorized to speak for Justice Holmes upon this momentous question, I know not, but this I know : he cannot speak for me nor for the Latter-day Saints in general. I know of a man who told the world long ago, told them in the name of the Lord concerning man's origin and destiny; and they rewarded him, not with a monument, but with a martyr's grave! I refer, of course, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Here is one pronouncement upon the subject under discussion, taken from his translation of the Book of Abraham : 

man's bre-existence and eternal destiny 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

"And God saw these 1 souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them and he said : These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me : Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first) estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." ( Abr. 3 :22-26.) 

Those who wish to pursue the subject further should read the Prophet's marvelous description of the vision seen by him and Sidney Rigdon, February 16, 1832, and recorded in Section 76 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Time will not permit me to treat of it here. 

How did Joseph Smith get hold of these things ? Not by watching for seals in an ice-hole; not by reading newspapers, nor by going to college. He received them by divine revelation, through the gift of the Holy Ghost, manifesting the things of God in the fulness of the everlasting gospel. 

THE MORMON ATTITUDE 

About a year ago I was traveling through the Eastern States Mission with President Henry H. Rolapp. One of our meetings was in Huntington Hall, Boston. At the close of the service many came forward to shake hands with the speakers and ply us with questions. One young man, approaching me, asked respectfully: "What is your attitude toward the other churches?" I replied, "They are all doing good, but they are without the fulness of the Gospel;" and he walked away thoughtfully. 

This. I believe to be our true position. There is some truth in all religions, in heathendom as well as in Christendom. And it is the truth in those systems that perpetuates them, not the errors with which the truth is mixed. There are millions of good, honest people all over the world, in all the churches, but they have not the fulness of the Gospel. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is its one depository. This is the claim we make. This is the "Mormon" attitude. 

REGARDING INDUCEMENTS 

Many years ago, when I was bishop of the Eighteenth Ward in this city, I was invited to meet, at the home of one of the ward members, a learned medical gentleman from Philadelphia. Elder B. H. Roberts was also there, and we spent a very pleasant evening. Brother Roberts told the visitor all about the Book of Mormon, and he listened intently. So did I. The gentleman then turned to me and said : "Bishop Whitney, will you please tell me why I ought to be a Latter-day Saint, in preference to being a Methodist, a Baptist, a Presbyterian, a Catholic, or anything else in religion?" 

I answered him in much the same language as I used with that young man in Boston, though with greater elaboration. "It is," said I, "because we have the fulness of the Gospel, and the other churches have only parts of it. If you were seeking the wealth of this world; its gold and silver, houses and lands, flocks and herds, and so on, I would not advise you to become a Latter-day Saint. You might acquire riches as an indirect result of joining this Church, and you might not. I have known of men emigrating hither from foreign lands in early days, who, if they had remained in their own country, would never have owned an inch of ground, would have continued to live in rented homes, with no prospect before them in old age but the poorhouse. They joined the Church and came to Utah because the spirit of the gathering was upon them, the gathering of scattered Israel, preparatory to the coming of the God of Israel to reign over the earth. And as an indirect result of their immigration, they became well to do. They took up land of their own, had flocks and herds of their own, and prospered in temporal as in spiritual things, some of them rising to wealth and affluence. But the Church had not promised those things to induce their conversion. We have never bribed people to come into the Church. If the Lord chooses to bless the Saints with riches, we are glad of it — glad to see our brethren and sisters prosper, but we don't guarantee such things. 

"Again, if you were seeking office and authority, I would advise you to pass us by. You might, by joining the Church, become a bishop, a stake president, an apostle, or even one of the First Presidency — if the Lord so willed; but we don't promise it. We don't hold that out as an inducement. Such things, if they come at all, come as a gift from God and not because they are sought after." 

Digressing for a moment, I remember hearing a young man say concerning our beloved brother, Senator Reed Smoot, that he had achieved every object for which he had set out in his youth, and among these was included the Apostleship. "Young man," said I, "please omit from that list of achievements the holy Apostleship. Men don't get that by aiming for it, and Reed Smoot never made such a claim, neither would he make it." 

There are some things that ought not to be aimed at. They are not to be achieved by man's effort, and ought not to be boasted of as trophies of human skill. The Apostleship is one of them. 

Resuming as to that gentleman from Philadelphia, said I to him in conclusion: 

"If you were seeking honors of that kind you would very likely be disappointed. Or, if you desired the Iovp of the world, its applause and good will, you would be doomed to disappointment by joining this Church; for you would simply inherit your share of the Savior's promise to his disciples : 'You shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.' 

"But if you want the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel, the powers of the eternal priesthood, and the illumination of your soul, so that you can know beyond all doubt why you are here, whence you, came, what God expects of you, and what awaits you in the great Hereafter, — if this knowledge is of any value to you, then embrace what the world calls 'Mormonism' and these blessings shall be yours." 

god's greatest gift 

God's greatest gift is eternal life, but that pertains to Eternity. The greatest blessing that our Heavenly Father can bestow upon us in time, or while we are here, is the power to lay hold upon eternal life. The Everlasting Gospel, through obedience to its every requirement, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, gives this power. It not only saves — it exalts men to where God and Christ dwell in the fulness of Celestial Glory. Such, in substance, was my testimony to that gentleman to whom I refer, and this is my testimony to you, my dear brethren and sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

There is a saying among the German people that runs like this: "All good things are three." We have in a material way the three : length, breadth and thickness. We have the three component parts of this mundane sphere: land, water and air; also solids, liquids and gases, the three forms of matter. We have the three classes of heavenly bodies that fill the sidereal universe : suns, planets and satellites. And in a spiritual way it may also be pointed out that we have the three degrees of glory — celestial, terrestrial and telestial, symbolized by the sun, the moon and stars, on account of their comparative brightness. I mention these things, and might mention many more, not because they have, particularly, any bearing upon what I may say, but more because I have another three in mind, to a consideration of which I would like to devote the few moments that I stand before you. 

There are three things which are indispensably important to our wellbeing and are naturally inherent to all mankind. We inherit them from our divine parents. They are divine attributes transmitted to us as the offspring of Deity. They are, in this, like the inalienable rights of man, another three : life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, of which we read in the Declaration of Independence. These three things are emotional qualities of the mind and heart of man and of our natures, that may and should be carefully cultivated; but they may and often do exist in a very perverted and distorted form — and we are under necessity of choosing between these divine and noble attributes as they are naturally inherent to us, and their ignoble and perverted counterfeits which can only be acquired by ignoble and unnatural effort. It is a question of choice between good and evil. 

These three to which I refer are faith, hope and charity. Whether they be virtues or vices depends upon the form they take. If they assume their natural and hence divine form they are virtues, but if they are perverted or counterfeited then they become vices. Some people regard faith as a weakness, a positive vice. To believe everything you hear, how foolish! They have simply mistaken credulity, the devil's counterfeit, for faith; they are not alike. Credulity is no more like faith than lust, another devilish counterfeit, is like love. 

All good things are counterfeited. Our government issues currency in various denominations. It is known as the legal tender wherever we may use it, but it is capable of being counterfeited and palmed off on an unwary public sometimes as the genuine thing, but it is counterfeit. They make coins in various denominations, but some devil will obtain a baser metal and gild it over with gold and palm it off for genuine. Religion is sometimes falsely understood. It, too, has its counterfeit. But let us not despise the pure gold of religion because the devil makes a counterfeit of it in hypocrisy. 

What must we believe or in whom must we have faith? are vital questions if we are to choose the true, the genuine faith, and reject the false, the counterfeit. It must be obvious to everyone who thinks that if there is a plan of salvation, a plan whereby mankind can be redeemed from its fallen state and from death and the grave; whereby it can be exalted into a state of never ending joy where sin shall be no more, a state wherein there shall be a continuation of happy associations of loved ones, husbands and wives, parents and children, such plan must, of necessity, emanate from heaven, for only God can give us such salvation. Surely this is something for which we earnestly hope, or as the poet tells us, "A consummation devoutly to be wished." Do we hope for salvation or do we only hope for the sordid things of worldly pleasures and the gratification of sensual desires? Therein lies the difference between good and evil hopes. 

How then may we learn of such a plan, if plan there be? In answer let me say, only as God shall make it known. There is no other way. And how? By revelation, the very foundation upon which he builds his church. He reveals his secrets unto his servants the prophets. Then hearken unto these messengers of life and salvation, these bearers of the glad tidings of great joy. "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved," for as we read still further in holy writ, "God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth on him shall not perish but have everlasting life." Herein are these three attributes combined, faith, hope and charity. Paul says, "Now faith is the substance (or assurance) of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen;" but again we read, "Faith is not unto every man, it is the gift of God." Then we may well say it is the assurance which God gives us that our exalted hopes shall be realized. All our hopes of a glorious resurrection, of a future life in celestial glory, are based upon our faith in him, whom God sent into this world, even our Savior, and in his servants and messengers, the prophets and apostles through whom he makes known the glorious plan of life and salvation which dispels the gloom of death and the grave, and fills our hearts with hope. But says one: I have no faith in God and no hope in a future life. How unnatural! How such a one must have resisted every natural impulse of the heart to have fallen into such an abnormal state of mind! No faith, no hope. Spiritual deformities. To look upon a man who is deformed or maimed for life, — a dislocated jaw, a broken nose or an eye knocked out — is naturally revolting. How unsightly and ugly! But not half so hideous or so repulsive is he who is thus physically deformed as he who is spiritually deformed, wanting in these Christian qualities so inherent and natural to all mankind. No faith : he does not ask and hence does not receive; he does not seek and hence he does not find; he does not knock and therefore the door is not opened unto him. 

No hope. How unnatural! Pope says: 

"Hope springs eternal in the human hreast, Man never is but always to be blessed." 

And another poet, after telling us of the pleasures of hope, exclaims : 

"Cease every joy to glimmer on my mind, But leave, O leave the light of hope behind." 

Young women, you daughters of Zion, who delight in making yourselves look fair, I shall not censure you or find fault, you were created so; but if you would be beautiful indeed then garnish your minds, your inner selves, with these virtues, with faith, hope and charity; and lift up your souls in grateful adoration to God, the giver of every good. Then shall these virtues permeate your whole being and shine forth in a matchless beauty that may not be acquired in any other way. Young men, cultivate these virtues; then shall godlike nobility be indelibly engraved upon your countenances, and that intelligence which is the glory of God shall fill your souls with joy and gladness even to overflowing. 

"Now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." Thus writes the Apostle Paul to the Corinthian saints. Then what is charity ? Is it pity? Compassion? Almsgiving? Mercy? Yes, all these, but still more besides. The dictionary defines it as "universal love." The Prophet Joseph Smith says it is "the pure love of Christ." The Savior tells us that all the law and the prophets hang on these two commandments: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul and with all thy mind," and "thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." This then is charity, which is the fulfilment of the law. This is the greatest thing of all. This achieved will sanctify us from all unrighteousness and prepare us for celestial glory. All else is merely the means to this desired end. This then is "that which is perfect," the rest is "that which is in part." Or as Paul further writes to the Corinthians : 

"Charity never faileth : but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. 

"For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. 

"But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away." 

For the accomplishment of this end the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been revealed, through obedience to which we manifest our faith in him as the Savior of the world and receive the assurance that our hope for a glorious future life will be realized. No other name is given under heaven whereby eternal life, God's greatest gift to man, may be attained, other than the name of the Lord Jesus Christ the very Son of God, whom he sent into the world to be our Savior. 

Let us then believe in him and cultivate his divine attributes as they are naturally inherent within us, even the true, the genuine, and reject the false, the counterfeit; then shall we grow in the knowledge of God and good works day by day and eventually receive the crown of eternal life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Amen. ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

of the Presiding Bishopric 

My brethren and sisters, I assure you I appreciate the privilege of standing before you today. I fully realize that this is a difficult position to occupy. Not that it is difficult to bear testimony of the things of God, but one standing in this position and realizing the great responsibility, fears that he may not do justice to his subject. In the spirit of humility I approach this task and humbly pray our Heavenly Father that he will bless me in my, attempt to address you. 

I was greatly impressed this morning with the remarks of President Grant. I had a feeling of joy come over me when he promised that if we would obey the law of tithing God would bless us. I am wondering how many of us are going to take this promise seriously. The Lord has made a similar promise before and has also reminded us that we have many things to do and repent of, for we are not pardoned because we seek to counsel in our own way. (D. and C. 56:13, 14.) Is it not worthwhile to receive these promises sincerely and with faith in their fulfillment through obedience to the laws of God? Surely none of us doubts that President Grant has a right to make this promise, and we should have no doubt that it will be fulfilled. May we take the spirit of this promise to our homes that we may be encouraged and encourage others in attempting 'to keep the commandments of the Lord. 

I was happy to hear President Grant read Section 11 of the Doctrine and Covenants and comment upon it. This section has always been interesting to me. I was attracted to it at first because it is a revelation given through the prophet Joseph Smith to my grandfather. To me this revelation contains a wonderful sermon which in my opinion was not intended for him alone but for all those who receive the priesthood. May I explain why I reached this conclusion? Since the beginning of the Church, men have been chosen and sent into the mission field to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. They have not been chosen because of their educational attainments, but because of their humility and willingness to serve the Lord to the best of their ability. One of the many evidences that this is the work of the Lord is seen in the results of their labors. Very few have failed in their effort and we have no record of an elder, while serving as a missionary, leaving the Church to join another. We have looked upon this condition as being normal and in keeping with the gospel plan. Many times have I heard Church members say, in some cases as an excuse for not supporting the priesthood quorums, the Sabbath school or the Seminary work, that the Lord does not require men of great learning to> preach the gospel, for he has promised to establish the gospel through the weak things of the world; and they point to the success of our missionaries to justify themselves in their failure to take advantage of the many opportunities afforded them to gain a better knowledge of  gospel of Jesus Christ, which, with the spirit of humility and faith, qualify them for this service. For faith, humility and knowledge are the weapons to be used in defense of truth and righteousness. Have we been guilty of "counselling in our own way ?" In this interpretation is it not an attempt to justify ourselves? Did the Lord intend to convey to his children the thought that they should wholly depend upon him? Are they not required to prepare themselves by storing up useful knowledge? To my mind these questions are of vital importance to us and I believe a careful examination of the scriptures will convince those in doubt that the Lord expects much of his servants by way of preparation on their part to qualify them to render efficient service, which preparation must come through a sincere desire to gain a knowledge of the gospel through diligent research carried on in the spirit of faith and humility. 

Referring to Section 1 :19 and Section 35 :13 of the Doctrine and Covenants, who are the weak things referred to ? The answer given is he who does not "counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh." How are they to thrash the nations? and the answer "by the power of my Spirit." How are they to receive that power? The words of the Lord to Hyrum Smith in Section 11 give us the answer: "Therefore if you will ask of me you * shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you." "Seek not for riches but for wisdom;: and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and! then shall you be made rich." (D. and C. 11 :5, 7.) 

About eight years after this revelation was given the Lord said to Joseph Smith, "Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, I am well pleased with your offering and acknowledgments, which you have made; for unto this end have I raised you up, that I might show forth my wisdom through the weak things of the earth. (D. and C. 124:1.) 

We will recall that when the Prophet Joseph Smith was first called to this work he was a boy, unlearned but intelligent and capable of understanding the words of God. He was not a man of letters and had not learned to "counsel his f ellowmen nor put his trust in the arm of flesh." Realizing that there was something lacking in the teachings of men and believing in the promises made by God to his children, as recorded in the scriptures, he went to the Lord to ask. His prayers were answered. That weakness, "speaking in the language of men," became strength, showing forth the wisdom of the Lord through the weak things of the earth. And it took years of patient study, intelligent research, and unquestioned faith, to prepare him for this great service. And through him the Lord has given us his word to direct us in our effort to prepare for his service. The following quotation from Doctrine and Covenants 84:106-110 is a notable example: 

"And if any man among you be strong in the Spirit, let him take with him him that is weak, that he may be edified in all meekness, that he may become strong also. 

"Therefore, take with you those who are ordained unto the lesser priesthood, 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and send them before you to make appointments, and to prepare the way, and to fill appointments that you yourselves are not able to fill. 

"Behold, this is the way that mine apostles, in ancient days, built up my church unto me. 

"Therefore, let every man stand in his own office, and labor in his own calling; and let not the head say unto the feet it hath no need of the feet; for without feet how shall the body be able to stand? 

"Also the body hath need of every member, that all may be edified together, that the system may be kept perfect." 

It would appear that many of us have neglected to follow this instruction. 

"And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand." 

"And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." (D. and C. 88:77-79; 118.) 

This quotation also gives us a better understanding of the need of preparation for service in his great Church. 

The time is limited; it would therefore be unwise to comment longer upon these passages. May I therefore read a few passages from the Bible having a bearing upon this subject? Let us consider Paul's advice to Timothy. 

"Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; 

"That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate; 

"Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. 

"O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called : 

"Which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee. Amen." (I Tim. 6:17-21.) 

"It is a faithful saying : For if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him : 

"If we suffer, we shall also reign with him : if we deny him, he also will deny us: 

"If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful : he cannot deny himself. 

"Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers. 

"Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. 

"But shun profane and vain babblings : for they will increase unto more ungodliness." (II Tim. 2:11-16.) 

Also Paul's instructions to the Corinthians found in I Cor. 1 : 1 7-3 1 . 

"For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel : not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. 

"For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God. 

"For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. 

"Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? 

"For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God. it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. 

"For the Jews require a sign, and trie Greeks seek after wisdom : 

"But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness; 

"But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. 

"Because ' the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 

"For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called : 

"But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; 

"And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are : "That no flesh should glory in his presence. 

"But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and'" redemption: 

"That, according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord." 

Solomon calls our attention to the need of such training for we read in Proverbs 1 :2-7 : 

"To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding; 

"To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity; 

"To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. 

"A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels : 

"To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings. 

"The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, it seems to me the Lord has given us his plan in clearness, and our duty is clearly denned and definite. Ample provision has been made available for such training for all who should be prepared to engage in the work of the Lord. For years we have urged that young men serve as Ward Teachers that they might have an opportunity to discuss gospel principles in the homes of the saints, thus applying in actual service the information gained through study in their quorum and auxiliary meetings. We have also urged that we carry out the commandment of the Lord in requiring the priest to "preach, teach, expound, exhort and baptize." It is such experiences that give to those who go into the mission field a burning testimony of the gospel, and which sometimes, I am sorry to say, some lose after their return, because of lack of proper Church activity and spiritual food. How much more successful would the work be if all missionaries were sent out with the training and testimony found in those who return. In certain sections this is being done. Why not in all? Surely we are left without excuse when we fail, and how much easier would be the task for the mission presidents who are constantly pleading for missionaries, as well as for the missionary himself, if such interest were taken in him before his departure. 

"For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." (II Tim. 1 :7.) 

May the Lord bless you. I rejoice in his great work. I am thankful to him that I bear his holy priesthood and that I am permitted to labor with you in this great cause. May God bless us and help us to carry on this great work and responsibility which he has placed upon us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

It shall be my purpose, brethren and sisters, in the brief period allotted to me this afternoon, to introduce to you two great characters with whom you are more or less acquainted and whose power and influence has actuated the minds, the hearts and lives of the people of this world from the beginning. I desire also to bring to your attention the work and purpose of each of these great characters which, I may say, are diametrically opposed to each other. I read to you from the first chapter of the Book of Moses : 

THE WORKS OF GOD 

"The words of God, which he spake unto Moses at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain, 

"And he saw God face to face, and he talked with him, and the glory of God was upon Moses; therefore Moses could endure his presence. 

"And God spake unto Moses, saying : "Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name; for I am without beginning of days or end of years; and is not this endless ? 

"And, behold, thou art my son; wherefore, look, and I will show thee the workmanship of mine hands; but not all, for my works are without end, and also my words, for they never cease. 

"Wherefore, no man can behold all my works, except he behold all my glory; and no man can behold all my glory and afterwards remain in the flesh on the earth. 

"And I have a work for thee, Moses, my son; and thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior, for he is full of grace and truth; but there is no God beside me, and all things are present with me, for I know them all. 

"And now, behold, this one thing I show unto thee, Moses, my son; for thou art in the world, and now I show it unto thee. 

"And it came to pass that Moses looked, and beheld the world upon which he was created; and Moses beheld the world and the ends thereof, and all the children of men which are and which were created; of the same he greatly marveled and wondered. 

"And the presence of God withdrew from Moses, that His glory was not upon Moses; and Moses was left unto himself. And as he was left unto himself, he fell unto the earth; 

"And it came to pass that it was for the space of many hours before Moses did again receive his natural strength like unto man; and he said unto himself: Now, for this cause I know that man is nothing, which thing I never had supposed. 

"But now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him, 

TEMPTED OF SATAN 

"And it came to pass that when Moses had said these words, behold, Satan came tempting him, saying: Moses, son of man, worship me. 

"And it came to pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said : Who art thou ? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy glory, that I should worship thee? 

"For behold, I could not look upon God, except his glory should come upon me, and I were strengthened before him. But I can look upon thee in the natural man. Is it not so, surely? 

"Blessed be the name of my God, for his Spirit hath not altogether withdrawn from me, or else where is thy glory, for it is darkness unto me? And I can judge between thee and God; for God said unto me: Worship God, foV him only shalt thou serve. 

"Get thee hence, Satan; deceive me not; for God said unto me: Thou art after the similitude of mine Only Begotten. 

"And he also gave me commandments when he called unto me out of the burning bush, saying : Call upon God in the name of mine Only Begotten, and worship me. 

"And again Moses said: I will not cease to call upon God, I have other things to inquire of him: for his glory has been upon me, wherefore I can judge between him and thee. Depart hence, Satan. 

"And now, when Moses had said these words, Satan cried with a loud voice, and rent upon the earth, and commanded, saying: I am the Only Begotten, worship me. 

"And it came to pass that Moses began to fear exceedingly; and as he began to fear, he saw the bitterness of hell. Nevertheless, calling upon God, he received strength, and he commanded, saying : Depart from me, Satan, for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of Glory. 

"And now Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook; and Moses received strength, and called upon God, saying : In the name of the Only Begotten, depart hence, Satan. 

 "And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth; and he departed hence, even from the presence of Moses, that he beheld him not." 

Continuing further until we come to the thirty-ninth verse, we find that the Lord appeared again to Moses, after this great temptation, and made known to him his work and purpose, the end he had in view. Said he, "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

If we have not already learned what the work and purpose of Satan is, we will perhaps learn it as we proceed. 

MAN TO HAVE FREE AGENCY 

I will now introduce to you, brethren and sisters, another great character in connection with these two of which I have been reading and speaking. This is from the fourth chapter of Moses : 

"And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses saying: That Satan, whom thou' hast commanded, in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me saying — Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. 

"But, behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me — Father, thy will be done and the glory be thine forever. 

"Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down. 

"And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice." 

These two great influences being wrought upon us, and having our agency, we are to be judged by the exercise of this agency, whether we exercise it in righteousness unto salvation and exaltation or in unrighteousness unto our condemnation. 

satan's designs and purposes 

In the fifth chapter of the Book of Moses; we read as follows : 

"And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters;" — preached the gospel to them, of course. 

"And Satan came among them, saying : I am also a son of God; and he commanded them saying : Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish." 

"And Satan said unto Cain:" (A few verses farther in the chapter.) "swear unto me by thy throat, and if thou tell it thou shalt die; and swear thy brethren by their heads, and by the living God, that they tell it not; for if they tell it, they shall surely die; and this that thy father may not know it; and this day I will deliver thy brother Abel into thine hands. 

"And Satan sware unto Cain that he would do according to his commands. And all these things were done in secret." 

This shows also, the machinations of Satan, his designs, and purposes upon the lives of men and women as pertaining to this life and the life to come. 

We also have an account in the first few chapters of Genesis of the creation and how that Adam and Eve, when they were placed in the garden of Eden, were tempted of this same individual, Satan. 

When the Savior came here upon the earth, and after his fasting forty days and nights, he also was tempted of Satan. Again Satan failed in his purpose. 

In this the dispensation of the fulness of times when the boy Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray, Satan was there. Evidently knowing what our Father in heaven designed to accomplish in the last days, through the instrumentality of this boy, Satan tried to destroy him. 

The Prophet Joseph is of record as having said that, "All beings who have bodies have power over those who have not — the devil has no power over us only as we permit him. The moment we revolt at anything which comes from God, the devil takes power. * * * All men have power to resist the devil." (Compendium, p. 288.) 

A WARNING TO THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Brethren and sisters, these two powers are operating upon the minds and the hearts of the children of men today in the Church and out of the Church. Many of us are tainted, more or less, having been influenced by Satan, having yielded to his temptations, here a little and there a little; and brethren and sisters, we are to be warned, and I desire in my brief talk here to lift a warning voice to the Latter-day Saints, for the time is to come in the last days that the very elect, if possible, will be deceived. Choose ye therefore this day whom ye will serve. 

There are some who seem to be willing to be the emissaries of this great being, Satan, to assist him in his work. It is a notable fact that those who have arraigned themselves against God's work and purposes, fire their darts at the head of the Church; and we have a great many people now, some in the Church and some outside, who are trying their utmost to destroy the influence of the President of this Church; and I believe at the bottom of it they would destroy this work if possible. They are enemies to God, but they will surely find sooner or later that it is hard to kick against the pricks. We have known of men circulating literature among the saints, calculated to destroy confidence in the authorities of the Church, particularly in the head of the Church. Fault is found with the way they handle the means that are entrusted to their care, the tithes of the Church. Others are circulating literature calculated to encourage people to perpetuate practices which are by the Church forbidden. It is the purpose of the authorities of this Church to live, and teach this people to obey, the constitutional laws of these United States; and there are people here who take the opposite course, criticizing and doing all they can in opposition to the attitude taken upon these questions by the authorities of the Church. These people, I think, are becoming the emissaries of Satan, and if they should succeed, no doubt Satan would rejoice exceedingly. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, we do not fear any power or influence that can be brought upon this work or the authorities of this Church from the outside. The most powerful influence with its most dire effects is that which comes from members within the Church; and when it is known that men arraign themselves against this work, or the authorities of this Church, if they will not repent, they should be dealt with, and that speedily. "It is better that one man shall perish than that a whole nation should dwindle in unbelief," notwithstanding we should be full of charity toward all men as well as toward the household of faith. I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, you should not follow such a lead. 

A SURE AND SAFE LEAD 

I want to give you a guide that is sure and safe. If you will be one with the Presidency of this Church, and with the twelve apostles, you will never go astray. You will be on firm footing. There has never been a moment since the organization of this Church when the President of the Church and the Twelve Apostles or a majority of the Twelve Apostles have gone astray. You are safe to follow their lead. 

And now, another thing to make you safe and secure: live your religion, brethren and sisters. I do not know what better advice and counsel I can give than to repeat what President Grant has already given us in this conference: Keep the commandments of the Lord. Obey all his laws. The law of tithing? Yes. Consecration? Yes. Shall we obey the command that we love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul and mind? Yes. And our neighbors as ourselves? Yes. And if we do this, surely we can do all the other things that are required of us. The Lord knows best and if we will listen to the promptings of his Holy Spirit and live our religion, we shall not be deceived, but shall know the truth, whether written or spoken, for we will be on firm footing. 

TRIUMPH OF GOD'S WORK ASSURED 

I know that this work is true. It is God's work and not man's. No man can succeed in this work without the help of the Lord, and no man can succeed on the outside against this work, or the authorities of this Church, for in their efforts so to do they are opposing the Lord. I know that Heber J. Grant, the present President of this Church, is a prophet of God, the mouthpiece of God to this people and to the whole world, at this time. He is a man of inspiration, a mortal man indeed, but a man who seeks the mind and will of God our Father on all important matters, a man who seeks the advice and counsel of those whom the Lord has given him as counselors, a man who is leading this people in righteousness; and I know that this work will succeed and triumph. It has been established for the purpose of preparing for the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who is to take this Church and kingdom and reign a millennial reign of peace here upon the earth; and the time of his coming is not far distant. I bear this testimony to you, knowing whereof I speak by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I have been greatly impressed, my brethren and sisters, by the wonderful spirit and power of the instructions and testimonies borne during the sessions of this conference thus far. I rejoice with you in the progress that is being made by this people. I listened with great interest to the remarks made by President Grant — the statement of the various advances being made in the Church and the building up of the work of the Lord. I was impressed with his statement with regard to the observance of the principle of tithing. 

SUSTAINING THE AUTHORITIES 

I rejoice in the faith which I possess of the divinity of this work. I sustain with all my heart the Presidency of the Church. I know, as has been stated here by President Richards, that President Grant is inspired of the Lord — that he is the Lord's mouthpiece — and that his counselors are inspired. I sustain the brethren who compose the Council of the Twelve and all of the General Authorities. I have confidence m these presidencies of the stakes. They are men who are called to direct the various divisions of the Church that are organized and established. I have confidence in these mission presidents who are putting forth such great efforts in that important work of the Church — the spread of the gospel — and the building up of the Church throughout the world. I sustain the bishoprics. I realize the wonderful work that is being done by these men who preside over the various wards throughout the Church. I am impressed continually with the tremendous power that is here for good and for righteousness. I am sure that we, every one of us, ought to take as our motto that statement made in the revelation which was read by the President this morning, that we walk humbly, deal justly and judge righteously. Those things are important to every one of us. 

CHAPEL BUILDING COSTS 

Sometimes I have 'felt that in the building of our chapels and meeting houses, beautiful as they are, there has been a little too much competition or rivalry among some of the wards, by the bishoprics and the building committees, to make their new meeting houses a little finer than others in the same locality. It seems to me important that great care and economy should be exercised; so that, while we accomplish what we require in the way of providing sufficient accommodations, at the same time every effort be made to spend as little as is possible of the means raised locally by the people and that appropriated by the First Presidency. 

INCREASE IN TITHING 

With regard to the principle of tithing, I believe that the tithes paid by the saints throughout the Church thus far this year amount in total to more than has ever been paid before during a similar period. Yet, as has been stated, the demands upon the Church for the vital things that concern the welfare and growth of this great work require more means to be used for its advancement. There are some wards throughout the Church that have as tithepayers practically the average quota of those that should pay tithing. It has been calculated that on the average about forty percent of the membership of the Church, including children, are potential tithepayers. That is, they are people who are earning means. This varies, of course, in certain localities and under different conditions. There are some wards, I say, where there are practically forty percent of the membership that are observing this principle. A FULL TITHING 

Tithing means the payment of one-tenth of our interest annually. It is not the amount, primarily, that is important, but the observance of the principle in its fulness. If we cultivate the spirit of obedience to this principle we shall, even though our tithing be small in amount to begin with, grow in spirit and power and ability to pay, and the Lord will bless us and enable us to increase our tithes as we go forward. I know that this principle is true. It is a means of progress, growth and development. 

TRAIN YOUNG PEOPLE TO BECOME TITHEPAYERS 

I would like to suggest to these brethren who preside over the various stakes, wards and missions throughout the Church, that they endeavor to teach, as far as possible, all the members of the Church directly, and particularly the young people, to pay their tithes. In our own families, as soon as our children reach the age of eight years and are baptized, we should encourage them to observe this principle, even though the amount which they pay annually may be very small; and even though we may have to start them by paying for them. A.s children get far enough along so that they can earn a little means they should be taught obedience to the law of tithing, the purpose of it and the way in which the funds derived therefrom are employed. If this is done, children of the Latter-day Saints will grow up with faith, I am sure, in this principle. It will become a source of strength to them. It will develop in them stability and power for the observance of every other principle of the gospel. 

DIVINE PRINCIPLES PROMOTE DEVELOPMENT 

I was impressed with the statement made also with regard to our obedience to the commandments of the Lord generally. I believe that the observance of divine instructions is the most effective means for the best development of men and women. Recently a man declared to me that he believed that in this community there is the making of the finest civilization the world has ever seen. He referred to the wonderful principles which are being taught the Latter-day Saints, and called attention to the fact that though these principles are not being as fully observed as they should be, yet the extent of their observance is such that the people are brought to higher standards than otherwise. 

YOUNG PEOPLE THE GREATEST RESOURCE 

Some time ago a prominent banker in this state made a declaration with reference to the resources of the state. In effect he said that the finest and most important resource of this state is not the agricultural crop, not the mining industries, not the banking or other organizations, not the commercial progress of the state — but the boys and girls. It seems to me, if we realize the fact that the faith and devotion of the individual members is the source of the greatest possible strength and  in the Church, then we shall devote our efforts to the training and development of these young people in the living of the gospel. 

FACTORS OF CIVILIZATION 

What is it that constitutes the finest civilization? Is it physical development;? That is important in every instance. The Greeks were famed for their splendid physical prowess. They developed a high civilization, based in part upon their physical training and upon their architectural progress. Other nations have developed civilizations based upon military power. Others again, upon the glorification of the ruling power through oppression of the masses; and still others upon material achievements through inventions and discoveries. It would appear that the finest civilization must be founded upon the development of high ideals in a number of fundamentals, such as physical development, education, progress in the arts, moral standards, industrial progress, fair dealing and faith in God. 

PHYSICAL WELFARE 

Let us consider for a moment that, living in this nation, possessed of a high civilization, we are greatly favored, in addition, in having an understanding of divine principles which will promote still higher standards in all of those who observe them. For instance, we have in the Word of Wisdom the finest guide possible for the physical welfare of man. Again, we are taught that in spirit we are the sons and daughters of God; and that our physical bodies are created in his image, so our faith will tend to cause us to keep these bodies clean and sound and strong. 

MORAL STANDARDS 

Again, in the matter of moral progress, I think there is no people anywhere who receive such excellent instruction and such practical training in high moral standards as the Latter-day Saints. Among us there is no double standard of virtue. Every man and every boy is expected to be just as virtuous and clean in his life as every girl and every woman is expected to be. Marriage is a sacred obligation and privilege. But the Lord has declared that licentiousness is most degrading and that it will limit our progress here and hereafter. If we fail in this vital principle of morality it will not be for lack of instruction and guidance. 

EDUCATION 

Also, in education the Latter-day Saints have proven by their works that intellectual advancement is of most vital concern to all the merbership of this Church. The standards of education prevailing in those states which are populated largely by the Latter-day Saints, are among the highest in comparison with the other states throughout the Union. The Latter-day Saint students in universities and elsewhere have demonstrated their comparative ability and capacity. Along with intellectual development we realize that religious training is just as vital. 

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES 

With respect to progress in the arts and material achievements the history of this people is evidence of the important part these phases of civilization have played in our progress. Yet, I believe that we are not generally giving as earnest attention as we should to the vocational training of our young people and to the industrial development in our communities. This is an age of industry. We are concerned with our material as well as our spiritual growth. I recommend to these men who are leaders in the various communities that they endeavor to encourage our young people to qualify in all of the vocations which shall be most helpful in the various communities. Through this training and the development of suitable industries, our communities can be made desirable and attractive for these young people, so that they may be able to remain at home and help to make all sections of the Church prosperous and successful. 

UNSELFISHNESS AND FAIR DEALING 

Wholehearted obedience to the principle of tithing inculcates in man the spirit of unselfishness. It promotes the spirit of church and community welfare. It encourages fair dealing, for if a man is true in his obligations toward God, he cannot be otherwise than straightforward in his dealings with his fellowman. It helps to cultivate economy and living within our means. Thus we may gain material happiness. I think it was Benjamin Franklin who declared that there are two ways to be happy. One is to increase your income and the other is to diminish your expenses. Either one will promote happiness. It has been said that the first lesson in the art of being happy is to learn to do without and like it. I want to testify to you that that is true with regard to this, as well as with regard to every other principle of the gospel. Training in moderate self-denial is important to every human being, so that we may learn to control our appetites and our improper desires. Therein is strength and power. In like manner the principle of fasting and fast donations promotes the spirit of humility, charity and equality in the hearts of those who observe it. Surely if there is a principle upon which the stability of any civilization rests, it is that of mutual consideration among the members thereof. Pride and highmindedness have been a fruitful source of destruction in nations of the past. 

SPIRITUAL GROWTH 

Finally, faith in God and a lively sense of his providences is a great source of strength in the maintenance of any civilization. The Latterday Saints are privileged to enjoy a fulness of the gospel through obedience to the commandments of the Lord. If we keep these commandments we shall enjoy the influence of that Spirit which leads us into all truth, and helps us to grow in all respects that will make us stronger and better men and women. It promotes integrity and purpose. It develops stability and sound judgment. 

I am reminded of that interesting experience of the Prophet Elijah. You remember when King Ahab had decreed his death and Jezebel had also declared that the dogs should eat the flesh of his body, that Elijah was discouraged. He went into the desert where the angel of the Lord appeared and instructed him to proceed further. So he went on to Mount Horeb and there the evidences of the powers of the elements were made visible to him; in the wind storm; in the lightning and thunder; in the earthquake; and after all of these things, the still small voice! That testimony comes to everyone who observes to keep these commandments. Thereby we shall be able to understand what is expected of us and walk forward clearly and definitely in the path of righteousness that leads to eternal life. 

I do not fear for the observance of the principle of tithing or any other principle of the gospel if the Latter-day Saints are converted to the truth of the whole, and become possessed of a testimony of the divinity of this work through the influence and power of the Holy Spirit. 

THE WORK IS GROWING 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this work is progressing. I have occasion to know of many things that are being done under the direction of the General Authorities to advance this work. I do not doubt that in time there will be stakes organized in other parts of this great nation which will help to stabilize the work of the Lord in those parts. I have faith that divine instructions will be given to us from time to time as we are prepared to accept and obey them. I know that the gospel is true. I rejoice in the privilege that has come to me to work in this position. I pray the Lord to help every one of us to live in conformity with these principles that we may gain the benefits and blessings resulting therefrom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The following telegram has been received: 

"We are highly appreciating the conference. Every word is distinct. Students of American Fork Seminary, E. Ray Gardner, Principal." 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O say, What is Truth?" The closing prayer was offered by Elder Wilford A. Beesley, President of the Salt Lake Stake. 


