Morning
04 10 1929

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice in the opportunity of again meeting with the saints in general conference. I am grateful for the blessings that we as a people have enjoyed during the past six months. 

As is customary we announce in our opening meeting some of the changes that have taken place during this period. 

PRESENTS CHANGES 

Changes in stake and mission officers since last April conference : New stakes organized: 

Moroni stake, formerly a part of North Sanpete stake, James L. Nielsen appointed president of the new stake. 

Sharon stake, formerly a part of Utah stake, Arthur V. Wlatkins appointed president of the new stake. 

Stake presidents appointed : 

A. Richard Peterson has been appointed president of the Emery stake to succeed Lars P. Ovesen. 

Wjilford A. Beesley has been appointed president of the Salt Lake stake to succeed Nephi L. Morris. 

Ralph B. Keeler has been appointed president of the Juarez stake to succeed Joseph C. Bentley. 

Joseph T. Finlinson has been appointed president of the Deseret stake, to succeed Alonzo A. Hinckley. 

New mission presidents: 

John G. Allred has been released as president of the North Central States mission, and Arthur Welling appointed to succeed him. 

Hyrum W. Valentine has been released as president of the GermanAustrian mission, and Edward P. Kimball appointed to succeed him. 

John P. Lillywhite has been released as president of the Netherlands mission, and Frank I. Kooyman appointed to succeed him. 

Joseph L. Peterson has been released as president of the Danish mission, and Holger M. Larsen appointed to succeed him. 

A new mission has been organized in Czecho-Slovakia, with Arthur Gaeth as president: 

New wards organized : 

Spanish Fork Fifth ward, Palmyra stake. 

Diamond City ward, Lethbridge stake. 

Stake president who has passed away : 

Since our last conference President Fred A. Caine of the Idaho Falls stake has passed away. It fell to my lot to labor for three years with Brother Caine in the Japan mission, and to be intimately acquainted with him from then until the time of his death. I wish to bear witness that it has not been my privilege to ever be associated with a more sincere, God-fearing, capable, faithful man than was Brother Fred A. Caine. 

Bishop who has passed away: 

Elmer H. Johnson, Alterra ward, Roosevelt stake. 

At the present time we have : 

Independent branches are presided over by a president and two counselors and are practically, to all intents and purposes, wards; they are not, however, considered quite large enough to be regularly organized as such. 

There are also at the present time : 

Dependent branches 41 

Missions 28 

Branches in Missions 783 

Making in round numbers nearly 2,000 organizations in the Church. 

The new appropriations made to the stakes and wards for the building of meeting houses during the first nine months of last year amounted to $868,125.00, and this year, for the same period, they amount to $886,780.00. Stakes Wards 

103 933 APPROPRIATIONS INCREASE As you perhaps all know, we have erected a hotel building on the corner opposite this block on the southwest, on some vacant land that has been held by the Church for many years. We feel the necessity of having a building where many of our saints who come here, from Canada to Mexico and from the various missions, can secure accommodations at a more reasonable rate than at the splendid hotel which we erected many years ago, facing this building across the street to the east. 

It is only fair to say to the people that we have not utilized any of the means in the nature of tithing that have come into the hands of the Presidency of the Church for the erection of this building. Nor only has all of the money that has been paid as tithes during the last nine months been returned to the stakes of Zion, but even more has been appropriated to them. We have disposed of property and securities that the Church was in possession of, in order to erect this building for the accommodation principally of our people. The drafts upon the Church have been far greater during the last nine months than during any similar period while I have presided over the Church. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH PAYMENT OF TITHES 

I regret to say that there are a great many of the people who are not paying their tithing. To me it is a marvel that any man having a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged as Latter-day Saints can sing lullabies to his conscience, figuratively speaking, and not be absolutely honest with the Lord in the payment of his tithes. 

Tithing is a law of God and the payment of tithes brings peace and joy to the Latter-day Saint who does it. There is a satisfaction that comes into the heart of the man who is absolutely honest with the Lord in contributing of his means to the building up of the Church of Christ, and into the heart of every true, full tithe-payer. Each and every blessing that you and I enjoy comes from God. We are under obligations to him for the very breath of life, and hq gives us everything that we have. He asks us to show our appreciation and acknowledge to him his goodness, by returning to the Church for its benefit and for the spreading of the gospel at home and abroad, onetenth of that which we receive, all of which comes from him. 

APPEALS FOR HONESTY 

Again I say it is beyond my comprehension how any man who is absolutely honest in his dealings with his fellow men and would not think of such a thing as compromising his store bill if he were able to pay, would compromise his  obligations to God. I can speak upon the payment of tithing because from my childhood every dollar that has come into my hands has been tithed, and I have endeavored in addition to be as liberal as any of my associates have been in contributing for the various public enterprises that have been required of us — the erection of ward houses, school houses, etc., etc. 

I appeal to the Latter-day Saints to be honest with the Lord and I promise them that peace, prosperity and financial success will attend those who are honest with our Heavenly Father, because they are ful the law and an obligation, and he will bless them for doing so. And being strictly honest with the Lord is the most splendid way to teach your children faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The most tender portion of the human anatomy of the male variety of the species, it has been said, is the pocket, and there is something to it. When we set our hearts; upon the things of this world and fail to be strictly honest with the Lord we do not grow in the light and power and strength of the gospel as we otherwise would do. 

WARD AND STAKE BUILDINGS DEDICATED 

It has fallen to my lot during the past year, in April, to be present and assist in the dedication of the new Hollywood stake and Wilshire ward building. It is one of the very finest buildings that we have ever erected in any of the stakes of Zion for stake and ward purposes, and I am sure it will give us a very splendid standing in that section of the country. I rejoice in the beauty of the building and in the surroundings, as well as in the great accomplishment there. 

In May, I had the pleasure of dedicating the Dimond ward chapel. The Dimond ward is in the San Francisco stake of Zion. The chapel is a very beautiful one and a great credit tq the people of that ward. I was astonished that so small a ward could build such a splendid building. 

VISITS WINTERS GRAVE 

Also in May of this year I went to Scott's Bluff, Nebraska, with members of my family, where I attended services in connection with the placing of a marker by the Daughters of the American Revolution, at the grave of Rebecca Winters. Rebecca Winters died while crossing the plains, and some fifty years later, the Burlington railroad, in surveying on the north side of the Platte river, came to a broken wagon tire upon which was chiseled "Rebecca Winters, aged fifty years." 

They very kindly made a detour so as to miss the grave, and the Burlington Railroad company has since erected a fence around the grave and has kept the ground in the enclosure in very nice condition, having put down a well for the express purpose of securing water with which to water the grass around the grave. 

It has been my privilege and that of my wife and some other members of our family, to visit that spot upon three different occasions. On this last occasion the Burlington railroad carried ten carloads of people from Scottsbluff to the grave, which is a mile or two distant from that city. Rebecca Winters was the daughter of a Revolutionary soldier, and in Utah, Idaho and this intermountain country, she has nearly six hundred descendants. 

NEW STAKE BUILDING 

In June I dedicated the Los Angeles stake building at Huntington Park. The chapel and amusement hall are a very splendid and remarkable structure and a very great credit to the people. I rejoice that we have it. The accommodations are very fine indeed, equal, I think, to any of our stake houses. The building is not quite so expensive as the one in Hollywood, but it is equally as commodious and a very splendid structure. 

COLORADO RIVER BRIDGE 

In company with President Ivins, I was present at the dedication of the bridge across the Colorado river, which will join Utah and Arizona more closely in the future than it has been possible for them to be joined in the past. Formerly it required travel of nearly a thousand miles to get around from the north rim of the Grand Canyon to the county seat, in order to pay your taxes if you wanted to do so in person, in case you owned property in what is known as the Arizona strip on the north rim of the canyon. I cart only hope that Arizona will build a good road to the bridge and from the bridge to the Utah line, something that is very greatly lacking at the present time. It is about the worst piece of road from the Utah line to the bridge that it has fallen to my lot for many years to ride over. 

VISITS WARDS AND MISSIONS 

I have had the pleasure of attending some ward meetings and also some stake conferences during the past six months. 

In June I had the privilege of dedicating a fine ward house in Jerome, Idaho. The people there have had a great struggle through many years in constructing this building. It was rather beyond the capacity of the small ward, but the people have done themselves credit, and I rejoice that the work is finally completed and the building dedicated. 

In July I visited the Elwood ward in Bear River stake, and dedicated a small chapel there, which is a very creditable structure. They have placed pressed bricks around their old ward meeting house and turned it into an amusement hall, and it looks as fine as though it were an expensive building. The amusement hall and chapel are very creditable, and I congratulate the people on having them. 

I had the pleasure of visiting the Elmhurst ward in the San Francisco stake. I expected to be at the dedication of their new building but was unable to do so on account of sickness in my family. 

In the past six months I have attended a meeting in the San Jose branch of the California mission. We have a very good chapel at San Jose. 

In September I visited Pittsburgh with President James H. Moyle of the Eastern States mission, and there dedicated a fine little chapel, which is a very suitable structure for our purposes. 

COAST MEMBERS INCREASE 

During the past two weeks I have had the pleasure of speaking  the Sacramento branch of the California mission, and also in the Long Beach ward of Los Angeles stake. When I was in Sacramento only a few years ago we had only two hundred members of the Church there. Today we have over twelve hundred members fh that city, and also a great increase in the number of Latter-day Saints in Long Beach. 

The work of the Lord is progressing satisfactorily. I am pleased to tell you that from all of the various missions we are receiving calls for more help. The reports that we receive are favorable, and the call for additional missionaries, I believe, comes from every mission that we have. There are something over two thousand of our young men and women out in the world at the present time preaching the gospel. The work of the Lord is spreading, and we are grateful for his blessings that are attending our labors. 

QUOTES FROM REVELATIONS 

In thinking of what I would like to say today I was reminded of the fact that probably twice if not three times during the past six months in speaking I have quoted the eleventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants. I know of no finer section, it being a revelation to the father of our beloved President Joseph F. Smith. Not only is it a revelation to Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, but the remarks therein, as the revelation says, are applicable to all the saints who have the right spirit and desire to spread the gospel. This revelation was given eleven months before the organization of the Church. 

When the Prophet Joseph was engaged in translating the Book of Mormon there were a great many leading influential men who came to him and asked what the Lord would like them to do. He inquired of the Lord, through the Urim and Thummim, and many revelations were received, telling of the great and marvelous work that was about to come forth, and this is ona of them. Many of the men desired to go forth and preach, but you will find that the Lord tells them to wait. 

"keep commandments" 

"A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both ioints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word. 

"Behold, the field is white already to harvest : therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God. 

"Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God. 

"Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened umo you. 

"Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion." 

I have heard a great deal of criticism in my life about our re8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

peating over and over and over again the many things that the Lord has revealed to us, and appealing to the people to keep the commandments of the Lord. And yet we find that the Lord, in this revelation, repeats this declaration time and time again : "Keep my commandments." 

"Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation." 

And every Latter-day Saint ought to have a desire in his or her heart to do all the good within his or her power for the advancement of the work of God. 

"Say nothing but repentance unto this generation. Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. 

"Behold, thou hast a gift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt, desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power, which speaketh unto thee; 

"For behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. 

SPIRIT WILL LEAD 

"And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously, and this is my Spirit. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy! 

"And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive. 

"Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

"Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my Church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine. 

"And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith shall it be done unto you. 

"Keep my commandments: hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit;" 

PATIENCE AND STUDY NECESSARY 

"Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken — yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it." 

Remember the Prophet was engaged in the translation of the' Book of Mormon at this time. 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea with all your might, mind and strength. 

"Seek not to declare my word, but seek first to obtain my word, and then  your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. 

"But now hold your peace; study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto. 

"Behold, thou art Hyrum, my son; seek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just. 

"Build upon my rock, which) is my gospel; 

"Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; 

"Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. 

"I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own received me not; 

"But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as will receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen." 

A MARVELOUS WORK AND A WONDER 

This "marvelous work and a wonder" has come to pass and has spread all over the world where there has been religious liberty; and from every land and from every clime honest, faithful, God-fearing men and women have heard the sound of the true voice of the shepherd through his servants who have gone forth to proclaim the gospel. And men of great influence have been gathered into this Church. Men like John Taylor who presided over the Church, heard the gospel in a foreign land; the parents of George Q. Cannon, and many other leaders in this Church, heard the sound of this gospel and embraced it and gathered to Zion and labored with all the power and ability that they possessed for the advancement of God's kingdom. Year by year this great and wonderful work has rolled on and we are becoming known as a God-fearing people, as a people with a destiny that is sure to be fulfilled. 

THANKFUL FOR TESTIMONY 

I thank God for a knowledge that he lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet. I rejoice in the knowledge that we are being blessed of Almighty God and being led by the inspiration of his Spirit in all of- our labors. May God inspire all who shall speak here during this conference; may we go home carrying the message of life and salvation under the inspiration of the Spirit of the living God that is poured out upon this occasion during this conference, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer, Amen. ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"It is expedient that the Church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus." 

THE JOY OF FRIENDSHIP 

I came to this conference at about ten minutes to the opening hour, and had the privilege of greeting many friends, among whom were' at least a half dozen of life-long standing, and others whom I have met in the mission field. My soul was made happy as I shook hands with these dear friends. I esteem it a great privilege to renew the warmth of that friendship. Among these missionary friends is one who, in one sentence, seemed to link this opening session of conference with those held in pioneer days. Commenting on the fact that he 'left his home in Cache valley only two hours before he was sitting in this tabernacle, he said, "I have taken four days to travel that distance to come to conference with an ox team." Just that remark awakened renewed appreciation in my heart for the work of our pioneers; and it made me appreciate, too, the privilege of living in this most wonderful time in the world's history when we have the enjoyment and blessing of so many marvelous inventions and discoveries, particularly the radio by means of which the British Premier this morning greeted the people of the United States, and everybody who tuned in heard his voice instantly. How easily the gospel may yet be preached to every people! 

. Well, it is good to meet friends. This conference affords us an opportunity to do so; and our souls are made happy as we shake each other's hands in confidence and brotherhood. In contrast, my soul is chilled and my faculties inhibited if I meet one who 1 think is magnifying my weaknesses and who seems almost to rejoice in them — who turns his head rather than to shake hands. Such a man makes life chilly. 


MEETING GQD 

In the house of God, however, we have the opportunity not only of meeting friends and of rejoicing in the strength and encouragement that comes from that meeting, but also of meeting God our Father through his Holy 'Spirit. We rejoice in his presence. He is here today, and he has inspired President Grant. You felt President Grant's spirit in his opening remarks, you felt his faith, his confidence in his brethren and in this work of God; and if we had nothing else but these blessings to which I have referred we could go away with our souls well fed. 

IN THE BROTHERHOOD OF CHRIST 

I wonder if the Lord did not have some such thought as this in mind when he said, "It is expedient that the Church meet together ." We meet in the house of God not as mere acquaintances suspicious of one another, but as brethren in the brotherhood of Christ. We meet in the presence of him who has said, "Love one another." I look forward to the time when the membership of our quorums will approach their quorum meetings in anticipation of that brotherhood and experience that fraternal feeling which strengthens the soul and which inspjres all to render greater service to their fellowmen. 

SACRAMENT MEETINGS 

I believe in meetings. I desire to say this morning that I feel impressed to emphasize what the Lord has designated as the most important meeting in the Church, and that is the sacrament meeting. In this very text which I have read, given to Joseph Smith by revelation, the Lord refers to that special meeting. "It is expedient that the church meet together often." Not for these general purposes to which I have made brief reference, but for the specific purpose of partaking of the sacrament. He has designated a particular prayer to be offered on that occasion. He has prescribed for us only a few set prayers, one of which is the blessing on the bread and water. 

THE LORD'S SUPPER 

Let us first consider the importance of this sacrament. It is not the only sacrament in the Church. It is particularly designated "The Lord's Supper." But if you will recall the occasion on which that was given or instituted you will agree with me that the Lord himself, the Savior, attached great importance to it. He had met with his twelve disciples in the upper room in Jerusalem on that memorable night of the betrayal. He had pointed out the traitor. He had partaken of the passover with them in accordance with the Jewish practice, and then he took bread and brake it and said, "Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you." He took the cup and blessed it, and said, "Drink ye all of it in remembrance of the blood which is shed for you, and this do in remembrance of me till I come; till we eat and drink in the kingdom of the Father." That was given just a few hours before his crucifixion. That alone establishes its importance, but if we put the proper interpretation upon the phrase in Corinthians, 11th chapter, which Paul used when he was teaching this principle to the Corinthians, we 'learn further that the Lord himself revealed the significance of the sacrament to Paul, and Paul gave specific instructions to the Church at Corinth, in regard to the partaking of these important and sacred emblems. Again in this dispensation the Lord revealed specifically how this part of the worship should be conducted. All God's ordinances and ceremonies are sacred but it seems to me that there is more importance attached to this than perhaps to any other sacrament or ceremony in the Church of Christ. So much for its importance. 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SACRAMENT 

Now. what does it signify? You will find first that the sacrament is a memorial of Christ's life and death. When we think of his life we think of sacrifice. Not a moment of his existence on earth did Christ think more of himself than he did of his brethrenand the people whom he came to save, always losing himself for the good of others, and finally giving his life for the redemption of mankind. When we partake of the sacrament in his presence we remember him, his life of sacrifice, and service; and we are inspired by that thought and memory. There is nothing won in this life without sacrifice. I am thrilled when I study carefully any principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and find that it is part of the whole, or rather that it comprehends the whole. Truly, truth is the sum of existence. So we can associate this sacrament, with all truth, all life. It is all-comprehensive. No thing worth while is obtained in this life without sacrificing, without putting forth effort. The evil one thrusts things upon us but God asks us to reach out and get that which he offers. "Teach self-denial," says Walter Scott, "and make it pleasurable, and you create for the world a destiny more sublime than ever issued from the brain of the wildest dreamer." 

THE BOND OF BROTHERHOOD 

A second significance or a second principle associated with the administering of the sacrament is the bond of brotherhood to which I have made mention. In the early establishment of the Church of Christ the brethren met, we are told, often at day-break, to partake of this sacrament as in the bond of brotherhood, of oneness. They met, as it were, under oath, comparatively as the Roman soldiers were bound in unit. In the Church at Corinth, when Paul wrote to them regarding their abuse of this holy sacrament, they held, previous to the administering of the sacrament, a love feast in which the rich and the poor met. They brought their food with them, — the rich plenty, of which the poor partook. That was at the beginning, carrying out the passover and the sacrament which followed. But when Paul wrote to them he found that those who had plenty were eating by themselves and those who were poor had nothing. This practice he condemned, saying that it was not part of the sacrament. He told them to satisfy their appetites and partake of the sacrament in remembrance of the body and blood of the Christ. 

However, the element of brotherhood has been associated with it always. I remember when I was a boy that there was emphasized even more than we hear emphasized now the necessity of no one's partaking of the sacrament who had ill feelings toward another, and I have heard more than one man say: "I am sorry that I hurt brother so-and-so's feelings, and I ask his forgiveness." He felt it necessary to do that before he was worthy to partake of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 

We meet in the brotherhood of Christ, all on the same level, each expressing confidence in the other and all in one another. Oh, the strength of brotherhood! Sin divides us. Righteousness unites. 

COMMUNION WITH CHRIST 

The partaking of the sacrament indicates also how communion with Christ may be secured. It cannot be obtained by Sunday righteousness and week-day indulgence. It implies that we will remember Christ always. "If we show the Lord's death at communion we must show the Lord's life in the world." 

DIVINE GUIDANCE 

And the fourth great significance is the promise that it is a means of receiving divine guidance. "If a friend is one who summons us to our best, then is not Jesus Christ our best friend? and should we not think of the communion as one of the chief appeals to us to be our best? The Lord's Supper looks not back to our past with a critical eye, but to our future with a helpful one." 

THE SACRAMENT PRAYER 

May I call attention to the great obligation which every member of the Church assumes when he first partakes of the sacrament on the Lord's day. Think of the prayer revealed in this dispensation : "Oh, God the Eternal Father." What an invocation! An acknowledgment of God as our Creator; the giver of all good; the bestower of all blessings; in whom is all power and all glory; and yet, our Father, and we his children. ' The Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man! "We ask thee in the name of thy beloved son Jesus Christ," who is interceding for us, through whom all blessings are obtained, — "to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it." 

Bless the bread! It is only bread. There may be a mystery about the sacrament, but that mystery does not consist in the changing of that bread to the actual body of the Christ. As President Brigham Young has said, the thought is a repulsive one. But it is a symbol,and we ask God to bless it to the souls of all those who partake of it, who witness — oh, there is the point. Recall in this regard President Grant's appeal this morning to be honest with the Lord in all your dealings. What a fundamental virtue is honesty! the roundation of all character. It is said to be the mother of a whole family of true virtues. Well, that principle is associated with this great sacrament. We witness, that is, solemnly covenant in the' presence of one another, in that great assembly, and "unto thee, O God the Eternal Father"— What? 

A GENTLEMAN'S WORD OF HONOR 

Before we specify, think of what it means to make a promise. Your word is more sacred than your bond. I like to think of that English gentleman who, finding himself distressed financially, borrowed from a friend, to whom he gave his written note; but before the gentleman received his competence, he was again in financial distress and borrowed from another friend, to whom he gave only his promise. Both these lenders knew when the gentleman received his money and both called for the return of their money. The first, who held the gentleman's note, was surprised to hear the gentleman say, "I will pay the second first." The first one protested saying, "I loaned you that money first, your lordship." 

"Yes, that is true, replied the English gentleman, but you hold my note. This friend has only my word of honor. I will redeem my promise first." 

The first gentleman taking the note from his pocket, tore it into pieces, threw it into the waste-basket, and said, "There, your lordship, I have only your promise." 

"Since you place it upon that basis you shall have your money first." 

A mere incident emphasizing the importance that a gentleman places upon his word of honor. 

OUR OBLIGATION 

My brethren and sisters, do we always stop to think, on that sacred Sabbath day when we meet together to partake of the sacrament, that we witness, promise, obligate ourselves, in the presence of one another, and in the presence of God, that we will do certain things? Note them. I have time merely to mention them. 

The first : That we are willing to take upon ourselves the name of the Son. In so doing we choose him as our leader and our ideal; and he is the one perfect character in all the world. It is a glorious thing to be a member of the Church of Christ and to be called a Christian in the true sense. of the term; and we promise that we should like to be that, that we are willing to do it. 

Secondly, that we will always remember 'him. Not just on Sunday, but on Monday, in our daily acts, in our self-control. When our brother hurts us we are going to try to master our feelings and not retaliate in the same spirit of anger. When a brother treats us with contempt we are going to try to return kindness. That's the spirit of the Christ and that's what we have promised, — that we will do our best to achieve these high standards of Christianity, true Christian principles. 

The third : We promise to "keep the commandments which he has given." Tithing, fast offerings, the Word of Wisdom, kindness, forgiveness, love. The obligation of a member of the Church of Christ is great, but it is as glorious as it is great, because obedience to these principles gives life, eternal life. On the other hand, the man who seeks to live by violating the principles is deceived by the adversary and goes the way to death. 

ADDING SIN TO SIN 

To partake of the sacrament unworthily is to take a step toward  death. No man can be dishonest within himself without deadening the susceptibility of his spirit. Sin can stun the conscience as a blow on the head can stun the physical senses. He who promises one thing and deliberately fails to keep his word, adds sin to sin. On natural principles such a man "eats and drinks condemnation to his soul." 

We die in this world before our hearts stop beating, as we live and partake of eternal life before we pass into the other world; for this is part of life eternal, and true life consists in obedience to the principles of the gospel. We promise every Sabbath day to keep those principles. 

I THE BLESSING 

And what is the blessing? "That they may always have his Spirit to be with them." What a divine guidance! And I testify to you that divine inspiration is a reality. Men and women who obey the principles of life and salvation, sincerely repent of their sins, and as sincerely strive to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel, are guided and inspired by the Holy Ghost, and are shown things to come. I testify that that guidance is with this Church and has been since the Prophet Joseph Smith established it. I bear you witness too, that this Church is the power of God unto 'salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

SUMMING UP 

To sum up then, the operation of the law of cause and effect is as constant in the spiritual realm as it is in the material world. You obey the principle and you receive the blessing, and the keeping of each promise made in relation to the sacrament brings the results and the blessings as sure as the sun brings light. Order, reverence, attention to divine promises, — the promise to enter into the fold of Christ, to cherish virtues mentioned in the gospel of Christ, to keep them ever in mind, to love the Lord whole-heartedly, and to labor, even at the sacrifice of self, for the brotherhood of man — these and all kindred virtues are associated with the partaking of the Lord's supper. It is good to meet together and especially to renew our covenants with God in that holy eucharist. "Help us O, God, to realize the great atoning sacrifice, the gift of thy beloved Son, the Prince of peace, the Holy One." 

GRATITUDE FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE CHURCH 

My heart is full of rejoicing this morning for my membership in the Church, for the privilege I have of meeting you my fellow workers in the Church of Christ. I prize the privilege of associating with the First Presidency of this Church and the Twelve Apostles, the First Council of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric and the Stake Presidencies. Oh, it is a glorious thing to be one in the brotherhood of Christ! God strengthen us that we may go out and make the sacrament each Sunday that we partake of it what God intends it to be, — the means of strengthening the saints, of eradicating ill will, hard feelings and back-biting, of establishing unity, love and strength, and keeping the commandments of God, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California Mission 

I esteem this a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, and at the same time, at this moment, it is a very great surprise. I am thankful, however, that I feel in my soul that I am in harmony with the counsels that have already been imparted in this conference and that I believe most sincerely in the doctrines that have been presented for our consideration. 

I come up, my brethren and sisters, from the mission field in California, where I have had the privilege of laboring for some time in seeking to spread the truth as it has been revealed in the dispensation in which we live. I am happy to be associated with the young men and women who have been assigned to that field of labor. Generally speaking, the missionaries are all young men, or young women. Occasionally, through the system that has been introduced during recent years, a few men of experience and one or two women of experience have come into the California Mission, as short term missionaries. We have rejoiced very greatly in the companionship of these men and women who have had development and experience for a goodly period of time in the work of the Lord. 

You have just learned from the remarks made by President Heber J. Grant that California has been blessed with his presence and with his ministry, both in the stakes that have been established in that great state, and in the branches that belong to the California Mission. The people are always glad in their hearts when they have the privilege of meeting with the President of the Church, and of listening to his testimony which has always been so strong and sure that the work which is under his direction as the President of the Church has been revealed and established by the Lord our God. 

We have been blessed just recently, for about five months, with the presence of Doctor James E. Talmage, who has been giving some very remarkable and inspiring discourses over the radio in Los Angeles; and many people, we have discovered, who are not of our faith, have been giving attention to those discourses. We have not only rejoiced in his ministry, as he has delivered the word of the Lord and the doctrines of the gospel over the radio, but we have rejoiced also in his companionship in the wards, and in the branches, that he has visited quite thoroughly throughout the state of California. We feel that we have been very greatly blessed by his presence, by his counsel, and by the doctrines that he has presented for the consideration of the people, both members and non-members of the Church. 

We have been blessed also with the ministry of Brother George 

Albert Smith, of the Council of the Apostles, who was appointed in the early part of the year to visit the California Mission. He gave counsel that was very greatly to the advantage of the people who make up the membership of the Church in the mission. 

I am glad, my brethren and sisters, that our faith in the work of God remains unshaken, and we feel from our experiences that we receive constantly renewed evidences confirming the truth as it has been revealed. I was impressed with the wonderful character of the work established in this dispensation, in reading in the editorial column of the Los Angeles Examiner of Sunday, September 29th, 

"The great majority of preachers no longer teach that the earth as we know it, was created merely by the expression of Divine Will in a period of six days. Practically all religious teachers now! interpret the six days to mean six PERIODS OF TIME, six 'geological ages' reaching over periods inconceivable to our mind." 

When I read this, my brethren and sisters, I could not but feel how wonderful are the inspired teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who in no way professed to have scientific information, but who always taught that he delivered the word of the Lord as thaltf word was given to him. It surely is wonderful that he should have declared almost at the very opening of this dispensation, that which is now beginning to dawn upon the minds of men in relation to the creation of the world. The Prophet taught this doctrine very clearly, as you can read in the Pearl of 1 Great Price. I do not know just how long ago the Book of Abraham was translated. I have in my possession a copy of that work that I believe was published in Liverpool in 1851. so it has been in print for a long period of time. Surely the lad Joseph Smith, the farmer's youth, the man without scholastic attainment, could not have conceived of the great truth to which I have referred, and taught it so correctly, had it not been impressed upon him by the inspiration and revelation of the Lord our God. 

I am happy to say, my brethren and sisters, that we are endeavoring to the best of our ability to declare the glad tidings of great joy that have been revealed for the salvation of the human family. We believe most devoutly in the mission of the Redeemer of the world; that he is the very Son of God; that he in his time, chose mortal men and conferred upon them the authority of priesthood, the power to minister in his own great name and in the name of the Eternal Father. He sent those men forth to preach the gospel, gave them commandment to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, and made the promise that every soul who would hearken, who would accept of the message, should find salvation in the presence of God; and of course, those who would not accept would take the consequences of condemnation. We believe, and we teach to our fellow men, that in thi? last dispensation, in fulfillment of the promises that have been made by the mouths of holy prophets, that same Eternal Father, that same Redeemer of the world, have sent holy messengers to confer upon mortal men the authority of priesthood; and by that authority, it having been given to us by new revelation in the dispensation of the fulness of times, we go out among the people, not because of the commission given to the apostles in the meridian of time, but because the Lord God of heaven has said to men in this dispensation, "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature." I am very happy to say the missionaries so teach, although it may be at times in halting words, and in fear and trembling. Men and women are delivering this message and are bearing witness that through the power of God, through the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, they know whereof they speak. I thank the Lord that I have the confidence in my own soul that I am not preaching the doctrine of men. I am not laboring for the glory of man nor for the plaudits of men. I am laboring in the fear of God, because upon me that divine authority has been conferred, and I am under obligation to cry repentance, to the best of my power, among the children of men and to help lead men, if possible, from the darkness that is in the world, to the truth that has been revealed. In doing that, with my companions, I have partaken of that joy with them that passeth understanding, and we do know that we are trying to bring to mankind a glorious message that is for their benefit and salvation. 

May God help us all to love the truth, believe in it and maintain it in our conduct here and in our speech before the people for ever and ever, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council 1 of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the benefit of your faith and prayers and that the Spirit of the Lord may actuate me while I shall speak to you for a few moments this morning. Sometimes we are so taken by surprise that our breath nearly leaves us; but I have an implicit and abiding faith in the Lord that if we put our trust in him and labor to the best of our ability he will prepare the way for us whereby we may accomplish the things that he commands us to do. 

I take it, my brethren and sisters, that, as people having the gospel of Jesus Christ and a testimony of it, the Lord calls upon us to bear that testimony and make known his word to the world, and to bear testimony one to another of the inspiration of the Lord and the knowledge that has come to us concerning this great gospel plan that is instituted in the world for the salvation of men. 

During the past six months my mind has been centered very much upon the Book of Mormon. It has fallen to my lot to publish an edition of that book in the Spanish language. Our work is now completed, so far as the printing of the book is concerned. I think the last form was printed yesterday, and we have now only the binding to attend to. We shall soon have in circulation the third edition of the Book of Mormon in the Spanish language. My hope and desire is that this  may soon be exhausted and that the circulation of that book amgng the Spanish-speaking people may increase, for in the Spanish language are to be reached the descendants, many millions of them, of those people who wrote the book. It seems to me that in the work that I have been engaged in — getting out this particular edition of the book — there has come a vision of a very wide distribution of that book among the seed of Father Lehi, who dwell in the land south of us. Many thousands of copies have been distributed in the past, and a very great many people have been made to know of the truthfulness of that record. 

In this connection my mind reverts to the promise of the great Prophet Moroni concerning the obtaining of a testimony of the divinity of that book, and I should like to read that to you this morning. You will find it recorded in the tenth chapter of the book called Moroni : 

"And now I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemeth me good; and I write unto my brethren, the Lamanites, and I would that they should know that more than four hundred and twenty years have passed away since the sign was given of the coming of Christ. 

"And I seal up these records, after I have spoken a few words by way of exhortation unto you. 

"Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your heart. 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." 

I have always believed in the Book of Mormon, my brethren and sisters. Before I ever read the Book of Mormon, I believed that it was a divine record. It was taught to me by my parents, and it was taught to me in the Sunday School and in the Primary classes that I attended as a little boy. I have read this book many, many times. It seems to me that I have considered it from most every angle; and, —  I say it with a great deal of thankfulness, — I have been placed in a position in my missionary labors to challenge the book from an archaeological standpoint, and have been able to see firsthand the remains of former civilizations that have dwelt upon this continent. I have stood in the shadows of the mighty ruins of the past, that are stupendous in their magnitude and in their grandeur. I have visualized the people that built those great buildings, and it has seemed to me, beyond any question of a doubt, that they could justly be associated with the Book of Mormon people. From that angle has come to me a great bolstering faith and knowledge that the Book of Mormon is true. I have thought that I had read it with a prayerful heart in years that have passed, and felt sure that I had received the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord that this book is a divine record. But I wish to bear you my testimony that during the last few months, since May, especially, when I have been so particularly engaged in bringing out this work, I have prayed to the Lord anew that he would evidencento me, even more strongly than ever before, if such were possible, the divinity of this work; and I stand before you, my brethren and sisters, and testify, after having read the bt)ok five consecutive times since May, that I know beyond all doubt that the Book of Mormon is what it purports to be. It is the divine record of a forgotten people, brought forth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. The Holy Ghost has witnessed this unto me and I wish that I could make you sense the spirit in which I feel it. It is consuming in its nature. It makes me tremble to contemplate what this knowledge means to me. 

My brethren and sisters, the Book of Mormon is one of the greatest works in all the world. With the witness that I speak of there has come to me other knowledge, without which the testimony of the divinity of the Book of Mormon would not be of much value; but, the Book of Mormon being true, the truthfulness of it having been borne in upon my soul, I know through that as one medium — and I know, it through other mediums — that God lives as an entity, a tangible being, in whose form I am fashioned and in whose likeness I am made. I know, beyond all peradventure of a doubt, that he is in very deed my Father, that I can call upon him as such, and that when I come before him in prayer, in sympathy, he will hear; and if my players are for righteous things he will grant unto me those things for which I ask. Through this book, knowing that it is true, I also have this witness, and to me it is valid, that Jesus is the Son of God; that he is the Redeemer of the world; that he was born of woman and lived in the world among men and ministered unto them and established the gospel; that he was nailed upon a cross and suffered for the sins of all men, redeemed them from the grave, broke the bonds of death, and instituted the resurrection, becoming the first fruits of it; and he lives, for this book testifies that he lives. 

I know, by this same process of reasoning, that if the book is true, he, through whose instrumentality it ' was brought forth, is and was a prophet of God. So I have no hesitancy in testifying that Joseph Smith, the man whom the Lord chose to bring forth this book, and to open up this greatest of all gospel dispensations, was his prophet and that he spoke as a chosen instrument in the hands of God. If he was a prophet of God, the revelations that through him have come and which are recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, are likewise the word of God. If he' were instrumental in the hands of God in translating this great work, which is true, he was likewise instrumental in the hands of God in bringing forth the Pearl of Great Price and the precious gems of religious thought, knowledge and history, that we have in that wonderful book which constitutes, with the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, the standard Church works to which we refer in points of doctrine and in points of history pertaining to the Lord's great work in the world. 

I know that these things are true, my brethren and sisters. I  in them, and I have an abiding faith and a strong testimony, that is as strong as my knowledge that I live and speak to you today, that not only was Joseph Smith a prophet of the Lord, but that each one who has succeeded him in the presidency of this Church is likewise and has been, a prophet of the Lord. 

I bear you my witness, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the gospel is "upon the earth and that God's Church exists, fully organized and fully authorized. There has been a restoration of the holy priesthood. There has been a restoration of the keys of the kingdom of God upon the earth, and those keys are here in our midst. I want to leave you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the Church today is guided by the spirit of inspiration and by the spirit of revelation and by the spirit of prophecy just as much as it ever has been guided in any age or at any time, including all former gospel dispensations, even in this greatest of all gospel dispensations, opened by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I bear you my witness that it stands us all in hand to- give heed to the teachings, admonitions, and advice of the servants of the Lord by him authorized and by him acknowledged to minister in the Church and keep it in order. I raise my voice in warning against those who presume, because of any motive, be it whatever it may, to better the conditions in this Church other than through sustaining the authority that the Lord has given, through whom will come the revelations to guide and to direct this Church. 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord to be upon this people. I pray for the blessings of the Lord to be upon the missionaries who are in the world, laboring so valiantly. Those young men and those young women are fine characters. They are laboring zealously for the spread of truth. They need your assistance, and the world needs their teachings, for they are teaching the gospel that has been restored. Not only does the world need the teachings and the ministry of those who are out there, but, my brethren and sisters, if you could only see what we see, who are out on the firing line, you would know that we do not repeat it as a mere form when we say that there is a crying need for thousands more to be in the ministry of the Lord, to take care of the ministry in the world. I have cried that from my standpoint in the Mexican Mission for years, and we have had the support that I believe could be rightly given us; but recently for the past two months while in Independence, I have had occasion to visit with President Bennion in some of the nearby branches of his mission, and have held conference with him nearly every Sunday that I have been down there. It has not interfered with my week-day work, and I have been pleased to visit with him in the great mission over which he presides. In many of these trips we would start out late Saturday evening through the country by automobile, or by train. I have made inquiry of President Bennion, "What about missionaries through all of these towns, through all of these villages, through all this country-side?" And he has remarked, "Brother Pratt, we haven't them here. We haven't the men to take care of the work that there is for us to do." I have talked with a great many people who would be anxious to have missionaries come into their midst. The harvest, my brethren and sisters, truly is great. The work is great. The necessity for sincerity, calling for honest effort, is apparent everywhere in the Lord's work. May we acquit ourselves as men and as women having this great knowledge, and bear off our responsibilities; for, as I frequently say to the missionaries in our mission, "Brethren and sisters, the responsibility of teaching the gospel in this mission is upon you right now. It is no use for you to criticize what is in the past, nor will it do any good for you to be particularly worried about what shall follow after you leave; but the responsibility of preaching the gospel, right now and here, is upon the little group that is gathered together in this mission." So likewise the ' responsibility of this work today, my brethren and sisters, rests upon the membership of the Church today, and the Lord will hold us accountable for our stewardship, for our participation, and for our faithfulness in his work. 

May he continue to add his blessings to us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I have rejoiced beyond my power to express, at what I have heard and what I have felt this morning. As the good brother who was hard of hearing remarked, upon one occasion, when somebody asked him why he went to church when he co-uldn't hear a word, "It isn't what you hear, it is what you feel that makes you better." I have enjoyed the influences that are present. My memory has gone back to the time when this building was first erected and as a child I helped to decorate the roof with festoons of paper flowers, — at least I helped make the flowers. I have seen the improvement in its lighting go^ on from then until now. I remember the old gas jets around the gallery that were used to illuminate this' building. I think we have now arrived at perfection of lighting for the comfort of all who assemble, and I congratulate those who have installed the fine system that makes this room as delightful as it is possible for it to be,' as far as light is concerned. 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS OF THE GOSPEL 

The testimonies that have been borne this morning have rejoiced my soul. I am thankful that I belong to a church that numbers among its members men and women who know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that in this latter-day he has spoken again from the heavens, that the authority of his holy priesthood has been conferred upon men, and that we who are members of this Church have taken the preparatory step toward a home in his celestial kingdom. I am thankful for this knowledge, and when I listened this morning to the report of our beloved President, telling of the progress and development of the Church in a material way, I was greatly pleased. 

Some of our associates have recently been called home. The Lord has said to them, "It is enough, you have finished your work on earth." Those who have been called to succeed them are in the service of the Lord in different stations. The appeals of the mission presidents remind us of the fact that disseminating the truth is not the responsibility of someone else, but it is your responsibility and mine to see that the gospel of Jesus Christ in its ' purity is taught to the children of men. Doesn't it make you feel grateful? Isn't there a sense of appreciation welling up in your souls when you realize that we are numbered among the comparatively few of all God's children who believe in him and know that he is? 

A PURE ATMOSPHERE 

I have been sitting here this morning wishing that my relatives who are not here might be under the sound of the voices of the brethren who have spoken, that they, too, might partake of this influence that comes from our Heavenly Father. I have wished that conditions were such that all Israel might, not only at annual and semi-annual conferences and stake conferences, but at all times live in such an atmosphere that it would not be possible for them to do wrong. 

I remember a number of years ago a good man who was at that time chairman of the board of control of the Universalist Church of America. He came here to visit our city and attended two of our Sunday schools. In one of the kindergarten classes he became much interested. Eventually, when the school was about to close, the superintendent said, "Wouldn't you like to say a few words to the school?" He had informed me in the other Sunday school, for he visited two, that he didn't feel to say anything; but when in the second school the superintendent asked him to speak, he said, "I would like to say a few words." He said, "If I could only live in the atmosphere that I found in that little kindergarten class in this Sabbath school this morning, I couldn't help but be a good man." I have thought of that a good many times. We choose carefully the atmosphere that we breathe, that we may live in health. But sometimes, in our carelessness, we place ourselves in subjection to immoral influences that destroy our resistance of evil, and we are led to do things that we ought not to do and would not do if under the influence of the Lord. If we would only be humble, if we would only be prayerful, if we would only live in such a way that each hour of our lives we could truthfully say, "Father in heaven, I am willing and anxious to do what thou wouldst have me do," our lives every day would be enriched as we go through this earth experience. 

OUR LIVES ENRICHED BY SERVICE 

Twenty-six years I have been privileged, and honored, to occupy this stand as one of the General Authorities of the Church; yet it seems but a short time to me since I was ordained an apostle and became a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. During that time, all but three of those who were among the General Authorities of the Church have passed to the other side, and I realize that only a few years more and my summons will come. It may be only a few days. That's not important. The important thing to all of us is, that when the summons comes, when the Lord calls, we can say, like one of old, "Lord here am J, and I am ready." 

Our ministry is one of love. Our service is one which enriches our lives. The opportunity of those who preside in the stakes and wards of Zion or elsewhere, is one beyond all price, and if we are living as God intends that we should live, if we are ministering as he desires that we should minister, every day of our lives is enriched by the influence of his Spirit, our love of our fellowmen increases and our souls are enlarged until we feel that we could take into our arms all of God's children, with a desire to bless them and bring them to an understanding of the truth. 

EACH SHOULD DO HIS PART 

When I think of the burdens that are carried by the President of this Church and his counselors, and realize the responsibilities that are placed upon their shoulders, with all my heart I desire to help them, that I may not be an incumbrance, but that in the position to which I have been called, with you, my brethren and my sisters, we may each take our place and carry our portion of the load and magnify our calling to the honor and glory of God. 

THANKFUL FOR LOVE OF ASSOCIATES AND FRIENDS 

I have associated with a large number of men who have presided in the Church as Presidents and Counselors, as members of the Quorum of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric and Patriarchs. I have associated with many presidents of stakes and bishops of wards. I have associated with many who have presided over mission fields and auxiliary organizations. I want to say that all these men and women of prominence, without exception as far as I can recall now, have been an inspiration to me to serve God and to be a better man. I thank my family that they have made it possible for me to do the things that have been assigned to me — my good wife who has carried the burden at home; my children who have never once discouraged me from doing the work that has been assigned to me, but have encouraged me and blessed me, not only by permitting me to do my part but by striving to do their part as they have had it called to their attention by those who preside over them. I am grateful to the men with whom I associate, my brethren, for their love and kindness and gentleness to me; for of the twenty-six years I have referred to several of those years have been years of illness, of inability to do the things that were in my heart to do, but not one word of reproach or of unkindness has come from one of these, my . From all Israel, from every corner where I have gone I have felt that there has been a desire that I might live, that I might magnify my calling, that I might be worthy of the high position to which I have been called. The members of my quorum have performed my work, apparently gladly and willingly, when I was unable to perform it; and now in the Mutual Improvement organization, my counselors and the board members have stood by me and have carried the burden, and in their anxiety have taken the load that ordinarily falls to the presiding officer. The result has been that wherever I go I feel love and kindness. In the homes of the Latter-day Saints, in all parts of the Church where I have been permitted to go, the spirit of prayer and thanksgiving has been present. My life has been illumined by the power of God and I have seen the beauties of the gospel of Jesus Christ as they have been made manifest in the lives of these wonderful men and women. 

THE LORD'S WORK 

Brethren and sisters, this is the Lord's work. Men could not have carried it forward successfully as it has been done by the simple means employed by us. Ordinary man could not have brought into your souls the knowledge that you possess. Neither can we as men inspire those in the world with the assurance that God lives and that this is his Church, but if we will do our part, our Heavenly Father will bless our effort. If we will sustain those who are called to lead us, if we will pray for and uphold those who preside in the various stakes and wards of this Church, nothing can stop our progress. The Lord will make it possible for his children to understand, if they are worthy to understand, and our blessings will be in proportion to the efforts we put forth to bring them to a knowledge of the truth. 

This day, with all my heart, I thank him for life, for being, for membership in this Church. I thank him for the Word of Wisdom. I thank him for the Ten Commandments. I thank him for all the ordinances of the House of the Lord that I have received, each one of which has been intended not for me alone but I have been permitted to receive a portion of that which has been intended for all his children, wherever they may be, if they are willing to receive what he offers to them, without money and without price. 

Brethren and sisters, let us go to our homes rejoicing when this wonderful conference is finished. No doubt when it is concluded we will say, "It is the best one that we have ever had." Why? Because while we are basking in the sunshine of the Spirit of God we forget our sorrows and our distresses. While our lives are illumined by his power, our souls are enriched, and we know that we are blessed of the Lord. The gospel teaches us that if we take advantage of our opportunities, all the time we may enjoy those blessings, and all the time the love that we now have in our hearts for our fellowmen will abide with us. This is God's work. I know it, as well as I know that I live, and I bear witness of it, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Zion Stands with Hills Surrounded." 

Elder Joseph F. Merrill, Commissioner of Education for the Church, pronounced the benediction, after which the Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


