Forth Overflow
08 10 1921 


A fourth overflow meeting was held out of doors near the Bureau of Information, Sunday afternoon, October 9, 1921. Elder Charles A. Callis, President of the Southern States mission, presided. Tracy Y. Cannon acted as chorister, and Frank W. Asper as organist and accompanist. 

The congregation sang, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The Pioneer double mixed quartette, directed by Tracy Y. Cannon, and consisting of William Cook, Anna Dillmor, Fred W. Weight, Carry Christensen, Wilford Keddington, Ralph Sperry, Bertha Harbrecht, and Isabel Donaldson, sang, "Grant us peace." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON 

(Former President of the Eastern States Mission) 

I assure you it is a great pleasure to meet you on this occasion, and to associate with my brethren in the declaration and defense of the truth, and to enjoy this opportunity to bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters; because that testimony which has been borne under the guidance and direction of the Holy Spirit of the Lord, or that public commitment of one's feelings before one's brethren, adds strength to one to resist the temptations which beset mortal men, as perhaps no other one thing will do. 

While upon my mission in the east, and after a street service, an under-professor of Columbia University asked how it was that in a recent visit to Salt Lake City, Utah, he found so many people who were set upon living religious lives. I explained to him the peculiar organization of the Church, showing that we had not a paid ministry, who were to mould public sentiment and to give counsel and instruction pertaining to one's conduct in life; but that in the services held among our people we had the peculiarity of calling men from the congregation to give a reason for the hope within them. He saw our point of view, that while one individual who may rest in comfort upon the rear seat in one of our gathering places; one Sunday, another GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to him, may be called upon to address the congregation; and one who has committed himself in public utterance goes away with a determination to live the life which he has declared it was his determination to live. 

I care not how little or how much one may speak, if but for a short time, and he expresses his desire to be honest, truthful, virtuous, possessed of loving kindness, neighborly, I believe that the Lord has made it impossible for him thus to commit himself in his public utterances, and go straightway from the meeting, be dishonest, unvirtuous, profane, or to be anything except that which he has asked, through the assistance of the Lord and the faith and prayers of his fellowmen, to be. And further, the individual who remained upon his seat, not halving been called upon, naturally realizes that he is a part of this peculiar organization, that if they have called upon his neighbor this time, they may call upon him next time, hence, he also commences his reform, there and then, else when he stands before the public, he may stand with apologies written on his countenance, because the people with whom he has associated know his life, and it is ill becoming of one whose life is not what it' should be to stand as an instructor of righteousness. My mind turns to section 68 in the Doctrine and Covenants, which contains the doctrine quite distinct of itself, and in contradistinction to the religions of the world: 

My servant, Orson Hyde, was called by his ordinance to proclaim the everlasting gospel, by the Spirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land, in the congregations of the wicked, in their synagogues, reasoning with, and expounding all Scriptures unto them. 

And. behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this Priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth; 

And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost, 

And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation: 

Behold this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants; 

Wherefore be of good cheer,, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come. 

This is the word of the Lord unto you my servant, Orson Hyde, and also unto my servant Luke Johnson, and unto my servant Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant William E. M'Lellin, and unto all the faithful elders of my Church. 

What wonderful power is here portrayed as being possessed by one who, under the inspiration of Almighty God, can hear testimony!hat Jesus is the Christ, which testimony can only come from a possession of the Holy Spirit of God which leads into all truth. How different from that system which depends upon an education, a college 165 , a university atmosphere, carried by the individuals who occupy the pulpits of the world. How much 'better it is, and I am sure that you agree with me, to sit and listen to the word of the Lord for but a brief period, wheri spoken under the inspiration of the Lord, than to hear the empty eloquence of one who has paid more attention to rhetoric than to truth. 

As Latter-day Saints, we must not fall into the ways of the world. I would not have it understood) that I am against preparation — because I am for preparation, and I do not believe that the Lord can direct a good sermon from an empty mind. I believe that it is necessary for one to devote himself to prayerful study; that the Holy Spirit of God may be enjoyed in the interpretation which one finds in the study room, as well as the inspiration of the Lord when, in public, he declares the truth. 

When I was a child attending the Primary association, we were taught to sing a little kindergarten song— I am not sure that it is not taught now; in fact, some of my children sing it : 

I think when I read that sweet story of old, 

When Jesus was here among men, How he called little children as lambs to his fold, I should like to have been with him then. 

I wish that his hand had been placed on my head, That his arm had been thrown about me, . That I might receive his kind looks when he said, "Let the little ones come unto me." 

O, how I longed for a time when I might receive these favors; how I yearned for the knowledge of that which I had not, of having been associated personally with him when he walked upon the earth and mingled with men! I thought no greater people could ever have lived than those who lived during the time of Christ. But I have learned different. I have reached the conclusion that this is the choicest time for one to live: when the Holy Spirit abounds, and is free for all who will conform to the requirements under which it is enjoyed. Think of Peter, faithful though impetuous Peter, who rubbed shoulders with his Master; who stood side by side with him when scorn was hurled by the enemy; when he boasted of his own strength, "If all depart from thee, yet will I stand with thee." The Savior saw the boastfulness of his nature and warned him and said, "Before the cock shall crow, thou shalt deny me thrice." When Jesus was taken into the court of Herod, where a fire perhaps was built to light the night, Peter skulked along the shadow of the wall; he wanted to be with his Savior, but his own strength failed him, and when a little maiden pointed out and said that he was with the Savior, Peter denied it. Wlitn they asked him to say certain words which, because of his peculiar tongue, he could not say, then they accused him again, and lie cursed and swore and said he did not know the Savior. That was after he had rubbed shoulders with the Master. But did Peter ever GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Christ after the promise of the Comforter had come upon him, after he had tarried in Jerusalem to receive the same? No; and we are told in tradition that, at the close of his life, when he was sentenced by Roman power to give his life for his testimony, and was to he crucified, as was the custom of the Romans to mete out capital punishment, he said, "I am not worthy to be crucified as my Lord and Master was crucified; let me be crucified with my head downward," because he had denied the Christ. Such was the valor, such was the courage, such was the testimony of Peter when the Spirit of God came, like the cloven tongue of fire upon them during the Pentecost, and afterward in his life, when he devoted himself to the work of the ministry in feeding the sheep! "Feed my lambs," he had been admonished by the Savior. 

New, my brethren and sisters, have we the Spirit of the Lord in our l.'earts, and in our homes? If not, is it not time we were putting them in order, in order that the living testimony of Jesus may be found abiding in our homes, and in our daily conduct in life; for, after we have been forgiven of our sins through baptism, through obedience in baptism, the Spirit of the Lord comes as an attestation from our Father that our lives are approved of him, whatsoever our conduct may have been in the past. "When ye shall receive the companionship of the Holy Spirit of the Lord, then know ye that God has forgiven our sins." And when you have not that Spirit, then it is time to bow in sackcloth and ashes, repent and secure that Spirit, so that when we are called from time to time, we may speak that which will be the word of the Lord, that which will be scripture, that which will be the mind of the Lord, that which will be the power of God unto salvation. 

I have a testimony in my heart of the truthfulness of this work, and I bear it to you in all sincerity that, as I know anything in life, I know that the gospel is true, and that it will serve the greatest human need today upon all the face of the earth. May God help us to apply the principles of the gospel in our daily lives, that we may be found faithful, full of zeal, full of the testimony of Jesus, and the love of our fellow men, and dwell in the confidence of God, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

{President of the Mexican Mission) 

Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. 

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. 

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. 



ELDER REY L. PRATT W 

Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. 

For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. 

Whoever, therefore, shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 

For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees,, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. 

These are the words of our Savior, spoken to those who' believed' on his name when he administered among men. There is no difference, my brethren and sisters, in the gospel message delivered to all the world by the Savior and his disciples in that dispensation, and the gospel message delivered to the world by the Savior through his prophets and disciples in this dispensation; and the requirements placed upon, the Saints of that former dispensation were no greater than the requirements placed upon the Saints in the dispensation in which we live. We are told the position that we occupy, the position of being the "salt of the earth" — a very necessary article — and we are admonished that if we are not the salt of savour, we are unfit to be used and only fit to be cast out and trodden under foot of men. And we are told furthermore in this scripture that I have read, that if our righteousness does not exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, or the world that surrounds us, we can in no case enter into the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

The Latter-day Saints are called a peculiar people in the world; those who come up to Zion and visit upon this block and learn the story of "Mbrmonism" first-hand, and learn of the lives of the Latter-day Saints, are led to exclaim, "They are a peculiar people." And it is ' right that we should be peculiar, for truly we could not follow these admonitions, and not be a peculiar people. Our peculiarity consists of the fact that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are righteous in excess of any other people upon the face of the earth; and I want to tell you that that man who claims membership in the Church of Jesus Christ whose righteousness does not excel the righteousness of the world, is not one hundred per cent Latter-day Saint, and save he repents, he can in no case enter into the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

We have a message of life and salvation to declare unto the children of men, and from the very incipiency of this work, the missionary spirit has rested upon the membership of this Church; and when our grandfathers, who composed the membership of this Church, numbered only a few, they were called and sent forth into the world to declare the glad tidings of salvation unto the children of men. They went to preach a righteousness in excess of the righteousness enjoyed in the world and the churches thereof; and their mesGENERAL CONFERENCE.  was, as was the message of the disciples and apostles of old, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." The gospel is committed again unto man. It is, as has been quoted to you this afternoon, the power of God unto salvation, and it is unto all men everywhere. And for ninety years, this message has been going forth; it is going forth today; and many hundreds of thousands have been gathered out, and they have made their lives better; they have made their lives sweeter and cleaner, and they have attained a righteousness in excess of that which they enjoyed before; and though many of those who have been gathered out were good, honorable people, in whose hearts there was a desire to serve the Lord, nevertheless, because of lack of opportunity to know him and to know the truth of the everlasting gospel, they were not able to serve the Lord in full purpose of heart, but through the gospel teachings, they have been permitted to learn more and to attain more, and consequently are better. And woe unto us as a people, or as individuals, when it may be said of us that our righteousness is not in excess of the righteousness of the people of the world of men who suround us! 

It has been my privilege for fifteen years consecutively, my brethren and sisters, to be engaged in the ministry abroad, and il have come in contact with the world, and have learned the condition that exists in the world today; for while many are accepting the truth, and many are being brought out and are enjoying these blessings that I speak of, still the great majority of men everywhere are not inclined toward God; they are not seeking after him; they are not striving ta serve him in full purpose of heart. 

On the third and fourth of last month, I held conference with our elders who were laboring in the city of San Antonio, Texas. We had an admirable conference among the Mexican people there, but we found people disposed not only to dispute us, not only to argue with us, but actually to break up our meetings and to divert our message, and if possible, thwart the purposes of the Lord in the declaration of the truth to the people of that city. In one of our sessions, there filed into our meeting seven ministers of different denominations, leagued together, as I learned afterwards, with the avowed intention of heckling us and breaking up our meeting. They started it, but by the power of the Lord, we were able to quell them and we were able to preach the gospel. I suppose that the Spirit of 'the Lord rested in such power upon us that they could not but feel it. The result was that though they came to molest they marched away when the services were over, without even trying to carry into effect that which they had come to do. 

I walked up and down the streets of San Antonio between the afternoon meeting and a meeting that we held with the English speaking people at night, and I felt very depressed. I saw the throngs going hither and thither, bound upon pleasure; and this Scripture that I shall read to you kept repeating itself in my mind. 169 

This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. 

For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, 'blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,, 

Without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, 

Traitors, heady, highminded,, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; 

Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away. (2 Tim. 3:1-5.) 

I saw them seek after pleasure; I saw that they were without natural affection; I saw, my brethren and sisters, through their dress, through their conduct, and through snatches of conversations that I overheard on the street and in the hotel lobbies that they are unclean, they are immoral; and as I walked down to the hall where the meeting was to be held, I felt an impending spirit of gloom, I recalled, as I have told you this afternoon, that the gospel message of necessity must be preached by this people in all the world, and I also read that the Lord has said that after the testimony of his servants, shall come the testimony of pestilence, wars, bloodshed, famine, floods, and of diverse things that shall take away the lives of men. Well, I left San Antonio the next day, but I was led to remark in my talk that night in San Antonio that I feared that the judgments of God would be poured out upon the specific city of San Antonio if they did not repent of their sins; and it was only five days until the lobby of the hotel in which I had stayed, held many feet of water. Thousands of people were left homeless. Millions of dollars of treasure were swept away: and hundreds of lives were lost. 

I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, we are living in -'. day of the fulfilment of the prophecies of the Lord, and I do not esteem it a mere chance that that seven inches of water in one afternoon fell upon San Antonio and that vicinity. I take it — because I felt it coming before it came — that it was the judgment of God calling those wicked people to repentance. I do not take it that there was not enough room in Texas for that flood to have fallen outside of San Antonio, if the Lord had wanted it to. Neither do I take it that there could not have been another place in Colorado where the floods could have come that destroyed the city of Pueblo and the people thereof. And I want to tell you that they are the judgments of the Lord, and I look forward to a greater demonstration of them in the future. 

It is our duty, my brethren and sisters, to fulfil the obligations resting upon us. The decree has gone forth that every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, and it will come. Whether it will come because they accept the testimony of the servants of the Lord, or whether they toe brought low by the judgments of God, the people of this world will acknowledge him and bow in reverence and worship before him. 

The Lord bless us and help us to perform our part. You, fathers and mothers of the missionaries, the Lord bless you and make you feel 

170 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

your true positions in this great work. We mission presidents cannot begin to do it; we need the assistance of your sons, and we and your sons cannot do it all without the assistance of you parents. Sustain them, encourage them, sacrifice, if need be, to aid them, and the Lord will bless you, and I promise you that sacrifice in this direction will bring forth the blessings of heaven to you. God grant it unto you is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The double quartette sang, "Christian, the morn breaks o'er thee." 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

In standing before you today, my brothers and sisters, and endeavoring to give you something that will be of benefit to you, I must ask for your faith and your prayers, for I realize that without them it will not be possible for me to give you anything worth while, and that with them, and with the sustaining power of the Almighty, the words I may be given to say will be of great benefit to you. 

I endorse, from the bottom of my heart, the remarks of the speakers who have preceded me, and as I have listened to them and have heard their words of encouragement, yea their words of prophecy, I have marveled at the blessings of our heavenly Father and the wonderful power that he gives to his servants, when they are called to 1 perform a duty and when they surrender themselves to him. It has been my lot, and no doubt the lot of many of you, to hear the learned divines of the world in their studied discourses, preaching along the lines of ethics and morals, and even along the lines of religion, as far as they understand it; and I have wondered frequently that they have given so little. Only recently I read a many-paged address of the most prominent bishop of one of the best known of the Protestant churches, and I sat with my pencil in my hand to mark passages that might be of interest and of value to me, and when I had finished this sermon and glanced back to see where I had markel it, I discovered I had underscored two lines, which afterwards I noticed were quotations from an old history. I compare things of this kind with the wonderful power of the servants of the Lord, with the masterful, powerful, spiritual addresses that you have listened to during this conference, and there comes to my mind this passage in the first chapter of Corinthians: 

For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not Many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty,, not many noble, are called: 

But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; 

And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are. 





ELDER WIN SLOW FARR SMITH 171 

And as I pondered this thought, my mind reverted to that wonderful manifestation of the power of the Almighty, of one hundred years ago. When the hour had struck, when the time was there, when the earth was ready for God once more to reveal his mighty work, in place of going into the universities and the schools and among the learned divines, he went into the back woods of the state of New York, and chose that unschooled boy, raised him up, and gave to him such marvelous knowledge, light, and wisdom, that the influence of his work is going to all the corners of the earth. The peoples of the world are taking notice and are adopting, one by one, the principles that this boy prophet, of the nineteenth century gave to the world. 

This thing called "Mormonism" is a divine thing; it is a most powerful thing, and its potency grows day by day. Its influence is being felt, and the world is being made better because of these men and these women who put themselves in tune with God. And when they are in tune with him, through obeying his laws, they receive the Holy Ghost, and having received this most blessed boon from our Father, disseminate its blessings and wonderful gifts in all the world. This is the work of God; he, the Almighty one, is with it; he has placed it on the earth for a definite purpose; and in place of the creeds of the present day, the creeds which the people find uncomforting ond unsatisfying, he has placed the gospel of Christ in its fulness, and he has charged his people to carry it unto the whole world and to preach to all the children of men this wonderful gospel cf the kingdom, that they may work out their own salvation, that they may prepare themselves for eternal life, and that in preparing themselves, they may find joy and comfort and gifts and blessings here and now in mortality. 

Why, do you know, my friends, to the average Christian person, religion does not mean very much? It is a kind of life-buoy a kind of a fire-escape, a kind of a something that will save him from going to hell. But to a Latter-day Saint who studies his religion who knows what it is, and who lives righteously before God, there comes into his life a most wonderful, blessed knowledge of what the gospel really is and there unfolds before him a most beautiful philosophy of life, life here and life hereafter. He finds comfort in his efforts to progress and he enjoys, day by day, the blessings of God. 

Now it must appeal to you, my brothers and sisters, that when that unknown boy, unschooled in the theologies of the world, announced these most marvelous truths, that in and of himself without the help of God, he could not have done what he did. It must appeal to you that with him there was a higher power, and as you meditate his eventful life and ponder his most marvelous work, truly it must burn itself into your soul that this work performed 'by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the restoring of the gospel, is not the work of man, but the work of Almighty God. 

172 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I am reminded of the story in scripture where the Apostle Peter and his associates had been cast into prison because of their preaching Christ and him crucified, and how in their power they continued their work, how: they were miraculously released from prison, and they went forth and preached again. And they were called before the high priests and the doctors of the law again to be tried. 

Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 

_ And he said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. 

For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him,, were scattered, and brought to nought. 

And after this man rose up Judas of Galilee, in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. 

And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought: 

But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. I might say that these words of Gamaliel are just as potent today as they were when they were uttered, two thousand years ago. With this latter-day work, we know God raised up a prophet and followed him with other prophets, men to lead, to guide, to instruct his people; and when this work commenced, it was the work of God, and though it has been opposed for one hundred years, though it has been fought against, though the people have used their mightiest weapons and the best brains of the world have combatted it, it stands today and will stand a monument to Almighty God. It will continue to grow, and ultimately it will triumph, for it is the work of God. This is my testimony in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of ihe Eastern States Mission). 

My Brethren and Sisters: I would much prefer to have listened to my brethren talk, but since the duty is put upon me, I cheerfully respond; but I beseech you, sustain me by your faith and prayers that my remarks may be directed by the proper spirit. 

This is the first time I have had' the opportunity of addressing a congregation of Latter-day Saints in the open air. It would be considered by me a most glorious privilege to stand before such an intelligent congregation of non-believers but I confess that I am a little nervous in standing before my brethren and sisters. 

However, I know that God lives and that he will make no 173  at the hands of his servants except he provides a way and gives them the strength and ability to perform; the duty acceptably, provided they put their trust in him. Therefore I assure you I stand before you in the name of our heavenly Father with an earnest desire to bless and encourage you. 

I have enjoyed very much the remarks of our brethren, and the spirit of our meeting thus far, and throughout the entire conference which we have attended in the past few days. I feel the instructions have been very timely, and desire in my heart to live them more perfectly in the future. What a wonderful people and community we would be if we would sustain one another loyally, and sustain our home industries loyally, as suggested by President Heber J. Grant in his remarks at the first session of our conference. 

President Grant's remarks regarding our patronizing home industry brought to my mind experiences of recent years during which time I labored throughout the length and breadth of the inter-mountain country striving to persuade the people to be loyal to one another and sustain themselves by patronizing home industry. My labors were quite generously rewarded for which I am very grateful to my brethren and sisters, because it is through their patronage of home industry, to a certain extent, that I am now able to maintain myself while doing missionary work. Nevertheless, I am confident of the fact that we could all improve a great deal in our attitude towards home industry, and thus add very materially to the general prosperity of our great state. I was greatly surprised to find that, in many instances, it was necessary to give the merchants some slight advantage in order to induce them to handle the home products, they were not willing to give it an equal show with the imported article. It almost seems like we are prone to give goods manufactured outside our state the advantage, which is very inconsistent when you stop to think of it. Every time we buy an article manufactured in Utah, we are helping to give employment to our brethren and sisters, our neighbors and friends, our fellow citizens, and, as explained by President Grant, in the Tabernacle yesterday morning, every dollar thus put into circulation in our midst enriches the community many times its value by paying many obligations. 

I'm sure the results would astonish us if we would be absolutely loyal to home-industry for a brief period. For illustration : we manufacture in Utah a very good grade of overalls, than which there is nothing better made in the United States. Now if only fifty per-cent of the overalls consumed in the state of Utah were the home product it would be necessary for both the Z. C. M. I. factory, and also the Scowcroft factory at Ogden, to double their capacity; in other words, if the people of Utah would be absolutely loyal to home industry as pertaining to overalls, the state would sustain at least four big factories instead of two small ones and thus give employment to hundreds of women at good wages. The same thing applies to other articles made GENERAL CONFERENCE.  our state. I know from experience it brings a high sense of satisfaction to patronize home industry, it gives one a sense of a clear conscience, and he is able to look his fellow citizens right in the face. 

On one occasion I labored earnestly with a prominent merchant of the state trying to pursuade him to handle the home product in preference to the imported, without success, until I observed that a great many of the checks issued to our employees in the factory were cashed at this merchant's store. When this merchant saw the large percentage of these factory checks endorsed by his firm he began to see the light; he realized that he had been standing in his own light and henceforth became a loyal booster of home-made overalls. Personally I prefer our home products, even at a higher price than the imported, if necessary to pay it; however, as a rule, the home product is able to compete with the imported goods in price as well as in quality; therefore, my brethren and sisters, I most heartily endorse the remarks of President Grant as pertaining to home industry, and I know, that you and I and every citizen of this inter-mountain country will feel well in loyally patronizing our home industries and thus doing our bit to sustain one another. This, like all unselfish service rendered our fellow-men, in the final analysis, rebounds to our own good. 

Now, I had not intended speaking along this line, but I hope you will accept of the remarks I have made in the spirit thereof, they are given in the spirit of love, with a desire to help build up Utah, the Queen of the West. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel that as a people we do not fully comprehend the strength of our position in 'the world, nor do we comprehend the great responsibility placed upon us nor the power or God's holy Priesthood. It behooves us to bring up 'our children with a more comprehensive understanding of the gospel of our Redeemer, that they might go into the world better qualified to explain its glorious principles. We are recipients of all blessings which the rest of the world possess, and in addition we have the power of Almighty God within us, given, through the holy Priesthood. A great responsibility is upon us. Our missionaries are accomplishing a wonderful work, but if we could send them forth better equipped the results of their labors would be much more satisfactory. The gospel of Jesus Christ, of which we have been made happy partakers, has all the saving powers within it and will save us temporally, morally, physically, intellectually, as well as spiritually, and the whole world is starving for these redeeming principles. We must go forth and proclaim these glorious truths earnestly to all the world, manifesting the fruits of our religion in our lives, both at home and abroad and never be found tearing down that which the world is doing. 

The spirit of the gospel of Christ is not one of negation but a constructive plan of redemption which if adhere to will save us now, 175  at some far off time but now, and eternally just as fast as we incorporate these glorious principles in our daily lives. Now I would not have you understand that I am preaching the doctrine so commonly taught in the world that belief alone will save us; if our belief is sincere and leads us to do the things which our Master has commanded we shall work out our salvation, just as quickly as we accept the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ in our lives. However, this does not mean that we cannot sin as taught by many professed Christians throughout the world. 

One of the conditions upon which the Savior's plan of redemption was accepted by the hosts of heaven was that we should have our free agency while in mortality, and while in is true we can become strongly fortified against sin by right living and by constantly resisting evil, it is not a fact that we cannot sin. This brings to my mind an experience while laboring as a missionary in England, years ago. On one occasion I approached a door where I was graciously received by a very intelligent-looking woman. After listening to my story, she smiled upon me and said that both she and her husband were saved, and had been for a number of years, that they had Christ within their hearts and could not sin. I labored very hard to show this good woman that she was mistaken and that we were all susceptible to sinning while in mortality, but she got quite offended when I disputed her statement that she could not sin; however, apparently I made no impression upon the good woman, hut I learned afterwards that at the very moment while I was at the door talking to this woman her husband was on his way to London with his neighbor's wife, having eloped with her. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that that doctrine, "By grace are ye saved," as it is being interpreted by the world is a pernicious one, it puts a premium upon indolence, and is quite contrary to the spirit of the gospel of the Redeemer as we understand it. There is much for us to do, in fact the Savior has given us the opportunity of working out our salvation and in my mind the essence of the gospel of our Redeemer is work and therein will we find joy and satisfaction. 

I am sure that when life's book is opened before us we shall be judged according to our works, and woe be unto the indolent and slothful, those who have been deceived by these pernicious doctrines which n lakes religion easy for people who have become lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. One of the universal or most commonly accepted teachings among the Christian world which we have to contend with today is this idea that we are saved, that there is nothing for the individual to do, any attempt to add' to what the Savior already has done for us is sin. The followers of this idea are very set in their notion, we are seldom able to make any impression upon them. They have certainly been deceived by the powers of the evil one. 

I am very glad to report to you, my brethren and sisters, that the missionary work is going along in a satisfactory manner. Of course, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  regret the loss of so many missionaries due to financial depressions in the west, but notwithstanding this we are able to show a splendid increase in missionary activities. We are having some wonderful experiences, our workers are finding great joy and satisfaction in their labors, and the Lord is blessing their efforts. These young missionaries are showing the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ in their living, while out in the mission field, and I hope you good friends will encourage them to continue on in the same way after they return. Two of our elders recently had a very interesting experience, showing how the fruits of the gospel are made manifest in the lives of men. It seems that these two elders had interested in their teachings, a young man and his wife who, finding themselves unable to refute the teachings of the elders, had appealed to the young man's father, who happened to be the leading minister of their town, but to the young man's astonishment he found that his father was unable to explain the scriptures as clearly as the "Mormon" missionaries, notwithstanding his father was a man of degree while the "Mormon" elders were not so well equipped with education of a worldly nature, but they were commissioned of the Lord to teach and preach the gospel of our Redeemer. 

It seems that this young man desired to have his father meet the '"Mormon" elders, but the father was indignant at his son's request, he thought it an insult to ask him with all his learning, to meet and discuss the gospel with these illiterate "Mormons." However, the youngman planned to have the missionaries chance to drop into his home at the same time his father was there partaking of dinner, this proved te> be a wonderful opportunity for the young man and his wife to have all their questions, which had accumulated in weeks past, answered to their entire satisfaction, and apparently the minister was unable to explain the scripture to the satisfaction of this good young man. In due time the reverend gentleman found himself badly concerned and as is often the case he flew into a rage and began to curse everybody in general and the "Mormons" in (particular. At this point the young man arose and said emphatically, "If this is the fruit of the gospel you teach, Father, I want none of it," and he turned to the young missionaries and said they had manifested the fruits of the true gospel of our Redeemer, patience, love, kindness, and he expressed a desire to have strength and fortitude to accept the true gospel, which he did in a very short time afterwards, and he is now a very devout Latter-day Saint and is very happy notwithstanding he has been disinherited and disowned by his parents. 

It is indeed a very interesting sight to see men of high learning and men of real ability lose their nerve and their heads when attempting to question the humble "Mormon"' missionaries; on many occasions I have seen the scriptures literally fulfilled wherein it was said, through one of God's holy prophets, that the Lord would confound the wisdom of the wise with the weak things of the earth, etc. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, this young couple as I have just 177 , were made exceedingly happy through accepting the gospel of our Redeemer. I'm sure they were given the wonderful gift of the Holy Ghost which is promised to those who are baptized worthily and have hands laid upon them by one who has the authority to officiate in the name of Jesus; and so were our parents before us, when we accepted the gospel in our lives. It is the one thing that will continue to make us happy just as long as we live it. We must not deceive ourselves by feeling that when we went down into the waters of baptism we finished the work. This is a mistaken notion. We have just begun our. work of observing every principle of the gosepl as taught by the Latter-day Saints and, as stated in the beginning of my remarks, we shall earn salvation just as quickly as we obtain a knowledge of the principles of the gospel and live them. If we would obtain temporal salvation, we must live the temporal laws of the gospel of our Redeemer. I exhort you, my dear brothers and sisters, as well as myself, to strive more diligently from now on to live up to the teachings of our leaders, and I hope every one of us will return to our homes from this conference with a determination in our hearts to be loyal to one another, be loyal to our brethren and sisters who preside over .us, and the holy Priesthood of God, thus honoring our Father in heaven. We shall find great joy and satisfaction in so doing. There is no other name under heaven whereby we can be saved, except the name of our Reedeemer, and there is no other plan under heaven whereby we can obtain satisfaction in this life except the plan laid down in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We are indeed highly favored of the Lord to be happy partakers of this glorious gospel of our Redeemer. To a certain extent it is with this as with all other blessings of life, we do not appreciate them fully only by comparison, or when separated from them. In order to appreciate the beauties of the gospel which we are partakers of, it is necessary for us to go into the world and see what error and what folly is being taught under the name of religion. I am indeed grateful that my parents had the courage to come out of the world and accept of that which the world speaks of contemptuously as "Mormonism." I am indeed grateful that they had the courage to do this, for had I been raised in the world, it is possible that I would not have manifest the courage which my good parents did. Therefore I praise the Lord for my parents, and for his blessings toward me, for he has made it known to me that the gospel, which my parents embraced and which I now enjoy, is the true gospel of our Redeemer and that it has in it the power of God unto salvation to every one who will believe it and obey its principles. 

Surely any unbiased person who would read carefully the history of our Church must recognize in its progress some super-human power; just last week I had the privilege of visiting the deserted city of Nauvoo in company with President Winslow F. Smith, of the Northern States mission. This was one of the most flourishing of cities, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in all likelihood would have become the capital of Illinois. When the Saints were driven out it had a population of 25,500 people, while Springfield, 111., at that time, had but six or seven thousand, and Chicago had but 12,500 people; after our people were driven away, others acquired this city and the farms surrounding it for a mere song; yet, with only mortal vision and wisdom, they failed utterly, and today Nauvoo is the most deserted village I have ever visited, while our Saints, driven through the trackless desert, wended their way to the Rocky Mountains, and here, in the midst of great hardship, established a great commonwealth. This notwithstanding we have submitted to a terrible "tax," as the world calls it, that of tithing, or a ten per cent of our incomes; and further, notwithstanding we have paid the same taxation as all other people, federal, state, county and city, and have met all donations required of us liberally; and further, notwithstanding our people have sustained their sons and daughters and husbands in the mission fields for at least a period of two years during the productive period of their lives. Notwithstanding these many handicaps, from a worldly standpoint we were recently accused on the streets of Rochester, N. Y., by a very eminent divine, of being the richest people in the world, and, if to be rich is a crime, I fear we are guilty. Statistics show that a larger percentage of our people own their homes than any other people in the world, and that, as a community, we are richer than any other community of like number, I say surely in the face of these apparent disadvantages the unbiased man must recognize some divine help in ou- behalf. 

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the knowledge of the gospel which God has given me, and I earnestly desire to encourage you, my brethren and sister.?-, to live more closely to the Lord, for we are passing through perilous times, and it behooves us to stand in holy places, manifesting the fruits of the gospel of our Redeemer in our everyday lives. One of the most desirous fruits of the gospel is that of love for one another. I want to urge upon you to manifest this beautiful quality more freely in your lives toward one another. It will make you happier, and I am sure it wdl make greater your admiration and love for our kindred, and for our brethren and sisters, friends, and neighbors. Do not wait until they are dead to place bouquets upon their caskets, let us now put our arms about our parents, and brothers and sisters, and tell them that we love them, thus radiating sunshine wherever we go, showing practical results from the gospel which we have accepted. Life is a wonderful gift, and it is ours to live every day, and great possibilities lie before us, notwithstanding we have adversities. 

In conlusion I will quote the last verse of one of our Sunday school hymns, I think we can apply to our lives, and it is appropriate for our consideration during these perilous times: 



ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 179 

"You can live a happy life, 

In this world of toil and strife, 

If there's sunshine in your heart; 

And your soul will glow with love, 

From the perfect light above, 

If there's sunshine in your heart today." 

God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER CHAS. A. CALLIS 

{President of the Southern States Mission) 

It is my humble prayer that I may be guided in my remarks by the Spirit of the Lord, under which Spirit my brethren have spoken to you — by which Spirit I testify unto you that they have declared unto you the word of the Lord. The Lord be praised for this glorious conference that is now drawing to a close, and we praise and thank him for the presence of the First Presidency and General Authorities of the Church, who have spoken unto Israel the word of the Lord, which is able to make us wise unto salvation. These leaders have spoken by the power of the Holy Ghost, and by that power their words have been carried to our hearts. 

We are a blessed people. Out of the world, out from the midst of the fog of superstition, error and unbelief, God has called us. But what for? To idle away our time? No; for a special work he has called us. We are a peculiar people and, as the brethren have said, a people who are doing good works among the children of men. I believe and testify that the sacrifice of the Saints of God in living their religion, paying their tithing and sending their sons and daughters into the world to proclaim the fulness of the gospel, is sacred in the sight of God. And let us not deceive ourselves; if this w°rk could be accomplished without sacrifice, it would cease to be a work of blessing; for "sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." The light we are upholding before the world is Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Redeemer; and with his doctrines we are salting the earth, and it shall yet be said by those who now oppose us that the faith of the Church has done more than any other religious belief in preserving and keeping alive in the hearts of men the knowledge of the true and living God. 

"We believe that a man must be called of God by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, of those who are in authority, to preach the gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." By that authority your sons and your daughters go into- the world to preach the everlasting gospel, to deliver a message that is vital to the eternal salvation of the children of men. We are met frequently by men who declare they get their authority from the Bible. This is incorrect. Before we had the Bible, in its present form, there was authority, and there was also religion. Religion does not come out of the Bible; GENERAL CONFERENCE.  does authority. Both existed before there was any Bible.. And, in this dispensation of the fulness of times, by John the Baptist, and by Peter, James and John, the Father restored to the earth this power, this authority, this holy Priesthood, which is exercised in the spirit of love and meekness and persuasion for the eternal benefit of the sons and daughters of God. This is the authority which exists in this Church. 

The judgments of God are in the earth, and so are his blessings. The divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith may be proved and established beyond successful contradiction by the presence of judgments, pestilence, and famine in the earth, and by the presence of war — all of which were foretold by this choice seer and prophet, Joseph Smith; but the divine mission of Joseph Smith may also be proved by the blessings of God that are in the earth. We are told that one of the signs that was to 1 precede the second coming of the Son of God was the inauguration of a glorious work for the salvation of the dead. In Malachi we read, 

Rehold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: 

And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. 

We Latter-day Saints are living and working in the realization of this splendid promise of unselfish and magnificent work for the salvation of the dead; and it is one of the proofs which establishes beyond a doubt that Heber J. Grant is a prophet of the living God. The prophet who stands at the head of the Church is given the keys of that kingdom, which holds the power to permit work to be done by the living for the dead. In the Southern States mission — in every mission — on the isles of the sea, the hearts of the people are turning to their loved ones that have gone beyond the Veil, and the activity in this temple — which is a sermon in stone of the faithfulness tend unselfish devotion of God's people — this spiritual activity, the work for the dead, is increasing by leaps and bounds, and the hearts of the people in the distant missions and in the islands of the sea are being turned to their dead; and, inspired by the Holy Ghost, they have this work done for their dead kindred. If the president of this Churchdid not possess the authority to have this work done, do you think that the Holy Ghost, which guides unto all truth, would move the people on the isles of the sea and the missions outside of Zion to have their work done for the dead under the authority of President Heber J. Grant? No, it is because they know by the Holy Ghost, the testimony of Jesus Christ, that there is the power and the authority of the holy Priesthood in this the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Lord said to one of his Nephite prophets : 

For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be, until the end of man; neither from that time henceforth and forever. (II Nephi 29:9.) 181 

And unto Moses, God declared : 

For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. 

My brethren and sisters, we are the people of God, whom he is using to perform this great and glorious work; and whether in life or death, as the work of the Lord never ends, your work and my work shall never end; but so long as we continue faithful in this and in the world to come, we will be preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and working for the salvation of the souls of the sons and daughters of God. Is not this a glorious work— more than world-wide ? It is eternitywide, never-ending; and in this work we will find the joy, the peace, and the reward that passeth all understanding. 

I bear you my testimony that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer and the Savior of the world, the Being who saved us by his precious blood, the Being who is leading this people today as surely as he led ancient Israel. I also bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet, seer and a revelator, a man raised up of God to do a mighty work. He came into the world with God's message in his heart, and in courage and faith, he proclaimed that message until his glorious life ended in martyrdom. By the same spirit in which I bear this testimony, I testify that Heber J. Grant is the leader of this people, chosen of God, a man who! holds the power, the authority of presidency, the prophet, seer, and revlator — a blessing, a leader, a teacher, a counselor, a friend unto this people; and I bear this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The general authorities of the Church were presented, as in the Tabernacle, and unanimously sustained. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right," and one verse of, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Alvin T. Thorup, of the Liberty stake. 


CLOSING SESSION 


