Morning
06 10 1921

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is indeed a great pleasure to have again the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference. I desire most earnestly that the prayer of President Chipman may be realized and that all of us, who may have the opportunity of speaking during the sessions of this conference, may be inspired of the Lord. I know that I not only speak for myself but for all of my associates of the General Authorities of the Church when I say that we desire only to say those things, during this conference, that shall be for the benefit, spiritually as well as temporally, of the Latter-day Saints. I know not only my own heart, but I know the hearts of those with whom: I am associated, as the General Authorities of the Church, and I know that each and all of us desire more than anything else in the world the advancement of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We desire the welfare spiritually of the people, and also their temporal welfare; and it is our daily and constant prayer to God that his blesings may be and abide with the Saints in all parts of the world, and also with every honesthearted soul who dwells upon the earth. 

THE SANCTIFYING POWER OF DISTRESS, AS ILLUSTRATED IN THE HISTORY OF THE SAINTS I would like to express my firm conviction as to the application to each and every faithful Latter-day Saint, of the last verse that we have just sung, verse number four of the hymn, "How firm a foundation :" 

When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow, For I will he with thee, thy troubles to bless, And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress. > 

When I think of the distress of the Latter-day Saints, the dangers and persecutions through which they went in New York, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois; when I think of the trouble and difficulties of the great pioneer journey from the Missouri river to these valleys; when I think of the reign almost of terror at different times from my childhood until now* — the coming of an army against our people; when I think how near they came to starving because of the crickets; when I think of the confiscation of all the 

Church's property, and the many trials and tribulations through which the people have passed, — I say when I think of these things I realize that the Lord has sanctified all their trials to the good of the Latter-day Saints, for these afflictions and tribulations have fitted and qualified them more perfectly to live the gospel oi the Lord Jesus Christ. 

PRESENT DISTRESS AND DEBT 

At the present time the Latter-day Saints and the people of this intermountain country are in great distress financially. Perhaps there has never been a time from the early days of the settlement of the valley, when there was a greater scarcity of money in proportion to the needs of the people, and when so many people find themselves in financial difficulties, mainly due to the fact that they launched out beyond their means, and ran in debt, in many cases for luxuries. I happened to pick up in Chicago a bank advertisement which I think is very fine and timely just in this particular condition of affairs. The words are the words of that wise man, Benjamin Franklin: 

Taxes are indeed very heavy; but if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might the more easily discharge them. But we have many others and much more grievous to some of us; we are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly, [and they didn't .even have automobiles in that day] and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or deliver us by allowing an abatement. 

FAITH, INTEGRITY AND DEVOTION OF THE SAINTS 

From my eardiest recollections, from the days of Brigham Young until now, I have listened to men standing in the pulpit in the old Tabernacle, and before that in the Bowery, before we had the old Tabernacle, and from this stand', urging the people not to run into debt; and I believe that the great majority of all our troubles today is caused through the failure to carry out that counsel. 

I certainly hope that the lessons that we are learning today will turn out a blessing to us, that they will be sanctified to our good, as illustrated in the words of this verse from the hymn that I have read. And I believe that they will. I have an abiding and perfect faith in the integrity and the devotion and the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints to God and their desire to serve him. I have full faith in the people that have embraced the gospel. Why? Because they know the Lord; because they know our Redeemer, the Lord Jesns Christ; because they know that this gospel, commonly called "Mormonism," is in very deed the plan of salvation; because they have an absolute and abiding knowledge that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and that the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are in very deed the words of God. There is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints that God our heavenly Father, the Creator of heaven and earth; did speak to Joseph Smith. There is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints that God pointed to his Son and announced that he was his Son, and told the boy to hear him, and that the Savior of the world gave instructions to Joseph Smith. I read a few months ago of one of the great "divines" in Great Britain — a great- student of the Bible, declaring that Jesus Christ was not the Son of God, and quoting as part of his authority another great "divine" and a famous theological student and teacher. Thank the Lord for the revelations of God to us, for the revelations from Jesus Christ where, time and time again, he announces himself as the Son of the living God, and the Redeemer of the World! Knowing as I know, and as the Latterday Saints do know, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that the revelations contained in this book are in very deed the words of God, and the words of our Redeemer, I repeat that I have full faith in the integrity to God of the Latter-day Saints; and I am convinced beyond a shadow of doubt that the work of the Lord will continue to spread, notwithstanding the hard times financially through which we have been passing. 

PROGRESS IN THE MISSION FIELD 

We have, at the present time in the missionary field, seventeen hundred and ninety-eight missionaries, not including hundreds cf workers in foreign lands who are local missionaries, who have been working in that capacity because of the lack of material in sending elders from the stakes of Zion. Our missionary activities for the first six months of this year indicate an increase in all the missions of the Church of 65 per cent in baptisms, as compared with the same period a year ago. This proves that the work of the Lord is spreading, that notwithstanding hard times, notwithstanding financial difficulties, there is a most remarkable and wonderful increase in the number of those who are embracing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ- We have practically the same number of missionaries now that we had a year ago, so this growth is not because of the increase in the laborers in the fields, but is because of increase in the power of the missionaries and the blessings of the Lord to those who are engaged in the work. There has also been an increase of over 50 per cent in the mission fields in charities obtained during the past six months. 

ABOUT THE LABORS OF MISSIONARIES 

In this connection, I desire to say to all the Latter-day Saints that we wish they would refrain from writing to' laborers in the mission field suggesting that it is about time they were coming home. Where parents have had sons in the mission field for, say 15, 16 or 18 months, and feel, because of financial difficulties that it is impossible to keep them longer, we advise that they state the circumstances to the bishop of their wards, who should then apply to the elders and seventies, and these should endeavor to raise the means to keep those young men in the field for at least two years or two years and a half. In most cases a young elder is just coming to himself and to a capacity and ability and power to preach the gospel with force and with the inspiration of God, when he has been in the mission field 18 months, and it is a great injustice to the boy who is growing spiritually — as he cannot grow in any other labor in all the world — that he should have to come home too soon. Those who are at home ought to realize this, and ought to feel a responsibility and a willingness and a desire to keep in the field the young men from the various wards until they have completed at least two years of service; and in many cases it would be a god-send to the young men, as well as to those who help , if their mission were extended to two and a half or even three years. I remember President Lyman's idea was that a missionary who had been in the field two years and a half could do more by remaining another six months than he had done in the entire year of his previous term; and I believe this. 

APPEAL TO THE SAINTS TO KEEP MISSIONARIES IN THE FIELD 

So where young men have the spirit of their missions and are themselves willing and anxious to stay, but whose parents, because of financial difficulties are unable to keep them, I appeal to the Latter-day Saints to respond to the calls of the elders and the seventies and the bishopric of the wards, and assist in keeping these young men in the field. Our mission to the world is to proclaim the gospel; one reason why the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ was placed upon the earth was that men should come to a knowledge of the truth; and the one supreme object above all other objects of every Latter-day Saint should be to bring people to a knowledge of the truth. 

MISSIONARY WORK THE GREATEST OF ALL IN THE WORLD 

The missionary work of the Latter-day Saints is the greatest of all the great works in all the world. We find recorded in the eighteenth section of the Doctrine and Covenants : Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God: For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance; 

And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. 

Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father? 

And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me? 

Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

Ask the Father in my name, in faith believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men. 

And if we have not faith we cannot please the Lord, the revelation goes on to say. We should have faith in God and not only have faith, but works also, and exhibit our works by supporting those who are in the missionary field. 

WONDERFUL MISSIONARY LABORS IN THE STAKES OF ZION 

I wish to say that I am delighted with the excellent and wonderful labors that have been accomplished in some of the stakes of Zion in converting and baptizing people. Missionary work that has been carried on here at home during the past six months has been far more fruitful than it has ever been before. We have not really done our duty here at home in our missionary work. It is only within the last year or two that we have taken up a systematic labor of visiting those who are not of our faith and explaining the gospel; and in proportion to the amount of this work that has been done, the results in baptisms have been greater than the same amount of work anywhere. I am grateful for this labor, and commend those stakes of Zion where it has been most energetically carried on. 

THE BEST LAW IN THE WORLD TO MAKE BETTER LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

In these hard times financially, I want to repeat to the Latterday Saints my firm belief that God our heavenly Father prospers and blesses and gives wisdom to those men and to those women who are strictly honest with him in the payment of their tithing. I believe that when a man is in financial difficulty, the best way to get out of that difficulty (and I speak from personal experience, because I believe that more than once in my life I have been in the financial mud as deep as almost anybody) is to be absolutely  with the Lord, and never to allow 1 a dollar to come into our hands without the Lord receiving ten per cent of it. The Lord does not need your money or mine. Compliance with the law of tithing and donations for ward meetinghouses, stake houses, academies, temples, missionary work and these various needs, are all for our good. They are but lessons that we are learning which will qualify and prepare us to become more godlike and to be fitted to go back into the presence of our heavenly Father. The very lessons of a financial nature that are ' given ,us are the same 'as lessons that are given in a school to a boy or a girl; they are for the benefit of the boy; they are for the benefit of the girl, for their advancement, for their joy and happiness in after life; because of all the knowledge and information we acquire, and in the improvement that we make, we ourselves are the ones who are benefited. God our heavenly Father has instituted laws to improve his people physically, spiritually, intellectually, and one of the best laws in all the world to make better Latter-day Saints is the law of tithing. There are many people who believe the gospel and would probably embrace it, but for the fact that they are like that young man of whom we read in the Scripture, when the Savior told him, after the young man declared that "all these things have I done," to sell what he had and give to the poor. M.any people cannot endure the gospel because of financial requirements that are made of them, and they allow the things of this world, which they have grasped firmly and steadfastly, to rob them of the greatest of all God's gifts, namely, life eternal. I commend the law of tithing to the Latter-day Saints, and I am entitled to commend it, because from my childhood days I have never made a dollar that the tithing has not been honestly paid upon; and I acknowledge the blessings of Almighty God to me because of obeying this law. 

THE LAW OF HEALTH AND WEALTH 

I want to exhort the Latter-day Saints to observe and keep the Word of Wisdom. I consider it almost a crime for men and women who acknowledge that they know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that this gospel commonly called "Mormonism" is in very deed the truth — I consider it almost a crime that when the Lord Almighty gives to them a law whereby they can have health and vigor of body and mind, they disregard it. Every single dollar that is expended in breaking the Word of Wisdom goes out of the country. It is so much of the vital fluid, so to speak, financially drawn from the community every time a man or woman drinks a cup of tea or coffee or uses tobacco or uses liquor, because we do not produce those things at home. If they actually believed thoroughly the Word of Wisdom it seems to me you couldn't possibly persuade people not to obey it : 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church, and also the Saints of Zion. 

"To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God"' — remember this is the will of God — "in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." 

I believe firmly that if all the money which has been sent out of this country from the day the Saints first located in these valleys, for those things that the Lord has said in this revelation are not good for man, had instead been kept here, the accumulation of wealth in our country would have been so great that this intermountain section where the Latter-day Saints are located, would be one of the richest and most prosperous in all the United States. A dollar is to the financial body what a drop of blood is in the body. We only have, as I understand, about twenty pounds of blood in the body. The heart beats about eighty times a minute and handles about four ounces every time it beats; therefore that twenty pounds of blood is handled every minute and there is about ten tons of it handled every twenty-four hours — ten tons although there are only twenty pounds of it. Of course they say we just accidentally came here, our hearts just accidentally keep a-going and handles ten tons of blood a day — a little bit of a pump, the size of your fist — and if it accidentally stopped two or three minutes, none of us would be here. The heart alone is one of the greatest testimonies of the divine power of God, because we don't even have to think to ask it to beat. If we did, we wouldn't have anything else to do but sit down and tell the heart to work. It would keep us busy all the time. There is nothing in all the world devised by the utmost ingenuity of, man, that can do the same amount of work as that little piece of machinery, the human heart, operating after the manner of a pump, with twenty pounds doing practically ten tons of work every twenty-four hours. Now, as I say, money, a dollar, is just the same. It is estimated that a dollar does all the way from twenty to over a hundred dollars of work a year, going round and round, and circulating, and buying and paying and doing work; so when we stop to think that there are hundreds of thousands of dollars sent out of this country every year for breaking the Word of Wisdorrfj — true, the great majority of it is not sent by the Latter-day Saints — we can form some idea of what could have happened if money thus sent out had been kept at home and each dollar of it permitted to do its hundred dollars' worth of workA PRACTICAL LESSON ON THE WORTH OF A DOLLAR IN HOME INDUSTRY 

Speaking of the work a dollar does at home reminds me of an incident that I have related many times. Years ago there was a great drive in this section of the country to support home-made goods, and I was one who was deeply interested in it, being a member of several committees that were working to bring about this policy. I remember that during our conference we had a meeting in the Assembly Hall one evening and one of the speakers on that occasion was the then bishop of Smithfield, George L. Farrell, Brother Farrell said that for twenty odd years, or perhaps he said thirty, he had been coming down to conference twice a year and, knowing that all the stock in the railroad running through that country was owned by eastern capitalists, he had marked the money which he paid for his tickets to see if he ever got any of it back again. "I have also," he said, "marked the money that I paid ifor home-made goods to see if I got any of that back again, I never got any of my railroad money back," he continued, "but one reason that I always buy home-made goods is that I think a whole lot of George L. Farrell and I like to get my money back again, and time and time again when I have bought homemade goods and marked the money, that identical money, staying in the community and circulating around, has come back to me. And it is because I think a great deal of myself, as well as my neighbors, that I buy shoes made at home for my children, that I buy homemade cloth out of which to make clothes for those children." Then he said : "To give you a practical illustration : When starting for this identical conference, standing at the depot at Smithfield I saw a man who had made some shoes for my children, and I walked up and handed him five dollars to pay for those shoes; he saw somebody else in the group to whom he owed five dollars, and he handed him the five; this man saw another to whom he was indebted and handed him the same piece of money; and he in turn saw another man and handed it to him. until finally after five or six debts had been paid with the same piece of money the last man to receive it came up to me and said, 'Brother Farrell, I owe you six dollars. Here is five on my account' — and I put my home-made shoes money back into' my trousers pocket." Twenty or thirty dollars' worth of debts were thus paid by patronizing one shoemaker in Smithfield, the money was saved at home by circulating around, it paid these many debts and at length landed back into the pocket where it started from. That was a practical lesson, and a practical lesson that ought to count. 

HOME MANUFACTURED GOODS 

It would be a very easy matter to increase the use of this one product in this country by thousands and tens of thousands of dollars. Before me is an audience of at least five to ten thousand people, and I would like to know how many of you are standing, or sitting I should perhaps say, with your feet in home-made shoes. I dare not ask those of you who are thus shod to stand up — I am afraid the showing would be altogether too thin. I am myself standing in home-made shoes; it is the kind I have been standing in for over thirty years, and I find that they are good enough for me. Another reason why I like them is that they wear longer than any I used to get before I commenced wearing them, and in addition to wearing longer they look better; and in addition to looking better, they cost less. So I am like Brother Farrell. It is not altogether patriotism, it is because I think a whole lot of Heber J. Grant that I wear home-made shoes. I have been converted to home-made goods from the time that, as a young man, I heard a sermon from this stand by Brigham Young, that great leader, that man of w r onderful foresight for the benefit of his people spiritually, financially, and intellectually, one of the greatest pioneers and most remarkable men that ever lived. In passing let me say that in conversing with a great banker in New York only a few days ago, I made the remark that Brigham Young would yet be recognized as one of the greatest organizers and one of the greatest leaders of men that ever lived, and this banker replied in substance : "There is no one who knows anything of Brigham Young's history that does not acknowledge it today. I do. I have read his history and it is one of the most intensely interesting books I have ever read." And my belief is that one of th* very things which caused the banker to have confidence in the Latter-day Saints today was that many years ago he read the histoy of Brigham Young and was impressed by the wonderful things that had been accomplished by him. 

But coming back to the sermon. President Young pleaded with the people to support the Provo Woolen Mills; and from that day until these mills shut down some years agq, I never bought a suit of clothes in Salt Lake City that was not made from Provo goods which I selected and handed to the tailor to make up for me. I was honored once with being in the legislature when we gave a ball to the members of the Wyoming legislature. I was wearing at the time a gray Provo suit; and, realizing that everybody who would be at the party in the Theatre would have a black suit — a swallow-tail or Prince Albert, —  I went to the Z. C. M. I., bought me a black suit, Prince Albert coat. I didn't want to be the only white sheep in the bunch, and so went to the ball in black. The very next day I gave it away to a poor relative : the ball cost me thirty odd dollars — the cost of a black suit. A friend asked me, "Why didn't you wear it a little while, and get a little benefit out of it before you gave it to your neighbor?" I aswered that I didn't want to have the suit on if I happened to want to preach in favor of home-made goods. I was afraid that it being a black suit, I might  chance wear it some Sunday, and I have always felt that I would not ask the people to do anything that I didn't do myself. I didn't know until yesterday that tne Provo Woolen Mills were again making cloth for suits and overcoats and I clo not propose to buy any overcoats in the future except those made from the Knight Woolen Mills goods or some other Utah establishment which is making them. 

BUY HOME MADE GOODS 

I call upon the Latter-day Saints to buy home-made goods of every kind that they can possibly get here at home. In other words, let cane sugar alone and buy some beet sugar. Some people think you can't make the finest kind of candy unless you have cane sugar. Well, I have been guilty of swapping sacks, you know, and lo and behold, Utah beet sugar in a cane sugar sack will "jell" all right, will make all kinds of candy; but cane sugar in a Utah beet sugar sack won't do any of these things. I had the same experience years ago with soap. As a young man I was agent for Franklin M : acVeagh & Co.'s grocery house, of Chicago. The soapmaker employed by James A. Kirk & Co. had left that firm and MacVeagh & Co. secured his services and proceeded to make all the kinds and brands of soap which he had been making for his former firm. There was a good hired woman working for us who couldn't read English, but knew all the wrappers on the Kirk soap; and she insisted she couldn't create a lather on wash day. She couldn't wash clothes at all with the MacVeagh soap. But when I took the MacVeagh soap out and put in Kirk wrappers she declared it perfect; and when I took the Kirk soap and put it in MacVeagh wrappers the poor woman again insisted she couldn't lather with it. 

I say to the people, buy all things that you possibly can which are produced here at home. No section of the inter-mountain country has been hit so hard financially as ours — Utah and southern Idaho — because of the tremendous slump in the prices of the products of the soil and because of the great fall in live stock values. I was given a place of honor as state chairman and I esteemed the privilege of calling upon the people to subscribe for Liberty bonds. I went to California with Mr. Farnsworth, chairman of our state defense committee, and other loyal, patriotic, men, to discuss ways and means in connection with raising money for our government and as chairman of the Liberty Loan committee for Utah. I said to Mr. Lynch, then governor of the Federal Reserve Bank : "T pledge you the absolute loyalty of the people of Utah. I promise to put over any requirement, no matter how much it is, that is placed on the people of Utah, on one condition, and that is that you will give us a federal reserve branch in Salt Lake City. We haven't got the resources, we haven't the war activities, we haven't the money. But we have the loyalty, and if you will bring the bank there, we will borrow the money and we will do our share. The Bank organized a bank and they expected that five or six clerks, ten at the most, were all they would need for some time; and it was a little less than five months, as I remember it, when we were owing that branch bank, because of financial distress, between forty and fifty millions of dollars. We did our duty. Then since the slump came, inasmuch as it was all borrowed money, it is wearing the life out of us to pay the interest. I have conversed with men from San Franisco and they acknowledge that this inter-mountain country has been hit hardest because of difficulty in getting our products to market. Our distance from market creates a discrimination — not that I am blaming this all upon the freight . rates, which are costing us heavily, being in some cases almost prohibitive. But if we have to suffer in having to pay so much 10 get our goods to far-away markets, if we are suffering more than most other sections in this respect, all the more reason to avail ourselves of the great relief and remedy that will come from our purchasing and using every single solitary article that can be made at home. Now, I am not getting any commission for talking home manufactured' goods; but I feel that it is clearly for the people's financial benefit that they should support home-made goods to the fullest possible extent. 

CO-OPERATION ADVISED 

I have been much delighted with the splendid work that President Alonzo A. Hinckley is doing in trying to arrange for a co-operation so that our alfalfa, which is quarantined and cannot be shipped away, can be utilized by the people who have livestock to feed. I would rejoice if we could mature our livestock, quit killing the lambs and the breeding cattle, and arrange to feed our stock here at home. I commend all the co-operative work in this direction that is going on, and hope that the farmer and the stockraiser can get together and use up all the hay and other products of the soil for the feeding of our own stock instead of carrying these products over for another year. As an illustration of the imposition in being obliged to pay so much for mutton, I ordered a couple of muttonchops — 80 cents — during my recent trip east; and while I haven't such a fearfully large mouth, I honestly believe I could have taken one of them entire in just one bite, if I had cut the meat off the bone— two bites — forty cents a biteOn other occasions, I ordered and paid for chops which I am sure I could have got in my mouth without the least trouble in the world, in two bites to a chop— twenty cents a bite. Now, when you think of the stock-raiser having to sell his ewe lambs and getting about five cents a pound, it will be evident that the time has come when we need a little co-operation between the man who is running the restaurant, the man who js running the meat shop, the man who has hay and grain, and the man who has got mutton for sale. Perhaps  of us then could raise enough money so that instead of getting two bites for eighty cents, we might get three chops for a meal instead of two and get them for thirty or forty cents. 

CHARITY ENJOINED 

We want to try to get back to first principles, and to co-operate to carry out that second great commandment. The first is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our might, mind and strength; and the second is like unto it, to love our neighbor as ourselves. Let us be charitable in these hard times. Let us not oppress our brothers who may be owing us a little, if we can possibly avoid it. Let us be hopeful and cheerful and happy. Why, we are in a magnificent condition in comparison with the time when the crickets were destroying the crops of our fathers and mothers. We are in a magnificent condition in comparison with the early days when people went around bare-footed, when they had one suit of clothes, when they had one pound of butter in a whole year, as some of us did in our houses. Let us study economy, let us be kind and charitable, and above all, let us serve God with full purpose of heart, be honest in our tithes and offerings, liberal in doing these things with our means that shall be for the benefit and uplift of God's kingdom. May the Lord bless us and pour out his Spirit abundantly upon us during this conference is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Since our last conference new stake presidents have been appointed as follows: 

President Thomas L. Allen, Summit stake. President Wallace Calder, Uintah stake. President John V. Bluth, North Weber stake. 

New wards have been organized as follows : Logan Twelfth ward, Logan stake. Fairview North ward, North Sanpete stake. Escalante South ward, Garfield stake. Topence ward, Idaho stake. 

There have been new independent branches organized: 

Boulder branch, Garfield stake. 

Standardville branch, Carbon stake. 

Kenilworth branch, Carbon stake. 

Rains branch, Carbon stake. 

Soldier Summit branch, Utah stake. 

Gro.vont branch, Teton stake. 

Jackson branch, Teton 'stake. Wilson branch, Teton stake. Ophir branch, Tooele stake. Mackay branch, Lost River stake. 

We have to announce the death of President Orville L. Thompson, president of the Millard stake of Zion, a man of devotion as a president of the stake, an honorable, upright member of many sessions of the legislature, a splendid father, husband and Latter-day Saint. We extend to his wife and family the sympathy of all of the people here assembled. 

Bishops who have died: 

Bishop Clyde A. Hammond, Moab ward, San Juan stake. Bishop Isaac C. McFarlane, St. George East, St. George stake. Bishop Frederick W. Passey, Lanark ward, Bear Lake stake. Bishop Robert Siddoway, Rockport ward, Summit stake. Bishop Henry K. Thatcher, Thatcher Second ward, Bannock stake; also was Bannock Stake Clerk. 

Mission presidents released : George Albert Smith, European mission. Nicholas G. Smith, South African mission. Theodore Tobiason, Swedish mission. 

Mission presidents appointed : Orson F. Whitney, European mission. J. Wyley Sessions, South African mission. Isaac P. Thunell, Swedish mission. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I cannot express fully my gratitude to God and my brethren for the opportunity I have of being present on this great occasion. The Lord knows my heart and he knows my desires and intents, and he has abundantly blessed me, and I acknowledge his hand this morning in my presence in this congregation. During part of the time that has elapsed since our April Conference in this building, I have passed through a time of severe bodily affliction, something to which I haven't been very much accustomed during my eventful life, but I suffered very severely, and it seemed to me that I was approaching very closely to the gates that we sing about sometimes. President Grant came to me at my bedroom one morning and told me that I had to get up out of that bed and go down to the coast and spend a month there. Well, I almost laughed in his face at the idea, but he said I could go and he would see to my transportation all right, I need not worry about that, and to cut the story short I found it advisable for me to carry out good counsel. I made the effort and succeeded. I did as he requested me and stayed as long as I thought I ought to stay there, having been encouraged by him and President Ivins so to do, and returned when I thought the time had properly arrived for me to come home, and here I am this morning, revived in spirit as well as in body, and filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to God and my brethren and sisters who prayed for me. 

FAITH THE BEGINNING OF OUR RELIGION. 

I know that I had the faith and prayers of a great many of my friends and I thank them for the exercise of their faith, that faith which I believe and hope will abide always, as we have heard in the song. That is the beginning of our religion, faith, real faith in the true and living God. Faith in a false god does not amount to much, Still it is better to believe in some kind of a god or supreme being, to whom we feel we owe allegiance, than to have no faith at all. But true faith, living faith, which brings forth works, in the right God, the only living and true God, our Eternal Father, is a great thing, and it is the gift of God that is given to all his children in their very nature and being as his sons and daughters. That is the beginning of the religion that is called "Mormonism." "We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." That is the first article of our belief as expressed by the Prophet Joseph in the reasons that he gave for the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and which we hold today and repeat in our Sunday Schools and in many of our gatherings. 

What a blessed thing it is to have real faith and confidence in that Being who is the Author of our lives, from whom we received our organized spiritual existence. The elements as he has told us, are eternal. The elements of our bodies, as well as of our spirits, have no beginning. They always were, they always will be. It is a great consolation to know that fact, a fact that we are not beings of a moment, as it were, but we are eternal in our nature, that we are of eternal existence from an eternal parentage, and that we can approach our Father, and that our spirits can reach out to him and have communion with him, that we can realize our relationship to him, and his to us, and know that he is mindful of us as his offspring. For the spirit of man is the offspring of God. It is through the exercise of faith in my behalf by my friends, and my own faith, that I recovered from my sickness, and I was benefited greatly by the breezes of the ocean down by the beach near Los Angeles. The real revivification that has come to me has been by the spiritual life, the spirit that proceeds from our Father throughout the immensity of space, which, as he has told us, gives life to all things that have life, which is light also, as well as life, which is the Spirit of Christ in which we are told, he is in the sun and the moon and the stars and in the earth on which we stand, and by which God has told us he made the worlds through and by his Son, "and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

The living faith that we have in that Being is our supporter under every circumstance. In the darkest hours we have spent in our mortal lives, or as a community, in the tribulations and trials through which the Church has passed, we could approach to him, the Author of our being, our Father, and feel, as Jesus of Nazareth did when he was in the flesh, that he is our Father and that we can come to him and he will lean to us. The Lord says : "Seek unto me saith the Lord, and I will draw near unto you." That is a great truth that the Latter-day Saints, I think, understand pretty well, or they are coming to understand. It is a reality and should be impressed upon our offspring, our children, our little children. Mothers and fathers should have this fact impressed upon them, that "while they have fathers of the flesh," as the Apostle Paul puts it, "and we gave them reverence, how much rather should we have reverence for him who is the Father of spirits and live." Teach your children real faith in a real God, a person, a being who exists and who understands all our feelings- and our emotions, having passed through the experiences that we are now passing through and who is the very embodiment of everything that is right and true and good throughout the whole universe, all that is pure, all that is enlightening, all that is intelligent, all that is sympathetic, all that there is in life, and faith and truth are embodied in him, and he is the expression of these eternal verities to us. What a blessing it is today that we have that faith, that has been sung about here, which shall abide always. 

Now these three, Paul taught, "faith, hope and charity shall abide." Faith must abide in our hearts under every circumstance in which we operate, individually and as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And it is by that faith that the elders whom we have been hearing about go out into the mission world to proclaim the truth, to bear witness of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and to bear testimony that our Father has spoken in these last days, as he spoke many times anciently, and that he, who is the Father of Jesus Christ and who spake through him in the meridian of time, spake to and through the Prophet Joseph Smith in these last days and that his Son has been teaching, through that prophet and his successors, right along down, from the time when the boy Joseph offered that glorious prayer of faith in the Grove. He is our Father and Jesus Christ is his spokesman. All that has been revealed to the children of men from time to time has been done through that agency, that sonship, the voice of God to the Prophet Joseph, "This is my beloved Son, hear him," has been the policy of our Father from the beginning of the organization of this Church. It was through his Son and by his Son, that this earth was framed. It is through him and by him that all the revelations God has given to mankind, have come to the human family, and he is today at the head of this Church, representing the Father, and he can speak for the Father, and the Holy Ghost can speak for both, and bear witness of the truth in the hearts of the children of men. 

MISSIONARY WORK AND MEANS. 

One matter that President Grant has touched upon this morning is this work of our boys, and mothers and fathers, younger men and older men, who go out into the world without money and without price, so far as payment is concerned, spending their own money or their parents' money, and sometimes, I am afraid, spending it a little too lavishly. Boys that go out into the mission field ought not to go with the feeling that they have at their command large sums of money. There is no need for it. It is true that it costs a good deal more now to pay the expenses of a missionary abroad than it used to do in former times. In my early labors, in fact nearly all that I have done in foreign lands as a missionary, was done under the old law of no purse and no scrip. When I went' out first as a boy I took nothing with me but the clothes I had on, except a bundle of tracts and a pair of pants and a shirt to use in baptizing. I had faith I could bring people into the Church, and I wanted something I could put on to baptize them in. I had use for those things and I did the work just as I have said. Indeed, all my ministry among the people of the world was literally "without purse or scrip." Now I do not say that this should be done now. I believe that as circumstances change, the Lord changes his commandments, to correspond therewith. As Jesus taught, a great many of you who went out in the world took "neither brass nor gold nor silver in your purses, nor scrip for your journey, nor two coats, "for the laborer is worthy of his hire," but afterwards he said: "When I sent you out without purse or scrip, did you lack anything? And they said, Nay, Lord," but now he said, "He that has no purse let him get one and he that hath no sword let him buy one." Circumstances had changed and so the word was changed. He didn't change, but the circumstances being changed the word of the Lord was different. So in these times conditions have changed very much from those times. 

We find it necessary to have the boys go out two and two. Sometimes one of them is a poor boy comparatively, has no money, or very little, and the other has plenty. It is a rather difficult condition for the poor boy, but they have to lodge together and divide expenses, and' this should be regulated by prudence, by economy, by wisdom, and the parents should see to it that their boys are not given too much money and that the others who are more poorly supplied are assisted so that they don't have too little money; but, generally speaking, I think our missionaries, in these latter days, are in many respects too well favored with money to spend. They are not sent out for the purpose of indulging in seeing the sights of the world, of going to motion picture shows, theatres, and other places of amusement, although occasionally something of that kind is all right, but that is not the object. What they are sent out for is to carry with them that abiding faith in God, and preach it to the people, that he is the same yesterday, today and forever, that he can be approached, that he has laws and commandments and ordinances which he requires people who desire to come to him, to attend to in the right way, and under proper authority. They go out for that purpose, and that should be their object, and be their main object. After they have been in the field for awhile, it gets to be so, even if it is not so in the beginning, some of our boys, who have done things that are wrong, who have not kept themselves as straight as they should be as the offspring of Latter-day Saints, after they. have been in the mission field for a little while, begin to get their hearts softened, and in humility and faith in God they go and confess their wrong-doings to their presiding officers. When they can be forgiven, through full repentance and change of life, that blessing is extended to them. When they are still hardened in their hearts and prone to do wrong they have to be sent home, of course. 

THE SPIRIT, NOT THE FLESH, SHOULD GOVERN. 

Now, they should be taught from their childhood to preserve the purity of their lives and bodies, to act with purity of conduct always, and especially in their association with the other sex. This should be in the minds of our parents and they should instil it into the minds of their boys and girls. God is a being of purity, he is sacred and holy, and sacred and holy be his Name, and sacred and holy should we, his servants, be in all our conduct while we dwell upon the earth in the flesh, and we should learn the great lesson of the spirit governing the flesh instead of permitting the flesh to govern the spirit. These are simple truths that should be impressed upon the minds of our little children that they may grow up in that spirit and in that supreme faith in God which is at the foundation of our religion. 

FAITH AND PURITY TO BE TAUGHT IN THE HOME. 

This should be taught in the household, or privately, by the mothers to their girls, and the fathers to their boys, and they should grow up in that atmosphere. Let us see to that, my brethren and sisters, so that in our homes that faith shall prevail, faith in God, real true faith, coming from the soul, from the heart, in God our Eternal Father, and impress that upon our children, and they will grow up in the favor of the Lord and be ready to serve in his great latter-day work, and there is no work like it in the world. The privilege of a man holding the Holy Priesthood, of being an elder in the Church of Christ, ordained to preach the gospel, to administer baptism for . the remission of sins, to lay his hands upon the baptized believer and say, "receive the Holy Ghost," that is a wonderful thing, but it is bestowed upon our missionary boys and if they grow up in the fear of the Lord, in full faith in him, wherever they go they will carry a power with them in the world that is not possessed by other men. We want it at home* right here where we live. Every boy and every girl born to the Latter-day Saints should grow up in that spirit of purity. 

Let us see to it, my brethren and sisters, that we carry this out, every ordinance and every counsel that comes from the mouth of God for our guidance and direction. This is what we should do. "Man," said Jesus Christ, "should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." That is the  law. When we do that we are living the celestial law and we shall gain celestial glory if we continue to abide in it, for by abiding in these things we sanctify our nature, we make our bodies and our spirits serve God, and come in subjection to his law and his influence and Spirit-, which proceed from him, and our bodies become so sanctified that they are capable of being quickened in the resurrection by a celestial glory, and if we do not live in accordance with such law we cannot gain a celestial glory. That should be in our minds, and we should teach it to our children. 

OUR DUTY TO LOVE GOD AND SERVE HIM XN THE NAME OF JESUS CHRIST. 

Now, there is a law, as our President declared to us, that we shall love God with all our heart, and might, and mind', and strength. God told that to the people anciently. It is also in the Doctrine and Covenants. It was told to the first settlers in Zion: "The land of Zion" which is to be consecrated to be inhabited by the Saints where the great temple of God shall be reared, upon which "the glory of God shall rest." The Lord told the people there in the very beginning of their settlement to love him "with all their heart and soul and mind and strength; and, said he, "in the name of Jesus Christ shalt thou serve him." Don't forget that, my brethren. We serve God in the name of Jesus Christ. That is his full name. That is his name which was given anciently. You can read it in the Pearl of' Great Price. That is the name given in the latter days. It is in nearly every revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants : "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ;" we are to love God with all our hearts and serve him in the name of Jesus Christ. The ordinances we perform, all the prayers we offer, all that we do as servants of God in this Church, should be done in the name of Jesus Christ, for it is his Church, and he stands really at its head. Then we are told that we should love our neighbors, also, as ourselves. What a good thing it would be for Latter-day Saints, if we all carried out that law, would it not? 

FINANCE CIRCULATION PAY WHAT THOU 0WEST. 

This morning, when President Grant was illustrating so beautifully the circulation of the blood in the body of man, and the circulation in finance which he also touched upon, the thought I had in my mind was this : yes, if that blood is good, but it would not be much good if it wasn't circulating. If it remained there — sometimes a clot of blood comes into a part of the body and it brings about death instead of life, because it impedes the circulation. I was wondering if there wasn't a good deal of money owned by our people tucked away somewhere "against a rainy day." You know this is a threatening time, and we are very much perplexed, the banks are tied up, so to speak — they have money no doubt locked up somewhere, I think so, but that is their business. If we have, and we are owing anything to anybody; pay what thou owest, I believe it is a good injunction to the Latter-day Saints today, and if all people who owe money to any of their brethren, or to people that are not their brethren, or of their brethren, still unpaid, to^ pull that money out of that old stocking and out of that box locked up in a bank, and pay your debts. I believe it would make a great change financially among our people. There are many people in debt to their neighbors and they don't love their neighbors as they ought to love them. Take out that money and put it into circulation, and then it will accomplish much of what President Grant was referring to in that little story about Brother Farrell. I have heard him tell that before and it is very striking. It is circulation of the blood that feeds the body. It is circulation of money that feeds the body of finance, and we cannot get along as a community and be as great, wealthy, and strong as we would be if we would circulate what we have. 

THE PRIESTHOOD ENTITLED TO INSPIRATION. 

We have met here, my brethren and sisters, to worship God, the true and living God, and I feel that he will accept our offering. I feel that he is here by the presence of his Holy Spirit, that he is here in the presence of these good men who have been laboring in the various stakes of Zion and the wards of the bishoprics, and in the mission fields. In their personality, there is the spirit and power of God and authority in the holy Priesthood to minister in the name of the Lord. What a great influential body there is here today in this congregation! I realize it, I feel it. I believe in it with all my heart, and I know that this power that God has revealed in the latter days and which is sent down out of heaven upon the earth for the salvation of mankind is a reality, and we, all of us, can have it to the extent of the authority to which we are ordained. Every man ordained to any office in this Priesthood is entitled to the spirit and power of that office, and he can have it if he will live in accordance with that which it teaches, if he will live in accordance with the inspiration that it brings, for the Spirit of God whispers to the soul of man, and he can know the "still small voice." It doesn't come always in great manifestations. 

REMEMBER THE LORD BOTH IN JOY AND SORROW. 

I am pleased when people have definite manifestations, no matter how material they seem to be. I believe there is a good deal of thinking on these things in the world, and sometimes in the Church. Imagination goes a great way, sometimes, but there is a link between every man ordained to the Priesthood and his God, and that link ought not to be sundered, it ought not to be weakened. We should live in harmony, in union, in communion, with him who is our living Head, and he will not forsake us either in days of trouble or pain or sickness or anything else. By the way, we ought not to leave our prayers and our devotions to the time of trouble and of sickness and difficulty, but go to the Lord when we are happy,, when our souls are full of joy and gladness, for he loves a cheerful countenance. He does not like very loud, noisy laughter — he says that is sin, but he likes to see a "cheerful countenance," when people come to worship him in the beauty of holiness, with a smile upon their faces and gladness in their hearts. Let us not forget the Lord when we are glad, when we are happy, and go to him and with all our hearts thank and praise his holy name for the mercies we enjoy, for we are a blessed people. 

WE ARE WONDERFULLY BLESSED AS A PEOPLE. 

Separate and apart from all these blessings that pertain to the affairs of the holy Priesthood and to the congregations of the Saints when they meet to partake of the sacrament and to worship God, as a community, we are blessed wonderfully when we come to compare our conditions to that condition which we had in the days referred to by President Grant. I couldn't help thinking, this morning, about a little thing that occurred in the ward that I belonged to once. I shan't tell where it was- And that was in those days of scarcity; when we wanted to have a dance. The. boys usually contributed some tallow candles to be placed on the ward house walls for lights. One evening some of the girls took the notion that they ought to be up with "outside" customs which required waxed floors. So they used some of the candles and "waxed" the floor with tallow, and you can guess what was the condition some of the girls were in when they slipped down on the floor with their nice best dresses on. But this illustrates the kind of straits to which we were put at that time, and those early days are right before my m'ind, and ,1 can contrast them with the conditions which surround us at present. Here we are blessed of the Lord financially, temporally; we have better homes, we have better clothes — I don't say that they are better than the home-made, mind you; I endorse what Brother Grant has said about home manufacture — and we are blessed very abundantly, and should be filled with gratitude for these blessings, these good things we have. The Saints are able to come up here from distant parts now with ease and comfort. In old times when I left home to come here a long distance, I came with an ox-team or sometimes on "Shanks' pony," and I rejoiced when I got here. But today our people are blessed with means of transportation which are so far ahead of the old ways that we should be filled with thanksgiving. Let us praise the Lord in our hearts and in our works, for that is the way to praise him. Our faith should be exhibited in our works. What there is to do in our accepted fields of labor at home or abroad should be done with all our minds and might and strength. "What thy hand doeth today," said the old preacher "do it with thy might." Yes, put your soul into your work, whatever it is, brethren and sisters, members of auxiliary societies as well as members of the different quorums of the holy Priesthood, and be willing and obedient, because it is the willing as well as obedient that are to get the fruits of the land. 

DETERMINE TO SERVE GOD AND KEEP HIS COMMANDMENTS. 

Now let us who are here together this morning make up our minds when we go back to our fields of labor, or respective abodes, to feel that we will serve our Father, that we will keep his commandments, that we will walk in his ways, that we will unite with our brethren, that we will forgive our friends of their trespasses as we hope to be forgiven of ours, and that we will love the Lord and devote ourselves with all our might, mind and strength, and all the powers that we have and the means that come into our hands, to the building up of this Latter-day kingdom. It is the greatest thing on earth, brethren and sisters. It is the grandest thing that ever has graced this globe, and it will abide and continue, and will not perish or fall away, neither will it be trampled under foot, neither will it be overcome by the evil power. It will abide and continue to grow and increase and spread forth and some of us will live to see it, and if we don't live in the flesh, we will live out of the flesh, and we will learn about it. 

CROWNED WITH GLORY, IM MORTALITY, AND ETERNAL LIVES. 

President Grant spoke this morning about some of our good, faithful brethren passing away. They are not lost to this Church. They have gone where they ought to be. They will labor there as well as they labored here, in a different capacity perhaps, but they will labor for this same great cause and all the good men who depart from us and go behind the veil are engaged and organized, and are in the Latter-day work, and they will add to our strength, if we will live so that they can come nigh unto us, and the angels of God will be round about us, and our Father will administer unto us, and the power of his Spirit will increase in our souls, if we continue in well-doing to labor with all our mind, to build up this great kingdom on the earth. Christ is and will be at its head. He will be King of kings and Lord of lords, and every man who has labored with him and for him in this holy ministry will be crowned with glory and immortality and "eternal lives." That means more than life, more than mere existence, it means perpetual increase of posterity, worlds without end, and these blessings shall be ours if we will prove faithful to that which we have received of the Lord, and this is what we are for in the Church, every one of us, that is our duty, that is what we are on the earth for, to build up this Latter-day kingdom, to lead the inhabitants of the earth up to God, to bring them nearer to him so that they will be obedient in their hearts and be willing to obey his commandments and walk in his ways and be prepared for the glorious future that lies before them. 

BLESSINGS AND COUNSEL FOR THE LABORING AUTHORITIES. 

God bless you my brethren who are laboring in this great cause, presidents of stakes and counselors, bishops and counselors, teachers who visit among the people, carry with you a good spirit of comfort and peace, and joy, into the hearts of the Saints. Encourage all good things, encourage all people in well doing. Do not be too severe in censure but when it is necessary let it come from the proper source, from the proper authority, and when things are not moving right, go to the proper authority. Don't jump over the heads of your bishops to presidents of stakes with little matters which ought not to come up to the presidency, but talk to the brethren where you are, and give them a chance to exercise their wisdom and judgment and discretion and the power of their priesthood, and let us labor together in union and concord and love, forgiving one another of our faults, overlooking what we can properly overlook, not being too severe, against the weak and faulty but act so that we will not practice nor encourage evil but act so as to make the Saints feel that we ourselves are devoled to the Lord, our eternal Father, as his sons and daughters, and that we are pledged to his service as long as we live on the earth in the flesh and then forever and ever. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am very grateful for the privilege afforded me of bearing my testimony on this occasion. As President Grant was talking, I couldn't help but think of the words of one of our hymns : " W e are not ashamed to own our Lord, and worship him on earth. We love to learn his holy word, and know what souls are worth." 

I am very happy in having the privilege of laboring in the ministry and of declaring the gospel of repentance to the people of the world. I am very happy that we have no compromise to make with them; that we are not ashamed of the message that we have to deliver to the people of the earth, that we really believe, with all our heart and soul, in the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that we have an abiding faith in him and in his ministry; that he was in reality the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, and that by and through him salvation and redemption shall come to all of God's children who are upon the earth. We are told in the scriptures that he that is ashamed of the Miaster, the Master would be ashamed of him. "Whosoever, therefore, shall be ashamed of me, and of my words, in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he comieth in the glory of his Father with the holy angels." (Mark 8:38.) 

And I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that we are not ashamed of our God and of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. I believe that the greatest mission the Latter-day Saints have is to proclaim that truth to- the children of men here upon the earth. 

In the Western States mission we have been very fortunate this year in reaching a great many people who are interested in our message. They have listened -to the testimony of the elders of Israel. The elders have taught unto them the plan of salvation. Hundreds have embraced the gospel. Many more than in years previous. We are happy in our work. We are glad to be engaged in its labor. I am glad that President Grant has referred to the fact that many of our young men who are laboring in the mission fields have been encouraged by people at home to believe that eighteen months, or thereabouts, constituted a full mission. Their friends at home have written and said that it was about time they returned. Some of the elders have reported to me that their friends have advised that, others having returned in so short a period, they too should return to their homes, and I am glad that President Grant has called this to the attention of the Latter-day Saints. Many of our young men are better prepared to preach at the expiration of eighteen months and do a great deal more good than they could prior to this time, and the last few months of their mission is of more worth to the cause than perhaps the first year of their experience. I rejoice that this word has gone forth to the Latter-day Saints, that our boys should remain in the service of the Master at least two years and from that to thirty months or three years, as the case may be. I was very happy to hear one of the presidents of the stakes say yesterday that a certain individual had come to him and asked that his son might be released, and wanted him to write a letter to that effect, and he said : "If you want the letter written, you would better write it yourself." If they would make a little extra effort the boy could remain and fill his mission- Our forces are very much depleted, my brethren and sisters. Many a young man has returned home, when I have felt in my heart that it was not a good thing for the young man, it was not a good thing for the cause; and with a little extra effort released missionaries could have remained and accomplished their labors and brought souls to a knowledge of the truth. 

I pray that the blessings of our Father may attend the Latter-day Saints, that they may have power to keep the commandments of God, and those who have sons and daughters laboring in the mission field, that the way may be opened and means provided that they can keep them there until they have accomplished a full and complete mission. 

May God help us to keep his commandments, all our days, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Choir and congregation sang, "High on the mountain top," and the closing prayer was offered by Elder Albert Olsen, Second Counselor in the Presidency of the Bighorn stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


