Morning
08 10 1921


ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

Well may we sing "Providence is over all." Whto is there that can doubt that the hand of Providence governs and directs in the affairs of this great Nation of which we form a part? Is there any one of us who can doubt, that the hand of the Lord is over all the nations of the earth, that they all are his children, and that he has care for them all? Is there any one of us who has any doubt, looking at this vast congregation, that the Lord is with us? The incentive, the motive, that brings these semi-annual gatherings, is a testimony, an evidence to us that the Lord is still with his people. It has been remarked during this conference that there never was a time when there was more evidence of the Spirit cf the Lord in the hearts of the people in respect to matters spiritual — temple work, priesthood work, the desire to perform the labors that the priesthood are called upon to perform — than there is now among the people. The Lord is operating through his Spirit in the hearts of this body of priesthood, the priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in a most marvelous manner. Truly, I thought, as I came into this building this morning: "This is a marvelous work." It is a wonder to me to see this large body of men; for, where we go in Church association, and congregations generally, outside of this Church, the great majority, so far as I have been able to observe, are women who take a most active part— and the Lord blesses them for doing it— but here we have not only our sisters, who take a most wonderful and splendid part in the activities of the Church, but we have such a crowd of men here, good men, able men, men who want to do right, men who are doing right, clean men, and trying to keep the commandments of the Lord. It is wonderful to me. How does it all come about? Whose power is it that does this, that accomplishes this? Is it the power of man? No, it is the power of the Almighty God, the power that resides in the priesthood of the Church. The power of the Lord has truly always been over the nation. The nations are in his hands. When he undertakes to break down this power or the other, it is easy for him to do it'. When he with-draws his spirit from the children of men they are left to themselves, and we see it. We can go through history and see instances, repeatedly, where the people have been left to themselves, through their wickedness, and they have gone into unbelief and darkness, and have dwindled away. He says in the revelations, in the last days, that he would finally withdraw his spirit from the people of the world if they did not repent and follow him. And woe be unto the people when that Spirit, which overrules for good, has been withdrawn from them, for that is the life-giving power. It is that Spirit that formed this government and gave us our Constitution. The Lord raised up wise men, he said, wise men for that very purpose. It was the Spirit of the Lord, making for liberty, that operated in the heart of a Martin Luther, of an Oliver Cromwell, and men of that character, who received a great portion of the Spirit of the Lord to direct them in their efforts; and Providence was over all. 

The Lord has operated through them but in this body of priesthood he has told us that he would give unto us more power, the power of Priesthood, more power than he had given to men who are not ordained to this Priesthood. What is this power, what is this influence that causes them to operate in their activities in the Church  the way that they do, so that for one thing they have not a beggar — not a beggar in all the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so far as we know, in any part of the world, certainly not one here in Zion; that is something to he noted— What is it that causes these sisters to sacrifice as they do of their time and of their means, to give their efforts for the betterment of their neighbors and their friends, for the uplifting of the people? It is the power and spirit of the Priesthood which they partake of; for, let it be said that while our sisters are not ordained to the Priesthood, yet we might just as well remember, we lords of creation, that we never can attain to exaltation in the Kingdom of God, not one of us, without our wives. It does not matter whether he is a president of the Church or what office he holds, or how great his Priesthood or calling: "The man is not without the woman in the Lord," in the Church, in the Kingdom of God. He can't be redeemed or exalted in the presence of God without his wife; so they partake of this honor, of this majesty, this power in this wonderful organization. Nothing like it, nothing can be thought of like it in the world, where there is such a union, men and women operating together, everyone members of the Church, everyone having a voice and a vote — the most democratic organization in all the world because everyone has that power: and, let me say, while the hand of the Lord is over all the nations of the world, yet the special power and the evidence of it that he would give to this people, and something more than he had ever given to any other people, is before us. 

I read from the 84th Section of the Doctrine of Covenants; "And this greater Priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God;" and this is life eternal, to know him, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom he hast sent. "And this greater Priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest and without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." That is the word of the Lord. That is what we have. That is what the Lord has given us. I do not need to ask Latter-day Saints, which is the way? They are not groping blindly for the way of life, for the path that leadeth to eternal life. They have found it. They know it. They have it. In the world, where they have not this konwledge of God, nor the key of it, nor the power that goes with it, they are more or less groping for the way. They have lost the way; they are feeling their way, doing good, no doubt, many, many millions trying to do good, and will do good, seeking the way of life, and yet, sometimes, when the truth is placed before even those who are good people and doing good, as was remarked here the other day, they cannot accept it because the sacrifice seems too great. 

But this is certain, everyone that seeketh, findeth; "If you truly seek, ye shall surely find." The Lord has decreed it, and, as we are told in the Book of Mormon, there is a promise held out, that if you seek with real intent, with an earnest desire to know of the truth, you can find it; and no man or woman who has ever put that matter to the test but what has been able to come to a realization and finally to a knowledge that this is the work of God, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in very deed. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I testify of it. I know that the power of godliness, as I have read here from this book, is manifested in this Church, and without this Priesthood, and without the ordinances of the gospel, and the authority of it, the power of godliness is not manifest to men in the flesh, and never will be. It is something to be proud of and to rejoice over. I bear testimony to you once again that the Lord is at the head, the Lord our God is giving direction and guidance to this Church and people, through his appointed servants whom he has called, whom he has brought to their present positions. They did not do it themselves, not by a long way, nor would they for a moment attempt to claim it. They never did and never will; but the Lord has done it. It is marvelous in our sight. It is a wonder how he operates and guides and directs in all the activities of the Church. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in this work. God bless our liberty-loving nation. It stands for liberty, after all. God bless every influence and power in every church, in every association, in every organization in the world, that makes for liberty and righteousness, peace on earth and good-will to all men. May the Lord help them, too; but in this Church, in this organization, where He acknowledges this Priesthood, this special gift, this special power, where the power of godliness is manifested through it; and without it— so says the Lord, not I — the Lord says that without this Priesthood and the ordinances that go with it, the ordinances of the gospel, the power of godliness is not manifest to men in the flesh. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

My Brethren and Sisters: This conference has been one of inspiring testmonies of God's work in the earth to redeem his children. With you, I feel to dedicate my life to better service among my fellow men for the cause of the Master. Service may be rendered in our daily activities of life, and though we feel at times how prosaic our duties are, yet with the Spirit of God with us, our words and deeds  radiate new life and hope to those with whom we come in contact. Life is a way of strenuous duty, but when we have been thrilled with Christ's love, we do not think of self, but the good of all humanity is our aim. You recall that St. Luke tells us in exquisite words how the shepherds returned to their flocks after they had heard the angels' song, and had seen the Christ-child in the manger. Though they had seen the Redeemer and had partaken of his spirit, they returned to their daily duties with hearts full of sweetness and light, and were thankful for their powers to perform their daily work and duties with an eye single to God's glory. 

I was very much impressed with the words of Bishop Charles W. Nibley this morning. They contained much food for thought. They suggested to me a very important question for us all to think about: "Is the world to the point of a moral collapse ?" This question, though one of large proportions, should be of interest to every one who has an interest in life. I am an optimist, and know full well that every child of God has more good in him than bad, but I have come to believe that mankind is suffering for the want of spiritual light, and that old standards of morality are fading away. The Christian sects today are teaching many false doctrines in the name of the Master; and our universities and schools are giving foolish theories in the name of truth. Much of our teaching has become nothing but a suppression of the powers of the individual child to live; and the planting in his heart of false conceptions of life. Today, our teaching has become mechanized; and much of our education reminds me of a "Thibetan prayer-wheel, busily turning-, but barren of purpose." Teachers today are following an old time groove; they are traveling in a rut, and their words are barren of spiritual life and inspiration. I have a right to speak thus, for I am a teacher, and I realize something of our faults. It is due largely to the lack of spiritualizing of our children in the schools and churches that the world is lacking in high standards of morals. Our methods of teaching are wrong, because we are wanting in knowledge and spiritual insight into humanity's heart. Our schools and churches must be revolutionized and made to come into the new age in standards and in a knowledge of God's purposes. 

Last evening, I had the pleasure of listening to our friend, Dr. Schwartz. He made a plea for Russia and the Russian people. Not only Russia, but all the nations of Europe need help, for their people are starving. They need not only bread; but they are in sore need of the "bread of life," for they have strayed from the teachings of Christ, the Master. I wish to say to Dr. Schwartz and his people that the gospel of Christ Jesus is again restored to the earth in its purity; and there is only one way in which his people and all peoples can come into the light, and that is through the Gate of Eternal Life as revealed by our Savior. All people must yet seek the "way, the truth, and the light," and mankind must unselfishly and humbly go to God for divine guidance. The Latter-day Saints declare that the Priesthood of God is again on the earth, and that the lives of those holding the Priesthood must be clean and pure. 

The spirit of man is divine. We are of God, with the same powers in embryo likened unto a God. We believe with all our might and strength that the light within us and the divinity of our own spirits will yet cause us to be truly and greatly educated children; and we base our testimony of life on the inner light, the power and light of God within us. We Latter-day Saints are not basing our lives on gold and silver and worldly goods. While we know that we are in a life wherein we are to deal with materiality with the world, we do not believe in "pinned-on" religion or frivolous and conventional facts called education, but we take a stand for the real development of the individual and his unity and unification with God almighty and his great work. We are hoping that the time will come when it may be said of us that the Latter-day Saints are not only the most intellectual people in all the world, but they are the most spiritual, and they win souls unto the true and living God by the spiritual life they express in their words, actions and thoughts. "Mormonism," or the gospel of Jesus Christ, teaches us that the Master, Jesus Christ, is the Redeemer of the world. He is the Son of the living God. He is blessing us, and is watching the nations and all his children. We know full well that every individual born of woman is a child of this living God; and we bear testimony to the fact that the living God has spoken, and therefore it is imperative that we base our lives upon a knowledge of him who created all things. He lives in heaven as our Father, whose kingdom is to be established upon the earth. We must therefore become children of the light. There is too much stuck-on religion in the world. We do hold that that word "religion" has become more or less false throughout the world, but we bear our testimony to you that pure religion, the relationship of God to man, is known through the Spirit of God and in no other way. All the teachings of Jesus might be put into a small brochure and read possibly within a period of thirty minutes. Why has the Master's life influenced the world as it has done? Because he not only knew the truth, but was of the truth, and ths greatest man is the man of the truth. His whole spiritual, mental, and moral life is the expression of the power and divinity of Almighty God. 

God is watching the nations of the earth. He loves his children, and I believe that Russia, Germany, Austria, Turkey, and all the nations of earth will have great prophets and teachers who will direct those people to a higher and truer life. I do not wish to be understood as saying that the peoples of the different nations are wholly in darkness. Far from that. The world is becoming more civilized, and all nations and peoples have given something of eternal truth to the world. I think, in fact, that the great religions of the world — Buddhism, Brahmanism, and the philosophy of Confucius have with Christianity lifted the human race to a realization of something of the pur of God. In the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of all goodness and truth, and in it we live and have our greatest hopes for the future. It will be by humble acknowledgement of God that the nations will be kept from a moral collapse. 

May God bless the suffering nations of Europe. May he heal up the wounds of the people of that great and noble nation, Great Britain; may he help France— the nation that has stood for the intellectual development of mankind; may he help Italy, the nation of art and beauty; may he bless Germany whose people are good, and who have had a pride in their industrial and intellectual life; may Russia be brought to the Gate of Life, for her people have a natural spirit of thrift and intelligence. May God bless all peoples, and may he hasten the day when all shall sing, "Peace on earth, good will toward men." May we as a people go forth from this conference with a stronger testimony of the truthfulness of the word of the Lord; may we forget self, and live for the good of others. May selfishness go from our lives, and may we live in accordance with the laws of the divine priesthood of God. Then our lives will be sanctified. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Oh, for a burst of song," was sung by Judith Anderson Beard. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Grant read the following, dated Waterloo, Belgique, September 2, 1921 : Greetings from Orson F. Whitney, May Wells Whitney, Thomas M. Wheeler, Arthur H. Taylor, Lillian D. Lillywhite, John P. Lillywhite, Alvin S. Nelson. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

{Presiding Patriarch of the Church.) 

At the sight of this wonderful congregation here, this morning my heart and soul are filled with blessing for this people, and praise to our Lord and Redeemer who sacrificed his life upon the cross for us and who, in these the last days, has restored to the earth the wonderful plan of redemption, that we all, through obedience unto that plan, may come back into the presence of our maker. I suppose about ninety-eight, or more, per cent of this wonderful congregation here today are descendants of that Joseph who was sold by his brothers, and are of the lineage of his favored son Ephraim. Despised by most of his brothers, and, separated from them, and taken into a strange land, Joseph was protected and blessed. The Lord made of him an instrument through which salvation came to many people, — a valuable lesson that you and I today, and in fact the whole world, if they will only learn it, may appreciate and enjoy. Without reading the scripture, I should like to refer those who do read the Bible to the life and history of that wonderful youth of the Lord. He was so blessed that the Lord manifested his power unto him. That power was so arranged that not only the people of his own race, his own family, were saved from famine and from many other conditions of life, but whole nations of people were saved. In fact the whole plan of his mission and ministry is a type of the great plan of salvation which the Lord taught unto Joseph Smith and which he in turn taught the people would come to pass in the last days. Just a verse or two: 

"And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, 

all the Egyptians came unto Joseph and said: Give us bread, for why should we die in thy presence? For the money faileth." * * * 

And Joseph said: "Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail. And they brought their cattle unto Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses; and he fed them with bread, for all their cattle, for that year." The nex': year the same, and so on, until, they had given all their money and all their cattle, and when all their earthly possessions had gone, they finally came and offered themselves to Joseph and to Pharaoh that they might be saved alive; and (because they did give all of their possessions, their lands and actually themselves, they sacrificed all that they had in order to he saved, through the blessings of the Almighty, through the ministry and mission of one of his chosen servants who was led away into a strange land and in a peculiar manner. 

"Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land, for Pharaoh; lo, here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land. And it shall come to pass, in the increase that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh; and four parts shall be your own for seed of the field, and for your food,, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones. * * *" 

The thought is this, brethren and sisters, after they were saved alive, that was not sufficient. The Lord in his mercy provided for them t6 continue to live, to continue to live through working the lands which they had sacrificed for their living, and for their very existence, literally for their salvation. They were to continue to labor in the land and to have their actual salvation in that land, but they were to honor the rulers and the leaders of the land through giving them one-fifth of their increase. We are not asked to give quite that much. I would like to refer you now to the more modern scripture upon this very subject. A descendant of this Joseph who was carried away from his brothers through his mission and ministry by the blessings of the Almighty did bring about literal salvation, not only to his own family but to all of the people of the land who rendered their service unto him. Reading from the third chapter of Second Nephi, concerning a descendant of this Joseph, of whom I have spoken: "And thus prophesied Joseph: "Behold, that seer will the Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be confounded for this promise, which I have obtained from the Lord, of the fruit of my loins, shall be fulfilled. Behold I am sure of the fulfilling of this promise; 

"And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after the name of his father. And he shall be like unto me : for the thing which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, but the power of the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation." 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the work which was entrusted into the hands of Joseph the Prophet, in these the last days, is to be a literal type. In other words, it is the actual restoration of this great plan of redemption which will not only save the house of Joseph, not only to save you and mie who are here, representtatives of that great family in Israel through our lineage and our obedience, but, it will save all who come in from the lands surrounding us, from the nations of the world, who render obedience unto the laws that govern it. Its fulfilment will be literal in these the last days. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that we are enjoying today the blessings of plenty, the blessings of the productions of the land; and as a servant of the Lord, I give thanks to our Father for those glorious blessings. I praise and thank him for the glorious plan of redemption, and trust that we shall return unto him that portion of our increase which he requires at our hands, and continue to live and enjoy the blessings of this land of Joseph; and in these the last days be instruments in the hands of God to bring about this literal salvation to the souls of men, that we may not only enjoy the blessings of our home and our lands, but that we may enjoy those unto  his chosen children, that we may live, unitedly together, sharing our blessings, and our privileges and returning unto God the faith and works which he requires at our hands, that we may continue to live. In so doing we will not only honor ourselves and receive our blessings as they have been promised, according to the records, as jthey were promised to that Joseph who was sold by his brothers, and to our Prophet Joseph Smith who was raised up of the Lord in these the last days, but we shall enjoy the blessings as they have been multiplied unto us in these the last days, to (bring about that wonderful and glorious salvation of the souls of all men. We sang yesterday that song about Joseph who gave his life as a martyr, for his testimony concerning the work which the Lord entrusted into his hands. I should like to read again the last verse of that song: 

Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. 

Earth must atone for the blood of that man. Wake up the world for the conflict of justice. 

Millions shall know brother Joseph again. 

Hail to the prophet- — and so forth. 

His life and ministry were an actual type in fulfilment of that type which was given to Joseph who was sold into Egypt, to bring about the great plan of redemption, that we may all, after we have made our sacrifices, through giving into the Lord that portion which he requires, — in service, and the fruits of our labors, — continue to live and enjoy the blessings of heaven and earth,, which blessings I pray for, for us all, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

One of the great responsibilities which rests upon the priesthood of this church is to carry the message of the gospel to the nations of the earth.. Considerable emphasis has already been placed upon the subject by the President, in his opening remarks, and by other brethren. Since my heart is in this work, I desire to bear testimony of the great value of the missionary labor, the blessings and benefits derived therefrom and the absolute need of its being carried forward in the world today. 

IMPORTANCE OF MISSIONARY WORK. 

Since some of the brethren, who are in charge of the missions, feel that Latter-day Saints need to be stirred up with a renewed determination, not only to send the missionaries into the field, but to maintain them while they are there, I wish to endorse their plea. I feel impressed, my brethren and sisters, that the days are numbered when we may be permitted to send our missionaries unto the Gentile nations of the earth. The Lord has indicated in the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that there was to be a dispensation of the preaching of the gospel to the Gentiles and that the day will come when their period, the times of the Gentiles, shall close. Since we have discovered, by the reports of the missionaries that there has been a marked increase this present year in baptisms, it surely should be an incentive, on the part of Latter-day Saints, to send the laborers, while the day lasts, into the vineyard where truly the harvest still appears to be great and the laborers are few. I hope and pray, therefore, that we shall not fail, and I know we shall not, in discharging the duty which devolves upon us toward the nations of the earth in this respect. For this gospel was not delivered to the Latter-day Saints  us alone; it was sacredly entrusted into our hands for ourselves and to preserve it for the whole world. There never has been a time, since the missionaries began to preach this gospel, when we have forgotten this obligation. Always there have been men worthy and willing to go. We have seen days that were more trying than these, and still there were missionaries provided. We have seen days when there were many things to lure this people away from missionary work, but still the hearts of our people have not been turned from the great labor which God has given to this Church, of carrying this gospel to the nations of the earth. There were days when the gold fever swept the whole country, and our people were nearest to the point of interest, still they were not deterred from this great responsibility by the allurements of gold. Our missonaries met those gold seekers as they pushed their handcarts across the plains, to 1 carry the message of the gospel to the children of men. Surely we have acted as if we believed what we said, namely, that these are the last days, the days of God's judgments, that they now hang over the nations of the earth, and we alone know the means of escape. Men of Israel, we have been sent to inform all men to flee from the wrath that is to come and to find salvation in this world as well as salvation in the world to come. 

THE SAINTS HAVE ALWAYS PROVED TRUE TO MISSIONARY OBLIGATIONS. 

While this has not been altogether a pleasant message to deliver, nevertheless, our brethren have been true, and by thousands have delivered it faithfully and acceptably to the Lord. Using President Ivins' illustration, we have acted as if we realized the seriousness of the situation. For if there is a possibility of the head-gates coming out and the floods coming in on the people; if there is a possibility that the dam above the valley might break and the people in the valley be engulfed in the on-rushing water, what would we do? If we knew the danger, or if we saw this peril to men, from afar, or ether calamities that might come upon them and we knew about it, would we peacefully find a place of security ourselves and watch while their calamity came? No, we would exert ourselves to warn men to flee from the danger. And this is the spirit that has actuated those warnings that have been uttered by the brethren who have spoken at this conference; this is the spirit that accompanies our missionaries who go into the world and cry repentance to this generation, warning them to flee from the wrath that is to come. But, since they do not see it, we who see and know it, with all the earnestness of our souls, we must proclaim repentance unto this generation. Some have repented, but the majority have not. 

DISPENSATION OF PREACHING TO THE GENTILES DRAWING TO A CLOSE. 

Thank the Lord that the day of their repentance is yet extended, but it shall not be extended forever, because we are drawing to the close of that dispensation when the gospel shall be preached to the Gentile nations, and the wheat is being gathered. Thank, the Lord there is still some wheat, and as long as the days last, my brethren, we are to thrust in our sickles and reap, and send forth men to discharge this great duty and responsibility; for, when the day cometh that the calamities that are spoken of shall be poured out upon the nations of the earth, let us have no regret that we failed to discharge our duty. Do we rejoice at the prospects of chastisements that shall be ministered to men who do not repent? No, we do not. In my heart I know — and I speak for you, my brethren — we do not feel just exactly as Jonah did, who when he prophesied of judgments upon the people, if they did not repent, and when the judgments of the Lord were averted, through the repentance of men, he felt bad because his prophecies had not been fulfilled. No, I would rejoice with all my soul if these things that await the nations of the earth could only be averted. I would be happy; for do we not love the souls of the children of men? I have spent thirteen years of my life in missionary services and all of you who have spent years of your life out there in the service of our fellow men — walking in the rain, or in sunshine, in the mud and in the cold, 'because we love their souls — which we could not have done without begetting love for them. And if it were in our power to change the conditions we would do* it; but we cannot; even God himself cannot change the conditions that will result, except men repent. If they repent, then they shall escape; but if they repent not, then they shall taste of these things that are coming. 

LET US ROUND UP OUR SHOULDERS TO OUR DUTY, WHILE THE DAY LASTS. 

In the meantime, while the day lasts, let us round up our shoulders and discharge that duty, out of love for those who are yet in darkness and yet in the world without the knowledge of this truth; that they may come to Zion and rejoice with us, and that we may have our garments clear of the blood of this generation, and that our, heavenly Father may be justified in that which he shall cause to come upon the unrepentant and the wicked. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel sure that after the appeals that have been made, we will gather our strength and send it forth to continue to discharge this great responsibility; and those who do not have sons in the field will lend a helping hand to those who do, that the boys who have not means shall not be under the necessity of coming home, but that the bishops, as suggested, shall call for help and support and strength at home. There is no greater work devolving upon the Church than the preaching of the gospel while these precious days last. Let us not falter nor hesitate, but go forward and be justified. 

OUR DUTY TO THE GATHERED SAINTS. 

The other great responsibility that rests upon the priesthood  this Church, and all the members of the Church, is that we shall sanctify ourselves and our sons and daughters, and preserve that which the Lord has given us; so that we may establish here a people who shall be an ensign and a pattern, an example to the world, as well as to prepare the people for the coming of the Redeemer to live among men in the flesh. 

I wish to> read a few words from the 105th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Verily I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you may learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people. 

Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now; 

But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil,, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh Saints, to the poor and afflicted among them, 

And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; 

And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself; and my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, tif it must needs be, by the things which they suffer. 

THE GOSPEL THE KEY TO SOLVE THE WORLD'S VEXING PROBLEMS. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice that, notwithstanding we are in the midst of these chastisements — not because, perhaps, of any deliberate wickedness on the part of the people but because many of us have heard the warning voice of the shepherd of Israel, but have not heeded that warning voice, I want to say to you that there is no plan devised for the solution of these vexing problems that are now before us and before the world; there is no plan devised that shall succeed, except the plan that our God has given to this people. In the restoration of the everlasting gospel there was given and committed to man in this dispensation every means, key, principle and power to solve each and every vexing problem that now distresses the world. We have been given those principles, and, thank the Lord! we are making some progress toward their solution. I rejoice, notwithstanding we are occasionally in need of chastisement, that we are not going to fail. I know that. You will read that in the days of Daniel, he, looking down through all the ages following his own day, saw the rise of the kingdoms of the world and their dissolution, until he saw, in these the last days, the kingdom of God being established, as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands. 

GOD'S WORK WILL NOT FAIL, NOR/ BE GIVEN TO ANOTHER PEOPLE. 

In connection with the rise of that great work of our Father inthe last days, he declared a new thing, a thing that never was declared to any other dispensation fromi the days of Father Adam, namely, that the work of God in that day should not fail; it should not be GENERAL CONFERENCE.; neither shall it be left to another people. Two wonderful promises. I recognize that in the dispensations that have preceded our own, men have hoped and dreamed that there would be established in might and power, the work of God but in sorrow they had to see the power of evil triumph in the world. But that shall never be repeated again, for this work has been established to roll forth, and it shall not fail. You may fail; I may fail, but this shall not fail. I rejoice to know that, while some of us may falter and hesitate, this people shall not be rejected. The Lord said to Daniel that the work should not go to another people; and the Lord has indicated that in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. You find it in the closing two verses of the ninetieth section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

ZION SHALL NOT BE MOVED OUT OF HER PLACE. 

But verily I say unto you, that I, the Lord, will contend with Zion, and plead with her strong ones, and chasten her until she overcomes and is clean before me; 

For she shall not he removed out of her place; 1, the Lord, have spoken it. 

That kind of a promise entails the necessity of chastisement, when we need to be chastened and corrected and brought to a condition of repentance. I recognize that the Lord cannot fulfil his work nor accomplish his purposes without our willing obedience. He will not use this people unless we are willing to be used; but he has means of correcting, he has means of chastisement, which he will apply from time to time, and the only thing that impedes our progress today is our own lack of willingness to follow the counsel of those whom God has appointed to lead this people, because of the imagination of our hearts that we are wiser than they are. 

AN APPEAL TO FOLLOW THE COUNSEL OF OUR LEADERS. 

I want to make an appeal to the brethren and sisters of the Church and to the priesthood of the Church who lead in the wards and stakes of Zion, that w;e shall rally to those whom God has appointed to lead this people. What brings success? Doing the right thing at the right time. What will relieve this people of their present difficulties? Following the counsel of those men who have been appointed, in the wards and the stakes of Zion, to lead this people, not only in spiritual matters, but in material things as well. We do not wish that these brethren shall be appointed dictators or directors, but they are there for counsel and advice. I know that there are brethren who think that they know more than the bishop of the ward, and they would not go to him to counsel with him concerning their material things; nor would they go to the president of the stake or even to the president of the Church. But I want to tell you there is a wisdom and an inspiration resting with these men, who 101  been called to be leaders of the people, that is greater than the wisdom of men who may think they know very much more, but who, nevertheless, will discover that these are the days when the wisdom of the wise shall perish and the understanding of the prudent be hid. The light, the wisdom and the revelations of the Lord come to his humble servants to counsel and advise this people, and it will lead them to victory, as it has done in the past — to success in material things as well as in spiritual things, 

ASK THE LORD FOR COUNSEL. 

I ask my brethren and sisters to be more diligent with reference to seeking for proper guidance and direction in material things. When you do not know what to do, study it out in your mind. You get the key in the ninth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, which is applicable to these circumstances, and also to the affairs of life with which we are concerned. Go and study it out, and when you reach your conclusion, if you are not clear in your mind as to the thing you want to do, go and ask the Lord before you do it, as to whether it is right. If it is right, he will cause your bosom to burn within you, and you will know whether it is right. If you do not have that feeling, but only a stupor of thought, and there is uncertainty about it, turn away from; that thing. Re sure you are right and then go ahead; and we can't be sure we are right until we receive the witness from the Lord, that it is the proper thing to do. I bear testimony to you that the Lord is concerned in the material prosperity of this people. 

THE BASIS OF MATERIAL BLESSINGS. 

God will never give this people that which will turn them from him. Whenever he sees that in our increase in the things of this world there is danger that our hearts will be turned away, he knows how to shrink that prosperity and bring us just where he wants us. He will continue to do that until we are willing to be led; and when the people are willing to follow those whom God has appointed to lead them, and they will serve him, pay their honest tithing, and keep his commandments, I will tell you there are blessings of a material character beyond anything we have ever conceived of, that the Lord could give this people immediately if he desired. O, I have faith in him. There will come tight times, yes, and days of peril. I think it is a blessing that the granaries and the barns are full. Do not complain about it. Brethren, do not be disturbed over it. It may be possible that even in this the Lord has a plan and a purpose, for, O, how much worse our condition Would be if our banks were full of money and our barns were empty and our granaries were vacant. There are coming days of trial. There are coming days of famine, and the world shall feel the pang of hunger beyond that which they feel today; but even today, there are millions in Russia and in China, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the world is full of abundance, who are suffering the pangs of hunger. There is coming a day when the crops shall be destroyed by a hail storm; and how easy to 1 deluge the whole world in famine! Let this people keep a surplus of their foodstuffs, both for man and beasts, and it will be profitable to them. One good season may liquidate our material obligations, if we will be wise and prudent, and listen to the counsel of the brethren. Let us be economical and save, and pay our tithes. In this time when we are tempted to take everything we have to meet our other obligations, let us not forget the obligations which we owe to the Lord, if we want to be vindicated. I will tell you, as the Lord God lives, if this people will turn to the Lord and serve him, cease our extravagance, pay our tithes, and humble, ourselves, we will see deliverance, and we will not come into bondage nor into difficulties; and there is no other way out of it that I know anything about. I rejoice to know that we have men who can stand as watchmen upon the towers of Zior. and call our attention to these things. 

THE DANGER OF IMMORALITY. 

In conclusion let me make an appeal to you concerning another thing. Not only is there sweeping over the world distress of a financial character, waves that are deluging people in distress, in debt and in obligations, but there is another thing that is more serious. I would that this was the only thing that was afflicting us and the only thing that is imminent in the world. Far more precious to us than our houses and our lands and our fields are our sons and daughters, and the evil one has conspired to capture them. He is not so much concerned about getting our farms and fields, but O, more precious than all these things are our sons and daughters! Sweeping over the world are waves of immorality, for the standards of the world have broken down, an-fl these dangers are all about us. Shall we stand when this tide comes upon us? I believe we shall; and yet, as a watchman upon the towers of Zion, I call you, my brethren, to watch, to work, to pray, and to guard the flocks over whom God hath made you overseers, that the insidious influence of evil, if it comes in to seek to corrupt the morals of this people, shall not have power to succeed, but that we shall live up to the standards under which I was raised, and you were raised, that we shall teach our sons and daughters that next to murder itself, is the. crime of sexual impurity. We have that standard. We expect the boy to be just as clean and as pure as the girl whom he marries, to be his wife and the mother of his children. We have been preserved and protected up to this time by living up to these standards. Let us not lessen the requirements, not a bit; but emphasize them, and fortify our boys and girls against that _ which is conspiring against them. If they shall succeed in preserving themselves, during these perilous times, and come out clean and uncon103 , I will tell you that their praise will be sung; yes, by more people and in louder acclaim than the praises of our fathers who subdued the desert and made it blossom as the rose. Good is coming to Zion. While she has her days of chastisement, repentance will come; we will not be forsaken by the Lord, if we will not forsake him, and may God grant that we shall not. Let us all go home resolved more nearly to serve him and keep his commandments, and then, I will promise you, all shall be well with Zion and her people, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I desire that during the few minutes I stand before you, the words I speak may be prompted by the inspiration of our heavenly Father. 

TWO TYPES OF GREAT SPEAKERS. 

There have been two types of great speakers; shall I say two types of great orators? One type reached its highest form in Cicero. The other type reached its perfection in Demosthenes. It is said that when Cicero stood before the people they all listened with great interest, and as they w.ere leaving the assembly they said to one another: "How well Cicero speaks." They had praise for his voice, praise for his words, praise for his rhetoric, praise for his eloquence. 

But when the multitudes listened to that master speaker, Demosthenes, they never thought of his language, his rhetoric, or his words, but rushed from the building exclaiming: "Come, let us go up against Philip!" 

PRESIDENT GRANT'S WORDS URGE US TO ACTION. 

In the remarks of President Heber J. Grant, we heard words like the words of Demosthenes. This good shepherd told us to get out of debt and remain out of debt. As soon as possible I propose to get out of debt. 

ON THE WORD OF WISDOM. 

He asked us also to remember the Word of Wisdom. President Grant has himself been a model in the matter of keeping the Word of Wisdom. I doubt if any other man has appealed to the people more earnestly or effectively to induce them to live in accordance with these inspired health teachings than he has. 

It has been variously estimated that ten per cent or twenty per cent, or forty per cent of the people in the Church use tea and coffee. 1 propose that when we leave this conference we do so accepting the message of the prophet of God, that is, that we leave the building determined to live in strict accordance with the Word of Wisdom. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ON HOME INDUSTRY. 

The President, the man whom we sustain as our Prophet, also appealed to us yesterday to support home industry. I propose not to talk about his eloquence, but to leave the building determined to reform in this respect. Will you do the same thing? 

I wish I could say, as he did, that he was standing in shoes made at Z. C. M. I., and that he has wtorn Z. C. M. I. made shoes for thirty years. I have made a resolution that at the next conference I will stand, on one condition, in Z. C. M. I. shoes — Will you do the same thing? That condition is that they can find a piece of leather big enough to make them. (Laughter.) 

The President said that while the Knight Woolen Mills of Provo were manufacturing cloth for making clothing, he wore home-made goods. He did not say here what he said to me before the meeting, namely: "It was my intention to have a suit of clothes made from cloth from the Knight Woolen Mills before this conference, but I have been away from the city and from the State so much of late that I did not get it done." 

When in Provo the other day I went to the Woolen Mills and purchased an overcoat, made of Utah wool by Utah workmen, and it is the best bargain in every sense I ever had in an overcoat. The reason I am not wearing it is because the weather, or this building is so hot. I promise to leave here with a resolution to the effect that if Brother Golden Kimball will sign a note with me, to get the money, I shall have a suit made of goods from the Knight Woolen Mills before the next General Conference. 

Long years ago when the people of America were about to declare their independence and that great American, Benjamin Franklin, was before the House of Lords being examined, he was asked the question: "But how can you live in America without the products of England?" 

Benjamin Franklin replied about as follows : "The goods that we receive from England may be divided into three classes : First, the necessities; next, the mere conveniences; and third, the luxuries." You have all seen that picture I am sure, of a sheep with a little wagon behind carrying its great big tail. That was devised as a result of the remarks of Benjamin Franklin. 

He said : "In America the people are loyal, they have quit eating lamb, so they will have more wool, and it is only a question of a little time until we can produce all of the necessities. It will be but a little longer when we can also produce the mere conveniences; and the luxuries," he said, "because of the patriotism of our people, are cut off already." 

So I appeal to you Americans to listen to the voice of the man who stands at the head of the Church, and support home industry. 

I was at the Fair yesterday. It was gratifying to see there the 105  of the institutions and organizations of our own State. I propose to listen to the words of the man who stands at the head of the Church, and leave this conference saying: "Come, let us go forth and use first the products of our own State." 

RELIGIOUS AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING OF CHILDREN. 

.' But that is not what I want to talk about. In the 32nd chapter of Proverbs, and the 6th verse, appear these words: 

"Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it." The 29th and last verse in that same 22nd chapter says : 

"Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men." 

So I desire to urge the proper training of our children, the bringing up of the child in the way he should go. I urge faithful devotion to business. I ask you this question. If you have a son, in how many ways is he trained to make a living? I have the reputation, especially among the engineering students of the University of Utah, of helping them to find employment. I have helped a good many others, and I have been surprised when some young men have come to ask for employment to find before me a human being with untrained hands, and untrained eyes, and untrained ears, and an untrained mind. Honor be to the man who took his boy to an expert workman and said: "I want my boy to learn to work. I would like to have you give him some employment." 

"I don't have very much business," replied the man, "I have no work for him to do. If I had the work, I haven't the means with which to pay for his services." 

"Well," said the father, not in the presence of the boy, however, "I will let the boy board at home. You go to him, tell him you will pay him for his services $15 a month, and each month I will give you a check for $15." 

Honor to the man who teaches his boy to work, and is more concerned in having him learn to do things than in securing financial compensation. 

Honor also to the man who' took nis boy to a ranchman, a man who was a financial success, who had flocks and herds and fields, fields of grain and fields of hay, and said: "I would like to have you take my boy and train him to do things. I am not concerned whether you pay him anything or not, but I want you to teach him to work." 

I had a little pamphlet put in my hands the other day, and in it is a story something like this: ("It is up to You," by Parlette.) A newspaper man in a paper mill was watching the operations of a machine with interest, when along came a man with an oil can, squirting oil into the squirt holes in the side of the machine. He asked that man a few questions that he answered fairly well. Then he GENERAL CONFERENCE.  something about the process going on in the next room, and the man replied : "J don't know nothing about it, boss, I haven't worked there." So he said he asked him another process and the answer came the same : "I don't know nothing about it, boss, I haven't worked there." He asked him a question about the pulp mill: "I don't know nothing about it, boss, I have never worked there." He asked him a question about the office, the number of people employed in the plant : "I don't know nothing about it, boss, I haven't worked there." And so the newspaper man, to himself, said: "Nobody home." 

The newspaper man asked : "I presume, my friend, that you are new in this plant?" "No, no," came the reply, "I have been squirting oil into this machine now for twelve years." Twelve years and "don't know nothing" about any other part of the institution. He said: "I took off my hat in the presence of the dead." (Laughter.) 

As he was leaving he asked the foreman: "You see that man standing over there with a can in his hand ? Is he a human being, or do you just wind him up?" 

A STUPENDOUS PIECE OF WORK BEFORE THE SAINTS. 

The appeal I make to you is for the training of the hands, the training of the eyes, the training of the ears, the training of the minds of the young people in the Church. We have before us to be done the most stupendous piece of work that has heen given to any people, that is the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. This cannot be done by our boys alone. It will take men, strong men, men of training, men of experience, men of education, men of brains. The Church can have in it a great army of such strong characters only by training our children in the way they should go. The Lord bless us all, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

When the British General with his army entered the City of Jerusalem I felt that the time of the Gentiles was very close to being fulfilled. At my request the choir will sing a song written by a converted Jew, the father of our faithful Latter-day Saint sister, Sister Rebecca Neibaur Nibley — "Come thou glorious day of promise!" 

By special request the choir sang, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," by Neibaur. 

Come, thou glorious day of promise, 

Come and spread thy cheerful ray, When the scattered sheep of Israel 

Shall no longer go astray; When hosannas, 

With united voice they'll cry. Lord, how long wilt Thou be angry; 

Shall Thy wrath forever burn? Rise,, redeem Thine ancient people, 

Their transgressions from them turn. King of Israel, 

Come and set Thy people free. 

O, that soon Thou wouldst to Jacob, 

Thy enlivening Spirit send! Of their unbelief and mis'ry 

Make, O Lord, a speedy end. Lord, Messiah! 

Prince of Peace o'er Israel reign. 

Announcement was made that Elder Ernest W. Wood, and President Lewis W. Shurtliff, of Weber stake, were ill, and desired to be remembered by the congregation of Saints, and they were prayed for by President Daniel Heiner, who offered the closing prayer. 

The meeting was adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


