Afternoon
06 10 1921


PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I shall read, my brethren and sisters, from the seventeenth chapter of Isaiah, the twelfth verse : 

Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like the noise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations,, that make a rushing like the rushing of mighty waters. 

The nations shall rush like the rushing of many waters; but God shall rebuke them, and they shall flee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before the wind,, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind. 

THE STORY OF THE IMPERIAL VALLEY. 

It was not until recent years that men realized that there existed, in the extreme south-eastern part of California, and extending across the border line south into Mexico, a valley which, by the application of the intelligence of man, could be converted into a veritable empire, where before had existed only a desert waste. For ages it had lain there, a sun baked, unproductive land, avoided by the traveler, dreaded as a place where death from thirst awaited the unfortunate who might be caught in its toils. 

The great Colorado river flowed past it, but its life-giving current had never been diverted that the thirsty land might drink and live. 

Experienced engineers were called in for consultation, a great irrigation system was planned and finally developed, with the result that the Imperial Valley became one of the most productive in all our land, providing homes for many people. 

Then, one day, word was flashed to the people of the valley which threw them into a condition of consternation and confusion. The head gates which controlled the waters of the great river had given way, at the point of diversion, and a mighty flood was pouring into the basin of the extinct Salton Sea. This basin once filled, the flood would sweep on, and the Imperial Valley would become, what in the remote past it had been, the bottom of a sea. 

What was to be done to avert this disaster? The people did not abandon their homes and flee in confusion and terror, but with united front set themselves to the task of checking the onrushing flood, and confining the raging waters to their proper channel. The Government, when appealed to, cheerfully responded, the railroads extended every aid in the effort put forth, again the engineers were called in, and as a result of the effort of these combined forces the flood was staid, the development of the valley continued, and the people, whose very existence had been threatened, remained in undisputed possession of their homes. It was from this incident that Harold Bell Wright obtained the material for his very interesting story, "The Winning of Barbara Worth." 

ITS APPLICATION. 

I have related this story because it appears to be applicable to the remarks which I desire, with the help of the Lord, to make. One hundred years ago the world was a barren waste so far as correct knowledge of God was concerned. His personality, his attributes, his purposes and hand-dealings with the children of men, both as they apply to the past, the present and the future, were misunderstood. The river of understanding had always flowed by, but no one appeared to realize that the thirsty earth was perishing for want of the life-giving influence of its current, until through the wisdom of an inspired engineer the waters of the river were diverted, and by the life-giving influence which flows from God, through the channel of his Priesthood, the desert waste began again to produce, and for nearly a century the Lord of the Vineyard has garnered much good fruit, and the people of the valley have dwelt in security and peace. 

HAVE THE PEOPLE BECOME CARELESS IN THEIR FANCIED SECURITY? 

In the meantime other streams have found their way into the channel of the river, streams coming from the summits of the storm swept peaks above, bearing in their current silt, and boulders, and up-rooted trees, which have converted the once quietly flowing current into a turbulent torrent, which is beating against the diversion dam with well nigh resistless fury. Have the people of the valley become careless and indifferent in their fancied security? Do they appreciate the fact that even cement will gradually wear away, and must be replaced? Do they realize that the abutments of the diversion dam are trembling under the pressure of the flood, and that if they once give way this great, turbulent river of humanity will rush in and engulf them? Let us see. 

Since my earliest recollection I have heard the men who have been chosen to direct the affairs of the Church and give counsel to its members testify that these valleys of the mountains, to which the Lord brought the people under the leadership of his servant and prophet, Brigham Young, was a choice land. A land which had been held in reserve, that an ensign might be raised here to which modern Israel would be gathered. That it was our heritage and should never be permitted to pass from our hands into the possession of strangers. That we should be, as far as possible, an independent, self-supporting people, and above all else  we should keep ourselves clean and unspotted from the sins of the world, and free from the bondage of debt. 

A WARNING VOICE. 

I well remember a time when, in the county of the state where I was, for a number of years, assessor and collector, there was not a home or farm on which there was a mortgage, nor a dollar of bonded indebtedness. At the October conference, ten years ago, speaking from this pulpit, President Joseph F. Smith said: 

"If there is anyone here who is in debt, I would advise that when he goes home, and when I go home, too, we will begin with a determination that we will pay our debts, and meet all of our obligations just as quickly as the Lord will enable us to do it. If there is anyone here who is intending to go into debt for speculation I would advise him to hesitate, pray over it, carefully consider it before he obligates himself by borrowing money, and going into debt. In other word's keep out of debt. That means me as well as everyone else." 

THE BURDEN OF THE GREAT WAR. 

I know of no way by which proper conclusions may be reached except by comparison. Let us see what our condition today as it applies to this question is, as compared with ten years ago. 

We have only recently, as you know, emerged from a great world war, tremenduously expensive, more so than any other war has been, a war, the direct cost of which amounts, according to the most conservative figures at my disposal, to two hundred billions of dollars, an amount almost beyond the conception of the human mind. There should be added to this, for material damage wrought, and for the loss in productive power of nine millions of men who have been killed and wounded, so that they are permanently disqualified for useful labor, another fifty billions of dollars at the least, so that the war has cost the world at least two hundred and fifty billions of dollars. 

This burden, of course, does not fall directly upon us. Still we are obliged to share it. We cannot deny the fact that whatever obligation has come to the world, as a result of the war, we are more or less affected by it. Our own national debt amounts to twenty-four billions of dollars, an amount, though small by comparison, is still beyond our ordinary comprehension. The interest on this amount is about one billion of dollars. Of this debt, we, as citizens of the United States, must bear our proportionate part. 

i OUK LOCAL FINANCIAL CONDITION. 

Of more direct interest to us, because we alone are responsible for it, is the fact that our state, county and municipal indebtedness, including corporation bonds, realty mortgages, bank loans and discounts, as near as I have been able to obtain them, and I think the figures are under rather than above the facts, amount to more than one hundred and seventy-three million seven hundred and twentyone thousand dollars. This amount the people of the state must pay. Calculating the interest at seven per cent, which I regard as conservative^ they must pay twelve million, one hundred and forty thousand dollars every year in interest, and besides that we know that the debt itself must be ultimately redeemed. 

THE WARNING VOICE UNHEEDED. 

The value of Utah farm lands and improvements, as reported by the United States Census Bureau for 1920, is eighty-four million five hundred seventy-eight thousand one hundred and ninety dollars. That is valuing these farms at four times as much as they were valued at ten years ago, at the time the conference to which I have referred was held. These farms are mortgaged today for twenty-four million, three hundred thirty-four thousand, six hundred thirty-six dollars, according to government reports which have been furnished me from Washington. Ten years ago these same farms were mortgaged for four million, five hundred sixty-four thousand, one hundred seventy-five dollars. 

Now if it is true that our farms have increased in value four hundred per cent during the past ten years, the condition is not so alarming, but if it is a. fact that the value of our farms has depreciated in proportion as other securities have during the past three years, they are mortgaged for far more than their real value. 

It appears, then, that the voice of the servant of the Lord fell upon deaf ears, so far as the people at large are concerned. There were some, it is true, who saw the coming of the flood and prepared to meet it. 

The Lord has said that preceding the coming of the Son of man, in the dispensation in which we live, conditions would be as they were in the days of Noah. He warned the people of coming disaster, pleaded with them to enter into the ark with him, and be saved, but they laughed him to scorn, and refused to prepare, by repentance from their wickedness, for the deluge which he declared would come. 

WHERE THE BONDAGE OF DEBT FALLS. 

I know of no other factor which has had such potent influence, in the dissolution of nations which have flourished and passed away, as has the bondage of debt. When nations become debtors the only means of providing revenue with which to meet their obligations is by taxation. This burden falls heaviest upon the masses, the common people, who are the producers of the indispensable necessities of life. 

The men who till the soil, who tend the flocks and herds, who  from the earth the treasures which are hidden there, the men who take the raw materials which are provided by nature and convert them into the things which man requires for his convenience and comfort, who are real producers, they are the people who do the world's work, fight the world's battles, and pay the world's taxes. 

I know there are those who will not agree with me in this statement, and I shall not discuss it with them at this time, only to say that I have given the subject as careful study as I am capable of doing, and have concluded that commerce, the professions, and the great industrial systems of our country find means by which the burden of taxation may be shifted until in the last analysis it falls heaviest on the classes to which I have referred. 

AVOID MORTGAGING THE HOME. 

My remarks are directed more particularly to my brethren who are engaged in agricultural pursuits. Israel has always been an agricultuul and pastoral people. We are told that about fifty millions of dollars of our securities are now in the possession of the Federal Reserve Bank. The past we cannot well remedy, but we can, so far as the future is concerned, profit by its experiences. I feel that every mother of a family is entitled to a home, to shelter her and her children, upon which there is no mortgage, and I plead with my brethren to keep mortgages from their farms and homes so far as it is possible. 

WHAT CAUSED THE DISRUPTION" OF THE KINGDOM OF ISRAEL? 

It was the burden of debt, and excessive taxation which accompanies it that caused the disruption of the great kingdom of Israel. At the death of Solomon, during whose reign Israel rose to the zenith of her power and glory, his son Rehoboam succeeded to the throne of David. And the people came up and said to him, Thy father made our yoke grievous, now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and the heavy yoke which he put upon us lighter, and we will serve thee. The old men of the kingdom, men of experience, who were in sympathy with the people who made the petition, advised the young king' to accede to this demand, but the young men, the companions of his youth, said, No; these old men are too conservative, they are not progressive, the glory and prestige of our court must be maintained, regardless of cost, these people are the subjects of the king; if they persist, we will go against them with our organized forces, and will subject them to the discipline of the state. 

The result was that when the people returned for an answer to their appeal the king said: Whereas, my father placed heavy burdens upon you, I will make them heavier; if he made your yoke heavy I will add to your yoke, my little finger shall be thicker than my father's loin. It was the fatal word which ruined the kingdom, for the people with one voice cried out, To your tents, O Israel, now look to thine own house, David. From that moment the decadence of Israel began. 

ENSLAVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE CAUSED BY THE BONDAGE OF DEBT 

I know of no better example of the inevitable consequence which follows the bondage of debt, than that recorded in Genesis, and it is the first example, so far as I am aware, where monopoly of the necessities of life resulted in the enslavement of the people. 

AN EXAMPLE FROM THE SCRIPTURES. 

There had been seven years of bounteous harvest in Egypt, during which time the people had done, as they always do, as we have done, in time of plenty, lived extravagantly, believing that prosperity would continue, and had neglected to make provision for changed conditions which were to come. There were far seeing men, as there always are, who were ready to take advantage of the knowledge which they possessed, and become the creditors of the people. Permit me to read : 

And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt, and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. 

And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought, and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. 

And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth. 

And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail. 

And they brought their cattle unto Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses, and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year. 

When that year was ended, they came to him the second year, and said unto him: We will not hide it from my Lord how that our money is spent; my Lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is naught left in the sight of my Lord but our bodies and our lands. 

Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh, and give us seed that we may live and not die, that the land be not desolate. 

And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them; so the land became Pharaoh's. 

* * * 

Then Joseph said unto the people: Behold I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh, lo here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land. And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own. for* seed of the field, and for food and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones. 

From that day until the present the common people of Egypt,  Fellahin, have tilled the soil as the tenants of royalty, the priests, and the military class, their masters. 

It will be urged, and I admit the truth of the contention, that by the conservation of the resources of the country the lives of the people were saved, but how much better it would have been had these people been warned in advance, and being governed by the warning, conserved their own resources, instead of permitting them to pass into the hands of those who produced nothing, and then buying back, at exorbiant prices, that which they themselves had brought forth, paying for it with their own persons, their lives, and liberty. 

IMPORTANCE OF THE OWNERSHIP OF LAND, DANGER OF BORROWING. 

The great importance attached to this condition of debt, and the ownership of land upon which people live, is illustrated in the law given by the Lord, for the government of ancient Israel. Under this law it was impossible to transfer the title to land from the original owner, who had received it as a heritage, to the permanent possession of another. It might pass temporarily into the hands of strangers, but at the lapse of fifty years, when the great jubilee came, amid rejoicing and thanksgiving, the land reverted to the original owner, or his heirs, and another opportunity was given for independent existence. We have no such guarantee, once our heritage passes from US, it can only be recovered by infinite toil, and too often, not at all. 

I do not wish to be understood to mean, by my remarks, that debt should never be incurred. That no circumstance can justify the borrowing of money, but I do say without hesitation that it is better never to be in debt, that it would be better never to borrow money, and I wish to warn my brethren and sisters of the danger which confronts us because of the great burden of debt which we are saddling upon our backs, and the backs of our children, a burden under which I fear they will faint, and fall by the way. 

HOW THE PREVAILING CONDITION CAN BE MODIFIED. 

There is no doubt in my mind that this condition can be greatly modified, if not entirely relieved, by returning to the fundamental principles of economy and simplicity of life which characterized the early-day administration of the affairs of both the State and the Church. I do not mean by this that we are to return to the methods employed by our fathers, but that we cease the unnecessary expenditure of money, as it applies to our every-clay life. That we think less of pleasure, and more of the development of the work of the Lord. That we live within our means, and cease the frantic struggle for riches, which is taking hold upon us like the tentacles of an octopus. 

Paul, writing to Timothy and foreseeing the conditions which would exist in the day in which we live, said: "This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, highminded, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God — from such turn away. 

PERTINENT QUESTIONS FOR THE PEOPLE TO ANSWER. 

I have recently asked myself the questions : Are we gravitating toward this condition? Have we become pleasure seekers to the exclusion of our duty to the Church? Do automobiles, resorts, moving pictures and other sources of pleasure absorb our minds until we forget the obligation we are under to God, and our brethren and sisters in the Church? Do we needlessly waste money in the gratification of our love for pleasure and excitement, while our brethren are struggling in poverty and want? I leave you to answer the question. 

Do not understand me to advocate that people are not entitled to, and should not have, wholesome legitimate recreation and amusement, I mean no such thing. It is the excess in these things to which I refer, and particularly to amusements the character of which are calculated to lead people away from the fundamentals of morality and virtue. 

CONCLUSIONS BASED ON THE WORD OF THE LORD IN THE BOOK OF 

MORMON. 

I suppose I shall be accused of being a pessimist, I suppose men will say that I am knocking business, and taking a gloomy view of the present, and the future which is before us. That I should say to you that times are good, that business is rushing, that better times are coming, that we should eat, drink and be merry, for the future is laden only with hope. Again let me read, briefly, from the word of the Lord, for it is upon his word that my conclusions are based. I read from the Book of Mormon: 

O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up in the pride of their hearts, and all those who preach false doctrines,, and all those who commit whoredoms, and pervert the right way of the Lord, wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell. 

Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing cf naught and revile against that which is good, and say, That is of no worth; for the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are fully ripe in iniquity, they shall perish. 

But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of their wickedness and abominations, they shall not be destroyed, saith the Lord of Hosts. * * * 

For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish. 

For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. 

And others he will pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell, and he sayeth unto them: I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasp them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. * * * 

Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion! 

Wo be unto him that crieth, all is well! Yea,, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost! * * * And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God! 

LET US NOT BE DECEIVED, BUT FAITHFULLY DISCHARGE OUR DUTIES. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that this scripture has no application to us; that we are not being deceived in the thought that all is well in Zion; that the Lord will take care of his ,work without effort on our part; that it is no longer necessary that we pray to the Lord, and put our trust in him, as our fathers have done, that we may with safety relapse into a condition of fancied security, in the belief that Satan, the enemy of God, and all that is good is no longer striving for the mastery; that our tithes and offerings are no longer necessary in the development of the work of the Lord; but let us rather ponder the words of Malachi, which were quoted by Moroni to Joseph Smith, and, returning to the Lord in faith and works, have the assurance that he will return to us, and opening the windows of heaven pour out blessings upon us until there will not be room to contain them. 

May the Lord help us all to comprehend the past, and profit by the lessons which it teaches, have understanding of the present, and faithfully discharge the responsibilities which devolve upon us, that we may be prepared for the great future which is before us, is my humble prayer. 

A PRAYER FOR THE WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS OF ZION. 

That my brethren who are the presidents of stakes, bishops of wards, and who preside over the auxiliary organizations of the Church, may all be awake to the fact that the flood of the great river, made filthy with the sins of the world, is beating upon the head gates of the Church, and realizing the danger, stand as watchmen upon the towers of Zion should stand, watchful and unafraid, that the gates may be kept strong and firm, and the muddy waters be confined to their proper channel, is my hope and prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister J. P. Shaw sang a solo, "Come, ye blessed of my Father." PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Brothers and sisters, I ask an interest in your faith and sympathy while I stand before you. We are gathered here, a great body of Latter-day Saints, to worship God the Father and Jesus Christ the Son, and to lift up our voices in thanksgiving and praise for the! many blessings which we enjoy — to lift up our voices by prayer and testimony and exhortation and the voice of melody. 

SACRIFICE AND BURNT OFFERINGS TYPICAL OF THE ATONEMENT OP 

The Lord Jesus Christ has wrought out for us a great salvation by the shedding of blood. The atonement is many times referred to in the holy scriptures of both the Old and the New Testament; and, in fact, in the very beginning this important matter was emphasized. When Adam and Eve were thrust out of the Garden of Eden the Lord commanded them to worship him and to offer the firstlings of their flock upon an altar of sacrifice.. Adam was obedient to the commandment. Later an angel appeared to him and asked him why he was offering sacrifice, and he answered and said: "I know not, only that the Lord commanded: it." And then it was that the angel explained the matter in very striking language. This is what he said, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price: 

"This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son,, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forever." 

Isaac was offered upon an altar of sacrifice by his father Abraham, and it seems that this was intended to test his faith and obedience. He readily responded, but the Lord would not suffer him to lay his hand upon the boy. Surely this offering of Abraham was typical of the great offering made by God himself, for it is said in the record that, God soi loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

Let me remind you that there was a deep significance in the burnt offerings of the children of Israel in the Wilderness and in Palestine, because it was through these burnt offerings that the children of Israel obtained forgiveness of their sins, for the burnt offerings were typical of the great atonement that would be made by the Lamb of God in later years. 

Isaiah, the Prophet, that mighty man of ancient times, speaks of the atonement in a very beautiful and expressive manner. Listen to the language of the Seer : 

"But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised > for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAW SON 35 

"All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. . . . 

"He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generatons? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken. . . . 

"He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities. 

"Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors." 

And the subject is also referred to in the book of Revelation, in chapter five, where reference is made to the Savior of the world: 

"And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation." 

In the meridian of time the Lord required of his people a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and he introduced the sacrament saying: 

"And the Lord took the bread and gave thanks and blessed it, and he gave unto them saying: This is my body which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me." 

"Likewise also the cup after supper, saying: 

"This cup is the new testament in my blood which is shed for you." 

REQUIREMENTS OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS CONCERNING THE ATONEMENT. 

And so, my brethren and sisters, it is in the dispensation of the fulness of times, for the Lord requires of us a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and the sacrament, which is regarded by the Church as a most holy ordinance, is again restored to the people of God. We are commanded to come together often and partake of the sacrament, in rememberance of him, of his suffering and death. Oh, how important is this subject. Again in one of the great revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the people of the Church, the Lord refers to this subject in a most touching and beautiful manner. Give ear, brethren and sisters, to these words which were uttered by revelation, in 1831 : 

"Hearken, O ye people of my Church to whom the kingdom has been given. Hearken ye and give ear to him, who laid the foundations of the earth; who made the heavens and all the hosts thereof, and by whom all things were made which live and move and have their being. And again I say, hearken unto my voice, lest death shall overtake you in an hour when you think not, and summer shall be past and the harvest ended and your souls not saved. Listen to him who is the advocate with the Father, who is pleading your cause before him, saying: Father behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin in whom thou wast well pleased. Behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be glorified. Wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life." 

THE ATONEMENT OF CHRIST THE SUPREME SACRIFICE. 

These passages which I have read, and many more that occur in the Holy Scriptures, give us to understand that the atonement made upon Mount Calvary was the supreme sacrifice ever made in all the world. Oh, the height and the depth of divine love, the love of God for his children here upon the earth! We are put under an obligation that we never can repay in this life or in the life to come. The greatness' of this sacrifice cannot be measured, cannot be fully understood by mortal man; but, nevertheless, we can get the benefit of it by faith and obedience to the commandments of God. That is what he requires, and I was going to say how simple it is to keep the commandments of God, and yet it may not be so simple, and it may not be so easy, because Satan very well knows the mark of our high calling, and he is seeking continually to lead away the Saints of God from the path of rectitude and from the path of life, but after all, my brethren and sisters, through faith and prayer and diligence, we will surely prevail. 

May the Lord bless us to that end, may he give us a greater and a wider conception of the atonement wrought out by his beloved Son, I humbly ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I am indeed in a frame of mind this afternoon that I desire the faith and prayers of this vast congregation, that the Lord will bless me 1 that I may say such things as will be profitable to all. 

MISSION CONDITIONS IN EUROPE. 

This is the first time I have had the privilege of being with you for more than two years, and during that time I have visited the countries of Europe where the Latter-day Saints have established missions. During my absence there has not been much change in conditions in the European field except that the way has again been opened in some nations for the elders from America to enter and' preach the gospel. The same opposition exists in most countries to the teaching of the truth by our missionaries, but we have not been molested or seriously hampered in any place. Quite a change has occurred in Germany, in that our missionaries are made welcome, our congregations are so large that the meeting places are taxed to their capacity, and in some of the cities we have two congregations. Most of the work in Germany is being accomplished by local elders, about one hundred in number, with not to exceed six missionaries from America. Norway, Sweden and Denmark  limited the number of missionaries allowed to enter there. Norway has only one missionary from home, at the present time, and no more are permitted to enter. Prest. August Schow has labored there with the assistance of a few local men during the past two years. During the first year I was in Great Britain, our missionary force consisted of twelve elders from home, three sisters and a few good local men who rendered assistance. Tracting and other work of that kind was done by women in many places under the presidency of Elder George F. Richards, and that continued till about a year ago, when elders began to arrive from Zion, and today there are over one hundred missionaries from this land laboring in the British Isles. Some of the local missionaries were excellent men, and rendered splendid service. 

All of the elders were withdrawn from South Africa, many of them serving long-term missions. President Nicholas G. Smith and his family, consisting of a wife and three sons, remained there nearly eight years, and were succeeded about eight months ago by President J. Wyley Sessions who took with him his wife and two children. South Africa has opened her doors to our missionaries, and others will be sent now as rapidly as possible to continue the work in that land. 

Holland is a fruitful field and Switzerland has many excellent branches of the Church. Our difficulty is that millions of people in all parts of the world have been deceived and made to believe that we are a wicked people. Evil stories have been circulated about us and those falsehoods have gained ground and have been given credence by many intelligent men and women. The adversary has sown the seeds of suspicion and hatred against the Church, and but for that reason our missionaries would be made welcome in every land. 

PREJUDICES AGAINST OUR MESSAGE TO THE WORLD SOMEWHAT ALLAYED. 

We are teaching the same gospel that the Savior taught, and the same influences that opposed him and his associates is potent in the world today. The adversary is determined that the gospel of Jesus Christ shall not be taught in its purity. We have the truth, and he knows that we have it, and he knows that millions of our Father's children would accept it gladly if they could hear it with unprejudiced minds. 

If we have the opportunityy to visit with intelligent men and women with sufficient time to explain our mission in the world, prejudice that has existed in their minds is dissipated and they are more friendly to the truth. The missionaries of this Church have gone into those lands to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ as it is recorded in the Holy Scriptures. They have desired to bestow a blessing on the people, and have endeavored to inspire hope, courage, and faith in the children of our heavenly Father, whose minds have been darkened because of the absence of the gospel in its purity. 

The prejudice that has existed against us in the past has in large mesaure been dissipated and hundreds and thousands of men and women have been made aware of the labor we are performing, but there still remains a feeling, and a determination, on the part of the leaders of some of the churches of the world, to prevent, if possible, the promulgation of the gospel of our Lord, as revealed in this latter day. Our problem is to find a way whereby we may present to all the people the gospel of our Lord. It is our problem, and with divine assistance we will find a way to solve it. It is incumbent upon us to ascertain if there is not some means whereby we may be able to do more than we have already done, if we would satisfy the requirements of our heavenly Father. 

FAMINE IN THE WORLD FOR THE WORD OF GOD. 

I congratulate the Latter-day Saints who have sons in the mission field. I have met many of them and they are splendid, humble, prayerful men, .vho are desirous of doing something to improve the conditions of the world and to teach mankind to prepare for 1 the world to come. 

There is no reason why all the children of men should not be provided with the necessities of life, if the products of the earth were equitably distributed, and they could be more evenly divided, if men would turn to the Lord and keep his commandments. 

1 here is a real famine in the world for the words of the Lord, and many honest 'souls are earnestly seeking to know 'what our heavenly Father desires of them. I have met a number of the leaders of the churches of the world, and have found among them noble characters devoted to doing good, but I have rarely found among those who have been called to the ministry in the various church organizations, men who have an understanding of the purposes of their being, or who realize why we are here in this world. Men cannot teach what they do not themselves know. These good men, not understanding the gospel and the necessity for the ordinances of the same, confine iheir teachings very largely to moral lessons and to reading the psalms to their congregations! 1 . 'Isolated passages of scripture are chosen as texts for addresses on virtue, honesty, etc., etc., all of which arc helpful and uplifting, but few sermons are preached explaining the requirements made of every soul before we can enter the kingdom of heaven. It is this information of which the world is most in need. Few ministers have a message for their congregations that inspires in them the belief in the divinity of Jesus Christ and the necessity of partaking of the ordinances of the gospel prescribed by him. 

THE FOUNDATION UPON WHICH WE BUILD OUR FAITH. 

1 believe that we have a duty to perform and we will have to labor more earnestly in the future than we have done in the p^st to discharge it, if we fulfil the requirements of our heavenly Father. 

The Lord has blessed us with a knowledge that he lives, and has a body, and that we are created in his image. We do not believe that he is some kind of essence or that he is incomprehensible. If you have received the witness that has come to me and know as I know that our heavenly Father has revealed himself to the children of men, that he is a personal God, that we are created in his 1 image, that our spirits were begotten by him, that he has given us an opportunity to dwell upon the earth to receive a physical tabernacle, in order that we may be prepared to return into his presence and live eternally with him, I say, if you have received that assurance, then you have a foundation upon which you may build your faith. Take that from you, the knowledge that God really lives, the assurance that Jesus Christ was the manifestation of God in the flesh, take from you the assurance that there will be a literal resurrection from the dead, and you will find yourselves in the condition that our Father's children are in throughout the world, and I ask you, what conifort remains to you then? These are the truths that are fundamental. 

THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL SUPERIOR 1 TO ETHICS. 

The Redeemer of mankind was more than a good man who came into the world to teach us ethics. The Redeemer of mankind possessed more than ordinary intelligence. He was indeed the Son of God, the only begotten of God in the flesh. He was sent into this world to remove from the minds of men the delusion that had confounded them for many generations. He came to call men to repentance, to turn them from the error of their way. He went among them representing God the Eternal Father, proclaiming that he was in the image of his Father, and that those who had seen him had seen the Father, and told them that he had been sent to do the will of his Father, and called on all men to turn from the error that had crept in among them, to repent of their sins and go dowp into the waters of baptism. Following repentance there was something for them to do that was, and is, necessary to obtain salvation. Our brothers and sisters of the world in many cases do not believe that baptism is essential. They say it is an outward form of inward grace. If that were true, . then why was it necessary for the only perfect man who ever lived upon the earth to be baptized? When Jesus presented himself to John, at the waters of Jordan, and bade him baptize him,; John replied : "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou me?", to which the Savior responded: "Suffer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness." He did not say: "John, it is not necessary for me to be baptized, because I am the Savior of the world." He did not indicate that he thought it was unnecessary, but to him it was so important that he submitted himself to a mortal man possessing divine authority to preach repentance and baptism] for the remission of sins. There is no doubt in our minds that baptism is essential to salvation. Evidently the Redeemer of mankind believed- it was. He in whose name we hope to gain eternal exaltation, and through whom we hope for a glorious resurrection, who came into the world and laid down his life that we might live again, thought it was ''important and necessary, and yet there are. many of our Father's children who do not understand and do not believe that the Lord requires it of all men. The Scriptures contain several instructions regarding it. When the Savior sent his disciples out he said unto them : "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel unto every creature." Was that all he required? That is what the man of today says who doesn't believe in the divine mission of our Lord. Even the ministers of many churches fail to emphasize the remainder of that same paragraph, but the Redeemer of mankind said : "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel unto every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned." He didn't say that they might believe just 1 whatever they pleased. He didn't say that good intentions were sufficient. He didn't say, preach any gospel that you please, but he told them to preach his gospel and observe all the things he had commanded. He said : "And they that believe and are baptized shall be saved," but he didn't promise salvation to others. Our heavenly Father has made this clear to your understanding, my brethren and sisters, in this Church, and he will hold you responsible to teach it to others. You understand it and they do not. It is a duty of us all to see that it is made as plain as possible, and that the other ordinances of the gospel are taught to all men. 

NECESSITY OF TEACHING THE FIRST PRINCIPLES AND ORDINANCES OF THE 

The necessity of faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost must be emphasized by us. Many leaders throughout the religious world claim authority to preach the gospel and yet; they do not believe that baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are essential. The Lord has revealed to us the necessity of these ordinances. He has organized his Church in this day, and has conferred upon men divine authority and has commanded them,, as he commanded men of old, to preach the gospel in all the world. We are only a little handful of people among all our Father's children, but I want to say to you that I believe we are more numerous than the members of the Church were at the time our Savior was crucified. The mission devolving upon us is the same as that given to his disciples in Palestine when he sent them into all the world with the command to teach his truth, and our reception by mankind is the same. He told his followers that they would be hated for his name's sake, should be put out of the synagogues, and some should be put to death, and the hatred that had been ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

 portion would come upon them. The same persecutions have befallen the elders of his Church in this latter day, as a result of teaching his truth. The same influences that sought to destroy the Church in the meridian of time, and finally overcame the men who held the holy Priesthood, are active in the world today — the same power that has tried to destroy every good man who has held the; Priesthood, from that time until the present. 

OUR DUTY TO THE WORLD OF MANKIND. 

Our brethren and sisters of the world do not understand, as you do, that there is an active Lucifer; they do not realize that there are evil spirits, tangible influences, abroad in the world, seeking to lead men to do the things that will deprive them of the Spirit of the Lord. You understand these things, and some of you have known by personal contact with the powers of evil how potent they are in this world. Our Father has given us the knowledge that this life is a probation, that we are building for the future, and how grateful we ought to be for this assurance, and Oh, how sad we would be if we thought that death terminated our career. If, when our life's labor on 'earth was finished, we had no opportunity to go on developing, there would be little to inspire us to live as we should heme. The knowledge that all the good we accomplish here, and all development we make, will enhance our happiness eternally, encourages us to do our best. Millions of our Father's children in the world do not understand that truth, but they have a right to know it. Our heavenly Father has commissioned us to take that message to the ends of the earth and to declare it in such a way that men must consider it, and either take advantage of it or be left without excuse. 

The Lord has not called the great Catholic church to perform this labor, nor the Methodist, nor the Presbyterian, nor the Baptist church. There are men in, all these churches that our heavenly Father loves because of their virtue and because of the good they are doing, but they have not been divinely appointed to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel. He has commissioned you for a special work. You have been ordained and had conferred upon you his holy Priesthood. He has called you out of the world that you might unite in building Zion, and in disseminating his truth. Are you doing your full duty? Are you discharging the responsibility that has come upon you in return for your blessing? 

LET US FEAR THE BONDAGE OF INIQUITY AS WELL AS THE BONDAGE OF 

DEBT. 

We are a wonderfully blessed people, notwithstanding the fact that many are in the bondage of debt. I wish that were the onl)y> bondage. I fear many of the people of this great land are suffering much more from the bondage of iniquity. Many have need of repentance, and if those who have received the word of the Lord and a witness of the divinity of this work 'will set their houses in order, if they will teach their sons and daughters the way of eternal life, and exemplify the gospel of our Lord in their daily conduct, I have no fear of the financial outcome. Our Father in heaven has made a wonderful promise that has been realized in the nations of the earth. He said : "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness." Mind you, not last, but, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and other things will be added." There are those in this audience today whose parents came into this land in the depths of poverty, with scant clothing and no shelter, depending upon others for food to sustain life. They came seeking first the kingdom of God, and today their descendants live in comfortable homes, are educated in the best schools that there are in the World today, and enjoy surroundings that are ideal, as far as conditions in this world can make them so. They are honored among the children of mten, known for their virtue, for their strength of character and their intellectual power. I ask you if the promise of the Lord in many of these cases has not been fulfilled? Surely "all other things have been added." 

THE PROMISE OF ETERNAL LIFE CONDITIONAL. 

The promise of the Lord that we may enjoy eternal life is conditional. That is, w.e must serve the Lord our God with all our hearts, we must serve him by caring for his children, by blessing mankind .vherever our influence can be exerted to bring them into the marvelous light of the glorious gospel. We must impart of our temporal blessings as well as exert our spiritual influence for the uplift oif our fellows. I stand here today profoundly grateful for the knowledge that has come to me. I am thankful that I am not dependent upon any individual for the testimony that I possess. Of course, I am grateful for the encouragement I received from others who possess light and truth, and who give encouragement by lives of righteousness, but I do not depend on any of them for a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of mankind and Joseph Smith is a prophet of the Lord. These things I know 1 for myself. 

I have been in the valley of the shadow of death in recent years, so near the other side that I am sure that for the special blessing of our heavenly Father I could not have remained here. But, never for one moment did that testimony that my heavenly Father has blessed me with become dimmed. The nearer I went to the other side, the greater was my assurance that the gospel is true. Now that my life  has been spared I rejoice to testify that I know the gospel is true, and with all my soul I thank my heavenly father that he has revealed it to me. 

I have been permitted to perform missionary work in different parts of the world, an opportunity that I gratefully accepted. I have  permitted to live with and associate most of my life with real Latter-day Saints, the best men and women that can be found in this world, and our Father knows how thankful 1 am for these blessings. I love my brothers and sisters, and I have affection for my Father's children who are not members of this Church, and inasmuch as he will give me physical strength and mental power, I desire to so order my life that I may be an uplift to all those with whom I come in contact. I desire to so exemplify the teachings of our I^ord, ami I presume all my brothers and sisters feel as I do, that when we stand in the presence of the Great King, after the labors of this life shall have been completed, and we answer to> him for the time that we have spent here on earth, that there will be none who can truthfully say we were careless about dividing the truth with any of our Father's children, that none will be able to say of us that we knew these things were true but made no effort to explain them to our neighbors. Surely we would be condemned if one of our associates in life should stand in the presence of the Great Judge and say of us that we could have taught him the gospel, if we had made an effort, but that because of our neglect he would be deprived of, a place in the celestial kingdom. Let none of us, my brethren and sisters, be justly accused in that way. Unto its much has been given, and of us much will be expected by our Father in heaven. We cannot be indifferent to the teachings of the gospel, we must not drift down the stream, of life without an effort. Every day we should do something worth while. 

ARE WE GRATEFUL ? 

The Lord has revealed to us so many truths in this latter day that we are aware of, that we cannot plead ignorance, if we sin. Men have been commissioned with divine authority, our Father has organized his Church, and has placed in it the ordinances of the gospel, he has commissioned men to do the same work that the Savior and his disciples did in the Old World, and upon this western hemisphere, among the ancestors of the American Indians. The greatest blessings and opportunities of all times have been bestowed upon us, and the question that should arise in our minds for all these mercies is : Are we grateful? Are you, my brethren and sisters, thankful to the Lord for this knowledge that has come to you? Do you really appreciate what it means ? If you do, and desire that the Lord shall know that you appreciate it, then divide your blessings with his children. To his disciple of old the Savior said : "If you love me, then feed my sheep." Let. us render service to our Father's children, and let it be of such nature that others observing our good work will be constrained to glorify our heavenly Father. Let us sustain those whom God has called to presidei over us. Let our homes be the abiding place of the Spirit that comes from on high. Let us radiate an influence for peace and happiness among the children of men, so- that our lives will be happy here, and when we are summoned to the great beyond we will be welcomed by those who have been our companions in life, and by our Father in heaven because of what we have done for his children. 

I am grateful to be home again, I thank you one and all for the companionship of the past, and hope that I may have the privilege of meeting you in your wards and in the stakes of Zion, and when I do that I may be favored of the Lord that through me yov may receive a blessing. I desire to cooperate with you to increase the power of this Church for good, not only at home, but throughout all the world, and I humbly pray to our heavenly Father that we may so order our lives that when our work here is completed we may obtain eternal life in his celestial kingdom and enjoy the companionship of those we love who have been our associates here on earth, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," and the meeting adjourned until 10 o'clock, Friday morning, the closing prayer being offered by Elder Henry W. Lunt, President of the Parowan stake of Zion. 