Overflow
06 04 1924


ELDER WILLIAM A. HYDE 

(President of the Pocatello Stake of Zion) 

Perhaps a word of personal mention this morning would be excusable. Under the rather unprecedented circumstances in which I am called to preside over this meeting, no doubt there are very many 

ELDER WILLIAM A. HYDE 99 

in the audience who are not acquainted with the presiding officer. I am William A. Hyde, of Pocatel'o. You have frequently heard of the town in Idaho, no doubt, and incidentally have heard of our connection as a stake with the Church; for we are all more or less connected and acquainted with the history of the Church in its various departments and organizations. 

I am relieved of .some embarrassment this morning by the kindness of President Grant in asking that I should speak first. Otherwise, I should have been under the necessity of pushing myself forward into a place that otherwise I would not care to assume. I approach this duty and this opportunity with a great deal of pleasure, from the fact, that this honor has been given me, but nevertheless with apprehension that perhaps I may not be able to acquit myself with a degree of success that would be becoming. There are perhaps only two or three other presidents of stakes in the Church who are older in seniority than I am. I have now been 'laboring in the ministry, in this capacity, about twenty-five years, and, as I recall it, there are only two or three others who have been in the service longer. 

It would naturally be thought, I presume, and it would be the logic of the situation, that with service in the Church there should come a degree of wisdom and a degree of experience; in fact, that is what the Church requires of its men and of its women and expects of them. I come to you today representing a part of the Church which has as deep an interest in the growth of the whole as perhaps any other part of the Church, and is keenly alive, I believe, to the necessities that lie before this great work, and alive to the ends of our heavenly Father, with respect to us. Never have I had the opportunity thus of confronting an audience with this responsibility, but I feel that it is a part of my duty to turn my mind with full earnestness of purpose to make this meeting in harmony with the grand meetings of this conference and those which no doubt will ensue. 

There are experiences in the lives of all men, no doubt, that have made great impressions upon their minds. Some of them come to us early in life. I recall one now through which I passed in the early days of my ministry that has been of great value to me; in fact, has been one of the leading things that has happened in the course of my association with the Church. I remember that in company with one of my companions I started upon a long journey to go over the top of the mountain into an adjoining valley for the purpose of a certain investigation. Those of you who have lived in country districts and have made journeys of this character will well understand now what I am about to say. We began our journey up one of those long, apparently interminable trails that are characteristic of our mountains, passing the familiar grades and varieties of willows and brush until we came, at last, to the evidences that pointed to the fact that we were near the top of the mountain — the sparsely growing quaking aspen trees and other evidences showing GENERAL CONFERENCE  we were near the summit, when suddenly there came upon our view a most unlooked for landscape. It .seems that the Creator had in some way hollowed out a miniature amphitheatre in the tops of the hills, a howl, a round valley, the edges of it fringed with pine trees. In the bottom of this little valley was a little stream of water that percolated through a tiny meadow. There were no evidences of any habitation there except a small log house, with its accompanying outbuildings, around which could be seen a few of the ordinary cattle that men in farming communities usually have. 

As I saw this rather unusual landscape, the thought occurred to me, "What can this man see?" I learned subsequently that, at periodical times, he went over the rim of the valley down to the nearby station to get his mail, but otherwise he was shut out from the world; he was in a way a recluse, he was what you might term a hermit. He lived his life alone in the tops of the mountains, surrounded only by his few stock and the other little evidences of life, and perhaps they had a small family. When he stood out at his door at night he could see only about half of the firmament. The stars that deck the sky for you and me who live upon the plain were not observable by him. Perhaps no more than one half of the course of the sun could he ever see, and the great throbbing world around and about him never was observed by him except upon isolated occasions. And I thought, "How like man in general, in his attitude toward life and education, and the things that are best in the world, is this man who is thus isolated in the top of the mountain!" 

And from that I drew a lesson which has been a valuable one all the days of my life. It has been a lesson that has taught me the value of a greater outlook and view of things, of a broader perspective of life, and of the things with which we are surrounded and which go to make up our present life and that eventually will make up our future existence. I have seen men worldly wise and all-sufficient in their own estimation, who, like this man, though unlike him in a way but like him in this, surrounded by their wall of self-sufficiency, so that they have not been able to look out upon the vast acts and purposes and opportunities of men but have been limited to their own narrow conclusions, based upon their self-sufficient philosophy, and I have thought, "How inadequate are these men for all work of life, how insufficient are they for the things that our Father in heaven requires of them." 

Upon the other hand I have seen men in humble situations who have stood upon the mountain top and from their elevated pinnacle have viewed the varied course of events, and it seems to me sometimes have been able to look clown to the great finale of things. I have thought with re'ation to this lesson that the Prophet Joseph Smith, from his outlook and from the standpoint from which he viewed matters, knew more about the planets, the firmament, the great heaven 101  heavens than you and I know about the little potato patch that we cultivate in our back garden. 

And I have from it drawn many a lesson that has been of comfort and of value to me in my ministry among the people. I have drawn from it the lesson of the value of perspective, the ability to see and to place together things in their proper relations as to distance and as to size and as to importance. I have learned that one who from proper distances may view the scenes of events, to him the scars, the crudities of life, the things that wound and hurt, are lost in the general view, just as one looks down upon the valley from the top of one of these hills, where now there may be gullies and crude formations of earth, and may see the plain one vast carpet, as of some vast Axminster rug spread out beneath the sun. Distance takes from us the sting and the hurt of things, and gives us a better view of the proper relation and quality of men and their actions. 

And from it I have drawn this conclusion, that we are too near to our men today to properly understand the fine motives that actuate them. I believe that one hundred years from now we may look back upon this time in which we are now living, and some historian may say with full confidence, and with just as much authority as any historian who has ever written, that in this day in which we now live certain men spoke and directed, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Then from that distance we may see and recognize the prophetic word and the prophet, just as well as we now recognize the prophet of olden times. And men who stand in our midst today and who have stood among us, who by reason of our very nearness, and of our close association with them, have lost in a degree that certain sacredness of character which attaches to a prophet — that having been removed by time — we may classify them among the prophets of whom ancient history speaks. Even now at this time there is one enshrined just so in the minds of the Latter-day Saints. He is removed from us by a hundred years, or nearly so, and today he has assumed a new form and aspect in life and he has become to us just as surely and as certainly a prophet of the Lord as ever any man that lived to whom that title has been given. 

And so, let me assure you, my brethren and sisters, and especially my young friends who may be listening to me today, these men who now stand among us are invested with that authority that empowers them to speak the word of God and speak with just the same convincingforce as did any man who ever lived upon the earth who presumed to speak in the name of. our heavenly Father. And so I have learned from these things the value of perspective, the right way to look at things, the way to disassociate ourselves from the nearness of the present, and to' see men as if they were afar off, and under the influence that time always casts upon men. 

I have learned this also, the value of patience. Events fly so swiftly by us that they are not seen in their proper relation. We GENERAL CONFERENCE  understand the movement of time. It takes time to bring to pass the fruition of God's purposes. Not always are the combinations seen in a few years, in a generation even. Men and women plod out their slow lives in their menial duties, and in the offices and callings that come to mortality, sometimes fretting and sometimes wondering if God will never justify their sacrifices; but lo, and behold, a generation passes; their sons follow them and their sons' sons stand in their stead; and lo, the work of the Lord has been accomplished in the thing that they hitherto had undertaken! A pioneer goes into a far distant country. In travail, trouble, poverty and distress, he plows the ground, sows and reaps, and sees the fruitage gone year after year, perhaps, but finally the culmination comes, where a temple is reared upon the very place he first set his foot, and the land blossoms under the blessing of the Almighty. He was the beginning of it, the one who spread the way and who opened up the means for the accomplishment of the thing that ultimately the Lord, onr heavenly Father, gave to him and to his succeeding generations. 

And so, I have learned the lessons of patience, and in my ministry I have occasion, time and again, to say to people, "We are like the waves of the sea; now we are upon the crest of success, and again we are down in the troughs of the ocean; have patience, my friends, the time will come when your bark will be lifted upon the crest again, and you will see out upon the broad expanse of waters." How applicable this lesson may be to those who are in distress, at the present day, I think we may well consider. 

We have been passing through times of intense commercial travail and trouble. Many and many are the good men and good women who have been down in the very bottom of despondency, due to these unusual conditions through which we have passed. Nevertheless, by a proper understanding of God's purposes, and by a proper estimation of our strength, we may hold out firmly to the end, until these things shall have passed and prosperity shall again come to us. Thus I know that the Lord decrees that men shall have patience; that they shall endure; that it is not his purpose that in any man or any generation of men shall all things be culminated; but that we, following one after another in the line of our activities and of oar peopling of the earth, constitute the grand whole of which God's plan is made. We today are contributing lo the success of tomorrow; and, throughout the Church of Christ, there should run the element of patience and of faith, in the thought that eventually there will come success to all those who sincerely trust in him. and  patiently abide the day of his vindication. 

Speaking of the attitude which men assume and from which they may view, I had a rather unusual experience this morning that fits in nicely with the theme that I have undertaken. Coming down the street, I passed a man whom I have known for years, a poor old cripple, who must be now seventy-five years of age, who dragged 103  foot slowly behind the other, in evident pain as he traveled, but nevertheless with a contented look upon, his face, (his good old wife with her arm in his, helping him along the .sidewalk. And just after I had bade them good morning, and had passed my salutation with him as an old friend whom I had known formerly in the stake over which I preside, he called to me and said, "Brother Hyde, do you know about my genealogy?" Why no, I did not know about it. Said he, "We have the names of ten thousand people, and we have done the work for four thousand of them." And then there was a happy look of anticipation upon his face. I thought I could see the unuttered thought in his mind, "What a joy and pleasure it will be to do the work for the other six thousand of them." And, as I turned from him, I thought, "This man with his dragging foot, drawn in pain along the sidewalk, is far above the ordinary man, he is lifted upon the wings of the spirit, that has taken him above the mountain top. He looks down upon us, I think, from his lofty station, perhaps with a degree of pity — upon those who do not see as he does." And I thought, "How glorious is this work of the Latterday Saints! How superior their thought, in a way, to the wisdom of men! How broad and expansive are their conceptions of the almighty purposes of our heavenly Father! They are not recluses; they are not hermits; from the standpoint to which God has led them by his revelations, they look forth upon the work which comprises and embraces not only the scheme of mortality, but all the vast concourse of the sons of men from the beginning of time." 

And so, my brethren and sisters, let us take these lessons from these observations which you, no doubt, have seen as I have seen and recounted, to have patience, and faith, and to seek to come out from the narrow limits of our own self-sufficiency, to emerge from that species of confidence which sometimes comes to the Latter-day Saint and makes him think that he and his people are all there are who are associated in the work of the Lord. I like to take the broader view, that God, through men, is working out his purposes, and that he is bringing to pass, from all directions and from all sources, the things that will contribute to the glory of his name; and that inventois, poets, and workers in all lines of thought are doing perhaps unconsciously the very thing that God would have them do. So, with faith thus pitched and attuned to the purposes of the Almighty, let us go forward with full purpose of heart, to serve him and keep the commandments, in faith, believing, and with vision seeing the wonderful things that God has in store for his,people. 

May his Spirit be in the minds and hearts of the Latter-day Saints and spur them on to renewed activity and faith in this great and glorious work which has been given to us to accomplish in these the last days. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be led to say what, the Lord would have me say on this occasion, that our meeting here together may be beneficial unto all, that we may go home and feel that this part of our conference was in harmony with the preceding sessions. I have been greatly encouraged in my faith through the sessions of the conference this year and by the splendid instruction given by those who preside over us and by the other speakers, who have taught the principles of the gospel pertaining to life and salvation. I think I have never been more impressed with the greatness of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Men and women are gathered from great distances to this conference, from many states of the United States, and also from Canada and Mexico, and are come here to receive instruction concerning the work of the Lord, to confer with one another, and to receive counsel, advice, and inspiration so necessary in carrying on the work of our Father in the different places where they have been called upon to take positions of trust. The great majority of people who have gathered here are men and women who have been called upon to represent the Lord in their own home or section, and it is a very representative body, and the body of representatives are reinforced by members of their own home town and ward and stake, who have come here to aid and assist them, so that the work of God may continue to grow. There is absolutely no question as to the success of the work of God under such splendid organization. It could not be duplicated in all the world. There is no organization to compare with the restored Church of Jesus Christ here in the earth. This is the Church of God, represented by his Priesthood, his power, here upon the earth, and it is a medium by which men and women may return unto him. And those who fail to accept or who reject the glad message which the Lord has revealed, shall not have the happiness that comes to those who shall inherit a glory wherein he rules and reigns. 

We find scripture to give us encouragement both at home and abroad. A few years ago, when I went into the mission field, a gentleman was on the train with me, and the train was so crowded that we had to stand up from here to Provo. He was a stranger to me. for I had never seen him before, and did not even know who he was, but he told me to read, on reaching my mission field, the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and called my attention to some of the blessings which the Lord had placed at my disposal. He . pointed to the 65th verse, down to the 90th. I shall not read them all. He said, "When you get out there, and you are alone, and you find that you are far away from home, among strangers, in a strange land, without any experience, you will learn that the Lord has provided for you, so that you shall not be alone, and you shall have his Spirit for your companion." And so I found the scripture as he had referred me to it: 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. 

"And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up." — (Verses 87-88.) 

My brethren and sisters, there was never anything more true than that promise which God gives to those who represent him. And with my experience in the mission field, I have concluded that these truths and promises not only apply to the mission field, but to men and women at home — those who are engaged in the work of the Lord, — who labor in their weakness, with a determination to serve him. Nothing can be found in the world equal to it — where our Father, who gave us, his children, the privilege to come into the world, has said, when we go out in the world, if we will keep his commandments, as we have been taught them, and as President Grant reminded us yesterday morning, the Lord will be with us : "I will be on your right hand and on your left, and I will go before your face, and mine ange's shall be round about you, to bear you up." And he said further that any one who shall not fail to continue faithful in these things, "shall not be weary in body or in mind, neither in limb nor joint, and an hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed." 

I am, of course, as you are aware, more closely associated with men and women in the ministry, away from the stakes of Zicn. These words mean that the Lord is with the boys and girls of yours, with as much power as he ever was in the earth, and that they may possess the same faith their fathers and their grandfathers possessed, even from the day of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Only this past winter we have had missionaries out in the field traveling without money; walking through the country wherever their duties called them, among entire strangers, to places, where elders had not been for at least twenty years — and in twenty years' time a new population almost grows up in a country. They have been cared for night and day, never having to buy a meal, never having to pay for a bed, and the Lord has gone before their faces, his influence and his power with them, so that they were fed and cared for until they were under no expense at all. When you think that missionaries in our field have gone through the early part of this year, three months some of them, with an expense of only $5 per month, it is almost unbelievable. And it could not be done, anywhere in the world, except under the direction of Jesus Christ our Lord. It was he who died on Calvary for you and for me; it was he who gave his life that we might live; it was he who bought and paid for the human family with his blood. He is at the head, and he directs the forces GENERAL CONFERENCE  the earth, and he gives men their privilege to accept him or to reject him. But he is there with those who desire to serve him and keep his commandments, and men can grow as close to our Father here in mortality today as they ever did in any time of the world's history. There never was greater organization in the earth than in this Church. It is most perfect. There is no need for a man or woman to be idle. They should be anxiously engaged in this great work of God, whether at home or abroad. 

And I might read to you some scripture that has been given unto us along that very line in these last days, for all scripture has been given unto us for our benefit. If we do not read it or become acquainted with it, we do not know or ever realize or understand the real joy and pleasure of putting our faith and trust in the Lord. 

The Lord says, "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good, they shall in no wise lose their reward." (D. & C. 58:27, 28.) 

There is the principle of free agency, which the Lord gives unto every one of his children when they come into the world. You can do as you please. We all learned many things before we came to the earth, as a result of our experience under the direction of our heavenly Father in that ante-mortal state, where our Father guided the destiny of all of us, according to our faithfulness there, and then gave unto us the privilege of coming into the world and receiving this power of free agency. And he says that we should be anxious concerning his work. 

Some missionaries go out into the field and travel free, and there is not anything that would hinder them from making a success. They have a desire to proclaim the gospel. They are not fearful of men. They are only fearful of their own weaknesses, and that is the normal condition of a true missionary in this Church; they do not fear men, but they fear the Lord, and they rely, and know they must rely, upon him for their success. But they go out and arrange meetings, and it is nothing unusual at all for boys in their teens to go and arrange meetings where they .speak, every night in the week. To me it. is a marvel and a wonder that they are able to do it. Congregations of people come and fill the little chapels or schoolhouses, wherever they may have the privilege of preaching. And many have been brought into this Church as a result of it. The opinions of thousands of people have been changed as a result of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ through the missionaries of the Church, in these the last days, and in my time, in this dispensation. 

If men are anxious concerning their work, how easy it is! If we will just make up our mind to do it, and we fail not to continue faithful in these things, the Lord will open up the way, provide for 107 , so that we can reach the people. And it is not difficult to change the opinions of men and women if we proceed in the way which the Lord has counseled. There is just as much power in prayer and in the faith that comes as a result of prayer today, as there was in the days of Abraham or preceding him or following hint. There never was any more power given unto men in the earth than at the present time. Missionaries have gone forth today as they did in the days of the Prophet Joseph, in the days Brigham Young, and in the days of John Taylor and all those mighty men who laid the foundation for this great work of God, of which we are enjoying so much the blessings at the present time. Missionaries are now being raised up from among the rank and file in all parts of the Church, who go out and test the gospel and the promises of the Lord, and have found faith in the earth, just as much as they did fifty, seventy-five, or more, years ago, even back unto the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The work is not failing; it is absolutely impossible for the work of God to fail. When I think of the care that is given to the details of this Church — I feel in my heart to say that in my experience I have never seen any person more careful over details than the present President of this Church, Heber J. Grant, who devotes his entire time to the work, I am reminded of the fact, that he is anxiously engaged in the great cause of the Lord; he is commanded only of God, and he sets to the people the proper example, and as a result the work is becoming greater and more glorious. To me it is a marvel and a wonder. Men arise everywhere in defense of the Lord Jesus Christ. The people of the earth are anxiously waiting for the gospel. I do not blame people, in a way, for rejecting the testimony of men whom they do not know anything about. Men and women have to be melted. Why, this Church would not succeed at all if it were not for the fact that the people are called together in the ward once or twice or thrice a week by a careful, faithful bishop, and if those wards were not called together under direction of the stake presidency, who give all the care to details that they know how, and in addition to that the general authorities of the Church visit them and talk to them,! In addition to that, they are called together twice a year in great conference assembled, and they are there taught the principles of the everlasting gospel, as the Lord has revealed it, from those whom the Lord calls to speak, and as a result the Church moves forward in its great, mighty march and improvement as the years come and go, and among these men and women will be found the faith of Israel. Why, the faith of Israel will be greater next year than it is this. The Church will never be weaker than it is today, and it never was stronger than it is today. Men shall arise from among the wards and stakes of this Zion who shall make apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be the ones who will build on the foundation that God revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and they will carry GENERAL CONFERENCE  this work until we shall arrive at the time when the Christ shall come. 

There is absolutely no possibility of failure, neither is there any man who can disprove the work of the Lord. A man may say that Joseph Smith is not a prophet, or that the Book of Mormon is not true. He only tells what he thinks is the truth; but a man who has not made an investigation of the Lord's work in this dispensation, who has not made it a matter of prayer and faith and been honest and square, that man is not a good judge. And if he were honest and true, he would have to say that he does believe Joseph Smith to be a prophet; and the same argument would hold good with the Book of Mormon or the Doctrine and Covenants. It requires faith, attention, devotion, and the heart of a man, to know this word of God. 

Here we are in mortality, having been given our free agency to do as we would do, and if we ever come to a knowledge of the truth and walk through mortality under the divine guidance of that truth, we must be governed and controlled by the principle of faith and the principle of desire, and be anxious in our hearts concerning our life here in mortality. And so it is with men and women abroad, they have to come out of the conditions in which they are, slipping, struggling along, not knowing the true way of life. And my heart goes out to the children of men here in mortality. I have made it a point never to offend men or women. I have gone out of the way many times in my experience, just to make a friend. It is not anything to me at all, so far as a personal reward on earth is concerned, but it is to me, so far as the Church is concerned, my duty. Those people are not to blame. They have grown up as Methodists and Presbyterians and Baptists and Catholics, and they are firm in the belief of their fathers. They have faith in their fathers' work, and they are not to blame. We can afford to be charitable; as we plead for God, our eternal Father, to be charitable and kind unto us, so we must likewise be kind and charitable unto those among whom we are called upon to live and labor here in mortality. These principles should guide us every day. And Oh! what a glorious opportunity we have here in mortality to acquit ourselves like men and women, and to become as fountains of living water unto the children of men, among whom we labor. God is at the helm and directs the work. He will see that it does not fail. We may fail, but his work will not fail, because others will carry on the great work of God, until every man and every woman has had an opportunity, either here in mortality or in the spirit world, to hear and accept the truth. Then they may say, if they desire, it is true, or it is not true, according to their findings. May the Lord give you and me the privilege of walking uprightly before him. May he encourage us, and may we live so that we may feel that encouraging life and spirit with us, and not be discouraged. May. we be anxious concerning his work, and of our own free will 109  on and develop the character that we brought to this world with us as a result of our experience with him. 

May we have the power to reject evil, may we always stand for the testimony of Jesus and for his authority in the earth. May we make .men and women strong who hold positions of trust in his great Church in the earth. May we respect the teacher and the ward auxiliary officer; may we uphold the bishop as the father of the ward, and his counselors and his assistants, and these stake presidents and high councilors who preside in the different parts of the Church. May we uphold their authority as the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. May we keep the principle of loyalty and love in our homes and in the Church at home. Then may we stand for God's authority here in this earth — President Heber J. Grant, whom the Lord chose and raised up to lead us in these clays, as you may all read and learn, because it is all recorded in the history of this Church how the Lord raised him up. And the Lord will raise others up. He has left us a history, a written history, a testimony in addition to that of man; so that we may know the truth, so that we may know where we stand, and that we may not be deceived. May he give us the blessings of faith and hope and courage, that we may keep this work of his foremost in our minds always, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSHUA H. PAUL 

(Of the University of Utah) 

One of the most remarkable fallacies of modern times was well stated a few years ago by the late Professor Huxley, the leader of advanced thought, whose views on scientific truth were perhaps more widely accepted than those of any other man of his day. In a lecture, first delivered in 1866, and extensively quoted ever since (as in Ayedelotte, English for Engineers, page 207), this great scientist says that the business of thinkers of the Middle Ages was to deduce, from data furnished by the theologians, conclusions that agreed with the decrees of the Church; that to them nature had no fixed order; "that when good authority has pronounced what is to be believed and faith has accepted it, reason has no further duty." He adds that many excellent people still hold these convictions, and goes on to argue that the improvement of natural knowledge is effected by methods that directly give the lie to all these convictions. Then he says : "The improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses to acknowledge authority as such. For him skepticism is the highest of duties; blind faith, the one unpardonable sin. The votary of science holds his firmest convictions, not because the men he most venerates hold them, not because they are verified by portents and wonders, but because whenever he brings these convictions into contact with nature, GENERAL CONFERENCE  verifies them. The man of science has learned to believe in "justification, not by faith, but by experiment." 

As far as I know, no very definite answer to the indictment which Huxley so shrewdly brought against the cardinal principle of religion has yet been made by the Christian world at large. If any such answer has been made, I shall be under great obligations to any one who will bring it to my attention. Yet it is well known among our own people that experiment has exactly the same function in religion that it has in scientific knowledge, and is the test, in fact, of religious as well as of all other forms of truth. When our parents walked across the plains, as so many thousands of them did, was this not an experiment? Did they not thereby put to the test these words of our Lord and Savior: "If any man shall do his will, [the Father's] he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." In other words, men are here bidden to make the experiment and to learn for themselves the truth. Real faith does not rest upon belief in authority. It is tested and confirmed by experiment — not by an experiment performed upon a table in a corner of a laboratory or under a microscope or in test tubes, but in the broad field of life and in such a way as to involve all the powers of man. True, it is not the result of doubt; it rests first upon testimony given by others; but so also does scientific knowledge. For the scientist hears of a theory or principle, and then proceeds to test it 'by experiment. The believer hears the good news that God lives and has revealed himself to man, and he accepts the testimony. But he immediately proceeds to test it in many ways, just as the scientist pioceeds to test natural knowledge. The only difference between the two kinds of belief is that faith rests upon and is verified by spiritual experience, while scientific faith rests upon physical experience. In both, the process of experiment is carried on; in both, the words of others are at first to some extent relied upon; and in both, subsequent experiments or experience will be necessary finally to prove or disprove what is accepted as probably true — the testimony of competent and trusted witnesses. The Latter-day Saints almost daily make the true answer to the criticisms of Mr. Huxley. They may not know that they are answering the skeptic when they make the claim that the all-important part of their religion is a testimony of the truth — a feeling of certitude that the gospel message is true. They say that every one may have this testimony, this feeling of certainty, if he will only live for it; if he will only take heaven at its word and do the will of the Father. We say it is the most important thing in life to lay hold of. It is not a theory, not a theological definition, not a dictum from the dark ages, but something to work at with your hands, not an abstraction; something to live for, something for which to aspire, something to be learned and re-learned, something old but ever new. 

When, therefore, my mother, like many of yours in this audience, walked across the plains to come to Zion, — was this a theory, a de111 , a blind following of those in authority? Or was it not an experiment of great magnitude and reality? Not all, of course, in order to test the promises of the Almighty, can undergo such an experience as crossing the plains afoot, but there are universal tests — tests for every one — tests that no one can avoid — experiences or experiments that are arranged for all of us irrespective of our own choosing; and these commonly bring us to our senses, till we come to realize, even in our misfortunes, that God lives and all i,s well. For example : when a boy, I learned from my Wilson Reader a poem, "The Little Boy that Died;" but not till I was grown and had the same experience that the author had, did I understand the meaning of his verses. Now his verse seems to me to go far toward proving that we shall meet them again — all whom we have loved and lost. So when the Lady Lucile of our household died, we were ready only then to understand the scripture that she is not dead, not asleep, not gone. She is only in the presence of our Father, and he is with us, if we abide in him. Rossiter Raymond thus brought these truths to our attention : 

"Beside the dead I knelt in prayer, 

And felt a presence as I prayed; Lo! it was Jesus standing there. 

He smiled, 'Be not afraid.' 

" 'Lord, thou hast conquered death, we know; 

Restore again to life,' I said, 'This one who died an hour ago.' 

He smiled, 'She is not dead.' 

" 'Asleep, then, as thyself didst say, 

Yet thou canst lift the lids that keep Her prisoned eyes from ours away.' 

He smiled, 'She doth not sleep.' 

" 'Nay, then, though haply she doth wake 

And look upon some fairer dawn, Restore her to our hearts that ache.' 

He smiled, 'She is not gone.' 

" 'Yea, Lord we feel that she is free, 

And moves upon some higher sphere; We are bereft; she is with thee.' 

He smiled, 'And I am here!' 

"'Dear God! how can we know that they 

Still walk unseen with us and thee, Nor sleep, nor wander far away?' 

He smiled, 'Abide in me.' " 

If we perforin the great experiment, if we abide in him, we shall know for ourselves, and shall find our peace in the gospel truth. All shall be clear, he tells us, if we put the matter to the test by doing the will of the Father. And that we may do so is my prayer in behal f of one and all. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

My brethren and sisters. The thought has occurred to me that I am standing about where President Jedediah M. Grant stood seventy years ago speaking at the April Conference. I am not telling of something that I know for myself, because I was not bom then; but, as an historian, I suppose it is right to remember some things that are written. Upon the site of this building there then stood the old adobe tabernacle. It was placed lengthwise, north and south, about 130 feet and was 65 feet 'wide. On the western side there was a vestry, which had an entrance through the west wall of the temple block. The Presidency of the Church and the Twelve would come in and meet first in that vestry. Rising from it there was the stand, facing the congregation, which was seated facing west; the two broad entrance doors were on the east side of the building. It was soon found that, on account of the length being the other way, the people seated north and south of the stand could not hear, consequently the arrangement was changed and the stand was placed in the north end of the building. The choir was in the south end. The o'id organ, ten or twelve feet square, I remember very well. Charley More used to blow the bellows and we boys would get up there and help him blow. 

Upon the occasion that I am referring to, seventy years ago, President Jedediah M. Grant discoursed upon the fulfilment of prophecy, and especially with respect to the wars that were at that time afflicting the world. The Crimean War was then on. lie said: 

"Can the wise men of Europe tell the result of the present war between Russia and Turkey and the allied powers? No. they cannot. If the present war should he suspended for a time, can they tell when the next war will break out and what will be the result of it? No, they cannot. But if you will listen to the revelations of God through the spirit of prophecy, and to the servants of God, you may learn it all with certainty." 

It was then, as it has been since the Great World War, quite the fashion to proclaim peace just as war between striving nations was about to break out and, again, as it would approach its close, to sav there never could be another. Great philosophers, great men of thought, and statesmen at that time were proclaiming peace, and since then. — Why, do you know, some of our most eminent Americans, within a year of the outbreak of the Great World War, having traversed Europe from one end to another, proclaimed from public stands and issued written nroclamations of the impossibility of another war.! — Jedediah M. Grant did not take that view with respect to war in his day nor in this day and age of the world. He made this remark: The God of heaven, or as he expressed it, "The Gods in yonder heavens have something to do with the^e mighty revolutions and warlike convulsions, which shake creation almost to its 113 ." And in effect he added; This world is destined to be drenched in war, and these nations that are proud are destined to be brought down to destruction and obliteration through war : 

"Though the fulfilment of the words of the prophets is clear and visible to us as the noonday sun in its splendor, yet the people of the world are blinded thereto; they do not comprehend nor discern the hand of the Lord * * * W.e see it in the revolutions of our own continent: we see it in the scattering of the house of Israel; in the fading away of nations (Indian) on the right and on the left; in the present commotion in our own nation; in the broils and contentions between the South and the North; in short, we see it in all the events connected with our own and other nations living on the continent of North and South America. And when the mind's eye stretches abroad, across the mighty deep, throughout Europe we see the hand of the Lord visible at work there; not only in the spread of the Gospel, in the prosperity of the people of God, and in the proclamation of the eternal principles of truth, through the agency of the elders of Israel, but in the war-clouds gathering black around, dyeing the ocean with human gore and drenching the solid earth with blood." 

Remember this was spoken in the year 1854. Well, just to recall a few wars that have transpired since President Jedediah M. Grant spoke upon that theme. Following the Crimean War (1854-1856) there came the Great American Civil War (1861-1865). President Grant alluded to that and the evidence of such a strife already before the people. He supported the prophecies of Joseph Smith the Prophet (December 25. 1832 and April 1843) in which he said: 

"Three days before the prophet Joseph started to Carthage I well remember his telling us we should see the fulfilment of the words of Jesus upon the earth, where he says the father should be against the son, and the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, etc. The Prophet stood in his own home when he told several of us of the night the visions of heaven were opened to him, in which he saw the American continent drenched in blood; and he saw nation rising up against nation; for he saw that the spirit of God should he withdrawn from the inhabitants of the earth, in consequence of which, there should be blood upon the face of the whole earth, except among the people of the Most High. The prophet gazed upon the scene his vision presented until his heart sickened, and he besought the Lord to close it up again." 

After the Civil War there was the great Franco-German War of 1870-1871; a war which left the burning feelings of war, with the determination that there should be another war. It has had its expression in this great World War of the present time. "Revenge!" the French cried, having been defeated by the Germans at that time. Now, they have had their revenge. 

Then there was the great Turco-Russian War, (1876-1877) fought with the utmost bitterness and the destruction of many thousands. And then there was the Spanish-American War (1898), in which we had a conflict with Spain and obtained the Philippines; released Cuba from Spanish control and drove out from this continent of America, from this land of Zion, the last kingly authority — "The destruction of Kingdoms!" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Then there was the British-Boer War in South Africa (19001901), most destructive; then the Russian- Japanese War (1904-1905) in which other tens of thousands were brought down. Then at length there came the Great World War, (1914-1918). 

The spirit of war is still in the world, my brethren and sisters. It is not finished. Many predictions of the prophets have yet to be fulfilled. The world that has forgotten God; the nations that do not know him; the churches that use his name in vain, not having authority; nor the inspiration of his spirit, nor the knowledge and testimony of his design and purpose, may proclaim peace and talk peace and form peace congresses, but in vain; enduring peace is far from this world of contention and strife, As a result of the Great World War, what do we witness? Is there greater unity? Is there greater love? Is there a greater confidence? Is there greater trust? The world has never seen a time when there is so much distrust among the people; when there is such utter lack of confidence in leaders — every nation seeking, for the men, or feeling the need of men, that are fit to lead, who can speak with authority and command the confidence and the love and the trust of their fellowmen. But it is hard to find them. Where are the great mighty kingdoms and empires that were thought to be indestructible only ten years ago; the great German empire, the great Austro-Hungarian empire, the great Russian empire, the great Turkish empire? -Gone! And it is the destiny of mankind to see further destruction, because the spirit of peace, the spirit of unity, the spirit of God, which alone can bring the people to peace, is not found in the world. They have rejected the prophets. Most of the nations have had the opportunity to receive, in this dispensation of the fulness of times, the testimony of the servants of God. They have turned their backs upon that testimony and despised it, and God will hold them responsible for it. This testimony has not only been carried to the nations of the earth, calling upon the poor and the humble to receive the truth, and to which many of the blood of Israel have responded; it has been published in almost every land, and the opportunity to receive the truth has been presented generally to mankind. A few have accepted it, and rejoice in it. The testimony has not only been to believers, but the testimony that binds the judgment of God, and looses the power of destruction upon them righteously, has also been borne to unbelievers with the same fidelity; so that God's justice, respecting the nations, may not be doubted even in the wars, the calamities, the pestilences, the famines, the widespread destruction that we are bound to witness and that we are witnessing, in this world of conflicting, unbelieving mankind, at the present day. 

I did not think I was going to speak upon this subject, for there was something else that I thought to speak upon which is far pleasanter from one point of view. Nevertheless, I am not one of the pacifists, who believe that this world is ready for peace. I see peace 115  through the fulfilment of the judgments of God, which are decreed upon the world in which we live, because of the unbelief of the world. All the children of men are called upon to believe in God the Father and in Jesus Christ his Son; in the authority of the Holy Priesthood, in the manifestation and power of the Holy Spirit. They are called upon to recognize the fact that God himself has appeared and spoken to his children and is in the world, though the world knows it not. We are called to maintain the truth that the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were martyrs to the truth, whose blood has been spilled unrighteously, to .seal the testimony of God upon the world that is responsible for it. We have no other business, we Latter-day Saints, than to proclaim these truths, with all the power, means and influence the Lord gives us; to declare to mankind that the judgment day is at hand and is now upon the world. John the Revelator foresaw the time in which we live — foresaw the time when the angels of heaven, flying in the midst of heaven, should bring the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, crying with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come and worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea and fountains of waters." Do we Latter-day Saints know that the revelation given John upon the Isle of Patmos is fulfilled, or is being fulfilled? We most assuredly do. And we declare to our fellowmen that this gospel which has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith is a gospel of revelation; is a gospel of the ministering of angels; is a gospel of the demonstration and exercise of the power of God in the hands of his Priesthood, and that it must be recognized; that it must be accepted. It is bound to make its way, until the honest in heart, the humble, the pure, the true, out of all nations, who are of the house of Israel, shall come to the knowledge of the truth and to rejoice in the testimony of Jesus Christ. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, our fathers, the associates of Joseph Smith, became converted through this kind of preaching. The elders that were called upon in the beginning, and Joseph himself, had that duty — undesirable in a way — to perform, that unthankful task to perform. The very first message Joseph had to deliver was to the leaders of religion, telling them that they were all wrong; that they were corrupt; that they had a form of godliness but denied the power thereof; that they had not the right and authority to teach the people. He maintained that a vision of heavenly quality, even the appearance of -the Father and the Son, had raised him up and caused him to deliver that message. He knew he had seen the vision; he knew that he had heard the voice of God; he could not deny it. He wondered that the leaders of religion should not have taken him, a mere boy, a youth, and tried to persuade him that he was in error, if he were. Instead of that, they arose in opposition; they called him an imposter, and began to persecute him; hounding him throughGENERAL CONFERENCE  his life and ultimately to a martyr's death. That was the only argument they brought against him — persecution. 

Wicked warfare has been made against the Latter-day Saints and the testimony which they have borne to the world; not arguments, nor .sound reasoning, not offering something that was better than that which the Saints have freely given to mankind; but abuse and persecution. They have nothing else to offer. They have not that which is better, I wish to say this to the young people, descendants of parents who received the gospel in the early days. And how did they receive it ? They received it as a voice from heaven. Talk about argument, reasoning, discussion, investigation, and experiment! Why, my brethren and sisters, tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints received the testimony of Joseph Smith, as the revelation of God to them, and the testimonies of the apostles and elders that were raised up by him, who went as early as 1837, to Europe, and were sent all over the world between that time and 1860. They received the testimony of these servants of God, who called upon them and all men to repent of their sins; to believe that God lives and has spoken from the heavens, and that Jesus Christ lives; that he has organized his Church upon the earth and established his kingdom among men; that he calls upon mankind to repent, offering them remission of their sins and that they should be forgiven; that they should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which should bear witness that they were in accord with God and were in possession of the truth, and in fellowship with him and with one another, in bonds of eternal righteousness. That was the burden of their testimony. That is what the converts received through their ministry. 

How long did it take to convert them? Heber C. Kimball went into Chatburn, Lancashire, where they said he would be mobbed and not permitted to speak. He stood in the market place one evening at six o'clock, and began to speak to the people in this manner, proclaiming the fact that he was a servant of God, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. He called upon the people to repent of their sins, and he melted their hearts; so that, with tears in their eyes they came up to him at that meeting, the first they had ever seen of him, and one said, "Will you please baptize me?" "And me?" "And me?" "And me?" Twenty-five that night before midnight he baptized, and in the morning twenty-six more. No more faithful Latter-day Saints ever lived than those who responded to that kind of testimony. He and others bore witness to them by the Spirit and power of God, exercising and manifesting the power of the Holy Priesthood, as apostles of Jesus Christ, who spoke as men having authority, because they possessed it. 

Now, my brethren and .sisters, that authority was restored through the ministering of angels. Through the revelations of the Lord this Church has been established with its organizations and ordinances. This testimony is before the world. They cannot escape it, and it 117  bind them and be sealed upon them; to the salvation of all who believe and will accept it; and, as inevitably, to the destruction, righteously, of those who reject it. President Jedediah M. Grant spoke of the wonderful progress that had been made in tho.se seven years, from the time of the arrival of the Pioneers, when he led the third company of Saints across the plains in 1847. The progress that had teen made in seven years was simply astonishing. The old tabernacle, then new, which they met in, would hold as many as this Assembly Hall does. It was so crowded, at the following conference in the spring, they decided to build a bowery, which would seat seven thousand. It was located at the north end of the tabernacle. I remember the old bowery very well. I remember the old tabernacle and attending meetings there with my mother. President Grant not only referred to the material progress which had been made, and to the wonderful advancement beginning already to triumph over the sterility of these arid valleys; but to the gathering of the people by tens of thousands; for they were coming, in thousands then. Do you know that, two years before the date of this discourse, in 1852, there were more Latter-day Saints in Great Britain than in Utah ? The largest number of our converts at one time were members of the Church in Great Britain — as I recall it, thirty-three thousand. As many as four or five or even six thousand emigrated in one season; they tried to bring, and I think they nearly accomplished it — one year, between 1853 and 1860, ten thousand souls across the plains, mostly from Europe. 

President Grant proclaimed with power that there was nothing that could hinder the progress of this work, or that could stay tht hand of the Almighty; that God was in the wars of the world, and that God was in the prosperity of his people; that it was his work, and that we are his servants and that there was no power that could prevent the onward progress of this Church. I wonder how Jedediah M. Grant would now feel and how he would view the situation today! His youngest son here in the Great Tabernacle, presiding over this great conference and Church, over these tens of thousands, aye, hundreds of thousands of faithful Saints; all bearing witness to the fulfilment of his father's prophecy, delivered, within thirty feet of where I am standing, seventy years ago! 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us realize and appreciate the inheritance from our forbears. No more faithful men, no truer men and women ever lived; none who lived nearer to God, who understood the whisperings of his Spirit and were willing to give their lives and all things they possessed for the establishment of this work, which we now are upholding. We have only still to bear their testimony; to proclaim the truth which they proclaimed; to stand for it; and to ,see that it is carried to the ends of the earth; to the conversion of the honest in heart and to the conviction of those that still rebel and will not receive the word of God. There are many in the world GENERAL CONFERENCE  will not believe that God is, although he has appeared and spoken; who will not receive his word and acknowledge the ministry of his Priesthood. What can be their excuse? Where is their refuge? The condemnation of the world is unbelief. How can there be permanent peace between the nations or among the people in unbelief? It is not possible. Such peace can come to mankind only in a unity of belief, in one God, in one faith and in one baptism. There is only safety in accepting the truth. The truth is that God our Creator, the Father of us all is in the world. His children do not know it. It is your business, Latter-day Saints to proclaim it; it is my business to proclaim it, and to manifest it in our lives, in such a way that our fellow creatures will take heed and notice and try to get in accord with the design and purpose of the Almighty; instead of trying to find some other way, in opposition to it. 

May God help us to do this, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir sang, "Forever worthy." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder D. R. Lyon, Bishop of Ensign ward. 


