Second Overflow
06 04 1924


A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall at 2 o'clock, April 6, 1924. Elder Edward H. Snow, president of the St. George stake of Zion, presided. As in the morning session, the Twentyfirst ward choir, Walter A. Wallace, conductor, furnished the music; with Tracy Y. Cannon, organist. 

The choir sang, "Come let us anew, our journey pursue." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Joseph B. Smith of the High Council of Ensign stake. 

The choir, accompanied by an orchestra, sang the cantata, "The Landing of the Pilgrims," with Elder William F. Bennett singing the bass solo. 

ELDER EDWARD H. SNOW 

(President of St. George Stake of Zion) 

As it will be appropriate for me to announce the .speakers to you this afternoon, perhaps I would do well to begin with myself, by announcing to you that I am Edward H. Snow, President of the St George Stake of Zion. 

The announcement of that to you has a tendency to fasten upon my mind the sense of my responsibility. It is said that every bird sings sweetest in its native forest, and I am quite sure that I am much more at home among my own people, where I am known, than I am standing here today. Yet I do not have in my heart any fear for you or of you, but only the fear of God, which I have always remembered, that I may not be ab!e to do full justice to the great cause which he has established on the earth and in which 1 am called upon, in a measure, to form a part. I am always inspired in my attendance upon these conferences, and I never stand up with the brethren in the opening hymn of our conferences, when I look around and see the immense congregation joining in the hymn, but I feel a sense of comradship, of common cause, of inspiration, and of loyalty to the great work of the Lord. I am always thankful too that I was born and reared in the Church, thankful for its environment, for the influence which the gospel has had upon my life, for the high ideals that have ever been expounded by the leaders of the Church, for the safeguards which they have thrown around us. While giving us full free agency, they have magnified the good, the noble, the pure, and the true, and they have not left us in doubt as to the course that we ought to pursue, if we jdesire happiness here on the earth. 

Happiness does not come to us as a result of prosperity or of riches, but from the consciousness of our doing the duty that lies nearest to us, well and faithfully, which means, substantially, following the work, life, and examples of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in spending our time, talents and efforts for the good of his children. Thereby do ye manifest our love for God, our faith in him and in the ultimate triumph of his cause here on earth. The other morning, when we stood up to sing, I thought of the remark of Patrick Henry in the House of Burgesses, when the great cause of human freedom was hanging in the balance and when the foremost thought among the colonists was declaration of independence from Great Britian. He made, as you know, this memorable declaration, that three million people, armed in the holy cause of freedom, were invincible. Well, we do not reach that number, yet the cause that we represent in the earth, and which we have taken upon our shoulders to forward in the earth, is just as great, or perhaps greater than that which the colonists espoused; and, though we be few in number, yet it is my sublime faith that united and harmonious as we are today and have ever been, we will be invincible in the earth, and that this work will continue to grow and increase in power and in influence and prestige among the people of the earth, and the virtue which the gospel inculcates, and which we exemplify in our lives, will be the saving grace of nations and kingdoms and thrones, and we will be a power in the land. Those who stand for truth and righteousness will look to us as an ally in the great cause of human redemption, and the holding together of our inheritance and our civilization. 

I am thankful for the strength which we feel in being clean. I am thankful for the personal cleanliness that exists in the Church, and the high ideals that we have of it, and that there is such a vast majority of the people who form the membership of this Church whose skirts are free from contamination with the sins of the world. Thereby will we have our strength. Thereby will we keep our faith, inspiration, 

Aaq; 'uopBzqjAp o; paqAui;ou 3jsav A"aqx Jjeads o; os 'ssamapjiAV E o; SuioS aj3A\ A~3q; ssnEaaq 'uiiq q;iAv pa;BposSB ja;B[ ajaM oqM asoq; puB 'Ajilubj siq puB iqaq joj >jse; abbs ou sbav A;;uapp3 stqj^ p3A"o.i;sap aq o; SuioS sbav A%p sq; joj 'Luspsvusf sae3[ o; iiiBSjp e ui paiuEAv sbav aaq;Ej sijj -sdubibhi;xau aqj sb iqda^; aqB; oa\ uaqx 

;jB3q Am ssqano; q 'q;noA b;nq uaqAV 's;u3.iBd siq jo puB S-isupoaq siq jo uopBpossB sq; iuojj p3[pdxs sbav 'siuoq siq iuojj u3Aup sbav qdssof;ELp;dbj sq; jo quiq; j uaq^\ "aiui;;Bq;;b spuBj uavo Jisq; in Suisibj;ou aj3AV A"sq;;Bq; AjEssaaau spooj jsq;o puB iusq; joj iuod Suippo-id Aq uopoiujssp uiojj uiaq; Suiabs ApBjoduia; u; p3;ii3iunj;sui sbav aq puB 'uiiq o; 3lubd U3LpBj siq J3;b] puB 'saaqiojq siq;BLp 'a".io;s aip papuiuiaj sje noy -sun; jo Lp.Suaj sluos oujij) fmipiqv Mfjv pauuojjod aq uoissiiu aqj;nq 'aaaip us>p; sbav aq 'A[jB|nai;jBd 'Avoq uodn qsAvp o; ssodand a"ui;ou si;i puB '^dASg o;ui us>|b; sbav qdasof Avoq jo X.io;s iejujcIuos aq; pBDsi jjiav no^ 

uuojjad o; uoissilu b aABq 11012 jo q;noX aq;;Bq;;qSnoq; aq; aziSBqduia o; qsiAV j up.iaq pire '. q;noA" jipq; ui pajpa a.i3A\ Asq; aauB;sut ipE3 ui;aA 'ypoAv jnjxspuoAv;soui b pauuojjad aABq Asq; 'puiui Am o; ';Bq; suapBJBqa asaq; Suuaptsuoa 111 a;ou j puB ';aqdojj aq; qqiug qdasof jo uoissilu aq; q;u\ 'paauoj -jad tqda^;Bq; jjjoav;b3jS aq; q;iAV ';dA.§T[ oiui pfos sbav oqAV qdasof jo uoissiiu sq; q;;A\ pssssjduii usaq aABq j aun;3jq Am Suuiiq iqSnoq; jo 3ui[ siq; Suoje s;u3iuoui avsj b joj qsAvp o; a>]i[ p[uoqs j 'pjoq aq; jo jhav aq; aq abui;i ji puB qnos Am paquq; '-a;a (l 'jsas puB pudoaj;sq; pa;uiouuB snsaf 'qBAoqaf q;;Av pauntuuioa oijav ublu aq; o; asreaj,, uuiXq Suiuado juq ';aqdoJj aq; qdasof jo uoissilu aq; jo ai.ii! aq; Suope sbav p3;saS8ns aiuaq; 3Lp;Bip puij o; 'spBLnsqBjL sip 111 sSuos Suurado 3Lp o; .o'uiua;sq Suuuoiu siq; p3;q§qap"sBA\ j 

( U0 YZ 1° 32 l D lS ^iit^j tfv^ jo fitapis-Mj) 

Nosna v NHOf Haa^a 

uaLuy ';si.iq3 sns-'f jo 3LUBU sq; ui 'ABJd j pua siq; o; pLiB 'ssauiddBq 3iu; \{e jo saaanos aq; ajB LpiqAV 'pog jo joabj aq; puB aAOj aq; 3;Bpmi3 Ablli sav;Bq; 

's;U3llipUBLULU03 Siq da3>] pUB pOQ JB3J O; 'pSlUSOUOS a.IB 3AV SB JBJ OS '.Slli;33lLI Siq; LUO.IJ;JBd3p |[BL[S 3AV;BLp pilB 'p3SB3J3UI ILIIIJ 3AJ3S 

0; S3.us3p ano puB 'pssBaa.iui Lpn:j .mo 'SupaaLu siq; jo qnss.i b sb 'aABq qBqs 3av;Bq; puB ';soqg i[opj aq; jo uo;;BJidsui 3Lp u;iav psqij 3({ ablu sn 0; qBads 1 [jBqs oqAV asoq;;Bip 'uoolu3;jb siq; 3jol[ sn ss3jq I|ja\ aq;Bq; 'ajdosd b sb sn ssajq jjiav pog;Bq; Avid A(jJ3Diiis j 

punoj aq n Bl I s II J3Aa.iaipvv 'ssausnoa;q3uun puB uis }i\Sij o; puB qjO0 jo LuopSup^ aq; ui 'aSjBqa o; qxiEAuoj oS o; si avoldj 3av;bl;; qy;B3j;3j b A\ouq;ou op sa\! uoapdB^ jo Xoq jaiuiunap pp aip a>ji[ ajB 3 V Y\ -uoaiqiiy sip passEd sablj aAv 3[dcsd b sy -paoq aq; jo sureu aip Ajuop3 puB AjiliSblu o; 'pooS op o; q;jB3 3Lp ui aaAvod jno pr.B 'aqsap OZl 121  not asked to remain among friends and loved ones, but the Lord said to this man, "Go out into the wilderness and I will lead you whither ye shall go." As I recall some of the incidents connected with this most wonderful trip : after a few years travel and experience, Nephi, the son of Lehi, and the younger son at the time, assumed the reins of government among his people and, in fact, did so legitimately; yet in the eyes of his older brethren he assumed this position much to their dissatisfaction. They complained of him, but nevertheless he performed his part. On one occasion only, I believe, was this young man ever deprived of at least a few friends to console, encourage, and help him, during his administration among the people. On one occasion not only did Laman and Lemuel complain, not only his mother, but even his father complained, when Nephi was unable, because of the breaking of his bow, to provide food for them. He was bound upon the ship; he was persecuted by his own loved ones, yet he never faltered. And I believe that one of the chief reasons for it was that early in life he obtained a testimony of the divinity of the work of the Lord. 

You recall that when he returned to Jerusalem to obtain the plates his brethren severely criticized him and abused him, and finally it became necessary for an angel of the Lord to appear and rebuke them for their deeds. Now, this was a difficult experience, it is true, but at the same time Nephi obtained a testimony that the Lord lives. He learned that there were angels in heaven, who administered to mortal men upon the earth. And he was enriching his life with a testimony of the gospel, although he was undergoing great persecution. By referring back you will see that this was also true to Joseph who was sold into Egypt. He became the interpreter of dreams, he became a mouthpiece to those people in Egypt; yet he was but a boy. 

In this dispensation we find a like character, to my mind, starting out to find the truth. He read the scriptures in James, that if any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God. This boy put it to the test, a thing, by the way, the we are all invited to do, and he also learned in the beginning of his life's mission that there were not only angels in heaven, but that God the Father and Jesus the Son, whom these very scriptures in which he was reading testified of, exist. By a visible view of them, he learned that they lived. And early in his life he said to a minister of religion, so-called, that he had seen the Father. Then to his own friends, and particularly to himself, he said, I cannot deny it; I know that I have seen God and his Son, and the Lord knows that I know it; I am conscious of it. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the question may be asked by those not of our faith, "What has this to do with this great latter-day work? What has this to do with 'Mormonism?' And whence do you derive your name? My brethren and sisters, as I see it, it has this much to do with it. It is only another epoch in which the Lord has made himself manifest to the children of men. He did it to these other youths; he assisted them, he gave them strength to carry on their work, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And it seems to me it is a source of great encouragement to the youth of Zion to learn as much- in detail as possible the history of these three young men. They have been a source of inspiration to me; they have strengthened me in time of trouble; they have been a means of causing me to investigate the truth and to gain hope and courage in furthering the work of the Lord. And .so, when I hear these songs sung, my heart rejoices and T feel to praise the Lord for the lives of these young men: 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus annointed 'that Prophet and Seer' — Messed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him, and nations revere." 

My brethren and sisters, this ought to be inspiring to us. We have sting for a long time the words given in the days of the Savior: 

"Far, far away, on Judea's plains, 

Shepherds of old heard the joyous strains: 

Glory to God, glory to God, glory to God in the highest." 

And they, too, have inspiration in them. But I love to connect up these things, bring them together as an evidence that the Lord is working with his children and particularly to bring it to bear upon our existence and work at the present time. A writer of our day has composed a song in which he vividly portrays a condition that existed when Joseph went out to pray. He describes the morning : 

"O how lovely was the morning! Radiant beamed the sun above, Bees were humming, sweet birds singing, Music ringing through the grove, When within the shady woodland, Joseph sought the God of love." 

I ask you, my brethren and sisters, to read that song : in the closing of the song, instead of saying, "Joseph sought the God of love," he said, 

"Joseph saw the God of love." 

I am grateful, my brethren and .sisters, for the privilege of living in this dispensation. I am grateful for the lives of these men. I cannot step forth on these grounds in front of those pieces of statuary that we have here of Joseph and Hyrum without feeling that my life is enriched thereby; because those men, those boys, as they were, did for humanity and particularly for all those who accepted the message of life and salvation, that which is beyond price. 

I recall when going into the mission field a few years ago that it had been customary, apparently, from the council that we received from our mission president, for a good many elders to teach only faith in God, repentance, and baptism, etc., and that the bearing witness that the work of the Lord is re-established, that an angel has 123  to earth, seemingly was held in the background; and I recalled that Brother James G. Duffin, who was our president at that time, said, "Brethren, I want you to go out an testify that the Lord has sent an angel to earth, that he sent him to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and that message we are now bearing to the children of men." My companion and I did that. We went form city to city, from community to community; we held cottage meetings on every hand, and in every instance we found that by bearing testimony to the fact that God had sent an angel to earth to Joseph the Prophet, we obtained and secured friends everywhere, that people were interested in our message. And to me the greatest satisfaction came in the fact that it strengthened and built up my testimony. And I bear my testimony here, brethren and sisters, to the effect that, while I claim not particular miraculous manifestations, little by little faith has come to me by doing the works, and I can truthfully say today that I know nothing else of this work but truth. I cannot conceive of its being anything but truth. I have not in me any conception of anything else that I desire in preference to the work of the Lord that we are engaged in as a people. My brethren and- sisters, to me it i.s the truth, and it is all the truth, and it is the means, it is the way, by which the children of men will get back to God, and in no other way. May his Spirit be with us. May it be carried to the children of men everywhere, that those who know us not and know not the truth may hear and accept this glad message and be saved and celestialized in the kingdom of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. BECKSTRAND 

(President of Millard Stake of Zion) 

My dear brethren and sisters. — As I have listened to the remarks of our brethren who have .spoken to us during the sessions of this conference, there are two phases of this great work that I have been led to think about; and that is, the gospel as it is preached at home in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and abroad in the mission field by our elders that are laboring in this wonderful cause, and in connection with this, the great work that is being accomplished in the temples of the Lord for the dead. 

That I may be better understood, I desire to refer to the 110th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a most wonderful section, which means so much to us as Latter-day Saints. There, in the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his close associate Oliver Cowdery, a wonderful message came to them. The eyes of their understanding were opened; that is, their spiritual eyes that they were blessed with, and they saw the Lord, even the Savior, Jesus Christ, upon the breastwork of that temple, and in the comforting words that he spoke to them, he told them that their sins were forgiven, GENERAL CONFERENCE  they were pure and holy before the Lord, and that he had accepted the great work that they had accomplished in the erection of that building, and that he was satisfied and pleased with that which had been done and accomplished by the Latter-day Saints — a most wonderful revelation. And I am sure a great satisfaction came into the hearts of those two brethren as they stood under the voice of this heavenly messenger and heard those soothing words. 

When this manifestation cleared away, another one appeared unto them. The Prophet Moses of old, who held the keys of the gathering of Israel, appeared unto them and conferred this authority upon them, that they might have that privilege or that power in this dispensation of the gospel. Up to this time the gospel had only been preached in a few of the eastern states and in parts of Canada, but within a year of that time, missionaries were sent out in the various states of this nation and across the water into Europe, into Great Britain and the Scandinavian countries, and a most wonderful harvest followed the labors of those men; the spirit of gathering followed conversion to the gospel. Many souls were made members of the Church through the testimonies of these brethren who came to them; they accepted the gospel and the spirit of gathering followed it. Many souls were gathered into the fold of Christ; many joined hands with the Saints in this part of the land. And in addition to this, in partfulfilment of that prophecy, Orson Hyde and John E. Page were set apart for a mission to Palestine. Their mission was to dedicate that land as a gathering place for the house of Israel. We are told that Mr. Page fell by the wayside; Orson Hyde continued that wonderful journey through privations and hardships, and after a year and a-half's labor and work and worry, reached that part of the country, and we are told that on the Mount of Olives, with his face turned toward the city of Jerusalem, he alone offered that dedicatory prayer that he was sent there to offer. And we, of course, have wondered and have looked with astonishment as to how that condition might come about. Rut we saw in the great World War a condition brought about indicating that those people may be gathered back to their home country. And that prophecy will be fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, there is no question in my mind as to the fulfilment of prophecy, as to the great work that is in store for the Latter-day Saints. 

And, in connection with this mission to the living as it has been preached in the various nations of the earth, we have the vicarious work that is being accomplished and done for the dead. When we think of the eight temples finished and completed, and the ninth under erection, of the vast amount of work that is being accomplished for the dead, and the desire on the part of the Latter-day Saints to perform this great labor and mission, what a blessing it is! Many souls who have gone to the grave without a knowledge of the gospel without the privilege of receiving or hearing it, are waiting for that work to 125  accomplished for them, that they, too, may join with the Latterday Saints in the great blessings of the gospel. 

I bear you my testimony that this is the work of the Lord, that this is the plan of salvation. Every man, woman, and child who will obey and live it, will be saved in the presence of our Father in heaven. And may we be faithful in the performance of our duties, day by day as Latter-day Saints, is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE T. HYDE 

(President of the Portncuf Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the honor that has come to me in being invited to address you for just a few moments, and I sense very keenly the responsibility that rests upon me in occupying this 'most important position, and I realize, that only through the inspiration of our Father in heaven will I be able to say anything that will tend to benefit, comfort, or build us up in our most holy faith. 

I bring to you, my brethren and sisters, greetings from the Saints who dwell in Portneuf stake, who live over the border line, that invisible line which marks the geographical division between the State of Utah and Idaho. Possibly I am a stranger to you, my brethren and sisters, but I feel that we are all brethren and sisters in the great work of the Lord, all children of that great Father in heaven, all actuated by that same spirit, the spirit of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I have been coming to the conferences of the Church for many years, but never has the greatness, marvelousness, and the wonders of the work appealed to me as they have throughout the various sessions of this wonderful conference, and truly I realize that the Lord indeed is doing a marvelous and a wonderful work. I feel that the work of the Lord has made wonderful growth and progress since its organization, since those early days which our brethren have referred to here so beautifully this afternoon. When we contemplate the numbers that there are today in the membership of the Church, we can then in a sense realize that it is indeed a "marvelous work and a wonder." When we stop to contemplate the fact that there are today, as President Grant announced in his opening address, 1,700 or m re of the young men and women of this Church engaged in missionary labors throughout the world, bearing the message of life and salvation to those who sit in darkness, taking to them the glad tidings that God has again made known his mind and will and restored to earth the authority to administer in the ordinances of his gospel. When we contemplate these things we can realize something of the magnitude of the work that has already been, is being, and will be, accomplished, and I feel that the work of the Lord will make still more rapid strides, if we, the membership of the Church GENERAL CONFERENCE  home, truly live up to the teachings of the gospel, if we ourselves observe to do the commandments that our Father has given to us, if we magnify the duties that membership in the Church brings to us. I believe that if we do that, as our young men and young women go out into the nations of the earth declaring the word, they will have a stronger, a greater force behind them in the lives of their parents at home, in the power of the example that we are setting here, I feel that it is incumbent upon us to live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is indeed a great and a marvelous work, and we are indeed a peculiar people. 

Some of the characteristics of the Church, we may say, too, are peculiar, and one of those characteristics that appeals to me and that I of times think of, is that it means on our part continual service, and work. There is no place, no time, in our lives when we can sit idly by, but we must continue faithfully in the service of our Master to the end, if we would reap the reward of our faith, and eternal lives in the kingdom of our Father. 

I feel that throughout the sessions of this great conference we have had some of the most wonderful, inspirational teachings, speaking and counsel, that have ever been given to the Church. The opening address of President Grant, enunciating the doctrine that it is necessary for us to keep the commandments, to live the laws of the gospel, to be faithful continually, brought into my mind the fact that if we would reap the benefits of the gospel, we must keep the commandments. I feel that while we are gaining numerically, making wonderful progress, there is still a greater work, I may call it an invisible work, that is going on throughout the entire world as a result of the restoration of the gospel. I recall that in that opening address of President Grant, he referred to the coming of Elijah and the fact that the spirit of Elijah has been poured out upon all the world. Over the nations of the world, the people everywhere, has come a spirit of gathering the genealogies of their forefathers. They know not why, he said, but they are inspired through the coming into their hearts of the spirit of Elijah, which causes them to do that work. I feel, too, that many other truths of the gospel are being gradually taken up by various religious denominations of the day; the leaven, in other words, is gradually working, leavening the lump. Notwithstanding our attention has been called to the fact that many of the churches are preaching and advocating that Jesus Christ is not the Only Begotten Son of the Father, we bear testimony that he is; for that truth has been revealed anew to us — an additional evidence has been brought to us, that he is indeed the Son of God in the flesh. But many are denying that, and it seems to be creeping into the hearts of many, yet there are thousands, yea hundreds of thousands who do believe that he is indeed the Son of God and the Savior of the world, and many of them are gradually adopting the truths of the everlasting gospel. 127 

The Word of Wisdom, is a wonderful and great law of life, simple truths of living I oftimes term it, which our Father in heaven so mercifully revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith to guide us in our daily lives that we might be physically strong, that we might be spiritually awake and strong. Those wonderful principles enunciated in that, are being adopted by the scientists and men of wisdom throughout the length and breadth of the earth, and today many of our foremost men of science, men of ability along many lines, are advocating the living of those simple rules of life, the abstaining from strong drink, from tobacco, from tea and from coffee, and from using meat to excess — adopting those great truths that were made known to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early history of the Church. So likewise are they adopting many other of the truths of the gospel, and so I feel that, by and by, in the providences of our Father in heaven, that the converts to the Church will be more numerous than they are at the present time. I feel that in the near future they will flock to the standard of Christ by the thousands. And this brings home to us the necessity on our part of living the gospel and teaching our children the wonderful truths of it, that they may grow up in the fear and admonition of the Lord, full of faith and the knowledge of the gospel that they may proclaim its wondrous truths to the nations and be capab'e and able ministers of the word. 

It was a wonderful address we had this morning from Elder Richards, relative to the youth of Israel. I never before listened to such a wonderful discourse upon that particular theme. He handled it so beautifully! It touched my heart. I have always felt, and I feel now, that we owe to our children a good and proper example. The great truth has come into my life, that example goes much farther than precept. O it is easy to talk to them; it is easy to tell them, do this, and do that, but it is a difficult thing, sometimes, to live the principles which we advocate. Our daily lives should be such, that our children can follow in our footsteps. We should live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by our example teach it to eur children. If we would have them observe the Word of Wisdom, I feel that we should observe it. If we would have them honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, I feel that we should honor the Sabbath day. If we expect them to grow up full of faith and integrity and active in the Church, our lives must be such that they will lead our children into activity. 

I was never before so stirred in my life as I was some six months ago with the address of President Grant, when it was published in one of the periodicals. It appealed to me so strongly that "I am going to read an extract to you : 

This was toward the conclusion of that wonderful address. He ,says : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"I desire to read just two paragraphs from the prayer given at the dedication of the Alberta temple: 

" 'We thank thee, O Father, for the knowledge which we possess that thou dost live and that thy Son Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and our Savior, and that thy servant Joseph Smith, Junior, was and is a prophet of the true and the living God. And, O Father, may we ever be true and faithful to the gospel of thy Son, Jesus Christ, revealed through thy son Jospeh. We especially pray thee, O Father in heaven, to bless the youth of thy people in Zion and in all the world. Shield them from the adversary and from wicked and designing men. Keep the youth of thy people, O Father, in the straight and the narrow path that leads to thee. Preserve them from the pitfalls and snares that are laid for their feet. O, Father, may our children grow up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord Jesus Christ. Give unto them a testimony of the divinity of this work, as thou hast given it unto us, and preserve them in purity and in the truth.' " 

Then he added, "And I say unto you, O fathers in Israel: if you will set an example by being honest before God in the payment of your tithes, if you will observe the Word of Wisdom, if you will observe your family and your secret prayers, God will give you strength to preserve the youth of Zion, as mentioned in this supplication. May the Lord bless us and pour out upon us richly his Holy Spirit during this conference, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen." 

That which appeals to me in this is that we desire that our children grow up in purity, that they be active men and women in the Church, honorable members of the communities where they live. Here are the words of the living prophet, pointing out to us how we may be successful. Our children are dearer to us than all the world; they are the most precious jewels that .our Father in heaven could give us. We love them. We would give our very lives for them, and here are a few simple rules of life for their preservation, if we will but observe these rules, the prophet said we will be .successful in rearing our children in purity and deliver them from the pitfalls that constantly beset their paths. If we will observe the law of tithing honestly before God and before our children, if we will faithfully observe our family and secret prayers, and if we will faithfully observe the Word of Wisdom — the prophet says we shall have power and strength to preserve our children in purity. That is one of the greatest promises that has ever been made to us, and I have faith in it, I believe it, my brethren and sisters, and I want to bear my testimony that if you will keep the commandments of God and observe to do them, you will be successful in the rearing of your children. 

In conclusion, I bear testimony to the truth of the great work in which we are engaged. I know that it is of God, that in this day and age of the world he came from heaven to earth and visited the prophet Joseph Smith, and that other messengers came to Joseph under the direction of our Father in heaven, and restored the gospel in all its purity, with all its power, keys, and authority — all that is necessary for the salvation, and exaltation of all the children of men. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May you appreciate the blessing of membership in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, I pray. Amen. 129 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that it will be a hard task for me, as, in fact, it has been for the speakers who have preceded me, to hold my own against the amplifiers. The people here assembled have the choice between remaining seated here and listening" to us, or going out on the lawn to have a standing seat and listening to what is going on in the Tabernacle, and unless we are endowed with an unusual degree of the Spirit of the Lord, and thereby draw your interest, it may be a hard matter to keep you here. But I feel that the Saints gathered in this Assembly Hall are entitled to the blessings of the Lord as much as those congregated in the Tabernacle, as this meeting has been appointed by proper authority, and speakers selected, and it is our privilege to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, and it is the privilege of the speakers here as well as the listeners, to receive the bread of life. 

I rejoice with my brethren in the excellent conference we have had, so far, and the last meeting, which is now in session over in the Tabernacle, is undoubtedly as interesting and instructive as the former sessions have been, and I trust that we all shall leave feeling that we have had one of the best conferences the Church has ever held. 

Never before since the Church was organized, have so many people attended a general conference as on this occasion, and it reminds me that it is just eighty years ago today since President Joseph Smith, the martyr, also had occasion to attend the largest conference the Church ever held up to that time. It was the memorable conference held in April, 1844, (the last conference the Prophet attended) on which occasion he asserted that all of North and South America was the land of Zion. Up to that time some of the brethren had entertained the idea that Nauvoo was already too far from Jackson county, Missouri, which was called Zion, or the place for the building of the City of Zion, and some of them had misgivings in regard to living in Illinois, thinking they were too far away from Jackson county, to be included in the land of Zion. The Prophet's declaration was therefore good and timely, as we are now very much farther away from Jackson county than Nauvoo is, and yet we are in the land of Zion, representing as we do here ninety stakes of Zion, all organized in this western land since the days of Nauvoo. 

I am expected, according to the appointment received, to say something to you in regard to the importance of history and the necessity of record-keeping. We Latter-day Saints have been unusually blessed in regard to this matter, as the Lord has revealed to us in these the last days some of the missing links in the history of the world. When we were a part of the sectarian world, some of us were taught that the Lord created the world out of nothing; GENERAL CONFERENCE  the Lord, in new Scriptures, has revealed unto us the true history of the creation. On a certain occasion the Lord called Moses up into an exceeding high mountain and there showed him his creations — the many worlds that he had created. But he told Moses that he could not comprehend them all, as there were so many worlds that mortal man could not number them, but that those worlds are all numbered to the Lord. God then said : "And now, Moses, my son, I will speak unto thee concerning this earth upon which thou standest; and thou shalt write the things which I shall speak." (Moses 1 :40) . The Lord then revealed to Moses how the earth on which we live came into existence. This question has often arisen : Where did Moses, the first recognized historian, get his information from, in regard to the creation of the world, and also in regard to the flood, to Enoch, and Abraham and other patriarchs? What historians had written books before him from which he could copy? Legend says that a big pillar with historical inscriptions upon it had been erected on or near the site of old Babylon, on the river Euphrates, but that assertion has never been verified. The facts are that the Lord took Moses up on a high mountain and there revealed to him how the earth came into existence, and also told him about our father Adam in the garden of Eden, how he fell from grace, and furthermore that the gospel that we are preaching here today, and in which we rejoice at the present time, was preached to Adam in the beginning, and did not come into existence in the meridian of time. John was not the first man who baptized, but Adam was taught the principle of baptism. The gospel, as we receive it now, and as we understand it, was revealed to father Adam, was revealed to Enoch and Noah, was preached to Abraham, and was known in part in the days of Moses. This knowledge has come to us through the faithful labors of historians. The Ten Commandments were written by the finger of the Lord himself upon tablets of stone, and in addition to that, Moses wrote his books, which seem to have existed in fragmentary form among the Israelites for generations, and when the great Babylonian captivity took place the people were scattered, as well as their records, and the Children of Israel lost for a while their national identity and records; but when the Israelites came back from the Babylonian captivity there was a general reconstruction of affairs, under the direction of Ezra, the priest, and Nehemiah, who were the accepted leaders of the return to Jerusalem; and it is recorded that the people got very much interested in their records and genealogies. The following is from the writings of Nehemiah : 

"All the people gathered themselves together; * * * and they spake to Ezra, the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel, and Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding * * * * and he read therein * * * * and Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose * * * and Ezra opened the hook in sight of all the people * * * * and 131  he opened it, all the people stood up: and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, 'Amen, Amen,' with lifting up their hands; and they bowed their heads, and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the ground * * * * So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading * * * * All the people wept, when they heard the words of the law." (Neh. 8:1-9). 

We can scarcely realize how much we are indebted to the history of the past which has been written for our benefit. Reverting to the history of the creation, we have a duplicate form of the same in what was written by Abraham, many, many years ago — revealed anew in our dispensation. The writings of Abraham, which came into the possession of Joseph Smith in 1835, contain a very beautiful account of the creation of the world, going hand in hand with that which, a little later, was revealed to Moses. When, in a sectarian world, some of us were taught as children that God created the earth out of nothing, we were taught that which is not true. The writings of Abraham tell us that the Lord stood among those "who were with him." That accounts for the term "Gods" being used sometimes instead of the singular form "God". God stood in the midst of his associates and said to them: 

"We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials and we will make an earth wherein these (God's children) may dwell, and we will prove them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." (Book of Abraham 3:24-26). 

This is a most beautiful revelation which has come to us in these last days through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We frequently sing : "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet," "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," etc., in appreciation of modern prophets and modern revelations, because these new revelations serve as a key to the old revelations. The Christian world generally have one book, the Bible, which they do not understand, while the Latter-day Saints have four sacred books, which they do understand, for the Lord has given us the key in new revelation to both new and old revelations. 

And here we have the Book of Mormon. Do you know what importance was attached to records in the early Book of Mormon days? Does it appeal to you that a certain justifiable homicide was committed in the interest of the family of Lehi which left Jerusalem 600 years before the birth of the Savior? Do you remember what happened to Laban who lived in Jerusalem at the time that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave that city to go into the wilderness, relying upon the Lord leading them to a land of promise far away ? After they had been in the wilderness a short time, they realized that they had no records with ihem. They did GENERAL CONFERENCE  even know the genealogy of their forefathers; but Laban, thenkinsman, had the records, and Nephi, the faithful ,son of Lehi, and his brethren, were commanded to go back to Jerusalem to obtain these records from Laban. They gathered all the gold and silver and precious things which the family had left in Jerusalem at the time of their exodus, and offered it to Laban in exchange for the records. But Laban, seeing the treasure, was tempted to possess it, and, after getting it, he sent his servants after Nephi and his brethren to kill them, and they would undoubtedly have been destroyed, had they not succeeded in escaping from Jerusalem. Laban took their property and kept the records. But Nephi prevailed upon his brethren to return to Jerusalem once more and try again. The Lord certainly did not want the family of Lehi to go into this land of promise without a knowledge of their forefathers, for in that case they would be in danger of losing not only their genealogy, but also their language and' religion. When the sons of Lehi arrived in Jerusalem and found Laban in possession of the riches of which he had robbed the estate of Lehi, they devised new plans for obtaining the records, and to cut a long story short Nephi was constrained, or rather commanded, by the spirit, to slay Laban. It was better that one wicked man should perish than that the whole people which the Lord intended to lead into the promised land far away, should dwindle into ignorance and unbelief. That is how the Nephite.s came possessed of the brass plates, which, among other things, contained the law of Moses, even similar writings to those which caused the Israelites in the days of Ezra and Nehemiah to glorify God. On that occasion the law of Moses and other things which had been written were preserved for the benefit of the Israelites who returned to Jerusalem, after their captivity in Babylon, to rebuild the temple and to commence anew their national existence. 

And so the sons, of Lehi obtained the brass plates and in due course of time crossed the great waters to the land of promise. But the brass plates were not sufficient; the Lord commanded Nephi to make plates of his own — golden plates — upon which he might record the doings of his own people. Thus Nephi made a record upon his plates of how his father's family left Jerusalem, how they traveled through the wilderness, how they built a ship, how they crossed the great waters, and how they finally landed upon this great western continent, this land of America, which became a choice land above all other lands, after the flood had devastated the earth in the time of Noah. Now it is recorded that Nephi was faithful in keeping the commandments of God. He even made two sets of plates; on one set he recorded the things that pertained to the service of God, and upon the other plates, which were the larger plates, he recorded the secular history of his people, including the story of the kings and some of the troubles, contentions and wars which occurred between the Nephites and the Lamanites. We have in the Book of 133 

Mormon a translation from the small plates of Nephi, and we also have in that sacred record Mormon's abridgment of the text of the large plates of Nephi. These things are very'precious to us, and that such would be the case was well understood by the prophets of old, even by Nephi — that same Nephi I have already been speaking of — and the Lord promised him that if he would be faithful in recording the history of his people, his writings should be preserved for the benefit of his posterity. In his second book, third chapter he writes : 

"Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit of the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be written by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto the confounding of false doctrines, and laying down of contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of their fathers in the latter days; and also to the knowledge of my covenants, saith the Lord." (2 Nephi 3:12). 

This promise was repeated later on. Nephi writes, "The Lord God promised unto me that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved and handed down unto my seed from generation to generation." (2 Nephi 25 :21). 

Enos, a son of Jacob (Nephi's brother), writes, "I had faith and I did cry unto the Lord that he would preserve the records, and he covenanted with me that he would bring them forth unto the Lamanites in his own due time." (Enos 1:16). 

Helaman records that many records were being kept of the proceedings of the Nephites. He says : "There are many books, many records of every kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Nephites." (Hela. 3:15). 

The historian, Mormon, writes in his abridgment, "There are records which do contain all the proceedings of this people and a more short but a true account was given by Nephi." (That is part of the record we now have). "Therefore I have made my record of these things according to the record of Nephi, which was engraved on the plates which were called the plates of Nephi. And behold I do make the record upon the plates which I have made with mine own hands." (3 Nephi 5:9-16). 

I will read one more extract. Mormon, in giving the history in his abridgment from the large plates of Nephi, departs from the historical narrative in speaking of the administration of Jesus Christ among the Nephites, and writes: 

"And now there cannot be written in this book [Mormon's abridgment] even a hundredth part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the people; 

"But behold the plates of Nephi do contain the more part of the things which he taught the people [of Nephi]. "And these things have I written, which are a lesser part of the things which he taught the people; and I have written them to the intent that they may be brought again unto this people from the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken." (3 Nephi 26:6-8). GENERAL CONFERENCE 

1 will quote one more instance. The chief recorder in those days was Nephi, not the first Nephi, but one who lived later on. A prophet by the name of Samuel, a Lamanite, had predicted that when Christ should rise from the dead, some of the dead Saints who had lived in former days should arise and appear unto many, and the historian had seemingly overlooked that fact, and when Jesus visited the Nephites on another occasion ( for he visited them a number of times) he said : 

"Bring the record which .ye have kept. And when Nephi had brought forth the records and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said : Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that the Father should glorify his name in me that there were many Saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them. And lie said unto them: Were it not so? And his disciples answered him and said: Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled. And Jesus said unto them; How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many Saints did arise and appear unto many and did minister unto them? And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." — (3 Nephi 23:7-13). 

Now, passing on, brethren and sisters, did it ever occur to you that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints could not be organized, or at least, it was not organized, until the Book of Mormon had come forth. We are called "Mormons" today, and while the name, of course, is in one sense a misnomer, it is not altogether so, because there were none known as "Mormons" among the children of men in America, or elsewhere, until the Book of Mormon appeared, and that book came into existence just before the Church was organized. Thus there were in reality "Mormons" in the world before there was any Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for as soon as the Book of Mormon had been printed, Joseph Smith and those associated with him at once became known as "Mormons." 

We find that the Book of Mormon contained so many truths in regard to the gospel of Jesus Christ that when we place it beside the New Testament, and especially with that which was written by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, we have most precious documents. The writings of these four evangelists placed by the side of that which was written by Nephi and the other historians on this continent give us what we sometimes call the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That does not imply that we in these two books have everything the Lord wants us to know, for he will yet reveal many things which will make us wise unto salvation. However, until the Book of Mormon was printed in the English language, Joseph Smith was not authorized to organize the Church, but with the Book_ of Mormon and the Bible, put side by side, he understood the principles of the gospel and how to organize the Church, being aided by the revelations which he from time to time received from the Lord. h*5 

The coming forth of the Book of Mormon is a very interesting theme to speak about. We frequently deliver lectures on the Book of Mormon, and we do not tire of dwelling upon the faithfulness of the Prophet Joseph, upon the testimony of the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon and also upon the solemn testimony of the Eight Witnesses. We are pleased to know that all these men were true and faithful to their testimonies, and some of them in the midst of troubles and persecutions staked their all upon the fact that the Book of Mormon is true. 

The Nephite record, which, according to prophesy, should come from the earth lay buried in the Hill Cumorah for 1427 years. The peop'e of which the book bears record were destroyed from the earth and the record was sealed up and buried by Moroni — the last Nephi prophet and historian. When it finally came forth it was like a voice from the ground, or a message from the grave. The Hill Cumorah was opened, the plates delivered by Moroni (who now appeared as a heavenly messenger) to Joseph who translated the records into English, and the people at once began to read it. It was the record of a people which no longer existed, but which had once flourished on this continent, and among the most precious narratives contained in it was an account of that which God, through his Son and his prophets, accomplished in this western continent. 

Now, brethren and sisters, coming clown to our own day and dispensation, I wish to remark that we Latter-day Saints are not destined to go through the same ordeal as the Nephites; we are not tO' be destroyed; we are to stay here for ever; hence we should learn a lesson from the records of the Bihe and the Nephite records in regard to the keeping of our own records. What if we had no historians today? What could we do even now in writing the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith so many years after he suffered martyrdom? Tt could be done perhaps after a fashion, but could not be done correctly from memory; but we have a good record of the Church from the beginning written at the time when the events occurred. Permit me to remind you of the fact that the very first commandment which the Lord gave to his Church almost immediately after it was organized, was this : "Behold there shall be a record kept among you." You will find this the very first sentence of the very first revelation given to the Church after its organization on the 6th of April, 1830. 

Oliver Cowdery, who had assisted the Prophet Joseph Smith in translating the Book of Mormon, was made the first Church recorder. Later, John Whitmer, one of the Eight Witnesses, was called to be the Church recorder, and since that time we have always had Church recorders and historians. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I want'to emphasize the importance of keeping records. We should feel like Parley P. Pratt who, in writing the preface to his Voice of Warning, said: "Should the author GENERAL CONFERENCE  called to sacrifice his life for the cause of truth, he will have the consolation that it will be said of him as it was said of Abel, viz: Tie being dead, yet speaketh'." Parley P. Pratt is alive today. He was martyred in 1857 by a wicked man, near the town of Van Buren, in Arkansas, but Elder Pratt is still preaching the gospel; his Voice of Warning is read by thousands and tens of thousands today. His Key to Theology and his Autobiography are still read by the youth of Zion, and, if I can judge from my own experience, the Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt has made a deeper impression upon the youth of Israel than any other book that has been written so far. In saying this I do not slight any other literary production written by the Elders of the Church, but the Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt is, in my estimation, faith-promoting from the first to the last chapter, and to me it proved an inspiration indeed. I owe to the existence and to the reading of that book much of what I am today. After reading that book I felt a great desire to become a servant of God, and in my reflections I thought: Why cannot I seek unto God and receive similar blessings to those received by Brother Pratt? So I began as a youth to seek more earnestly after the truth of heaven than I had ever sought before, and I desired to become a missionary. I wanted to preach the gospel, and the Lord in that regard has answered my prayers, as I have filled a number of missions for the Church. 

But I have been more particularly interested in the history of our people. A short time ago I summarized the number of miles which I have traveled in my lifetime. That may not mean much, as our salvation does not depend upon the number of miles traveled or the length of sermons preached. But there is nevertheless something interesting connected with preaching and traveling, when done with an eye single to the glory of God; and when I discovered that I had traveled something like 469,000 miles, mainly in the interest of Church history, I felt somewhat satisfied with my ei forts and the discharge of my duties in that direction. 

Now, I wish to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we are still pioneers in the cause of Christ. "Mormonism" is not yet one hundred years old, and we have as a fact only just commenced to exist as a people. One thought I desire to impress here upon you. It is this : If you ever had a desire to live in the days of the Savior and to belong to that Church which he and his apostles organized 1900 years ago, you would, after the lapse of 100 years, have had the choice of one of two things : either to become a martyr for the gospel's sake, or to be swept away by the wave of apostasy. Compare this with the assertion made at this conference that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was never in a better condition than it is today, and that its membership was never more numerous or prosperous than it is at the present time. What can we say of the original Church in the light of history, after it had existed one 137  years? There was very little left of it. The apostasy which commenced to show itself in the days of Paul had spread to such an extent that after the great lights of the Church had fallen as martyrs, the great majority of the Saints had turned away from the gospel as originally taught by the Savior. So we thank God for the (dispensation of the fulness of times, and we are writing the history of a people the like of which has never been written before. It is not a history of an ancient people, or of a past dispensation, such as that of the first Christian era or the dispensation of Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham and Moses. All these dispensations had their day, and we know something of their history. But in our case the work of the Lord is here to remain, and it behooves us to remain with it; and our children after us, we trust, will continue the work even more faithfully and successfully than we have done. 

My message to you, my brethren and sisters, is this : You, and particularly the old veterans who sit before me (and you will all be old by and by), write your histories and biographies. 1 am already grayhaired myself. I commenced my missionary experience when I was the youngest of all my missionary companions, but now I am numbered among the older ones, and I would like to feel that I have not lived in vain. I do not wish to die, I never want to die. I know I shall die as to mortality, but otherwise I want to live on continuously, and I want to leave something for posterity. I have been privileged to write some books which I think will be read with considerable interest after I shall have passed to the other side; they are already appreciated by some. And as I think of myself I think of you — you fathers and mothers — who are now living but who in a little while will be in the spirit world, like myself. Do you not desire to leave behind you something for your children to read? Do you not desire to preach the gospel after you are dead and gone as to mortality? If you do, write your histories. Dictate the experiences of your lives to your sons and daughters, that they may write them, for wc have among us many young and talented people, our sons and daughters and grandchildren, who can write good English. Let them, from your dictation, record something of your life's work, and do it without delay. Take this timely advice from one of your historians who has spent his whole life in studying these matters. Do not be satisfied to live *he short span of seventy years, but live forever! Record that which God has done for you and by you, and if you have a testimony that this is the work of God, bequeath that testimony to posterity. I believe that nearly all who are sitting here under the sound of my v oice could bear the same testimony as those who have testified from this stand — the speakers at these meetings. Based upon many years of observations, I may make the statement that our sons and dajghters will think more of us after we have left them than they do now. when we are with them. Parents, as a rule, are not appreciated as they fhould be until after they have passed into eternity. Then, after the GENERAL CONFERENCE  become fatherless and motherless, they will appreciate their parentage, and endeavor to remember what their fathers and mothers have taught them by precept as well as by example. Let us not rely upon the public records to do us justice, but let us pay special attention also to our individual records which will be of equal importance to those who shall live after us, and particularly to our own posterity throughout generations to come. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. My testimony is the same as those which have been borne by my brethren who have already addressed you. "Mormonism" is true. Joseph Smith is a true Prophet. Through him God restored to earth the true gospel of Jesus Christ, and I for one, feel that I owe everything that I am in life, spiritually and temporally, to that gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I feel grateful to the father of these boys (referring to two sons of the late Apostle Erastus Snow sitting on the stand) who came over to Scandinavia in 1850 to introduce the true gospel of Jesus Christ to the inhabitants of northern Europe. I was then in the spirit world, and I imagine that 1 thought it was time for me to enter into mortality, so I asked God to send me down to be born on the 11th of December, 1850, as Erastus Snow and his brethren had arrived in Denmark on the 14th of June previously. I do not remember that 1 asked to be sent down at the time of my birth, but I can imagine such a possibility, because in the spirit world I may have known something of what was taking place on the earth and may have asked for the privilege of coming down to take part in this gospel dispensation. 

God bless you. May he enable us all to do our duty, not only in history-making and record-keeping, but in keeping the commandments of God generally speaking, until the end, so that we eventually may be saved in the kingdom of God. This is my desire and sincere prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Church authorities were presented and unanimously sustained, as at the Tabernacle. 

The choir sang. "Glorious things of Thee are spoken," and bened : cf'on was pronounced by Elder Prank R. Snow of the High Council of Ensign stake. 


