Morning
06 04 1924

Conference was adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning. MORNING SESSION 

Conference opened Sunday morning at 10 o'clock, April 6, 1924. All the seats in the tabernacle were occupied and every available standing space in the building. Many were unable to gain admission. Through a radio device many who were gathered at the Bureau of Information and at the Barratt Hall, listened through radio instruments to the proceedings. Besides, in the Assembly Hall, there was an overflow meeting at which Elder W. A. Hyde of the Pocatello stake presided. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

Elder Moroni Lazenby, president of the North Sevier stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A duet and chorus was rendered by the choir and Mary Lindsay and Cannon Lund, entitled, "An angel from on high." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I cannot express to you, my brethren and sisters, the gratitude that I feel to our heavenly Father, and the joy which I experience as 1 look upon this great congregation of Latter-day Saints who have assembled in general conference to hear the word of the Lord. It is a renewed evidence to me. that as the work of the Lord draws nearer its consummation, the invisible forces of the spirit world are operating upon the hearts of the people, drawing them nearer together, uniting them in faith, and preparing them for the great events which are before us, even at our very doors. 

THE MULTITUDE COMPARED WITH AN ANCIENT GATHERING 

As we stood up for the opening hymn, I thought of these words which are recorded in the Book of Mormon. King Benjamin had sent out an invitation to the Nephite people to gather together at the temple in the land of Zarahemla. When they assembled it was discovered that the temple was not large enough to contain all of the people, so he ordered a tower erected upon the outside, that he might address them from that spot. But still the people could not hear; so many had assembled. So he ordered that the words which he spoke be written and distributed among them, in order that they might all know the things which he was about to declare. This house is filled to overflowing with people. The Assembly Hall is full, and there are still multitudes upon the outside who cannot be accommodated in either of these buildings. 

PROCEEDINGS OF A CHARACTER TO STIMULATE FAITH 

The entire proceedings of the conference, my brethren and sisters, have been of a character, I am sure, to stimulate faith, to cause our minds to revert to the simple but fundamental doctrines of the gospel by which we are kept in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. 

AUTHORITY CONFERRED UPON THE APOSTLES 

I thought yesterday, as the meetings progressed, of these words which are recorded here in the last chapter of St. Matthew : 

"Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 

"And when they saw him, they worshiped him; but some doubted" (for this was after his resurrection from the dead). 

"And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. 

"Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost: 

"Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." 

It was the last .sentence, expressed in these words of the Redeemer, to which my attention was particularly drawn, "teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded." and if they do this, "Lo, I am with you unto the end of the world." 

Two years prior to the time when this commission was given, the Redeemer had called to him the Twelve Disciples whom he had chosen, and instructed them to go to the lost sheep of the House of Israel, and declared to them that the kingdom of heaven was at hand. They were to go, putting their trust in the Lord, with the promise that he would protect them, would provide food and clothing and deliver them from the hands of enemies, who might ,seek to harm them. 

At the time of his appearance to the Nephites, after his resurrection from the dead, the Redeemer called twelve men upon whom he conferred authority to call the people to repentance and faith in him, and to baptize all who believed, for the remission of sins, after which he promised them the Gift of the Holy Ghost. 

LIKE AUTHORITY CONFERRED UPON THE TWELVE IN OUR DAY 

It is quite natural, then, and in harmony with the well-defined order of the Church, that with the restoration of the work of the Lord in the dispensation in which we live, twelve men should be chosen upon whom the apostleship was conferred, and to whom the command of the Lord was renewed; for he commanded these twe'.ve : to go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature, who had not received it, baptizing them in the name of the Father  the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, and conferring upon the baptized believer, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. 

So important are these first principles of the gospel that in the early days of the Church the Lord commanded Martin Harris that he should preach nothing else. 

THE ORDINANCE OF BAPTISM 

Initiation into the Church is an event of tremendous importance, to one who accepts it. So important was it regarded in the primitive Church that we are told that the ordinance of baptism was administered to none except those who took upon them the name of Christ, with a determination to serve him, and came forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, manifesting to the Church that they had truly repented of all of their sins. To one who has thus prepared himself, the ordinance of baptism washes away hi,s sins, and he is born to newness of life. He stands clean before the Lord, an heir to glory, exaltation and eternal life — not definitely, but conditionally; for in exchange for this priceless gift he enters into covenant that he will take upon him in the name of Christ, and always remember him and keep the commandments which he has given. If we violate this covenant, it were better never to have made it. 

To be admitted into the Church, then, is but to have our feet placed in the straight and narrow path which, if we diligently pursue our way, will lead us back to God from whence we came. Having been born to newness of life, Latter-day Saints should lay off the habiliments of the carnal man, and clothe themselves in robes of righteousness, that is to say, our mode of life should correspond, in all respects, with our profession of faith. 

TO BE IN POSSESSION OF THE SPIRIT OF GOD WE MUST PRAY 

In order that we may retain a remission of our sins, it is necessary that we be constantly in possession of the Spirit of the Lord, and the medium through which we obtain and retain his Spirit is prayer. Prayer is the outward act by which we manifest our faith in the Lord. It is not the multiplicity of words which are uttered, that brings the desired blessings, but the degree of faith with which we approach our Father who is in heaven. It is mockery to pray to a being in whose power to hear and answer we have no faith, as I have often thought that some men do today. The Lord, referring to this subject, warned us that when we pray we are not to be like the hypocrites who love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets that they may be heard of men, nor to use vain repetition, thinking to be heard for our much speaking, neither are public prayers alone sufficient, important though they are in their time and place, but we are admonished that we should pray in secret, and the definite promise is made that the prayer of faith, so offered, shall be rewarded openly. HUMILITY SHOULD CHARACTERIZE OUR CONDUCT 

The doctrine of humility, taught in this lesson given us by the Redeemer, should characterize the conduct of Latter-day Saints in all of the activities of life, for he has told us that we should be clothed upon with humility, for God resists the proud and giveth grace to the humble. And he tells us that as we wax stronger in humility, we become firmer in the faith unto the filling of our souls with joy. 

Latter-day Saints .should seek wisdom and learn the value of righteousness and justice; they should patiently submit to persecution when it is for righteousness sake, be slow to anger, quick to forgive, merciful, but always just. They should be peacemakers constantly striving both by precept and example to bring to pass the universal brotherhood of man. 

GOOD WILL AND FORGIVENESS FUNDAMENTAL 

It is fundamental to the faith of all creeds that man should not take the life of his fellow. The Redeemer went further than this, teaching that he who is angry with his brother will not be held guiltless. He taught us that when differences arise between brethren, they should be settled quickly, and when once adjusted, are not to be the subject of further discussion or comment; that we should be men and women of few words, reaching conclusions quickly, but wisely, as circumstances may justify; making our decision yes or no, and let that be the end of controversy. 

The law of Moses taught the doctrine of retaliation for wrong inflicted. The Master teaches that we are not to resist evil, but patiently submit to the offences of others, that we should not only love our friends, but our enemies also; that we should bless those who curse us, do good to those who hate us, and pray for those who despitefully use us and persecute us — a thing not easy of ac* complishment; but nevertheless a direct commandment, and one which brings to the soul of those who apply it the satisfaction of a righteous act performed. 

EXERCISE CHARITY WITHOUT OSTENTATION 

In this age of organized charity, when the contributions which we make to provide for the necessities of those who have not, are advertised to the world, and we love to be known as liberal givers, it is well to turn again to the word of the Lord, for he has told us that when we give alms we are to see to it that it be not before men, to be seen of them, otherwise we have no reward of our Father which is in Heaven; that we are not to sound a trumpet before us as the hypocrites do, that we may have the honors of men, but that we, when we give alms, are not to let our left hand know what our right hand doeth. In other words, the alms which we give should be contributed for the love of giving, and with desire to administer to the necessities of others, rather than for the praise of men. It was this, my  and sisters, which made the widows mite .more acceptable to the Lord than all that others had cast into the treasury. 

SEEK WISDOM AND NOT WEALTH 

Having become members of the Church, taking upon us the name of Christ, acknowledging our dependence upon him and entering into covenant that we will serve him and keep his commandments, the Lord has told us that we are not to devote our energies to the accumulation of wealth, that we shall not seek after riches, but after wisdom, and those things which bring eternal blessings; for he says that riches and the honors which men bestow will canker the soul, if not used for the glory of God, and that the lament of the rich, who have not used their wealth for the accomplishment of good, will be: "The harvest is over, the summer is passed, and our souls are not saved." Neither will poverty in itself bring blessings. It is the poor who are reconciled to their lot, and the rich who are poor in spirit, with whom the Lord is well pleased. He has admonished us that we are not to devote our energies to the accumulation of wealth for this reason, that we cannot devotedly and acceptably serve two Masters. He .says that we will either neglect one or the other. We cannot faithfully, as we should, serve both God and Mammon. Therefore he admonishes us that we should lay up treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not corrupt, nor thieves break in and steal. 

BE SLOW TO RENDER JUDGMENT AND CRITICISM 

The Lord has plainly told us that we should be wise and judicious, that we should be slow to render judgment or criticism of our fellows; for he has told us that with the judgment which we mete out to others, we ourselves will be judged. How often, how readily, we detect and magnify the faults of our neighbors, while we overlook our own imperfections. How often we seek to pull the mote from the eye of our brother, and forget the beam which is in our own. "Therefore," saith the Lord, "judge not, and ye shall not be judged; condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned; forgive and ye shall be forgiven." In other words, whatsoever ye would that men shall do unto you, do ye even so unto them — an admonition of the Lord, carrying with it one of the most sublime principles ever uttered by the tongue of man. 

FAST WITH CHEERFUL COUNTENANCE 

Fasting is a doctrine of the Church. Here again the Lord has told us that when we fast we are not to be as the hypocrites who disfigure their faces, that they may appear to the world to fast; but we are to wash our faces and with cheerful countenance appear to men not to fast; and the definite promise is made that the Lord, who seeth in secret, will reward us openly. honor marriage; be chaste and virtuous 

The marital relations of the world, — and to a certain degree it applies to the Church — were referred to yesterday by Bishop Nibley. Here again is a matter which is deserving of our most careful attention and consideration. The fountains of life, designed by the Creator for the reproduction of humankind, and sacred to the marital relation only, are made the plaything of faithless, godless men and women. The holy bonds of matrimony, the only order which gives proper sanction to the association of the sexes, is entered into and dissolved at will. These conditions are, in my opinion, the most dangerous menaces to our national life which exists today. The Lord pleads with us to honor the association of man and woman in lawful wedlock, and makes plain to us the penalties which are attached to the violation of laws of chastity and virtue, both in this life and that to come, and appeals to us that we shall observe these laws, which are the crown of matrimony, and should be held by us as sacred as life itself. 

WHY THESE SIMPLE DOCTRINES SHOULD BE IMPLICITLY OBSERVED 

I have referred to these simple, but indispensable doctrines of the Church, because it appears necessary to me to do so. We are living in the day referred to by the Prophet Isaiah, who said that the nations should rush as the rushing of mighty waters, but God would rebuke them. 

I sometimes fear, my brethren and sisters, that in this mad rush for wealth, for power, for personal aggrandizement, this age of dishonesty in high places, disregard for law, and indifference to virtue, and religion, that we may be caught in the swirling flood and carried on to destruction unless we revert to those simple but fundamental doctrines of the Gospel, and put our trust in the Lord, renewing our covenants with him, that his arm may sustain us. 

We are living at the time seen by Lehi, the Nephite prophet, when, because of the darkness, which covered the earth, many people who had entered into the straight and narrow path which leads to eternal life, as we have done, lost their way and perished. But those who seized and held fast to the rod of iron, which is the word of God, found their way safely through the dark night until they reached the tree of life, and partook of its fruit, which is more desirable than all others. 

WARNING AGAINST BECOMING LIKE THE PHARISEES OF OLD 

The commission given to the Twelve who hold the apostleship today is to go into the world and preach the gospel to all people, admonishing them to rely upon the merits of our Father, to take upon them the name of Christ and to keep all of the commandments which he has given, to only a few of which I have called your attention. We must not my brethren and sisters become so absorbed with the temporalities of life, with the weighty and abstruse doctrines  the gospel, that we forget these simple and fundamental doctrines of the Church to which I have called your attention, lest we become like the Scribes and Pharisees of old, of whom the Redeemer said : "Ye diligently pay your tithes and offerings, but ye forget the more weighty thing's of the law, judgment, justice and mercy. These," he said, "you should have kept and not left the others undone." 

REMEMBER THESE SIMPLE, FUNDAMENTAL DOCTRINES 

May the Lord help us all, my brethren and sisters, for I am speaking to myself as well as to you, to remember these simple fundamental doctrines of the gospel of Christ, that our lives may be such that the Spirit of the Lord may abide with us, and the revelations of heaven be manifested to us through the whispering of the Holy Spirit, which has been conferred upon every one of us, the office work of which is to take the things of the Father and make them known to us, that we may each discharge with honor before the Lord the obligations which are upon us, and wait patiently the development of his work, that we may bring to pass the redemption of his covenant people, the establishment of righteousness in the earth, when Christ shall reign triumphant among his people, is my humble prayer, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

President Grant announced to the congregation outside that it would be acceptable if they would be as quiet as possible and move around as little as possible so that those who were standing at the Bureau of Information could hear the speakers. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

( Presiding Patriarch of the Church ) 

It is a wonderful opportunity to stand here and face this multitude of people, and I am sure some of you realize that it is a wonderful responsibility. I hope to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord the few moments I stand here, in keeping with the brethren who have already occupied this position. I have learned, to a certain degree, the weight of responsibility that has come to me as one of the youths of Israel, one of the young men of Zion, in these the last days. 

President Ivins has been speaking to us concerning the commandments of the Lord, and how these commandments have been taught to us of the Lord, at different times in the history of the world. We are aware of the fact that the Lord has spoken to us in plainness, and that his commandments are given to us in our own language, simple, plain and forceful, and yet many of us are so blinded by the conditions that surround us, perhaps by the fashions of the world, with which we are surrounded, that we fail in many ways to keep the commandments of the Lord. I suppose, my experience has given me as good a view as any officer in the Church, to judge about how well the Latter-day Saints keep the commandments of the Lord. I think also that the Lord has made me in a way rather sympathetic, and when I discover my brethren or sisters seeking the Lord, for comfort, blessings, strength, courage, faith, and for other gifts or blessings, or help, I stand ready, naturally, to do my part in assisting to see that the desired comfort, and consolation, are received. But I have discovered that the greater number of those who are seeking comfort and consolation and help from the Lord are those who are in trouble, those who have unfortunately stumbled over some of the obstacles that have crossed their pathway. And so there are a great many members of the Church who are constantly seeking for help, comfort, and consolation, and the Lord in his kindness, in the great and wonderful organization of his Church, has placed officers therein to assist in administering the comfort and consolation which his children naturally seek. 

I should like to bring to the attention of the members of the Church these noble and worthy officers whom the Lord has placed in his Church, they are stationed throughout the Stakes of Zion just as well as at the head of the Church. They are noble, exemplary and worthy men. They are the Patriarchs in the Church and are authorized with the powers and the keys of authority, to administer the blessings desired by the members of the Church. It is my purpose on this occasion, my brethren and sisters, to recommend these good men to you, to administer your blessings, in keeping with the instructions which have come to us from the Lord through his holy servants. They are modest in their character; they dislike very much to come to you and .say: "Well now, here I am, a servant of the Lord, authorized with all the keys, authorities and powers to bless you, and I am ready, ask and you shall receive." It is not their purpose to come to you, particularly, but it is your privilege to go to them; they are authorized to act for you, and it is my faith and my testimony to you brethren and sisters, that they are humble and pure enough to act in their calling, and give unto you the blessings of the Lord, and not entirely the blessings of men. It is true that we, as fellowmen, can bless one another. We can encourage and comfort each other; but these men of whom I speak, who bear the holy Priesthood, have been especially authorized, called and set apart, they are authorized to comfort you with the blessings of the Lord. So I recommend that you do not slight or forget these good men. Pray for them as you would pray for your own household. Pray for them that they may enjoy the spirit of their office and calling in the Church. 

In olden days, patriarchs were placed in Israel to perform ordinances for Christ, by the laying on of hands. Adam called his posterity together and foretold unto them the great future that might befall them, for their benefit, comfort, and guidance, and inj like manner these men are placed in our midst for that same purpose, to comfort, guide and sustain us in the fold of Christ. I have been  that there is a blessing for every faithful member of the Church. It is true there are many members who have had other blessings, and if they are considered in a proper light, I am sure they have done no harm, and perhaps will do no harm in the future. But I think every faithful member of the Church should receive his or her blessing. 

The first Patriarch in this dispensation, the father of our Prophet, when he was upon his dying bed, called his family around him and gave them his dying blessing; and when his oldest living son came, he said : "Hyrum, the only blessing I have for you is to reconfirm upon you your patriarchal blessing which you have already received." That was his dying blessing, with very few other remarks of comfort and consolation; this assures me that there is a fundamental principle in a patriarchal blessing when pronounced and recorded. It is an eternal anchor for our soul with the Lord; so it is not particularly necessary to receive a multitude of written blessings. But when these blessings are given and properly recorded, they are just as eternal and binding upon us through our faithfulness as were the blessines which were given by Adam, Abraham, Jacob or any of the former patriarchs in the times which have passed. 

I have open here before me the Book of Genesis, which contains the records of a number of patriarchal blessings. They are not long, they do not cover pages and pages of manuscript, but they are very brief and pointed; and it has taken generations of time, many years of time, for their fulfilment; in fact, they are not entirely fulfilled yet — 'blessings that were given upon the heads of the descendants of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, and upon the sons of Jacob. 

So, my brethren and sisters, if you will discover the keynote of your blessing it will not be a long one, necessarily, but an index that will point to you the book of life, the book of the way of your life, in the path that you should go to serve God and to keep his commandments. So, I say, do not wait until you are in trouble to go to the Lord, through his holy servants, but seek them out in their homes, in their offices, make appointments with them and get your blessings. 

My heart is filled, today, with compassion and with the blessings of the Lord for his people, and I pray that our Father in heaven will continue to pour out his blessings upon this Church, upon those who are called to preside over it, and in it, that he will sustain them with health, strength, wisdom, and with his Holy Spirit, that he will bless the people in their homes and in their fields of labor, the Saints both gathered and scattered, that they may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, and live exemplary lives, free from the follies and vices of the world, even though we are much surrounded by the world. Let us be that peculiar people which the Lord declared he would have. Let us hearken unto the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, and to the teachings given us, not only in general conferences, but in our quarterly conferences and in all of our local gatherings. And in the name of the Lord, as his humble servant, I bless this multitude present here today, and say unto you: Serve the Lord and keep his commandments. Hearken unto that small voice, which is the voice of the Holy Spirit, which will guide you in the way of truth, in the way of life, and then you will receive the precious blessings which you desire, in faithfulness and which have been nobly pointed out to us this morning by President Ivins. They are the blessings of the Lord, and they will be upon you and upon this people, so long as we will serve the Lord; the Lord of this Church, this land, this world; for this world is his, and we are his, and if we will only hearken unto his teachings, he will bless us temporally and spiritually. God bless you all through your faithfulness, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The anthem, "He watches over Israel," was sung by the choir. 

ELDER REY L. PRA IT 

(President of the Mexican .fission) 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I sense very keenly the responsibility of addressing you for a few moments this morning, and my only desire is to add my testimony to those that have been borne by the brethren who have spoken during this conference relative to the truthfulness of the work in which we are all engaged. 

Since the beginning of this conference the words of the Apostle Paul to the Corinthian saints have been passing through my mind, wherein he said : 

"For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." And I am most thankful to the Lord that in this day and age in which we live he has again set up his kingdom and established his Church and restored his gospel, and in them has placed his power; for I testify to you, this morning that the Prophet Joseph Smith was raised up of God, and did not take unto himself power, but from our Father in heaven received power to establish this great work; and the work ol the Lord, in this day and age in which we live, is characterized by the power of our Father in heaven in all of its ramifications. We who have listened to the inspired words of our Prophet and leader and his counselors, and the Twelve Apostles in this conference, surely are witnesses of the power of God that has accompanied their words. I marveled last night, when we saw the body of this hall filled with men bearing the holy Priesthood, at the wonderful power there is in this Church for the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, for the preaching of the gospel, for the warning of all men everywhere in order that they may turn from error, from false traditions, and receive the principles of the gospel and be saved in the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, as one who labors  the mission field abroad, that the young men who go forth from Zion to preach the gospel unto the nations of the earth, are preaching it in power. They speak truly after the manner of the Master, and men marvel, and are led to comment and say, "They speak as men having authority." There is no doubt as to the genuineness, the sincerity, of the testimonies borne; by the young men who preach the gospel message in the world. While many people do not accept their teachings, they do not question their sincerity. And this is a tribute, I take it, to the great power that accompanies their ministry in the world. 

I know that the gospel is true. I have no definite knowledge as to what my status or standing will be in the future. I do not know that I shall be able to maintain my integrity and my faith, but I do know, and bear witness to you here today, that the thing known as "Mormonism" is the gospel of Jesus Christ; it is the power of God unto salvation, and it is a means unto the salvation of every man who will believe and obey its principles. This is the message that we are delivering in the world. I care not what obstacles present themselves before this work. The Lord himself has said, that even though the gates of hell combat against it, they shall not prevail. I have faith in the fulfilment of all that God has promised unto his people in these days. Particularly I wish to refer to my faith in the promises of the Lord made by his holy prophets concerning the redemption of the Lamanite people. My heart was touched yesterday by the recital of Brother Levi Edgar Young of the Indian brothers who crossed this continent, going to the East, in an endeavor to bring back with them that which would save their people. The pathos of their having to go back without it was truly touching to me, my brethren and sisters. Ana now I rejoice that God has restored the truth, that he has made known a book and brought it forth in the world, that is the history of the forefathers of these people. And in that book is prophetically held out a hope for the redemption of the Lamanite people everywhere. 

We are laboring in a land beset by strife and turmoil, trouble and revolution. It would seem almost sufficient to discourage us in our efforts. But I wish to bear testimony that my faith grows, rather than diminishes, in the knowledge that I have, that God will, in his own due time and in his own way, redeem the Lamanite people. 

I delight to bring word to the fathers and mothers of the faithful boys and girls — for they are mere youths — who are in that mission, that they are enjoying good health, and above all, they are enjoying the spirit of their mission. They do not wish to turn to the right nor to the left, but are willing to face conditions as they find them, and humbly preach the gospel, in the hope that their testimony may touch the hearts of the people and bring them to a knowledge of God, and a knowledge of their forefathers, and the gospel whereby they may be redeemed. 

I am thankful to the Lord for giving me this testimony. I pray that it may always be with me, and with you my brethren and sisters, and that we may go on without fear and without doubt, remembering this, that in the Church is the power of God that can work his will for the redemption of all men everywhere. May the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I should like to speak for the fathers and the mothers of the Church and in their behalf say to the young people of the Church : 

A MESSAGE TO THE YOUTH OF ZION 

Young men and young women, we believe in you; we have confidence in your integrity, and in the achievement of your high destiny. We support you, we love you. I believe if we could make the young people of the Church understand that, we should have gone a long way to hold them to the standards of the Church and to the keeping of the commandments which have occupied in their exposition, such a large portion of this conference. 

THE GREAT OBLIGATION OF PARENTS 

I was very grateful that President Grant was led in the course of his opening remarks to restate and reemphasize the great obligation of parents to their children; for it is that thing which seems to me, above all others, to claim our attention as a Church. We are depending upon the rising generation to carry forward this great and mighty work. Only a few years at best will serve to see the men whom you will sustain here today as the prophets and authorities of this great institution, pass to their honorable reward. The burdens of administration, the opportunities of leadership must, in natural sequence, pass to other and younger shoulders. So that, loving the work as we do, believing in its great accomplishments for the future, we must, of necessity, hold and claim these young people to carry it forward, to stand for and maintain God's work. 

I think they need at this time large sympathy from us. When I contemplate the environment in which they are placed, the unusual conditions surrounding them, my heart goes out to every one who must stand for honest manhood and resist untoward influences and maintain himself in accordance with the commandments of God and the standards of the Church. 

UNUSUAL EDUCATIONAL ENVIRONMENT INFLUENCES THE YOUTH 

Do you contemplate the fact that the great educational forces surrounding the youth of today are most unusual, that in the major portion they did not exist a few decades ago? There were no moving pictures twenty or twenty-five years ago, and within that short space of time, that great enterprise which produces these pictures  distributes them all over the world for the education, mind you, of the people of the world, and the youth of the land in particular, has come to be, it is said, the fourth largest commercial enterprise in the world. Thousands and thousands every day are subjected to the influence and the education of these pictures. What that education is, you may judge for yourselves. What lessons are taught, you yourselves have seen, and that our young people should respond to those lessons is as natural as it is for flowers to grow in the sunshine, or f or vegetation to die in the dark, depressing, poisonous atmosphere of a cellar. 

Many inventions and innovations of the past few years have also wrought their influences upon these boys and girls so susceptible to their environment. There has been the advent of the automobile, radios, new kinds and varieties of drama, of music, or that which is said to be music, all of which just as naturally and as inevitably influence and determine the emotions, and in a large respect, the actions of these boys and girls, as it is possible to do. A man can, only with the greatest of restraint and of force, take himself out of his environment and stand against the influences inserted against him in society. It is harder for young people than it is for adults to do that, because their natures are more susceptible and impressionable to the influences around about them. 

AN APPEAL TO PARENTS IN BEHALF OF THE YOUNG FOLKS 

In behalf of all these young folks up and down the Church, I would like to say to the parents of the Church : We claim your sympathy. We need your guiding hand, but we need your guidance expressed in terms of love and understanding. I feel that in many instances the young folks of the Church are not fully understood. I;do not like to hear them berated, I do not like to hear it said that they have all gone wrong and that they are all going wrong. I do not believe it, because I believe that these young folks, by right have inherited, fundamentally, the faith of their fathers. They have inherited a disposition to serve God. That is the natural and logical sequence of the lives of the great pioneers of this country who came here to serve him and keep his commandments, and establish his great and mighty work. Therefore, I cannot think that in the main the young people of this Church are not the best, the most dependable, the most progressive and the finest young generation which the world, at least within the realm of history, has ever seen. 

Sometimes parents, out of a great desire to be helpful and to warn against danger and evil, assume an austerity that is forbidding to these young folks, and too often, much too often, there is a failure of that sympathetic understanding which makes a bond of union and love between parents and children than which there is no greater bulwark of safety for the young people of the Church. I appeal to every parent in this Church to understand his children. To understand them he must, to some extent at least, participate in their activities and recreation. He must delve into their inmost longings and cravings and aspirations. He must know the things that have appealed to them, and then discriminately, wisely, sympathetically, he shall guide them, guide them in the paths of truth and of righteousness. 

VISIONS OF WONDERFUL OPPORTUNITY OF THE HOME 

What we need today is an interpretation of the gospel of Jesus Christ in terms of joyous living. The gospel is not, as many of our young folks think it to be, a hard, a joy-killing rule of life. I sometimes think that our young people are dissuaded from participation in the activities of the Church because there has never been given, to many of them at least, the great vision of the wonderful opportunity, the joys, the happiness, the services which are to be had within it. We need to let them know that for happiness, for supreme joy, for those permanent satisfactions that go to make life worth living, there is no course in life comparable to the course laid down by the blessed gospel of our Lord and our Savior. They do not all understand that. They do not all recognize the great joy to be had from participation within our Church institutions, and it is our great mission in the various institutions of the Church, and primarily in that greatest of all Church institutions, the home, to give that joyous conception of the principles of the gospel. 

THE GOSPEL A CONSTRUCTIVE PROGRAM 

Our gospel is not a gospel of negation. It is true that we are commanded to eschew evil and to avoid many things which present themselves in forms of temptation, but our gospel is a positive uplifting, constructive program, making life happy if we will but subscribe to its tenets and live up to the commandments as they have been given to us. 

I think that the Christian church of the world has itself to blame for its failure in really teaching the gospel of Christ. It is largely because of the attitude taken by many of its leaders, whose longfaced piety and joy-killing aspect have never been pleasing to young people. It is said by the critics of Christ that, "Christ is the prophet of the weak; on the contrary, he came to give strength to the languishing, and to raise up those trodden under foot to be higher than kings. They say that his is the religion of the sick and of the dying, and yet he heals the sick and brings the sleeping to life. They say that he is against life, and yet he conquers death; that he is the God of sadness, and yet he exhorts his followers to be joyful and promises an everlasting banquet of joy to his friends. They say he introduced sadness and mortification into the world, and on the contrary when he was alive he ate and drank, and let his feet and hair be perfumed, and detested hypocritical fasts, and the penitential mummeries of vanity. Many have left Christ because they never knew him." 

OH, THAT BOYS AND GIRLS MIGHT KNOW JESUS CHRIST 

Oh, how I want our boys and girls to know Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of men! How I wish that they would recognize that he is their dearest and their greatest friend, that they may put their trust in him, knowing that he will never forsake them, and that a testimony of his divinity and his great work is the greatest influence that will ever come into their lives. 

Brethren and sisters, it is our mission and our duty to give them that testimony, for the enrichment of their souls, and for that salvation, for which we all labor and strive. God bless the youth of Zion, that they may accomplish their high and noble destiny in the purposes of the Lord, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(President of the First Council of Seventy) 

In this exalted position, being honored to stand before this magnificent congregation, I hope to voice the sentiments of my heart in the testimony which I hope to bear to you today. 

The gospel is true. God has indeed spoken from the heavens and called into being the power that has resulted in the organization of this great people constituting the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

"Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; and he that believeth not shall be damned," or condemned. 

Time since the organization of the Church has proved this great fact, that the majority of mankind are not prepared or preparing themselves to receive the word of the Lord. Nearly one hundred years have passed since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and yet among the eighteen hundred millions, or two thousand millions of peoples of the earth, the true Church, as we view it and testify for it, has only about a half million members, proving beyond a question of a doubt that the great majority of mankind has something to attract their attention besides their soul's salvation. Rather than contemplate the future and prepare for future life, it would seem that the large majority of the people of the earth are preparing for .social and pleasant enjoyment of the present day, giving to themselves all the pleasures of life that they can gather, and seemingly not impressed at all with the great future and the great reward that will come to those who serve the Lord and keep his commandments. 

I am very glad to stand here today and look over this great congregation, this large Tabernacle filled to its capacity; and seemingly every face, so far as I can observe, is anxiously turned this way. Every person seems devoted and determined to hear the words that are spoken by the servants of the Lord. 

This is a day of prosperity for the Latter-day Saints. We are in the midst of a very prosperous season. The years that have gone since the great World War terminated have marked this nation of ours with wonderful, I might almost say supreme, prosperity. The earth has brought forth in its strength all the necessaries of life, and the luxuries; while there are, as we know, nations on the continents of Europe, Asia and Africa, that are suffering with hunger, and in the colder climates with cold, for want of proper clothing; and yet this nation of ours prospers, as it is being well supplied with the food crops necessary for prolongation of life, with health and means for sufficient clothing, and the comforts of home. While this is evidenced here, it is also made plain to us- that there is plenty ot room for the disposition of wealth and comforts of life to those starving millions on the other side of the ocean; and I believe that there has no other nation responded so readily to those calls of necessity by the agencies that have been established, there is no other nation, so far as I know, that has stood so loyally and so promptly in the gap to help to .sustain life in the midst of these suffering nations, and for the prompt reply, favorably, to the calls that have been made, from time to time, by these nations. I believe that for this reason we are thus blessed and prospered today. F"or we have not refused, but have always sent, and given largely, and many times in excess of all demands. At least there is a united purpose in the midst of our nation, seeking to relieve the sufferings of those who are hungry and cold. 

When the Church was organized, on the 6th day of April, — by the by, this is the 6th of April, the 94th anniversary — there was considerable disturbance in the minds of religious peoples, and from those very religious or social gatherings came largely the opposition to the Prophet Joseph Smith and to his calling and position as a Prophet of the Lord. Thus the gospel of Jesus Christ has been compelled, through those recognized servants of the Lord, to fight its way through, and by and by, from the time of its organization, I suppose, with the hope of some day living in peace with our neighbors. That day seems to have dawned. We are in peaceful relationship with our neighbors, and with everybody, so far as we can get into their circles with the gospel truths. Never before, I believe, have we had such splendid ministrations in our great missions, I mean as to competent elders and competent missionaries of both sexes; and today we rejoice in the testimonies of the brethren who are at the head of these missions of the Church. They believe that they are making progress in every department of the work, and I am glad to hear the testimonies of my brethren from this stand, for they all bespeak a characteristic of perfect faith and knowledge in the outcome of this work, in its being superior to any other religious work that is now being established. From the President of the Church to the least and  member, each of those occupying a lesser position, as they have testified here during this conference, and as they will continue to do until it is closed, we hear nothing but what is prompted by the spirit of the Lord, by the testimony of a faithful Latter-day Saint. In each and every case, nothing but the free spirit of progress has been expressed here, and nothing but pure testimonies of the gospel of Jesus Chiist have been heard from the lips of the speakers. 

Today will probably see the sustaining vote of the congregation, as they are called to vote for the officers of the Church. 1 do not believe, with the circumstances with which we are surrounded, and the spirit of this great congregation, that there will be one dissenting vote or one contrary to sustaining the authorities of the Church, when the vote shall be taken sometime during the day. 

I am glad to be associated with the Latter-day Saints. I began my experience at one year of age, at which time I went through the experience of the massacre at Haun's Mill. I attended a fair in one of the nearby cities a year or two ago, and I saw within the gates of the fair grounds a stone, an old-fashioned burr stone, as we used to call them, for grinding grain. You know it speaks in the Scriptures of the upper and nether mill-stone. And one of these stones, it was stated on a placard, was taken from the old well where twenty "Mormons" were buried after a battle with the citizens of the surrounding country. I said to the people standing by : "That does not tell the truth. It was not a battle, it was a bloody massacre of innocent men who had no means of defense." And, by the by, the toll exacted at that massacre was the largest of any at any one time that had ever been taken from the Church. The deaths amounted to about twenty-two persons, all males, however. There was one female, I think, wounded accidentally but not seriously. The people who came to distress that little band or colony of "Mormons" seemed to shun the idea of killing women and children, and devoted their entire strength to the destruction of the men. Eighty-five years have passed since that massacre, and I would like very much to see a very well-marked stone at the place where the massacre occurred — not costly, but merely , a mark that will remain for future generations to see. 

I rejoice today in the testimonies which I have heard. I testify to you that the gospel is true. I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. I know as well as I know that I live that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God, and those brethren who have succeeded him, commencing with President Brigham Young, including President John Taylor, including President Wilford Woodruff, including President Lorenzo Snow, including President Joseph F. Smith, and now our beloved President Heber J. Grant, are men called to that high position which they occupied and do occupy, by the inspiration of the Spirit of God, and under the direction of that power and that Spirit, they have led and guided the people; and the conditions with which we are surrounded today proclaim to me in the most satisfactory manner that the people generally, the majority of the Latter-day Saints, are striving with might, mind and strength, from the President down to the least and last member, to know the mind and will of the Lord and to keep his commandments. The prosperity which we experience today, the plenty with which we are surrounded, and the testimonies of the people who do not belong to the Church, all are convincing arguments to remind us that the Lord is blessing his people more abundantly today than ever before, and the testimonies of the brethren seem to be brighter and clearer than ever before, bringing to my mind and to my great satisfaction, that we are lovers of God more than lovers of pleasure, and that we are trying to fulfil the measure of those two great commandments given to us by .the Savior of the world : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind * * * * and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

I pray the Lord to bless the Latter-day Saints. Bless their labors and inspire them in the future as in the past. Give them joy in their labors, because of the earnestness of endeavor that the people are making to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. God bless the Presidency of the Church, and every responsible leader, and all the people, I pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen. 

Announcements of the special Priesthood meeting to be held on Monday morning at 10 o'clock, also of the Sunday School conference to be held Sunday evening, the 6th, at 7 o'clock, were made. 

The choir sang, "The Inflammatus" with Dolores Seal as soloist. 

The closing prayer was given by Elder Jacob Hamblin of the St. Johns stake of Zion. 



