Afternoon
05 04 1924

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is certainly very gratifying to see this building filled to overflowing with people, many standing in the aisles and the doorways. We have never before had such an attendance upon a week day at any of our conferences as we had yesterday and as we are having today. Amplifiers have been installed in the Assembly Hall, so that those who do not have seats here, and would like to go over there, can be comfortably seated, and hear whatever is .said in this building. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 65 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Once upon a time I had occasion to make purchases for the fitting up of rooms for office work. 

NOT CONNECTED UP A COMPARISON 

I went into a large electrical establishment, there to select electroliers, push buttons, switches, bells, and annunciators. I was confronted with a splendid display of these appliances. The salesman, up-todate in matter and method, drew my attention to the excellence of this or that piece, and showed me how well the push button provided for the wall would go with that particular hanging, or the bell that he recommended. I stepped to the button and pressed it, but, lo, there was silence. I turned a switch to see how the light would glow in the frosted globe, to which my attention had been drawn with many commendatory remarks from the salesman, but there was no light. I knew the reason, but I gave myself the pleasure, of having him explain. He said : "You see these things are here for show, they are not connected up." After having made my selections I smiled over the incident as it came to me in mind, and I said : "How like some of the institutions of men — beautiful to look upon, gilded, studded, ornamental, sometimes simple and ofttimes lavish and ornate, but not connected up." 

INSTITUTIONS OF MEN 

Men may form institutions as they like, provided they have but good purpose in so doing, and may do with those institutions, within the limits of propriety, whatever they choose, and they may even call such institutions churches — for there is no patent on the term — and these being churches that men have made, they may be handled as men choose. So I have no fault to find at all with men or institutions who are suggesting changes in their creeds, or modifications of what have been regarded as their fundamental doctrines. They made those churches, and they can do with them just as they like. They have named them appropriately; most of the names are expressive, honest, frank and truthful; and men may do what they like within the limits of reason and ordinary propriety with things that men have made. 

BEWARE OF FORMS WITHOUT POWER 

Someone has remarked that there is a difference between the form and the substance. I only need to remind you of the admonition that Paul gave unto his associate in the ministry, Timothy, to be in turn given by the younger missionary to the people : to beware of the form of godliness without the power thereof. Read it for yourselves in II Timothy, third chapter. There is a context there to which I would like to call your attention, for I believe it has application in this day:  j .; , , "This know also," wrote Paul, "that in the last days perilous times shall come. 

"For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful unholy, 

"Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those who are good, 

"Traitors heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God." 

Do you not think that Paul was a prophet? Was he not a seer in fact? Was he not able to see this day, these last times? He sums up his admonition in the next verse: 

"Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away." 

THE GOSPEL GIVEN BY REVELATION OF JESUS CHRIST 

We read that in the wonderful manifestation of the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, to Joseph Smith in this last age, in the spring of 1820, the Lord Jesus Christ made that same comment, or declaration, concerning the many opposing, quarreling, contending sects of the times, whose creeds he pronounced an abomination in his sight; for, said he, "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." With marked appropriateness Bishop Nibley this morning drew attention to a passage in the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Such part of it as he cited, he quoted exactly. The context, however, is interesting to consider, beginning with the 19th verse, the Lord having spoken of the real meaning and significance of the Priesthood, which is the power to speak and to act in the name of God, declared; 

"And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. 

"And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." 

Now, as I have started on Scripture reading, and I can not give you better doctrine than that we find recorded in the written word, I turn for a moment to the letter that Paul wrote to the saints in Galatia, some of whom had become careless and negligent after his departure, so that he had to remind them of their duties. He said : 

"I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel:" 

Then he went on to explain : 

"Which is not another: but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ. 

"But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. 

"As we said before, so say I now again. If any man preach any other  unto you than that ye have received let him be accursed. 

"For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ." 

But I ask you, note particularly the verses following, justifying what may otherwise appear to be severe, if not caustic, words : 

"But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. 

"For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ." 

PREACHING FOR DOCTRINE THE COMMANDMENTS OF MEN 

We proclaim our adherence to the principle of toleration. "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." Some have fancied that there is a little inconsistency between what we have called the liberty of the gospel and such admonitions as that of Paul, which I have read unto you; but there is no inconsistency. Who were to be accursed? Those who preached any other gospel than that which he had preached unto them, for the gospel he had preached unto them was not of men; it had been given by revelation; and he preached it, as he had a right to do, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now he was referring to those who were on the inside, people who were going about amongst the Saints, many of whom, perhaps all of whom, claimed some standing with them, preaching a false doctrine and setting up a false gospel, and upon them he pronounced the anathema of cursing for presenting their own conceptions and their own views as the revealed word of God. Were such not deserving of a curse? Was it not deception of the most serious kind — preaching as the doctrines of Christ what was nothing more than the theories, the precepts and the commandments of men? 

THE SIN OF PREACHING WITHOUT AUTHORITY 

If you wish to preach these things as the precepts of men, all well and good. Let those who will, listen to them; but to preach such and affirm that they are the doctrines of Jesus Christ, unless they are in harmony with the doctrines of Jesus Christ, is blasphemy. This Church stands for the gospel that Paul preached. It is the gospel of all times, the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it has been preached in the world since the days of Adam, though there have been long periods of darkness, due to repeated apostasies, when the people have turned away, loving Satan more than they loved God, and making it impossible for the gospel to be widely proclaimed. But it has been given to the earth, again and again, through the different dispensations, which have been special conferments and bestowals of authority by the Lord for the carrying out of His purposes. 

Do you not remember that the risen Lord, in giving his last instructions to the apostles, told them to go into all the world and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost? Who dares take unto himself authority to officiate in those names, the names of the Holy Trinity,  if he has not been duly commissioned? Who would dare undertake to speak in the name of the Governor of this sovereign State if he were not duly commissioned? The prison bars are ready to open to receive such a one. It would be a crime under the law of the State. Who can speak in behalf of an officer of the law, if he has not been properly deputized, if authority has not been delegated unto him? Now, why shall we use one rule of common sense in dealing with the things of earth and a rule that is not in accordance with common sense in dealing with the authorities and powers of heaven? 

THE AUTHORITY OF ANCIENT TIMES NOT SUFFICIENT FOR TODAY 

When the Lord established his Church amongst the Xephites upon this continent, he told those who were chosen and ordained, unto whom authority was given, just how to administer the ordinance of baptism. They were to say : "Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." That does not give us in this age any such authority. The words that Christ spoke unto his apostles of old would be no authority unto the apostles today, nor unto any of the elders of the Church. I repeat, -the words that he, the Lord, spoke unto the disciples who were chosen from among the Nephites would be no authority unto us; but in this day and age he has spoken again, and has given that .same power and authority to speak in his name, and to administer the ordinances of the gospel, after the pattern that he has set; and therefore the elders and priests who take candidates, who have professed their faith, and who have repented of their sins, into the waters of baptism today, declare that they have authority given them : and, being commissioned of Jesus Christ, they baptize in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Many have assumed that men may administer these ordinances of their own accord, though such assumption is opposed to all reason. In the early days of this Church, when many were trying to get in, some wanted admission because they had been baptized in other churches; they had received the ordinance called baptism; and the Lord .spoke definitely upon the matter. Read the 22nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein he said unto the people in that day: 

"Behold, I say unto you that all old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and an .everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. 

"Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works. 

"For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old." 

THE CHURCH OF CHRIST HAS AUTHORITY AND IS CONNECTED UP 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Church its name declares it to be, and the authority and power of the holy Priesthood is in it, without which there could not be, cannot be, shall never be, a Church of Jesus Christ true to the name. I thank the Lord that we have learned that truth, and that we belong to a Church that is connected up. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

( Of the First Council of Seventy) 

Every man or woman who is called to a position of this kind has a great desire to be guided and influenced by the Holy Spirit. I have had a great deal of experience during my life in a public way, but never at any time did I feel more uncertain and doubtful as to my success in speaking to the people than I do at the present time. I have all kinds of experiences in talking to people. When I thought I had the Spirit of the Lord, some of the people did not think so. So that you can never tell; and if you say there is such a man living upon the earth, however inspired he may be, or however good a man he may be, who can please and satisfy all people, I question whether that man ever lived. I know mighty well I am not one of them. 

Now my brethern and sisters, there is not a man in this vast congregation more happy to be with you than I am today. I am a native of Utah, I was born here, I have lived here, and I have never crossed the waters. I have heard from time to time, since our last conference, some who were non-"Mormons," some who were nonresidents of Utah, and some of our own rising generation, speak very lightly about what President Brigham Young said when he entered this valley, "This is the place." Well, I am here to say it is the place, and I just came from California, too. 

This vast congregation, as I understand it, consists of representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There may be representatives, and are, from every stake of Zion, and you have come up here to be awakened, to be aroused — not that you are told anything special that you do not already know. I cannot think of a thing that I ever heard that will be new to you; but if you can be awakened and return to your people and arouse them, then this has been a great conference. I had that feeling while I was away. I have not had as much physical force as I desire. I am a little low on vitality. I run out of gasoline every little while. 

Now, the brethren of the authorities have been very kind to me; they have been very considerate, and I am very appreciative. I have a letter that I value more than gold and silver, signed by the Presidency of this Church, and they closed their letter to me saying: "You have our love, our confidence and our blessing." 1 do not know whether I am appreciative, I think I am. The Presidency never will know how much good that did me. Not that I was in doubt, not that I was in uncertainty about the matter, but I love my people, I always say, God save the people, for if it were not for people, we would not need this great Church. I do not know what God would do if he had no people. I have said it before, and I say it again. I was with an apostle on a trip in the south, and we found a bishop without any people. He wept, and came to the apostle to know what to do. "Well you will have to stay here until some people come to you." All the people he had was his wife, and anybody that can preside over his wife, I take my hat off to him. So I feel like that good woman in ancient days who said : 

"Whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." Why, bless your hearts, I haven't a doubt in my mind — I have doubts about myself and about others — about this work. I have found God, God answered my prayers, and God softened the hearts of the people, and they fed me and they gave me a place to lay my head. It seems to me when I read the scriptures, that the apostles of old, whom the Savior chose, were stupid; they did not seem to understand nor comprehend what the Savior was trying to teach, just as some of our people are. They, the people, seem to be stupid, they seem not to understand. Finally these apostles were taken out, after the Savior had completed his labors, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them, and he told them: "Nevertheless I tell you the truth; Tt is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you." And he spoke to them again, — "Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth : * * * * and he will show you things to come." 

That is the same Spirit, the same guiding Spirit that our elders have : these young "kid-boys" that you are sending out all over the world. They are blessed and set apart, and that Spirit is with them. I remember when I was presiding over the Southern States mission : for two years of that time I brought home two emigrations a year, and when I went to the President's office to report, that great Prophet, the President of the Church, Wilford Woodruff, who was interested in me, said : "Brother Kimball, sit down a minute." We only had a few minutes — it didn't take five minutes. He told me more than once: "Now, Brother Kimball, I have had visions, I have had revelations, I have seen angels, but the greatest of all is that still small voice." Any elder who has gone out and kept the commandments of God, knows he has heard that word behind him saying: "This is the way, walk ye in it, when you turn to the right and when you turn to the left." 

My brethren and sisters, I am not disposed to occupy any more of your time. I love God's people, I am willing to live and die with God's people. Come weal or woe, come life or death. I have a prayer  I offer sometimes when I walk by the wayside, and I say : "I now place myself and all my affairs" — I haven't got any affairs however — "in the kind care and keeping of the Father, with a loving trust, knowing that all things are working for my best good." I am willing to follow God's leading, even though it may sometimes seem hardto do so. I am blessed in all of my labors because the Father gives to me of his Spirit to guide and direct me in every situation. Like you, I have committed many blunders; like thousands of people, tragedy comes to our homes without any fault of ours; but we love our children, and I am now learning to pray : "O God the eternal Father, I thank thee that the children thou gavest me are thy children." 

God bless you. I know this work is true, and I know, if I know anything, that all the keys and the powers and the authority that were vested in the Prophet Joseph Smith from God the eternal Father and his messengers, were conferred upon Brigham Young, upon my father and other apostles, upon the present president of the Church and the apostles. So all we need to do, brethren and sisters, is to work for salvation — the greatest gift of God to the children of men, and as my father said : "If you are saved, no one will be more surprised than you are." Now the Lord bless you, in the name and through the power of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, Jr. 

(President of the Canada Mission) 

My dear brethren and sisters, if there ever was a time in my life that I desired to be guided and directed by the light and power of God, the Eternal Father, it is the present. This is the largest congregation of people that I have ever stood in the presence of, and I assure you that I feel my weakness. Still, at the same time, with your faith and prayers I desire to leave with you my humble testimony concerning the divinity of this great and mighty work that has come to us in this day and time. 

There is a saying of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the things of God are of deep import, and only by careful and ponderous consideration and experience can we find them out. "Thou must commune with God." If ever a truth has come into my life, it has been this truth, during the last year or more since I have been engaged in missionary work in the world. I know that in order to be successful in the delivering of this great and mighty message, one must commune with God. One must come very near to him, must feel his power and his influence in unfolding this message of truth to the hearts of the children of men in the world; and, if I am any judge of conditions as they come under our supervision in the mission field, I am convinced that in order to convert mankind to this great message of truth, one must be endowed with the Spirit of God, which comes through humble and sincere prayer or communion with God. You know when Christ had had some dealings with the Pharisees and Sadducees, and he had asked his disciples concerning- what men thought of him; some of them told him that the people around about thought he was John the Baptist, or Elias, or Jeremias or one of the Prophets. He turned to them and said : "But whom say ye that I am?" And you will recall that Peter answered the question by saying: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Observe how positive and direct this question is. I believe that in the question which Christ put to his disciples, is contained a power that brings home a relationship between us and God, our eternal Father, so much so that if the question were put to us in the same way as it was put to Peter, and the apostles, it would need the same quality of inspiration that Peter had when he told the Savior that he was the Christ, the Son of the living God, in order for us to know also that he is the Savior of mankind. 

You will recall that in addition to this question, Christ said to Peter: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood have not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. Upon this rock will I build my Church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." I desire to call your attention to the power there is in this statement of the Christ. So positive is it, that he told Peter that there was no question as to the origin of Peter's information regarding this definite truth concerning him. I feel, this afternoon, that not only we, who comprise the Church, are built upon this rock of revelation, but in order to know within our own selves the divinity of this work individually, we must be guided and prompted by that spirit of revelation that Peter enjoyed when he gave answer to the question put to him by the Christ. I know by experience that in order to have burning in our hearts a testimony of the Living God, we must build upon this principle of revelation which comes to us through our communion with God. 

I bear my testimony to you, this afternoon, that I know, as I know that I breathe the breath of life, that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of Cod in the flesh. I know as I know that I live that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God, and that through him has come to us this great and mighty work, this great scheme of life and salvation. T have found in the unfolding of this scheme of life to the nations of the earth that when I have been humble and prayerful, and have appreciated what it means to get close to God, the words which I have uttered have sunk into the hearts of men and women until they have become converted to this truth. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that the power of revelation is in this Church. I know that President Grant is a Prophet of God. It has been made known to me, and I do pray God. my eternal Father, that he will bless us with inspiration, that we will unite ourselves together and pray as we have never prayed before, in our lives, that this work will be perpetuated; and when that time comes that we shall be  to meet our God, it will be said of us : "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord." 

God bless the testimonies that have been given at this conference for our good and for the glory of God is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

I presume that the time will never come when all of the people of this country or any other country will always speak good of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Such was the experience of Christ in the early days when he established his Church upon the earth. Such was the experience of his apostles, the experience of Joseph Smith and the experience of his people, as they have tried to live lives of usefulness and righteousness upon the earth. It is, however, gratifying as I travel among the people, to find that there is a spirit of kindliness towards the Church, a spirit that is being generated among the men of the country, especially among the business men, of tolerance and of good will towards the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am always glad when people are willing to listen to our explanation of the gospel, and pleased when they speak well of this great Western community of which we are a part. I delight in hearing the favorable expressions that are made in regard to our people. 

I notice on our streets and in our stores, signs which say: "Boost for Utah." We could say the same thing about Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona or Canada. I am glad that we are desirous of boosting for this great western country of ours, because it is a good country and contains a splendid class of men and women. 

Our missionaries are out in the world; and I know of no greater boosters. It is true that they are out preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, but while they are doing it, they cannot forget their mountain home, they cannot forget the hills and the plains and the streams of running water; they cannot forget how God has blessed this country of ours, and they are always telling the people of the glories of the same; In no instance do they express "if's" or "but's" about any of the people of this country of ours. They forget some of our so-called "friends" and the things they say about us, and about our leaders, remembering the splendid men and women not of our faith who live in this great country of ours. That is what I like. I delight seeing men and women boost for their people as well as for their lands, their herds, their hills and their wealth. I hope that the "Mormon" people will always speak well of their country and of the people in the places in which they live. 

I hope the world will permit us to direct our own Church as other people are permitted to direct their churches. I hope they will let us interpret the doctrines of our faith in the way we want to interpret them, the same privilege being given to others. If they will do this we can unite with them, and they with us, and we will go on and make this country one of the most splendid places to live in on the face of the earth. 

These men whom we meet from time t> time speak well of the Church because of the manner in which it has built up the country. They point to our meeting houses, they point to our public places, they say : "You believe in your Church because you are going' to stay, and you build well. You believe in your country as a great place to live in and you take part in the civic life of your communities." They say, "We like the kindliness and the courtesy that is extended to us through the Bureau of Information." This Bureau is one of the most wonderful institutions we have of boosting for the country and the people and the things we have. As we go from place to place we are told of the kind treatment and courtesy shown to the people when they visited here. They admire the way we take care of our young people in their recreational and their spiritual life; they admire the way we bring them together and teach them the word of God, setting them examples which they can follow, thereby becoming not only good members of the Church, but clean, fine, patriotic American citizens, who love their country and are willing to stand by it in every emergency. These young people of ours are a splendid people, and they come out into the world, and by the spirit and power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they bear testimony to the world; and kindle a desire in people to know something more about this great "Mormon" people living in this Rocky Mountain district. Above all, they impress their hearers with our sincerity. As has been said of Christ, he spoke as one having authority, so say they of the boys and the girls and the men and the women who go out into the world and visit among them — that they speak as men and women having authority to speak for God upon the earth. 

May this good spirit stay with us, may we live lives of usefulness and righteousness upon the earth, and then God's work shall grow and we shall become a greater people and a better people. May God help us to do this and to serve him all the days of our lives, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

My dear brethren and sisters, I desire while I speak that I may have a portion of the spirit that has thus far characterized this conference; namely, the spirit of instruction. 

I have the honor to preside over the Northwestern States mission  it is indeed an honor and an opportunity. I have the honor to have the association of young men and women who have been sent out into the world to proclaim the truth, and they are proclaiming it. They are learning its value and power. I was very much impressed by a statement in the prayer of Brother John W. Hart. He said in the course of his petition: "Magnify, O God, the missionaries in the eyes of the world." They are being magnified, brethren and sisters, God hears these young men and women. He knows the purity of their lives, and you find it expressed in the teachings of the Gospel as they give them to the various congregations and people with whom they come in contact. 

We have, in the Northwestern States mission, a mission among the Indians, established by President Melvin J. Ballard, when he presided over the Northwestern States mission. I have the pleasure and privilege of visiting that little mission every three months. We conduct there an Indian school, and the school superintendent of the reservation told me a few days ago that we had one of the best schools on the reservation. We know that in some of those schools conducted by other churches it is necessary for them to turn the key on their pupils in order that they shall be present when school is called for the following morning. That is not true in our school. The children love their teachers; they are as fond, almost it amounts to adoration, of their teachers as is the feeling between the white people and the teachers of civilization whom they dearly love. There is a great work to be done among the Lamanites, and these good men and women who are teaching the children of the Indians, are laying a foundation for a future work that shall be gigantic in its scope. 

This brother, whom I have mentioned, asked that the missionaries might be magnified in the eyes of the world, and my plea to you is that the missionaries on their return to their homes may be magnified in the eyes of the people from whom they come. These boys and girls who have gone into the world and have acquired a knowledge and a testimony of the gospel are full of its spirit, they are desirous of spreading a knowledge of God, and it is as desirable that that knowledge should be spread at home as abroad; and I appeal to the bishops, to presidents of stakes, to the men and women composing our communities, that they will foster, encourage, and help, and that they will see to it that these young men and women have the same opportunity to preach the gospel at home as they have had while they have been abroad. We, the presidents of missions, are endeavoring to teach them to be, as Bishop Nibley said this morning, courteous gentlemen and ladies. We are endeavoring educationally, to give them the best that we possess. They will come back to their communities rich with the glorious influence that they have imbibed on their missions. Let us, brethren and sisters, perpetuate the missionary spirit, that our boys and girls possess when they come home, for I testify to you that they are the dearest, most valued, the most beautiful of associates, and they find a place in the hearts of their mission presidents second only to our own children. 

May God help us to be kindly, to magnify our own boys and girls in our own community, as we have prayed that they be magnified in the eyes of the world, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A tenor solo entitled, "The Plains of Peace" was sung by David Cook. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

( Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States Mission) 

During the sessions of this conference you have heard from many lands, and from many parts of our own country. I am wondering what message I can bring to you from the East. Incidentally I may say to those of you who are, by the ties of kindred, interested in the young men and women who comprise the Eastern States mission, that it is a general time of health in our mission, and that there prevails a very fine spirit among them, but that, of course, is not the message I had in mind when I was wondering what message I might bring to this conference from the East. At present it seems to me to be a good starting point for a message to repeat a scripture with which you all are very familiar, namely: 

"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him. 

"But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering; for he that wavereth is . like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord." 

Some of you, perhaps, will recognize that as the cornerstone of the history of this last and new dispensation of the gospel. It was the .scripture which appealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in great power, conveying to his soul a most solemn message. For, at the time he came to contemplate it, in the spring of 1820, he was very much perplexed because of the confusion existing everywhere concerning religion. 

In the city of Palmyra, near the center of it, there are four corners, facing one another. On each stands a church, and these churches existed there one hundred years ago. The ministers of those four churches united in what was called a "Ujnion Service"; and for weeks a very earnest kind of Christian propaganda was carried on, a revival meeting, and great interest was aroused there and throughout the surrounding country in religion. All went well, many people were drawn to contemplate the religious life, and much good seemed to have been accomplished, until the time came when the new converts were to file off to the respective churches of their choice, and then strife, , and confusion confounded, seemed to prevail. This very greatly distracted the mind of our Prophet. The questions under consideration then were such as these — something about the decrees of God : Would people be .saved by the free grace of God, and the free will of men combined, and would they thus be drawn to the feet of the Christ? Or had God pre-determined before the foundation of the earth the exact number of those who should be saved, and had so definitely fixed upon the number that it could not be increased nor diminished by any human effort, by any personal desire, or searching or seeking after righteousness? Those who were to be saved were to be saved by the pre-determined will of God, without any act of their own. On the other hand it was just as explicitly known who would be reprobate, and they could not escape by any means of repentance or other device whatsoever. The question was discussed as to whether this pre-destination of men, to salvation or destruction, affected infants as well as adults. A division existed, some claiming that all infants dying in infancy would be saved, and others claimed that only those whom the decree of God had fixed for salvation would be saved. Would the heathen be saved? That was a question debated. Was baptism essential unto salvation? Would unbaptized infants be saved, or were they among the number that it would be impossible to save, baptized or not? And so the controversy went on. Time will not permit to go into all the details of it, but this perhaps will indicate the nature of some of the discussions. None of those questions were settled by the debates which occurred, but you have been hearing very little about thejn for a long time. People have not been discussing them. But the point I desire to bring to your attention is this, that notwithstanding the debate on those particular questions have ceased, Christendom is not yet united. The confusion and divisions have broken out in new places. 

There is a remarkable prophecy in St. Peter's writings to this effect: 

"Prophecy came not in olden time by the will of man; but holy men of God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

"But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of." 

From the early days of Christianity till now there have been tho.se who have denied the Deity of Christ; but it seems to me that these clays of ours have been especially reserved for this particular heresy to reach its full development; namely, the "denial of the Lord who bought them," "bought them" by the price of his own suffering, and by his own precious blood; for never in the history of Christianity has there been such a denial of the Lord as there is at the present time, 

This recent controversy first arose about two years ago, in England, when the Reverend Hastings Rashdall, the distinguished dean of Carlyle, at the Modern Churchman's Congress, held in Cambridge, declared that "Jesus Christ never claimed divinity for himself, and was in the fullest sense a man, with not merely a human body, but with human soul, intellect and will." "Again," said he, "Jesus may have allowed himself to be called the Messiah, but never in any of his" — mark the language — "critically, well-attested sayings was there anything* which suggests that his conscious relation to God was other than that of any man toward God." Then in respect of the fourth gospel, as being outside of the Christ's "critically, well-attested sayings," the dean remarked : "That the speeches attributed to Christ in the Fourth Gospel," St. John's Gospel, "where they go beyond the character of Jesus as portrayed in the synoptic gospels, namely, Matthew, Mark and Luke, cannot be regarded as authentic history." That was the report of his speech at the time, when this agitation first began. Then about a year later, namely, in January, 1923, in our own country, the United States, the Reverend Percy S. Grant, rector of the Church of the Ascension, in New York City, preaching in defense of the declaration he had made the Sunday before, namely, "when Christ was on earth he did not possess the power of God," remarked : "This is certainly the teaching of the first three gospels." So that Dr. Grant, like the Dean of Carlyle, sets aside the testimony of St. John. As a matter of fact, it would not be difficult to sustain the Deity of the Christ from the first three Go.spels, usually spoken of as the synoptic Gospels; and you may leave out St. John's Gospel, and in those three gospels this great truth concerning the Christ is emphasized, namely that he is the Son of God, and it follows that being the Son of God, then God — God of God; Light of Light, of the same substance or essence with the Father; of the same attributes. It is only thought necessary to establish the truth of Jesus Christ being the Son of God to make him Deity; of the same essence with the Father, as well as being the "brightness of his glory" and the express image of his person. And that is all clearly set forth in the synoptic gospels. 

And now, for a peculiar reason, I want to call your attention to this thought. This controversy goes beyond the testimonies of the witnesses of the New Testament, and brings out a peculiar feature in our own special message to the world. If you will recall the very careful words of these two critics Messrs. Rashdall and Grant, the Diety of the Christ, you will have noted perhaps that they hold that: "No critical, well-attested saying of the Christ tends to establish his Deity." Well, that simply means that the so-called "modern criticism," eliminates and throws to the winds the testimony of Christ's apostles in Judea, — the testimony that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the Son of God, born of a virgin, and God's Only Begotten Son in the flesh. 

The note now and then occurs in the comments that are made on this great controversy, that: "You have got yet to consider the authenticity and the credibility of the New Testament documents. That is the thing to which I wish to call your attention. Unto Nephi, the first Nephi, were given some very great visions concerning the life and the mission of the Christ, before he came in the flesh; and among other things he saw that the Gentile races upon this North American continent would have the testimony of the Hebrew prophets among them (the Old Testament); and also the testimony of the "Twelve Apostles of the Lamb" (the New Testament). He saw that these books would be mutilated and corrupted : that the Gentiles would go into great darkness and unbelief because of this mutilation of the word of God. Then he saw, in vision, circulating among the people other records, one of which was to be the word of the Lord to the seed of this man Nephi. That other sacred books were to be circulated in the land, and these second books, meaning the Book of Mormon, the record of the Nephite people, and the revelations of God in this new dispensation, clearly recognized in the Doctrine and Covenants, and also in the Pearl of Great Price, — these records would establish the truth of the record of the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb of God, Hence the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints holds in its hands, and is commissioned to use these other holy scriptures brought forth in this chosen land, speaking from the dust of "Cumorah's lonely hill," for the sleeping nations of the American Continent : and the living word of God in this age, as contained in the revelations found in the Doctrine and Covenants and in the Pearl of Great Price, brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith, are here to correct the errors of those who would throw out of the reckoning the word of God as found in the record of the "Twelve Apostles of the Lamb," the New Testament; they are here to affirm, with all the strength that comes from these volumes of witnesses, — this cloud of witnesses — that Jesus is indeed the Christ; that he is the Creator, not only of our own world, but of many worlds. (Heb. 1:1, 2; St. John 1:1-4). Also that He is the upholding and the sustaining power of all things; that, as pointed out so beautifully in Elder Rulon S. Wells' remarks. He is the Vital Force, that "quickeneth all things"; also that he is the Intelligence-inspiring Power of God's universe; also that He is the Love-manifested Power of God's universe: for the one great thing above all others in the mission of the Christ was to give assurance and demonstration of the Love of God for the inhabitants of the earth. As Jesus himself contemplated this his mission among men, he voiced the assurance that — 

"I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me." 

Brethren and sisters, it is our mission to stem the tide of unbelief that is in the world, to answer the Christ's question on one occasion — when he the Son of man comes, shall He find faith in the earth?" In the name of God, yes! For he has provided the means of maintaining faith in Him as Creator, as Sustaining Power of the universe; as Vital Force, as Intelligence-inspiring Power, as Love-manifested Power, and he has organized his Church in the earth, no more to be destroyed, to maintain this faith in the earth. And when the Christ shall come in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory, attended by the host of Saints from heaven, the host of Saints here on earth, possessed of true faith that Jesus is the Christ, Sovereign, Lord and King, Creator of heaven and earth, and all things that in them are; the Savior of men, the Redeemer of the world, the very Son of God, "the Eternal God," to use the Book of Mormon phrase, "manifesting himself unto all nations" — these, the Saints possessed of this faith in the earth, shall welcome the Christ and the hosts of Saints from heaven, with shouts of great joy and faith. 

The thought I wish to leave with you, and my purpose in quoting the text, — "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him" — was to emphasize the fact that there is still great need, in the light of the present controversy about the Deity of Christ, to make use of this prayer; for the controversies of today, and the confusion resulting from them, are just as perplexing as the confusion of a hundred years ago. God bless the Saints, and all who would know the truth, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

Elder Oliver H. Budge, president of the Logan stake of Zion, pronounced the benediction. 


