Afternoon
05 04 1912


PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

The Power of Truth — The Testimony of the Spirit — A Divine Message — Liberty of Thought and Speech — Opposition overruled for good — Order in Revelation — Difference in Seeing the Right and doing It. Every Saint to Do His Duty. 

I feel that we are highly privileged in being permitted to assemble on this occasion to worship the Lord, and to engage in the duties of this conference. I was greatly pleased this morning with the meeting that we held; to see so large a congregation, notwithstanding the condition of the weather, and it being the first meeting of the conference, to see this house well filled and to notice the attention of the congregation, and the spirit in  they appeared to receive the instructions which were imparted. There was a splendid influence here. I am sure that we all felt the unity of the faith and enjoyed the impressions of the Holy Spirit while our brethren were instructing us. The powerful testimony that was borne by President Joseph F. Smith found a full echo in my heart, and I believe it did in the hearts of all who were assembled. It is a great thing to know that we are engaged in the work of God, to be certain of it, to have no doubt about it in our minds, and feel it in every part of our nature, to have it stamped upon our being. To know this by the inspiration that comes from on high, by the gift of the Holy Ghost, conferred upon us in the way that the Lord has appointed- — by the laying on of the hands of His servants, after we had received, in faith and in repentance, the ordinance of baptism for the remission of sins. We are all on a level in this respect, no matter of what race or nation we may have come. We are all baptized with the same baptism, and have received of the same spirit, and according to our diligence in searching after truth, it will be made manifest to us. 

As we have just sung, Truth is priceless; it is the beginning and the end of all things : it is "the sum of existence." We are in a position to receive truth day by day and year by year, that we may "grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth." It is a little surprising, however, to find sometimes a few of those who have received the Gospel and have had the witness of the Holy Spirit, and have borne testimony many times to this fact, allowing themselves to be drawn aside  the right or the left, and getting their minds enshrouded in darkness instead of walking in the light. But I am glad to say that such persons are but few and far between, and the great body of the Church is in unity in doctrine and principle and in recognizing the organization that our Heavenly Father has established for the government of the Church, for its perpetuation, for its extension in all the world, so that it may continue and abide and may not be taken away again from the earth, I was very glad to hear what the President said this morning, looking along this line, that the Church was never in a better condition than it is in at the present day, that the Saints generally are striving to keep the commandments of God, that they are endeavoring to walk in the way of life and light and truth, that the Church in every respect, not only spiritually but temporally, financially and in every other way, is in a flourishing condition, and this in spite of all that' has been done against it, to obstruct it, to hinder its advancement. 

There has been an effort from the very commencement, on the part of the powers of evil, to prevent the progress of this work, and it has gone so far as endeavors to crush out the lives of our leaders. The spirit that has brought that about still exists in the world and will until it is entirely overcome by the power of light and truth, and the Spirit of the Lord poured out upon the nations. This is one strong evidence of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged — I mean the turmoil that it excites in the world, the opposition which it meets from the various denominations of religion, Christian and Pagan. The  _ errors that exist in the world and the divisions which have been in the world for many centuries, continue to increase. Not only are there sects multiplied upon sects, but in and among themselves each sect has its own divisions and strifes, so that there is no real unity in the different organizations of religion in the world. Now, if our faith, if our Church — (I call it "our Church" because we have made it ours by accepting the Church of the Lord. It is, indeed, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we have accepted it and have been baptized into it and have become part of it, and it is a part of us. I feel in all my being, that I have a part in it, and it has a part in me. I belong to it and it belongs to me, so I say our Church;) if our Church were to move among the various different sects and parties in the world, and become harmonious with them, even as much as they are harmonious with each other — which is not very much, — if that were the case, why we would become one of them; that is all. 

But there is something distinct and different altogether in the Church to which we belong, from other organizations in 'the world. We do not wish to interfere with them. We do not wish to block the way to the dissemination of their views and ideas and doctrines, because we believe in the great principle of free agency which our Father recognizes, and with which He does not interfere — the right of every individual to accept that which appears right in his own eyes, and as far as he has legitimate power, to endeavor to extend that among others, to bring others to see as he sees; we believe that we should recognize the right of all people to their own views and opinions on such matters. So we do not wish to interfere with them in the least degree, but we want the same freedom that we accord to them. We want to have the liberty, in proper ways, without interfering with others, to proclaim our faith, to bear our testimony, to carry our message; for we have a message — this whole people, the Latter-day Saints — we have a message, and it is to all the world, to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people; and that message has come down from on high. It is from God, through Jesus Christ our Redeemer, and has been brought here by angelic messengers. And the authority and power to proclaim this Gospel in the name of Deity has been given to this Church, the authority to administer in the ordinances of the Gospel, so that they will be accepted on high — so that what is loosed on earth, by this authority, will be loosed in heaven; and that which is sealed or bound on earth, by it, will be recognized in heaven, will be valid, and will be looked upon as being the same as if administered in person by the Divine powers above. Now we want to have the liberty to carry this message to all the world; and we intend to struggle for it. We do not expect to take up carnal weapons. The Lord has promised that He will fight our battles, so far as they are concerned, but we have to stand up for the truth as we understand it, as it has come into our souls and has become part of our nature. 

We want to carry this to all the world and proclaim it to all na because this is a mission which the Lord has given to us. We in our first estate as spirits, the sons and daughters of the Eternal Father, have been chosen and selected to come down on the earth in these latter days, so that we may engage in this work. This is what we are here for. While we are endeavoring as far as we can to provide for ourselves those things that are necessary for the good of the body, and for its continuation in health and vigor, and to surround ourselves with all the creature comforts that can be produced from the elements; yet, at the same time, we have this important mission before us, and it is of primary importance to us; it is the first thing with us; it is the Kingdom of God and the righteousness of God that we place before all earthly things. We have come here for this express purpose, and this is our mission in the world; and we want the privilege, because we consider it to be our right, to carry this work forward in freedom and without let or hindrance in all the world. 

We expect to meet with opposition. We expect that the people of the world will differ from us in our views in these matters, but we would like the privilege of comparing our views with theirs, comparing our doctrines with theirs, comparing the ordinances of our Church with those they have, comparing the order of that which we call the Priesthood, i. e., divine authority, comparing the order that has been established in this Church by revelation from God, with the various orders of so-called priesthood or authority to be found among the nations — and to do this in the right  of spirit, in the spirit of kindness. Not that we want to make a tumult, not that we want to bring war upon us, but we would like the privilege, freely and without let or hindrance, to compare our doctrines and Priesthood, that have come from on high, with those various notions and opinions and orders and ordinances and organizations of the world. And then we are perfectly sure the honest in heart, those that really want the Truth, those that love right and justice and mercy and are looking after eternal things, will be glad to accept this glorious latter-day work which we desire to establish in the earth. But we may expect that there will be a great deal of animosity exhibited against us by the people of the world; so we need not be surprised when we hear of mobs, whether they be raised in England or in other parts of the British Isles, or upon the continent of Europe, or even in the United States, in the land of freedom, in the land which is expressly consecrated and devoted to liberty. We have had to meet with this kind of opposition even in the United States. And it is here on this soil that the blood of the prophets has been shed, who did no harm to any one, but who brought the eternal truth of God from Heaven, to proclaim it to the world. And it was the truth which they had to deliver to the people that aroused and enraged so-called Christians who were in opposition to them. Well, this is very lamentable, but something of this kind will continue until the tide shall be turned, and the preponderance in the world of the influences that exist will be on the side of right, of liberty, of truth, and of justice, and mercy, and kindness,  spirit or desire <o arrive at that which is true, and to live it; for it is one thing to learn the truth, and another thing to live by it. 

There is a great deal of light in the world in regard to many things that are not practiced. There is much admiration of virtue exhibited in the writings of both men and women. Even in those works that are called novels, virtue is lifted up and vice is frowned upon; and, generally speaking, in the stories that are written, virtue becomes triumphant at the last. Yet the very people who read these predictions, and some of those who write them, are corrupt in their hearts, and do not practice that which they teach, or which they pretend to admire. So there is a great deal of actual evil and wickedness in the world, although there seems to be a very general perception of what is right when it is placed before mankind. Now, as I have said, it is one thing to learn the truth and another thing to live by it; and we Latter-day Saints should set an example in this before all mankind, for we are not only to be teachers but exemplars of the principles of righteousness. We are to establish righteousness in the earth, and to be the instruments in the hands of God of establishing righteous government. Not that we have any warfare with this government, or with any of the governments of the world; they are in the hands of the great Eternal Father, and in due time He will turn and overturn and establish His own purposes and His own government on the face of the earth. We are the preparers of the way for the establishment of the Kingdom of our God. We are preaching "the Gospel of the kingdom," the Gospel which, if it is received by the people, will bring them to works of righteousness as well as to be believers in righteousness. Now, my brethren and sisters, we should takt this into our minds, into our souls, that we are not only to be teachers of the word of the Lord, but we are to live the things that we have received and which we desire other people to understand. 

This Church to which we belong has been organized in all its varoius departments for the purpose of leading people in trie right way, the way of truth, the way of the Lord, that we may be keepers of His commandments; "not teachers of the word alone, but doers of it too." And the Lord has organized His Church in such a way that we have, all the time, some one to give us instructions, directions, precepts, suggestions, commandments. Not that any force is used in this Church to compel people to do right or to refrain from doing wrong. Full liberty is given to every soul in this Church to pursue such course as he or she may please to take. But at the same time, there is an opportunity open for every one to do what is right, individually and with a view to the good of the whole community. Because, although we must work out our individual salvation, yet we are so connected in this Church, by being members of the same body, that what we do or leave undone has its effect upon those with whom we are associated. We are united in a splendid organism, conceded by many people who have examined it, but do not believe in its divinity, as the finest organization in the world. We are in unison with them in that view. It is complete and , because it is divine; it has not emanated simply from the mind and brain of men. It has come from God out of heaven. It has come down on the earth to stay here and to accomplish the divine purpose foreseen by all the prophets of old. It is the beginning of that great kingdom about which the prophets of old wrote, and the seers and sages and poets of old sang and rejoiced over. We are in the Church of the living God. It is the beginning of that kingdom that is to come. Spiritually it is the Kingdom of God, and by and by all things predicted concerning God's government on the earth will be fulfilled, when all nations shall bow in obedience to Him, when they shall cease their wars, and turn their spears into pruning hooks and their swords into plow-shares, (using the figurative expressions of ancient writers), when all this will be fulfilled and the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdom of our God and His Christ, and He shall rule and reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and before His ancients, gloriously, as the prophets predicted. This is to be a kingdom of rigteousness, a kingdom of truth, a kingdom of equity, of kindness, of brotherly love and of unity, a kingdom and organization in which the utmost fraternity will prevail. Men and women will be brothers and sisters in very deed, God will be our Father, and all mankind our brethren. We believe in the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhod of man. This spirit must prevail in the midst of the Latterday Saints, or we shall not be able to accomplish the work that has been assigned to us. But it will be done, for God will raise up others  fill our places if we do not take this course ourselves. 

Now, we are here in conference assembled that we may confer with each other to know what there is to do in the great work which the Lord has committed to us. Let us turn our attention to ourselves, individually, and to the immediate associations and organizations, and quorums, and societies to which we belong, and ask ourselves the question whether we are doing our duty; whether we are living for the truth; whether we are desiring to establish notions and ideas of our own, that we may gain applause, that we may gain the good-will of men, or whether we are conforming ourselves to the principles and precepts, and the order and doctrines, and everything pertaining to our standing in the Church that has been set up by the authority of God, in the way that He has appointed, through those whom He nas placed over us, in our respective wards, and stakes, . and in . the Church at large. Have we done our duty in the past? If not, let us make up our minds today that henceforth we will do that, in the present and in the future, and will make it first and foremost in our thoughts, and in our lives, and in our doings, in all our business affairs, and in everything in which we are engaged; that we will have our eyes fixed, primarily, upon the building up of the Church and Kingdom of God and the accomplishment of His divine purposes in relation to the children of men. We all belong to some special organization. If we are in the Priesthood we belong to an organization called a quorum; if we are not in the Priesthood, and some if we are, we belong to some of these auxiliary societies that have been established — the Sunday Schools, the Relief Societies, the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, the Religion Classes, and the Primary Associations, and so forth. All these have been established in the Church as aids, to keep us in the right way and to engage our attention, to enlist our energies, to confirm us in the faith, and bring us nearer and nearer to Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, our living head; that we may receive of the blessings that flow from His presence, and be baptized really and truly unto Him, that we may be one with Him. 

Now, if we have neglected our duties in any respect, in regard to our associations together, or in our home circle, in the influence that we should carry with our families, to lead them aright; if we have failed at all in the past, let us not do so in the future. That principle of repentance — the turning away from wrong, and doing right — will always exist while there is anything to amend, to repent of. So there is room for all of us to amend and to repent of anything that is wrong about us, in relation to the past, and to determine In this conference that henceforth we will devote our energies, our faith, our strength, the means that God has blest us with, to build up His Kingdom, to send the Gospel to the nations of the earth, to gather in the upright in heart, to build up the stakes of Zion, to build up the wards thereof, to establish places of worship, to enter therein and worship the Lord, together, in the beauty of holiness, to attend to all the ordinances that pertain to the Church of Christ, and obtain the spirit thereof, and to help build up 

the societies, and associations, and organizations of the Church whether they are auxiliary or belong to the Priesthood, that we will do our duty in these respects. There are, I have no doubt, today in this congregation, Elders who do not attend the. meetings of their respective quorums. I have no doubt there are Seventies who do not care much about sending or carrying the Gospel to foreign nations. There are High Priests, no doubt, who are getting along in years, and so they do not gather with their brethren in their quorum meetings. And so with others. There may be, among all of us, some dereliction in these respects. Now, brethren and sisters, let us take upon ourselves today the spirit and power of our calling and our mission, and go from this conference determined that by the help of God we will neglect nothing that we ought to attend to; that we will do nothing, wilfully, that is wicked, or evil, or contrary to the commandments of God, and that we will promote peace and union and righteousness and brotherly love among those with whom we are associated or by whom we are surrounded. 

Let us not introduce anything that will cause schism in the body or bring about division. "Mark them," the apostle of old said, "that make divisions among you." Do not attempt to do anything of that kind. There is no bondage upon the servants of the Lord or the handmaidens of the Lord in regard to free thought, to a full understanding of that which comes to their attention; but there is no man in our midst who has a right to in anything contrary to or different from the revelations of God that have been recorded, or by way of commandment, except the man that stands at the head, and that is necessary for the order of the Church, for its unity and its strength, and its power in the earth. As the President told us this morning, and as we understand, the spirit of revelation is free to every man and woman in the Church who has been baptized and confirmed by the laying on of hands. That is a special blessing and gift — the gift of the Holy Ghost, the spirit of truth that guides into all truth, that takes of the things of the Father and of the Son, the things of eternity and reveals them unto mortals. We have the right to that spirit; but there are false spirits coming out in the world now as there were of old and let us be careful that we are not led away by them. Let us take that good spirit for our guide and also be guided by the rules and regulations and order established in the Church by revelation from God; and though we may all have the right to receive revelations from on high for ourselves, to govern our conduct, to regulate us in the family relation or in any capacity we are called upon to act in the Church, yet there is but one man at a time, according to God's direct word, who receives revelations for the government of the Church and to regulate matters pertaining to its doctrines and ordinances. The Lord told us in the very beginning that we were not to receive revelations of any who came among us except His servant who stood at the head, and if he transgressed, the Lord would remove him, and somebody else  occupy his place. That is in accordance with the order of heaven. "My house is a house of order," said the Lord, "and not a house of confusion." As the President said this morning, if every Tom, Dick and Harry can start up and give a revelation, and pretend to have this and that authority and power and so forth, and people are led off by such individuals, there will be confusion worse confounded, and the order of the Church be disturbed if not obliterated. Now, the Lord has placed a man at the head to receive revelations for the Church, to stand at the head and regulate those affairs; and associated with his counselors and the Twelve and other orders of the Priesthood who take counsel together, everything can be regulated and placed in the proper order, and if there is anything which the Church is to receive as doctrine or for guidance in its discipline and order, it will come in the legitimate way through the head. Let every man, and every woman, and every boy, and girl, who is a member of the Church, seek constantly for the spirit of revelation, the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, the revealer, the manifestor of that which is right and true. By the influence of that spirit we can be guided aright, and we can be inspired to right action, strengthened against evil, fortified against sin, imbued with light and truth and that good spirit which comes from above. 

I was pleased to hear the remarks of President Lund in regard to this anniversary today, supposed to be the anniversary of the day when our Lord was lifted up on the cross. He was "despised and rejected of men, and was a man of sorrows and  with grief," and yet He was the Lord of life, and glory, and came here to die for us, to save us from our sins and the consequences thereof, to open the way whereby we could go back into the presence of the Father. He lived and died for us, yet notwithstanding that, when He came to His own, His own received Him not, but all kinds of ignominies were piled upon Him, and finally they inflicted upon Him the most cruel death that they knew anything about; and the people who strewed palm branches in His way, when He entered into Jerusalem, exclaimed, "Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord," only about five days later cried out, "Away with Him, crucify Him; He is not fit to live." And if the Lord of life and glory endured what He had to bear in bringing light and truth into the world for the salvation of mankind was treated in that manner, how can we expect, as His servants, to be treated much differently even in this enlightened twentieth century! 

Well, we will endeavor to bear the ills that we have to meet and we will try to endure with patience the opposition that is raised against us, knowing for a certainty that the Lord will overrule it all for good, that every weapon that is formed against us will eventually fall to the ground and we remain unharmed; and the very efforts that are being made in various pans to arouse the populace against us to do us harm, to speak evil against us, to say things that are untrue concerning us and our principles and designs, and every means so employed will, in the hands of the Lord, be turned around to sustain tne good and upright and truth-loving throughout the world. The Gospel of Jesus Christ will spread abroad, and that which is called "Mormonism" will increase and go forth in power and in strength, and everything predicted concerning it by the prophets of God will come to pass. Now let us do our part in forwarding this great work, and in that we shall have joy and satisfaction and the peace that passeth all understanding, the knowledge of God, the testimony of Jesus, and the power of the Almighty to be with us in public and in private, and by His strength we will prevail, and the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdom of our God and His Christ; and He will come and rule <and reign over all. Blessed are they that labor in His cause, for they shall be crowned with glory in His presence. God help us to do our duty in all respects — through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sisters Edna and Ida Evans rendered a duet, "The Lord is my Light." 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Knowledge of God imparted by the HolyGhost — Divine mission assigned to all members of the Church— Great and good people will be converted by the Lord, and join His Church — Prayer a duty and necessity of all Saints — Obligation for each to minister for benefit of all. 

I pray that the same good spirit may assist me, the little time I undertake to talk to you, that was enjoyed by my brethren. It appears that the good Spirit of the Lord has been with us, generously, and that we have been instructed and exhorted very fervently, and that  have been commended before the Lord for our good works and the success that has attended upon our ministry; for the brethren feel that the Church is in good condition, progressing, and that we are as faithful, if not more faithful, than we have been before. I believe that that testimony is true of those who are gathered here today and of those who are at home and could not be with us. We can't all come to Conference at one time. It is very difficult, at all times, for some people to make it convenient so that they can attend upon our General Conferences, and our stake conferences, and ward conferences, and mission conferences; but there is always a good strong representation of choice men and women who have been trained a long time in the Gospel, and who love the truth, love righteousness, and have a testimony in their hearts in regard to the truth, that they have found out the way of life, have found out the commandments of the Lord and are living those commandments pretty well, with ample room, no doubt, for improvement. 

We are a peculiar people. I thought the President was rather impressing upon us, this morning, the features that emphasize our peculiarities. We are gathered together as religious people, generally, do not gather. We come from everywhere. Wherever the Gospel has been preached the people gather to the land of Zion; and we become neighbors, we become kindred and friends. We fellowship together, and we have one spirit. Though we talk different languages, yet we have one spirit, the Spirit of the Lord that is conferred upon us, in a goodly measure and in a degree  with our devotion and faithfulness, and of our repentance and works of righteousness. This is my testimony, in connection with my brethren, having traveled among the people for some years, and being pretty well acquainted with the brethren, particularly, who bear the Priesthood; and nearly all the male members of the Church are entrusted with divine authority, and speak of the divinity of the Savior — and the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph, the divinity of this work the divinity of the Scriptures — the Jewish and Nephite Scriptures — and the divinity of the revelations given through the Prophet Joseph, our law-giver, the Lord's law-giver to us in this last dispensation particularly. I thought I was brought to this conclusion, in addition to what my brethren said, that your mission, our mission as members of the Church, as men bearing the Priesthood, that our mission is also a divine mission — so beautifully touched upon by the President, in regard to the Savior, and the principle of revelation for every person who has faith in God, and in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost, and who repents of his sins, or her sins, is entitled, through genuine and proper baptism, to the remission of their sins, and to receive the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, that Spirit which bears record of the Father, and without which no man can know that God lives. They may believe, and they may have hope, but to have .positive knowledge of God and of His Son Jesus Christ, the Redeemer and Savior of th e world, and a testimony in regard to the mission of the prophets and of Joseph Smith,  prophet of this dispensation, no man can have this knowledge except it be given him of the Father by the Holy Ghost. 

It is as much the right of every other memebr in this Church as it is your right and mine, my brethren who are presiding, bearing the Priesthood and authority in the Church; it is the right of every other member to have that same spirit and to have it in rich abundance, in proportion to our devotion and faithfulness, and to know that this Gospel is true. We can know it by the Holy Ghost; we can know it is true; we can know of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged; we can know of the divinity of the lives and labors of the prophets that have gone before, and the patriarchs, and those who have represented the Lord in His divine authority among the children of men. Every member is entitled to that witness and testimony. Our mission is divine, is of God; we are called of Him, and He has converted us, and He has brought us to receive of the Spirit of Christ, to the remission of our sins; that is what the Father has done. We, under His direction, have been preaching the Gospel, expounding the Scriptures, advocating the truth and laying out the way of life and salvation to the children of men. But it is the Lord that has called you; it is His inspiration, His Spirit that has converted you and brought you to feel trie truth, and to accept it, and to submit yourselves to it. It is the Lord that has brought you to repentance and reformation, and works of righteousness. Men have not done it; men cannot do it, cannot accomplish that mission; the Lord has done it. 

I have been brought to realize, literally, that the Lord will be moving upon the children of men, and that He has already moved upon them and has enabled them to see the truth, and to see the Gospel, and to realize that there is truth in it, and power in it; and men will be brought to inquire after the truth. They are so inquiring now, and they will continue to inquire — great, and important, and remarkable men — and when His Spirit is bestowed, when the Spirit of Christ, following the exercise of men's agency, opening their ears and listening to the truth, with a desire to know, and the Spirit of Christ takes possession of them, then are they entitled to come into His Church — to receive the ordinace of baptism in water, and the ordinance of baptism by the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. When this is brought about, they will become established as we are, my brethren and my sisters, as we feel today, as we are established and as we hold on to the truth and are willing to suffer, willing to endure, willing to labor for the Gospel and for the kingdom, for the salvation of the children of men and for our own salvation. People will come from afar and will enter into the fold, and will labor as we are laboring. The Lord will have to accomplish that. 

I have discovered that the work is too great for men to accomplish, and that the Lord will work among the peoples of the earth, and convert them, and bring them to see the truth. They will inquire after it, and when the Spirit of Christ takes possession of them, whether  be great and remarkable among the children of men or not, they will receive the truth and they will submit to it, and they will listen, and obey. They will not allow business, they will not allow the wealth of the word, they will not allow the honors and the greatness of this world to stand between them and God, whenever they have so far listened to the truth and discovered it that they realize and appreciate it, and receive of the Spirit of Christ, entitling them to the remission of sins. You will find that they will take hold of the Gospel, and they will stand for the truth, and as you are willing and have been willing to sacrifice what you have had, you will find the great men of the world will come to that point also; and they will come to our defense and the help of the Lord. I anticipate that; am looking for it, and expecting it. This Church, after a little while, will be looked upon, among the churches of the world, and in the world, as respectable. We are pretty respectable now; that is, we are thought respectable by the people of the earth. We have been respectable from the beginning, before the world; and there are people in the world today, many of them, that consider the Latter-day Saints, the "Mormon" people, as the very choicest of people there are in the world; and they know it because they have discovered morality, purity, honesty, integrity, and devotion; they have found them a prayerful people, as suggested by the President this morning. They have been taught under the direction of the Lord, and have listened, and are following out His counsel. I thought I would just read a lit word here, in regard to this subject, and then apply it not only to the principle of prayer but to other principles; but most important, emphasized by the Savior Himself when He visited the Nephites, on one occasion, that is the occasion that I am speaking about now, He visited them a number of times and gave them very ample instructions. Wonderful and remarkable counsels were given to the Nephites by the Son of God Himself, in His ministry, after His resurrection and ascension to the Father. On the occasion referred to, He was talking to them particularly in regard to the Sacrament, and gave them special instructions. You will find it in the eighteenth chapter of the third book of Nephi. He says, after urging that they should remember these things and attend to them in the season thereof — the Sacrament, eating and partaking of bread and wine in remembrance of the body and blood of the Lord; He says : 

"Therefore blessed are ye if ye shall keep my commandments, which the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you . 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the 'devil, and ye are led away captive by him. 

"And as I have prayed among you, even so shall ye pray in my Church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you. 

"And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto His disciples He turned again unto the multitude and said unto them" — the whole people as well as to His disciples that He had chosen and given authority to baptize and confer the Holy Ghost upon the people — 

"Behold, verily, verily, I say unto y6*u, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye  into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you; that he may sift you as wheat; 

"Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; 

"x\nd whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name which is right, believing that ye shall receive behold it shall be given unto you." 

That principle holds good in regard to the principle of prayer; and it is important and indispensably necessary that the Latter-day Saints should be a prayerful people. The Lord has so arranged that the Priests in the Church shall take particular pains to teach the people to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord, and to attend to all the duties that devolve upon them in their families. Now, this is one of the peculiarities of the Latter-day Saints, as well as many others — not only the gathering, but the principle of prayer. There is not a man in this Church, who thoroughly attends to his duties, but what not only upon the Sabbath day remembers the Lord and worships Him, and renews his covenants at the Sacramental table, but every other day. Every morning and every night of our lives, it is held important and necessary, by the Son of God, that we should bow the knee before the Lord, and that we should remember each other, that we should remember the work of the Lord, that we should remember the necessities of the children of men, and that we should pray for them, that we should call upon the Lord and ask for the blessings which we require and the success which we are entitled to attain to in our ministry. For we are ministers, we are called of God and inspired of Him to perform this labor. 

I thought the splendid exhortation by President Penrose was something very fine, intense, and beautiful for us to listen to, that we should be found ministering faithfully every day of our lives, every man who has received divine authority from the Lord — just as much in the Deacon,the Teacher,the Priest, the Elder, Seventy, and High Priest, as it is with the brethren who are called to preside in the Church, and the general authorities of the Church, and in the stakes and wards in Zion. Every man who has this divine authority is called of God and is expected to minister, and magnify that authority constantly — not just for a little while, not that they be called on a mission abroad, but at home. That is the condition of the brethren, we understand, who are called upon to preside in wards, stakes, quorums, and associations, and that go on missions, every man who is called to this divine authority, whatever the office or position in the Priesthood may be, it serves notice on him that he is expected to be a laborer, just like the president of a stake, the Bishop of a ward, the president of a mission, just like the president of a quorum or council, or the superintendent of a department, whether brethren or sisters. They are called and are expected to labor; it is so understood when they are set apart; and it is just as true of every other person baptized into this Church, confirmed, and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and receive the Priesthood. The brethren are called of God and are expected to open their mouths and to defend the faith and advocate it and teach it, at home among themselves, in the family, with their neighbors, and on all occasions, and to preach it to  world by the good examples of their lives. That is what is understood. So that this Church reaches out and cares for all, because of its organization, for there is no one neglected, everybody is recorded and registered. It is understood what the enrollment is of every ward and quorum and association, how numerous they are, the Sunday schools and the like. Everybody is looked after; somebody to care for everybody; no one left to himself entirely without anybody to care for him and sympathize with him. We sympathize with each other, counsel each other, we compare notes, and moderate, and assist each other in our lives and labors; and that is what is necessary. 

We can't all come to Conference. A few of the brethren are always here. You always see President Smith here, and his brethren on the stand, and these leading brethren in the stakes, the High Councilors, Patriarchs, and so forth. These brethren can come, with a struggle, but they are nearly always here; they come out faithfully, and they are among the very choicest of brethren, and they seem to be under the care and attention of the general authorities of the Church, and we are kept in pretty fair condition. Now, that should be true of us, then; it is just as true and should be just as true with those who are under our influence and direction, wherever we are. We should be just as faithful and devoted as those under the direction of the Presidency of the Church. It is necessary, and it will take as much to save others as it will to save us; and the Lord requires of us that we shall be devoted and faithful, and keep the commandments of the Lord, and serve the Lord, and honor Him, and walk uprightly in His presence all the time; and those that can't come here, we must go to them. For the people everywhere are represented and have their representatives here, and the brethren who can come here, the Saints that' can meet together in this Conference, and in quarterly conferences, and ward conferences should go out to those that are abroad and that are not gathered together, and cannot come together, because of sickness and other conditions. So there is quite a percentage of the people who cannot very well come together. Some of them are sick and need attention, consideration, consolation, comfort, and encouragement; and that is the labor that devolves upon these men who bear the Priesthood. 

I have felt, and I hold, that whenever a man receives the Priesthood he should receive some instruction from his Bishop, from his president, from his file leader, that will put him in the line of duty; that every Deacon shall be a worker, that he shall have some ministry assigned to him; and every Priest the same — just as well as for me to have a ministry, or anybody else. The divine authority of the Lord is not given to us simply to magnify us and that we may feel that we have an important office or position in the Church, and that it is going to save us. It won't save us, it would be better that we had not received it; as there are expressions, I think, in the Scripture, that it would have been better for some people that they had never been born than to be born, and to be worthless, wicked and corrupt. Now, I say that it would be better  man not to receive the Priesthood, not to receive an appointment or calling, and not to be baptized in this Church unless he intends to serve God and keep His commandments. Our probation is not very long. We can't tell when it will end; it is liable to end any time; and it is imperatively necessary that every member of this Church should be upon his mettle, advised, established, encouraged and fixed in his purpose to serve God and keep His commandments, and do what is right. For every member in this Church has all the authority that is necessary for works of righteousness; and there is no limit or prohibition upon men doing good, but we have no right whatever to do . anything that is wrong; we do nothing that is wrong when in the line of our duty. We are not required to do wrong, but always to do right and to deal justly by all men, whether they be Latter-day Saints or not, whether they be our neighbors or our friends, if they be the children of God, and they all are, it is our duty to treat them in the spirit of righteousness and of charity, ind to teach tnei the Gospel by that great and eloquent sermon of example. That is what we should do. 

With the good things said about us today, I think I would never do anything wrong, after President Smith said the good things to the brethren, prominent in the Church; he feels as though they are growing and improving right along, possibly in better condition than ever before; thank the Lord. Let us endure and continue to the end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Saints becoming more favorably known — Remarkable instance of conversion — "Honest people can not be satisfied with a dishonest religion" — No compulsion possible in Church affairs — Tithing a free-will offering, and source of blessings. 

I always rejoice in having the opportunity of meeting with the Saints in our General Conference, for the reason that we are always blessed, and built up, and strengthened in the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. I believe that every Latter-day Saint, who has received a testimony of the divinity of thfe work in which we are engaged, is in duty bound to give his or her best thought and best endeavor for me advancement of the Gospel at home and abroad. 

I am convinced, from my observation, and associations with people, that the Latter-day Saints are becoming better known, that they are becoming known for their true worth. I believe there are many people who have thought that we were vile, wicked, and corrupt, who are now learning that we are the exact opposite. In ancient days it was believed by many that the Savior of the world and His apostles were vile and wicked men, and all manner of evil was spoken against them, falsely; nearly nineteen hundred years have passed away since the crucifixion of the Savior, and men now know that His teachings, and the teachings of His apostles, and the examples that they set before their fellows were for the uplifting and the betterment of the people. As the years come and go, and people have become better acquainted with the teachings of Joseph Smith and of his successors,  of the apostles in this latterday work, they are becoming convinced that these teachings are for the betterment of mankind. There are many men who can join in saying what a friend of mine once said in a letter to me — and say it honestly and conscientiously — that the only religious people that he had ever known who lived up to their professions were the "Mormons" of Utah. 

So long as we know that we have the truth, so long as we love the truth, so long as we live the truth, we need have no anxiety or care regarding what may be said of us. It can never hurt an honest man for a dishonest and lying man to accuse him of dishonesty. If we know within our own hearts that we desire the good of our fellows, that we are laboring for the advancement and the spread of truth at home and abroad, that we would not knowingly injure any man on earth, and that we would willingly do anything within out power for the benefit of our fellows, what harm does it do us, as individuals, or the cause of truth, for people to write the exact opposite or to speak the exact opposite, regarding us or the truth? There are many people who are deceived because of untrue things that are said and written, and of certain pictures that are being exhibited regarding us which are vile and wicked, and which we know are libelous. It is an old saying that a lie can travel around the world while truth is getting his boots on; but the fact remains that the truth will, eventually, come uppermost; and when people hear or see things that are detrimental to the Latter-day Saints, and then become acquainted with them and find  the exact opposite to what they have heard and seen is true, concerning- the life and character- of our people, then we are bound to make friends of all such persons. 

I rejoice that many men of great intelligence have been converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, men of great experience and knowledge. I rejoiced exceedingly while I was in Europe in distributing, or at least in urging upon the Elders to distribute, a tract known as "My Reasons for Leaving the Church of England and Joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." This document was written by Col. R. M. Bryce Thomas, a retired officer in the British army. While traveling around the world and stopping here in Salt Lake City, in the old Templeton Hotel, his wife was taken sick, and sitting in the sick room, looking across the street, he saw constantly in front of him, on the old adobe building that was torn down to make room for the Hotel Utah, the sign "Mormon Publications for sale here." He kept seeing it daily, and seeing it till it got on his nerves, and he finally went and purchased some "Mormon" publications, read them, and he studied the people, and he found that they were sober; he found that they were industrious. He learned from those not of us that we were particularly kind to the poor; that there was no class distinction. He found many commendable things; and among, other things that he found, he said, was the most magnifiicent choir that he had ever listened to in his life; and he went away from here impressed with the people, with their devotion, with their honesty, with their integrity; and he pursued his study of the Gos and became converted — absolutely converted. It Has been said that the tenderest part of a man's anatomy is his pocket; and this man has also been absolutely converted in his pocket, as the presidents from the time of his conversion until the present time, who have presided over the London conference can testify, because, on a certain day each month, a remittance of one-tenth of that man's income reaches the London conference, in addition to a donation for the benefit of the poor. His pamphlet of thirty odd pages gives his reasons for joining this Church; and they are reasons that cannot be answered and that cannot be gainsaid, and that stand out prominently and solidly for the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. They are substantial reasons for leaving the church with which he had been affiliated all the days of his life. 

What has this Gospel done? It has gathered in from every land and from every clime, honesthearted souls; it has gathered men and women who have honestly and conscientiously labored to ascertain the truth, many of whom have been members of the various sects of the day, trying to find that peace, satisfaction and comfort which the Gospel of Jesus Christ ought to bring. If this religion called "Mormonism" by the world, was in very deed what our enemies say it is — a delusion, a snare, and a fraud — do you mean to tell me that it would satisfy men and women of honor, of integrity, of honesty, that it would satisfy their very souls ? That they could live to be seventy-five, eighty and eight-five, and in some cases past ninety years of age, and be associated with this work from their early manhood and womanhood, and that every day, week, month, and year, from the time they embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ, it would bring" them peace, joy, and happiness? It is absolutely ridiculous to suppose such a thing. Honest people cannot be satisfied with a dishonest religion. Honest, upright, and diligent people cannot have their hearts, their faces, and their very souls filled with joy, satisfaction and peace with that which is a delusion, a snare and a fraud. I tell you, my friends, that this Gospel of Jesus Christ brings joy, and peace, contentment, happiness, and satisfaction to every soul that has embraced it, and who obeys it. 

We hear a great deal about compulsion in this Church. Read section 121 in the Doctrine and Covenants; and I bear witness to you here today, that the men holding the Priesthood of God, the leaders of this people, the prophets of God from Joseph Smith to Joseph F. Smith, everyone of them, have exercised that Priesthood exactly as indicated in that section. "No power or influence can or ought to be exercised by the Priesthood only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, by meekness, by love unfeigned;" and it has been exercised that way. Talk about compulsion in obeying the law of tithing! I bear witness — and I know that the witness I bear is true — that the men and the women who have been absolutely honest with God, who have paid their tithing as religiously and as corectly as though God  their partner, and when they settled up their acounts at the end of the year that they had made a just division, and they paid their one-tenth, I bear witness that those men and those women testify to all the world of the blessings of God that have come to them by the fulfillment of this law, and that God has given them wisdom whereby they have been able to utilize the remaining nine-tenths, and it has been of greater value to them, and they have accomplished more with it than they would if they had not been honest with the Lord. I bear witness that the people who have fulfilled this law of God have been blessed, and have rejoiced in the privilege of showing their gratitude to God in a substantial way, for His blessings to them. 

I rejoice in the teachings imparted during this Conference; I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and may God help us all to be loyal, to be true, to be patriotic, to serve Him with full purpose of heart, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Redeemer of Israel, our only delight, 

On whom for a blessing we call, Our shadow by day, and our pillar by night, 

Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all! 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis Anderson. 
