Morning
07 04 1912

The stand was tastefully draped in white bunting interspersed with green leaves. Pots of Easter lilies added to ' the beauty and symbolism of the decoration. 

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith, and he announced that an overflow meeting will convene this morning, in the Assembly Hall, for the benefit of the many who cannot be accommodated in the overcrowded Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the anthem "Unfold ye portals, everlasting." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. H. Smart. 

An Easter anthem. "Christ is Risen," words and music by Prof. Evan Stephens, was rendered by the choir; Sister Rose Smithen and Brother Carl Samuelson sang the solos and duets. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I would like to say to the congregation that the last beautiful song sung by one of our sisters, and one of our brothers, and by the choir, entitled, "Christ is Risen," is the latest production of our own Evan Stephens; but I trust it will be by no means the last. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Mexico a splendid country, but its people unfortunate — Possible intervention fraught with serious consequences — Condition of law and reason needed to bring peace — Murderous opposition always preceded civil and religious reform — The Gospel of Christ a presentday necessity . 

On Thursday last I returned from Mexico, that country where nature has so abundantly scattered her bounties, but where men appear to so little appreciate their surroundings, and the blessings which might be theirs if they would only reach out their hands and take them. It is a good country, a country with great agricultural resources which have hardly been touched, a country which produces more silver than any other in the world, a country inconceivably rich in gold and copper, a country with fiifteen millions of people waiting for men of intelligence to establish the mechanical and industrial arts under conditions which should be as favorable as in any other place in the world. The farms down there are not being cultivated to the usual extent. The railroads are idle; they are out of commission, except as they are carrying bodies of armed men from place to place, men who are engaged in mortal combat. Many of the mines are closed down, and the mills are idle. The workers are engaged in war instead of those pursuits of peace  make for the betterment of countries and communities. 

We can hardly appreciate and understand it here, with our peaceable surroundings. It hardly seems possible to us that in this age of reason, this age of. intelligence, when railroads, and the telegraph and telephone have brought mankind in all the world into such close association that we have become, to a great extent at least, or should have become one great family, that it would be possible for men — men of one race, professing one religion, who ought to have but one general purpose — to be engaged in civil war,, but it is the case down there nevertheless. We can scarcely understand and appreciate how intensely we are interested in that struggle. There are many thousands of Americans in the Mexican republic. There are four thousand Latter-day Saints there. They are scattered, the Americans are, from Chihuahua on the north to Yucatan on the south. They are without adequate means of protection. They own hundreds of millions of dollars of property in that republic, property which has been purchased with good money. That property, too, is without adequate protection. So the present revolution in Mexico has to deal with questions which have never existed in any of the many revolutions which have occurred in that country in the past; for not only Americans and American interests are involved, but the interests of other foreign nations; and it goes without saying that unless the people of that country shall prove themselves capable of giving proper protection to those foreign interests which exist that someone else must give protection to them. 

We all know what that means. It means that this responsibility, this burden, will devolve upon the United States. I do not know whether we appreciate, or not, what it would mean to us should it become necessary for our government to assume to discharge this duty, this solemn responsibilty which rests upon it. I view such a contingency, such a possibility, with abhorrence. It is an easy thing for us to talk about intervention in Mexican affairs by the United States. It is an easy thing for us to say that American interests are not protected. It is an easy thing for us to talk about the protection that is given 'to English subjects and German subjects throughout the world and to complain, perhaps, that similar protection is not given to representatives of our government. We must not loose sight of this one fact, that intervention upon the part of the United States, in Mexican affairs, means war. War means that at least one hundred thousand men representing the flower of American manhood will be needed before that country could be pacified. It means that men from Washington and Oregon, from Montana and Idaho, from Wyoming and Utah, California, Colorado. Arizona, and New Mexico, this entire Pacific slope, will be inarched into that country; and if they go many of them will never return. That is what we are face to face with today, just as near to it as it is possible to be without becoming involved in that struggle. I thank the Lord with all my heart that there stands at the head of this nation a conservative man, a careful man, a good man, a man of tolerance, a man of patience, a man who stands for peace and for the adjustment of those differences which arise between individuals, communities and nations by peaceful means, by resort to reason rather than resort to arms. I pray God that He will so overrule that the United States may not be involved in war with Mexico or any other country; and that ought to be the prayer of every Latter-day Saint; it ought to be the prayer of all American men and women who have the welfare of their country and their people at heart. 

What is this trouble all about down there? That is what I have been thinking of while I have been away. Is there any condition in Mexico which might not be adjusted by resort to reason? Is there a condition there which might not be adjusted without the shedding of blood? Not at all. If men would be subject to law, if they would only honor, sustain, and uphold the wholesome and good laws which exist in all civilized countries, it would not be necessary to resort to arms in order that the rights of people might be maintained. I am not going to discuss the responsibility for this struggle — whether it rests with the common people who have arisen almost unanimously in the northern part of the republic, and demanded social and economic reforms, or whether it rests with the administration, with the government of that country, which has not been as good to the masses as it might have been in the past. I shall not discuss this. The condition exists. The remedy so far as I am able to observe, and the only remedy must be respect of law. Whenever people go outside of it, whenever they assume by force to accomplish that which thev should accomplish by reason and by argu, by resort to the ballot to which they are entitled, they place themselves without the protection of the law; and that is what the common people down there have done. And whenever a government or an administration shall assume to pervert the law, shall entrench 'itself with power, and disregard the cries of the masses it cannot expect but that confusion will result. 

 So there is a great problem being worked out down there. The end no man can tell. I have been wondering since I have been there whether we are any better prepared in this twentieth century to adjust the differences which arise between men, between individuals and communities and nations, by reason, than we have been in the past. We ought to be; I hope that we are; but I tell you in reviewing conditions as they exist in the world, it appears to me that we have very much yet to learn. I do not remember in the history of the w6rld any civil reform that has ever come to it that has not been established by force of arms. I do not remember an instance where a king or a dynasty, a power that has become established and has entrenched itself with armies and navies has ever yielded it up except by force of arms. It was the case in England. King John would never have yielded to the demands of the barons at Runnymecle, and given us that great fundamental charta of English liberty, had he not been forced to do it; and yet the demand was only a reasonable one. The French revolution with all its horrors, its injustice, and the barbarous things which characterized it, nevertheless, made for the betterment of  French people. German liberty was only acquired at the expense of the shedding of blood. Here in our own country, notwithstanding the fact that we demanded of England only that which was justly ours, only to be properly represented, that we might have an equal voice in government, as we bore an equal proportion of the burdens of gov-' ernment, they turned a deaf ear to our prayers. That right had to be established and maintained by force of arms. It seems to me that it might have been avoided. It seems to me that the harmony of the race might have been maintained, a great confederation established by which the rights of all would have been recognized, every man, every division, every part of the English empire granted the rights and privileges which belonged to it, without the shedding of blood, could reason have prevailed. I have never believed that the great civil war — the most disastrous war that this republic has ever known — was a necessity. I have felt that great responsibility rests with someone, those people who broke away from the confederation of states, who incited the animosity, the anger of the South against the North, and the North against the South, until the country was involved in civil war. I have thought that it might have been avoided, that the emancipation of the slaves could have been accomplished — I do not suppose there is a man in America today who will not admit that that was a proper thing to do, an act of justice to that race and people — by those pacific means which were recommended first, so far as I am aware, by the founder of this Church. I believe that it was possible. 

Just the same with religious reforms. My brethren and sisters, I know of no religious reformer who has ever come into the world, demanding the most simple justice, demanding only that which was right, that which would improve the condition of human kind, that has not been persecuted that has not been killed. It was so with the Savior of the world, and yet we know that He advocated righteousness; but the fact was, and is today, people become so committed to existing things that they are exceedingly reluctant to accept anything which comes in contact with their preconceived ideas of right and wrong. So the Jews refused to accept Christ as the Savior of the world. They rejected His doctrine; they persecuted and crucified Him. Then, after a while, from the Church which He established, there evolved another system of religion, taking upon it the name of Christ, but in reality being antiChrist, for it failed in all those things which He essayed to do, and did the very things which He opposed and condemned as wrong. The inquisition came; men were not permitted to worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. The Duke of Alva went over into Holland and slew those people by thousands. Why? Had they done anything wrong? No; they only desired to worship the Lord as they saw fit; they only claimed the right to separate themselves from the Catholic church; but the church refused to admit it. If they had been governed by reason, and by those universal laws which guarantee to men the right to do as they please, so long as they do not in any way conrlict with or infringe upon the rights of their fellows — that was all those Hollanders asked; but they were not to be left to do that in peace. So in France, the massacre of the Protestants there, and the persecutions of the early Protestant church in England; I cannot think of an instance — why, they would not even allow Quakers to unite together for peace, and in opposition to war, without persecution. They put them to death; they buried them alive, and those Quakers stood there and permitted their bodies td be buried, without resistance. And that was done in the name of justice! 

The Bible could not be published and circulated among English people that they might become familiar with the word of the Lord, without opposition; and that opposition came, mind you, from the organized government itself. The only accusation made against John Wycliffe was that he desired to make the Bible as common to the people of England as it was wont to be to learned men and clerks; and for this, when the old man finally died, they took his body, heaped indignities upon it, burned ' it, and scattered the ashes abroad, that they might obliterate, as far as possible, his memory. And that was his only offense — he desired that the people might know the will of God by being made familiar with His word as it was contained in the Holy Scriptures. They did worse than that with Tyndale. After printing was invented, and he began the publication of the Bible, he was burned at the stake as a heretic; his last words were, "Oh, Lord, open the eyes of the King of England." There was no offense in ; he only advocated righteousness; he only stood there in the interest of the King of England and his people; and yet that king consented to his death. Almost a parallel of the words of the Savior of the world when He prayed that His Father might forgive them because they knew not what they did. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, that brings me down to another epoch in history, an epoch that will take its place, too, with others of the most important epochs that have marked the history of this world. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. The doctrines of the Gospel of Christ were promulgated. Joseph Smith declared to the world that in vision he had seen the Father and the Son. Was it an offense against the law ? Was it an offense against morality? Was it not a thing that the world should have hailed with gladness and rejoicing, that in the dispensation in which we live our Father had been so merciful as to reveal Himself again to man, and that the voice of Christ, our Savior, had been heard, bearing witness to the fact that His kingdom and coming were at hand, and revealing again, through holy messengers sent from the courts on high to us, the fullness of the everlasting Gospel. What does it teach ? what did Joseph Smith advocate? Study the doctrines that he taught, carefully, and you will find that they all make for the uplift of the human family — they are the doctrines taught by the Savior of the world, in their simplicity, in plainness, that man might understand them. The world would not accept it any more than they have accepted other reforms. They were 6r>  to their traditions; they were committed to existing conditions just as the Jews were. They could not be moved from their prejudice, their bigotry, their illiberality. They would not yield; they opposed the truth; they persecuted the Saints, and took the life of the prophet of the Lord. He went to his death just as William Tyndale went; just as Christ had gone — with a conscience void of offense towards God and all men; he knew that his garments were clean, that he had stood for that which was right, even though the world rejected it. 

Now, what remedy have I to suggest for this condition of confusion that exists in the world — for it is not only in Mexico; there is war in northern Africa; there is war in China; hundreds of thousands of men are engaged in almost a life and death struggle in England. In British Columbia today thousands of industrial workers are in open rebellion against existing conditions. In our own country we have been upon the verge of one of the greatest industrial strikes that the country has ever known. England is building warships in order that she may be prepared for eventualities that may occur, in the fear of war with Germany. There is confusion in the world — my brethren and sisters. If you will read the twenty-fourth chapter of the Gospel as it was written by Matthew, you will find the words of our Savior verified, that the signs of His kingdom and coming appear, that the confusion which He predicted, the wars and rumors of wars are here. The reason for it all is that men refuse to be governed by law, by reason, and  argument. There is just one remedy for this condition, in my opinion. These people are religious people. You may say that to convert them to Christianity will cure all of these evils. There is no people professing greater Christianity than the German people, or the English people. There are no people in the world who are more devotedly attached to the Christian religion, so-called, than these people down in Mexico. But it does not prevent war. It does not prevent confusion; it does not adjust those great religious and industrial problems which are before the world and which must be solved. We can not brush them aside; they are here; they are here demanding solution. The people in their ignorance and in their darkness are seeking to solve them by means which must inevitably fail. Socialism cannot do it; anarchy cannot do it; resort to force cannot do it. Just one thing, and that is repentance on the part of the people who make up the inhabitants of this earth; faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; conversion to these righteous principles which He taught, by which the rich are lead to respect the rights of the poor, and the poor to respect the rights of the rich, those doctrines which make us one in that universal brotherhood which would come to us were the Gospel of Our Lord Jesus Christ accepted by the people of the world; and to teach this is our mission. 

Do you suppose there could be war among Latter-day Saints? Do you, my brethren and sisters, who are here this afternoon, want to go out and kill anybody? No. no; in your hearts you abhor the thought. You live for peace; you advocate peace; you abide by the law; you yield to it and to its demands; and if the law is not adequate, if the law is not sufficient, you know that you have it in your own power to correct and amend it until provision shall be made which will meet every just requirement of the human heart. I do not believe that it can ever be accomplished, I do not look for peace, I do not look for harmony, I do not expect that men will sheath their swords and live in love together, that the millennium, the thousand years of peace, will be established until the people of the world are converted to the truths of the everlasting Gospel of our Redeemer. The mission to so convert them rests with the Latter-day Saints, and we are discharging that responsibility as well as we can, under the circumstances by which we are surrounded. 

My brethren and sisters, think of these things. Let us more fully appreciate them. Let us thank God for the tolerance of this government of ours. Let us thank the Lord that if our rights are not maintained as we think they ought to be, among other nations, if our government does not act, perhaps, just as promptly as we think it should do, that it is not because it lacks strength; it is not because it lacks courage; it is not because it lacks disposition, but it is because of the fact that, recognizing the rights of other people as well as the rights of its own citizens, it seeks constantly to keep within the law, that it may be absolutely justified in that which it does. Let us pray for peace. Let us pray for the maintenance of law and order, for without it anarchy will come; it will come to us whenever we go away from those safe, those guarantees which are the fundamental laws of this country of ours. We cannot afford to do it; it means confusion; it means anarchy; it means that the red flag will be carried just as it is being carried in Mexico now — wherever people shall assume supremacy over the law, instead of yielding obedience to it. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us all pray for peace. Let us advocate peace. May we never forget that song which was sung at Bethlehem of Judea, when Christ was born into the world, the song sung by the angels of God : "Peace on earth, good will to men." I trust that the Latterday Saints may be among the foremost in maintaining it, standing for law, standing for order, conservaive, careful, trusting in the Lord. I could not help but contrast the attitude of the Latter-day Saints with that of other people, when President Taft's proclamation was issued, advising Americans to come out of Mexico, who were exposed to danger. There was a stampede down there; many American interests were abandoned; houses were locked up; property left; men and women came in train loads to the United States. I went down to that community of Latter-day Saints, in the very war zone, exposed to danger every moment of the day and night,, not knowing when trouble might come. There I found the spirit of serenity, the spirit of peace, reliance upon God, reliance upon the law, demanding —although there was very little of legal authority to appeal to— the rights which belong to us and nothing more. It reflected the spirit of the Latter-day Saints, the spirit of 57  work. It reflected the courage that men and women have who rely upon God rather than upon their own strength. 

May the Lord bless you, and bless all the Latter-day Saints, and bless this nation; and may He turn away these clouds of war which are hovering over us, that peace may prevail, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "Hosannah," was sung by Elder Horace S. Ensign. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Absolute certainty of resurrection of the Savior. — The Gospel applicable to all, living and dead. — Genealogical Society a Church organization; membership enjoined. 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on condition of repentance; 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you bring many souls unto me." 

These words were delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith, through revelation from the Lord. Throughout the Christian world, this morning, the people are celebrating the  of the resurrection of the Son of God. Many who have assembled to do homage unto Him do not accept Him as the Redeemer of the world; but with us there is no reservation; He is indeed the only begotten Son of God, and through His grace, and the grace of His Father, hath redeemed us from sin on condition of our repentance. We know that He has risen from the dead, that He has ascended on high, taking captivity captive, and has become the author of salvation unto all who will believe, who will repent of their sins and accept Him as the Redeemer of the world. Latterday Saints are not left in doubt regarding these things. 

There were many witnesses who testified of the resurrection of the Savior at the time He came forth from the dead. He appeared first unto Mary at the tomb, later unto the twelve, or to the eleven, one of them having lost his apostleship, and afterwards unto a multitude of the saints. He labored among His disciples for some time, confirming their faith and strengthening them in the gospel of which He is the author. Of this they have borne record and have given their testimony to the world. But after the falling away from the truth, the world was in darkness, and without living witnesses of the resurrection of Christ until the restoration of the gospel in the dispensation of the fullness of times. At the present time upon the face of the earth there are many who can testify that Jesus is the Christ, for the Spirit of God has revealed unto them this truth; and no man can know that Jesus is the Christ unless the Holy Spirit reveal it unto him. The prophet Joseph Smith- was raised up as a witness of the resurrection of Christ, and was given power and authority to institute His gospel anew among the children of men. Others, also, beheld Him, in our own generation, conversed with Him, and were instructed by Him and were taught the principles of truth which make us free They also have borne record to the world of these things. We know that He hath risen from the dead, that He might bring all men unto Him, on conditions of repentance — for no man can be saved fn the kingdom of our Father unless he abides by the laws of the kingdom. 

The laws of that kingdom are that a man must believe; he must have faith in the Lord; he must repent of his sins; he must receive a remission of sins through the water of baptism, and have hands laid upon his head for the gift of the Holy Ghost, by one who is empowered, having authority to officiate in these ordinances and then he must endure to the end, keeping the laws and the commandments given unto us by our Heavenly Father, otherwise he will lose his reward. Faith is not enough to save us. Our faith must be coupled with works, with good deeds, with a prayerful heart, and with the desire to magnify our callings before the Lord, laboring diligently all the days of our lives for the benefit of our fellow-men, bringing them unto repentance. 

I have read unto you that the worth of souls is great in the sight of our Heavenly Father; and that our mission to the world is one calling them unto repentance. We call upon mankind to receive the Savior, to accept Jesus as the Redeemer of the world, to believe in 

His gospel as it has been revealed anew, with the same ordinances, the same powers and privileges which were taught by the Master and made manifest during His ministry in the earth. And this does not mean that salvation is confined solely unto those who hear the preaching of the gospel among the nations of the earth; for our Father in heaven shall save all the workmanship of His hands, on these conditions which have been made, whether they be living, or whether they be dead. Our mission is twofold, to save all the living who will believe, and to warn all who reject the truth; that they may be left without excuse and to redeem the dead from their sins, or at least put the means within their hands, which were denied them in this life and of which they can partake in the spirit, that they also might receive salvation as well as we. The Lord has established among us temples where ordinances for the dead may be performed, and has empowered us that we might become saviors on Mt. Zion, and assist in our weak way in redeeming those who have died without a knowledge of the truth, or without the privilege of accepting it while they lived on the earth. This is in fact the greatest responsibility that has been placed upon us. 

Jn the year 1894, President Wilford Woodruff and the leading brethren, under his direction and inspiration, organized in this Church a society to further the salvation of the dead; and they called upon the people, members of .the Church, to become active in this organization. For it was organized with the idea in view of gathering together the records of the dead,  they might be filed in a safe place for the benefit of the members of the Church, where they could have access to them, obtain the names of their dead, and go to the house of the Lord and there be baptized for them vicariously; for the Lord will accept, at our hands baptism in behalf of the dead, and we may, by performing this labor, open the doors unto those who are in the prison house, that they may come forth and be redeemed on like conditions with which we expect to receive salvation. We send our elders into the world to preach the gospel. We keep somewhere near two thousand of them in the various nations constantly. We never hear the question raised, when a man is sent to preach the gospel into some distant part of the earth, that it is useless for him to go there to preach, because his relatives did not come from there, and no benefit could possibly accrue to him through preaching the gospel among those who are strangers or aliens, so far as his immediate kindred were concerned. We go where we are sent; we preach the gospel, get the Spirit of the Lord, and rejoice in a testimony of this revealed religion which we have received, knowing that we are doing the Lord's will, and that we will be blessed for our labors without regard to whether we have been laboring among our own kindred or among the nations from whence our people did not come. We never raise that question. Strange to say, however, when we appeal to some of our brethren and sisters to join this society, who ought to have within their hearts the love of their departed ones, and  should be possessed of the spirit that was promised when the Lord sent Elijah to restore the keys of his Priesthood to the earth, it is astonishing to find that they will raise the question : "What good will it do me to become a member of this society?" And they will say, "I do not know anything of my ancestors, and the records in your library will not help me." Or, "the work for our family is done so far as we are able to discover their names, and there is nothing new that we can gain from your books." Yet this is just as much an organization of the Church, and just as important and far reaching in its results, as the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Sunday Schools, the Relief Societies or any other auxiliary organization. I have a letter in my pocket received from a good brother who is representing this society, The Genealogical Society of Utah, in which he says that he had approached one of the leading brethren in his stake and wanted to know if he was not going to renew his membership in the Genealogical Society. This brother answered, No, for he had been to the library, had examined the books, and there was nothing there that would benefit him. He had not enough interest apparently in the salvation of the children of men to give his fee for membership and continue his activity in this organization, though perhaps the fee paid by him would be the means of purchasing some record that would contain the names of the dead that did belong to someone who was a member of the Church, and who did have faith enough to go to the house of the Lord and perform the ordinances necessary for their salvation. But simply because there was no direct benefit in it for him, or simply because he could not locate his immediate relatives, he had no interest in the organization. Suppose we took this stand in the preaching of the gospel to the world, and felt so selfish and narrow that we would do nothing for the salvation of any save it be those of our own blood. What would become of the work? Was that the spirit of Christ? No; He came into the world to redeem the world from sin, and took upon Him the sins of all men, that they might not suffer if they would repent; and He never raised the question whether or not they were blood relatives. His idea was to fulfill the will of His Father, and because of the love He had in His heart for the children of His Father — and we are all brethren and sisters; we are all descendants from one head; in the broadest sense we are all blood kin — He did not question whether or not His mission would mean merely the redemption of those who were His immediate followers or those of His own house. Why, it was those of His own house that rejected Him. He came not only to save them, but He came and took upon Him the sins of all men. We ought to be broad minded enough and appreciate sufficiently that which was accomplished in our behalf by the Son of God, that we would be willing to do something also for the benefit of the human race, whether we can trace our genealogy back or not. 

T speak as I have by request, and also by authority. I trust that the Latter-day Saints will get the spirit of this latter-day work and will labor not only for their own salvation  also for the salvation of all the children of our Father, no matter where they come from — whether it is from the nations of Europe, from the islands of the sea, or any other place. I trust that we will have enough love for the gospel of Jesus Christ, enough appreciation for the great atonement that was made for us, and sufficient love in our hearts for our fellowmen that we will desire their salvation as well as our own. The first great commandment unto us is that we should love the Lord our God with all our hearts; and the second is like unto it, that we should love our neighbor as ourselves. We desire that the Latterday Saints will get the spirit of. salvation for the dead, that they will become members of this great organization, which was instituted in behalf of the dead, that salvation may come unto the countless millions who are now waiting for us to perform these labors that they might escape from the prison house and rejoice in a testimony of the truth and in the knowledge of their redemption from hell, and the grave. Our mission is one of love, of mercy; it is unto all the world, not unto a select few; and we should labor with all" our mights for the salvation of souls, for great shall be our joy, in the kingdom of our Father, with those whom we may, perhaps, have been instrumental in converting, or may have aided, in obtaining the means of escape from the consequences of their sins through becoming saviors unto them on Mount Zion. 

May we love the truth, my brethren and sisters, and not be narrow, not be selfish, not look for worldly gain, but take the broader view, and labor for the salvation of souls, and  in this mighty work which has been instituted by our Father, that all who are worthy of salvation may in the due time of the Lord receive it, and rejoice, as we expect to rejoice, in the salvation which will come to us through keeping the commandments of the Lord. 

The Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, guide and protect them, give them courage to resist and overcome the world, and do all things in righteousness required of them, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I shall be very grateful unto you if you will give me an interest in your faith and prayers. I desire, in my remarks, to be in harmony with the spirit that has characterized and dictated the remarks of the brethren who have preceded me. I feel in my heart that we should be a thankful people. One great writer said, "Oh, Lord, that lends me life, lend me a heart replete with thankfulness." The Apostle Paul, speaking to the Corinthian Saints said, "For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that we through His poverty might be rich." The same great truth is expressed in the Book of Mormon, wherein it is said that the Creator suffered Himself to become subject unto men in the flesh, and died for all men, so that men might become subject unto Him. This is the Lord's way of doing  things. Consider the history of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, the history of Nephi of old, the history of Joseph Smith the prophet of God — the lives, the experiences through which these men passed, demonstrate the truth of Paul's declaration that througli much tribulation we enter into the Kingdom of God. The leaders of this Church have been persecuted; they have been vilified; the Church itself has been traduced; its doctrines have been misrepresented; it has passed through much tribulation. But it is stronger today than it was yesterday. It will be stronger tomorrow than it is today. It will continue to grow in power, in strength, and in glory until all mankind shall be subject, not unto man, but unto the glory, the majesty, and the righteousness of God. We do not seek earthly dominion, but we do seek, we do hunger, we do yearn, for the souls of men, that they might be saved through Jesus Christ, and find that freedom, that liberty, that blessing,- that comes through obedience to the commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

The preaching of the Gospel, as remarked by Brother Whitney, yesterday, is done in the spirit of testimony. I know that the sectarian world has sneered at what they were pleased to call our "uneducated ministry;" but I do not read in the Scripture, or in the Word of God that has been revealed to us in this day, that men are to be converted purely and solely by eloquence; but I understand that men are to be brought to God, as Zechariah said, "Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith tne Lord." The Gospel, which is to be preached by testimony, should be attended, Jesus said, by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and when men speak under this power their words go to the hearts of the children of men; and thus are men brought unto God. There is a great movement in the world today called "The men and religion forward movement." Men are beginning to realize that the pastors of the churches are unequal to the occasion of converting the people, and they are seeking to enlist the men, the laymen of the churches, in carrying the Gospel to the world. In this they are but following the example this Church has set. For, be it known to all men, that this Church does not follow; it leads. It is the Church of Christ; it is the ensample, the standard, and it is bringing men into the path marked by our Lord. It is showing the correct manner, the most effective manner of preaching the Gospel. Take our young men that go into the world. They hold the Holy Priesthood. They learn to do by doing. They have an interest in this work. They believe in God; they are ministers of Jesus Christ; and, armed with this power, they go forth and are interested in the work; and they accomplish a marvelous work and a wonder, by the blessings of Almighty God. 

Oh, my brethren and sisters, look upon the condition of the world with respect to religious beliefs. What a splendid testimony it affords that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God. Look at -the doctrines that are rapidly passing away. Joseph Smith declared that he would break down superstition — not by an army, not by might, but by preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Great men have  who have posed as infidels, and they have sought to break down Christianity, without giving anything as good in its place. But Joseph Smith did not do this; he sought to break down superstition, and succeeded by giving to men, in place of their erroneous beliefs, the pure Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and the superstition which has tyrannized over men — the false doctrine that there is no hope beyond the grave, the false doctrine that infants are consigned to eternal punishment because they are not baptized — I say such superstition is passing away from the minds of men; and it is due to the Gospel revealed by the Almighty to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Doctrines to which the world has been dead for ages have come to light, through the preaching of this Gospel, and men are accepting them. Where did Joseph Smith get his power? From God, and God alone. He came with a message from God upon his lips, and the grandeur of this work, its glory, its increasing power proclaim with a voice that is being heard by all mankind that the martyr, Joseph Smith, because of the greatness of this work, is mightier in death than he was in life. For the work is greater than men and will continue to grow and prosper. The poet said: 

"The dead have been awakened — Shall I sleep? 

The world's at war with tyrants — 

Shall I crouch? The harvest's ripe; and I pause to reap; I slumber not. A thorn is in my 

couch. 

Each day a trumpet soundeth in my 

ear, 

Its echo in my heart." Upon the tablets of the hearts of the Latter-day Saints may there be written the glorious declaration of the Lord Jesus — "I must be about my Father's business," is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

In order to extend greater privileges to our young men who may be called to go on missions, to prepare themselves to some extent by the study of the first principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a school of correspondence has been established, and Bishop Edwin S. Sheets has been appointed as the principal of this school, whose office is at the Bishop's Building, 40 North Main Street in this city. We would like the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards to encourage their young men, and such of the young sisters who may be called upon hereafter to take missions abroad, to open a correspondence with Brother Sheets, that they may in that manner prepare themselves to some extent for missionary labor in the fields abroad. This, of course, applies to those who are not able to spend the time needed to go to the church schools and there take a regular course in missionary work. This correspondence course is for those who cannot spare the time, to go to school and who may use this privilege and opportunity to gain information by means of correspondence. In this way many of our brethern will find themselves much better prepared to go on missions than they would be if they were called without this preliminary investigation and preparation. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Lord now victorious " 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder William T. Jack. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


