Outdoor
07 04 1912

Thousands of people gathered on the Temple grounds, unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly Hall, and an outdoor meeting was held for their benefit, at 2 p. m., near the Bureau of Information building. The services were presided over by Elder Benjamin Goddard. Music was furnished by Prof. Wm. C. Give's orchestra and Prof. Henry E. Giles organist, and Elder Alexander Campbell led the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn  

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But wth joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, 

Grace shall be as your day. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Alonzo P. Kesler GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDAED. 

(Supt. Bureau of Information.) 

Dear brethren and sisters, we are glad to have so many in attendance at Conference, and to have such interest and atttention manifested at our open air meeting. I trust that you will adapt yourselves to the prevailing conditions and not be restless. Some of our brethren are accustomed to open air meetings, and usually, upon the street corners, have a moving congregation, from the fact that the people know not the Gospel and many are not interested in their message. They often listen a little while and then move on. I trust that this will not be our experience today, we want you to stay with us. We realize the inconvenience of standing, but we believe that in this open air meeting the Lord can bless us, and will bless us according to the earnest desires of our hearts, just as well as if we were comfortably seated in the Tabernacle or in the Assembly Hall. 

I made a remark a moment ago that reminded me of a little experience. I venture to relate it to you, as it may indicate that even here, when we are meeting under apparently disadvantageous circumstances, the Lord will bless us. During a mission performed in New Zealand some time ago, I was impressed that even in moving congregations, while the elders are scattering the seed, the Word of God, some falls upon good ground, and later brings forth good fruit abundantly. Many elders in the mission field, who have been laboring zealously in connection with the work to which they have been called, have, at times, been discouraged because they have apparently seen little  from their earnest efforts. Such may have been the feelings of certain elders in Great Britain nearly forty years ago. I do not know who the elders were. I simply testify to the results of their work. 

A young couple, just married before the time refered to, were passing through the streets of an English town on Saturday evening. They perceived a crowd on the street corner. The young woman desired to listen, and called her husband's attention to the meeting. "Oh," he remarked, we do not want to stop for a sermon tonight," but she insisted, and he stood with her, therefore for a short time. A young man was speaking. His name I do not know nor did they. The young man may not know the results of his labors until he reaches "the other side." But he was preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that sermon, that fervent address, was accompained by the Spirit of God, and the young woman felt the influence of it as she stood there in the crowd. She heard a few truths, not the fulness of the Gospel, but a little truth here and there, as uttered by the young elder. Finally her husband called her away and they rambled off, and did not hear another elder of the. Church for more than twenty years. At that time the British Government offered inducements for colonists to go to the antipodes, to Austrailia, New Zealand and Tasmania. The young couple took advantage of these offers and emigrated to New Zealand, hoping to be thus benefited in securing a home. They located on the South Island, and soon made a clearing in the bush, removing the trees and 109  the ground. Thus they started their new home, and commenced to rear their little family. There were no elders in that locality at the time, but twenty years after they heard the young elder in England, a newspaper reached their home from the most southern part of New Zealand, in which they read that two elders of the Mormon church had been holding meetings. The mother of the family exclaimed to her husband, "Those must be the same kind of people we heard before we left home." So much of the truth had sunk into their hearts that they had not been able to affiliate with any other church, having found nothing to satisfy the craving of their souls. 

Accordingly the husband wrote asking the two elders to visit them. The elders did so, walking over one hundred miles in order to find the obscure dwelling in the bush. They found the father the mother and a large family of children ready to receive their message. They taught the same principle? listened to in the English town so long, long ago. The family embraced the Gospel, every member joined the Church, and subsequently they gathered to Zion. In Salt Lake Temple the husband and wife were sealed for time and eternity. The children received their blessings there; and today the oldest son is back in New Zealand, the land of his birth, preaching the same Gospel. I refer to this for the encouragement of any of our elders, or any of the Saints, who in their weakness, have borne testimony to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is God's work. He recognizes our labors and will give the reward. Paul may plant, Apollos may water  "God giveth the increase." The young elder preaching thus in Great Britain nearly forty years ago may have returned to his home discouraged, disheartened, not having seen the fruits of his labors. And yet, in the great hereafter, when "every man is rewarded according to his works," when "the books are opened" and every man receives his reward, when the sheaves are gathered in, it will not be a family but a multitude of people brought into the Church through the humble efforts of the elder upon the streets so long ago. 

I therefore bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that God has a blessing for us in this meeting. The Prophet of God has called these brethren to talk to us and, under the inspiration of the Almighty, we shall be blessed and strengthened in our faith, and we shall continue to partake of the good influence that has characterized all the Conference meetings thus far, for I feel that all the addresses have been faith promoting and soul inspiring. I pray that the Lord will bless us in this gathering, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY. 

(President of Wayne Stake.) 

In the summer of 1890 a young missionary in England was about to emigrate to this country, having filled a local mission of two and a half years. He had left the home of a sorrowing mother and his brothers and sisters, whom he might never meet again in this life. He was on his way to the railroad to take the train that would take him to his destination, where he would board the ship to bring him to Zion, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

As he passed the market place of the little town through which he was passing, there was gathered a congregation similiar to the one that is here this afternoon, excepting, doubtless, that they were very much divided in their opinions and religious conviction. The Salvation Army soldiers were preaching upon the streets, -and had attracted a large congregation. The young man was attracted to the place, and stopped to listen. He remained for about five minutes, during which time this religious body sang a number of songs, made a collection, and retired without preaching any of their doctrines, but inviting the congregation to accompany them to their place of worship, to the "barracks," as they termed it. The young man left on his way to the railroad station, as he had very little time left to catch the train. But an impression came over him that it was his duty to return, mount the steps of the monument that had been occupied by the leaders of this religious sect, and preach to the congregation that had been gathered. He immediately yielded to the impressions of the Spirit, and returned. He was impressed, first of all, to quote the words of Isaiah the prophet that the Gospel was without money and without price; and the declaration that he made seemingly attracted the congregation, and they remained. Many others gathered, and for some time the young man, under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, preached the Gospel of repentance and baptism for the remission of sins. The people were attentive. The Spirit of the Lord was present. The message of truth was carried home to many a heart. Some of the religious  that had 'been 'holding the meeting remained behind to listen to the young man, and when he got through with his service, they were anxious to get him into debate, to destroy, if possible, the good effect of the meeting; but many of the people that were present impressed by the good Spirit of the Lord, came to the rescue of the young Elder and declared that he had spoken the truth in plainness, that he had preached,the Gospel as contained in the Bible, and it was not necessary for him to be detained longer, as his train would soon leave. So he was excused Ten years later that young Elder, after gathering to this country and becoming established, was called on a mission to his fatherland. He returned to proclaim the gospel, as he had done to the people in that country . ten years previously. It was his pleasure to visit that little town. For some years no missionary work had been done in that section of the country; but, about two years before his return, the Elders had been sent there, and many of the people who were present at the open air meeting preached to by that young Elder when he was impressed as I have related, by the Spirit of the Lord, had gathered into the fold, and a very prosperous little branch of the church had been raised up in that part of the Lord's vineyard. When Brother Goddard was telling the experience that he was relating to you, I thought of this little incident that happened in Great Britain. 

The Latter-day Saints are often accused by their enemies of hero worship. When they sing that soulinspiring song that we have sung this afternoon, many who are op111  to the Church that has been restored to the earth, accuse the Latter-day Saints of worshiping the Prophet Joseph Smith. There can be nothing farther from the truth than an accusation of that kind. True it is, that the Latterday Saints honor and revere the memory of Joseph Smith, and why not? If God, the Eternal Father, should condescend to honor and bless this man, why should his followers hesitate to give honor and praise where honor and praise are thus manifestly due? Do we not reverence the name of Moses? Do we not speak in respect with regard to all the prophets who have so earnestly labored to uplift and save mankind ? Did not Jesus Christ Himself, the Son of the living God, magnify the prophets who had preceded Him? Did He not refer in terms of respect to the ancient prophets? Did He not give God the Father glory and praise for the work that the prophets had accomplished in their day and time? Then why should not the Latter-day Saints speak in honor and praise of the man who lived and died for the principles that our Father revealed for the salvation and glory .of the human race? When we are accused of worshiping Joseph Smith we are accused wrongfully. We believe in Jesus Christ. We believe that He was the only begotten Son of the Father. We believe that He was sent into this world to do as He declared, not His own will, but the will of His Father, who had sent Him. He came into the world to restore the truths that had been lost by reason of the fact that the people were unwilling to accept the prophets, and had disregarded their message. 

It must be remembered that there was a period of something like four hundred years from the coming of Malachi, from the time of his administration among the people to the coming of John the Baptist, and during that time there had been an absence, so to speak, of communication between God and man. No prophet came forward declaring "Verily verily, this is the way, walk ye in it." Those of you who are familiar with the Scriptures will remember the conditions that obtained in the days of Malachi, the spirit of apostasy that was rife among God's chosen people, and how Malachi verbally chastised them because of their unbelief, and because of their turning away from the truth, and predicted what would befall them as a result of departing from the truth and ignoring the message that the prophets had brought them; and this was the condition when the Son of God came. This was the condition when John the Baptist made his appearance. Hence he and the doctrine he preached were not popular. John the Baptist and the Savior were just as unpopular in their day as was the Prophet Joseph Smith in the day when he came. The body of believers who came into the fold, who were received into the Church of Christ by baptism were just as unpopular in the land of Judea, among God's own chosen people, as are the Latter-day Saints unpopular in this glorious country today, and in all the countries whithersoever they may be scattered declaring their truths. 

Jesus came with this message, that He had been sent of the Father. He complained because of the unbelief of the people. The people professed to believe in Abraham GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the prophets. Jesus told them that if they believed in Abraham they would do the works of Abraham. He simply repeated the truth as the prophets had before declared it and made known the fact that He had been entrusted with a special mission : He had been sent of the Father to preach repentance and to establish righteous laws and principles among the people; and He declared this truth "I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh to the Father but by me." The Latter-day Saints believe that Jesus was the light of the world. They believe that He did teach the truth. They believe that He had the authority and power to give laws to the people, even the law of His Father, which is the law of the Church by which all men come to a knowledge of the truth. 

It has never been asserted by Joseph Smith, or any of his followers, that there was any virtue, any power, any authority, in this prophet of God except such as had come down from the heavens. Joseph Smith did not preach his own doctrine, but he taught the people to believe in the law of Jesus Christ, he taught faith in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. He taught that all men will be punished for their own sins and not for Adam's transgression He declared that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved by obedience to the ordinances of the Gospel. He declared that the laws and ordinances of the Gospel are; First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; Second, Repentance; Third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and Fourth, the laying on of hands for the gift of  Holy Ghost. He proclaimed that men must be called of God by prophecy and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof — and so we might go through all the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we would not find one idea expressed that could lead to the conclusion that the Latter-day Saints have any other Savior than the Redeemer of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. 

But I believe, my friends, that the trouble with the world today, as it has ever been, is that they want to make excuses, they want to excuse themselves for not obeying the truth, on some premises that never existed. Joseph Smith magnified the Redeemer of the world more than any other individual, I believe, that has ever lived in these last days. How could he do that by the simple truths and principles that he taught? He did it by the unblemished and pure life that he lived. Fie did it by the testimony that he bore to the world. And he did it by willingly giving his life in evidence of the principles that he had declared he had received from God the Father. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, and beloved friends who may not be members of the "Mormon" Church, let me ask you to consider carefully where you stand this afternoon. T think I can read upon the faces of this congregation that we have been gathered from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south, and have come up in obedience to the commands of the living God that we might learn of His ways, and that 113  might walk in His paths. May I appeal to you this afternoon that you forget not your first love for the Gospel. May I ask that we continue to investigate those principles that were revealed to us in our fatb> crland. May I plead with you that you contend earnestly for the faith that was once delivered to the Saints. 

I was delighted, in the opening session of this Conference, to hear the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith. The truth of his testimony found echo in my heart, when he said that the statement often made by our enemies, and perhaps inadvertently made sometimes by Latter-day Saints who go by outside appearances, that the Church of Christ is losing in spirituality and becoming intrenched in what the world calls "commercialism," was not true. I was delighted with the testimony he bore that the Latter-day Saints are making good in faith in God, in repentance; that they are not losing in spiritual gifts and in power. I believe that some are losing, but it is they who are not keeping the commandments of God. I can bear testimony in my experience, in my ministry, that faith in God is on the increase. I know that to be the case in the little stake where I live and preside. I know that by the power of God the sick are healed as they ever were in the time of the historv of this Church, or in the Church of Christ anciently. I know that sinners who repent and come unto Christ and are baptized, having contrite hearts and a humble spirit, receive the testimony of the Redeemer as they ever did, and they know that Jesus lives. They know that Joseph Smith was His prophet. They  that the Church of Christ is with men, with all its gifts and powers and blessings. I know that when men are humble, and trust in God, that He inspires them by His Spirit when they are called to address the congregations of the people. If they do not have the eloquence of orators, if they do not have the reasoning ability of great men, they have the testimony of Christ, which is the spirit of prophecy, which bears record to those who are honest and sincere, that they speak the truth. That is my individual and personal testimony. 

I thank God for the testimony that is within me. I am grateful for what God has revealed to me, and for what he has revealed to you, and for His Spirit that testifies to all the Church when men speak by its influence and power, that they are operating under that influence. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, may we be loyal to the faith. May we be true to one another. May we be true to the covenants we have made with God no matter where our lot may be cast, no matter what our occupation may be. Wherever we may be, whatever we are doing, let us be careful that every thought and every act of our lives is an evidence and a testimony to the world that we believe that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the light, and that we have accepted the way, and that we are walking in the light, and have received the testimony of the Spirit. 

May the Lord bless us; and as we return from this Conference, may we go forth with renewed energy and desire to serve the Lord. May we sustain in every thought and every word and every act of our lives those principles for which GENERAL CONFERENCE.  prophets, ancient and modern, have lived and died. May we sustain the leader of this Church, whom God has called to direct - in this last dispensation, by our faith and our works, and thus aid in bringing to pass the day when Jesus, the Prince of Glory and Peace, shall come to trie earth, and when He shall reign and peace and righteousness shall be established. 

"Hail, Savior, Prince of Peace, 

Thy kingdom shall increase 

Till all the worl'd thy glory see 

And righteousness abound 

As the great deep profound, 

And fill the earth with purity." 

May God grant this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

August Glissmeyer sang the hymn, "High on the Mountain tops," as a solo. 

ELDER SYLVESTER a. CANNON. 

(Of the Presidency of Pioneer Stake.) 

This is a new experience for me, my brethren and sisters and friends, to address an outdoor gathering. I have had the privilege of performing two missions in foreign lands, but in both cases they were in fields where outdoor preaching is not allowed. I have attended but one outdoor meeting during my missionary experiences, and T had at that time no opportunity of addressing those who were present. I rejoice in the spirit of this meeting, and I trust that I may be able to say something that will be of an edifying nature to those present. 

While we were singing the first hymn this afternoon, my mind was led to reflect upon the conditions under which that hymn was writ, and also the conditions which prevail today as compared with that time, — the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints, No toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way." This hymn was written under circumstances, as most of you know, in which the people, of whom we form a part, were in a situation of a desperate character. They had been despoiled of their goods, thev had suffered privations, they had been driven from their homes; many of their friends and relatives had passed away as a result of the oersecutions they had to endure; and they were in the midst of privation, disease, and suffering, in the middle of the winter. Wm. Clayton, who belonged to the Church at that time of deep distress, wrote this hvmn as an encouragement to the Saints to prepare for the emigration to this country, at that time a wilderness. 

Now, in considering the conditions that surround us here, and the nrogress that has been made, I have been led to reflect upon the power of faith in the hearts of those who were a oart of this Church at that time. I was led to reflect unon the declaration of Paul, as contained in the eleventh chanter of bis Koisth to the ^T^brews, where he says, "Now faith is the substance of thinp-s honed for. the evidence of things not seen :" and in that chapter he p-n«s on to illustrate the nower of faith. I shall read onlv a few of the statements that he makes in that chanter. "For bv it ( faith) the elders obtained a good reoort. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed bv the word of God, so that thing's which are seen were not made of things which do appear — But without faith 115  is impossible to please Him: for he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." He goes on to tell of the faith of Noah, Abraham, and all those who were faithful men in the sight of God, men who accomplished things for the progress of His work and were mighty men of old. Now, we believe that a system of faith or religion that is not able to influence and establish in the hearts of its devotees a living faith, a faith sufficient to enable people to endure all things, to sacrifice all things, for the love of that religion, for the love of God, and sacrifice, if need be, their own lives, is not sufficient to bring men and women to salvation. It is necessary that people should have a faith sufficient to enable them to do everything, to sacrifice, if it were necessary, everything they possess for the love of the truth, for the love of God, in order that they may be able to obtain His favor and blessing. 

We believe, in order to obtain salvation, it is necessary that men should have an idea that God actually exists, that men should have an understanding and an assurance that the course of life they are pursuing is in accordance with the will of God. If men have this understanding, these ideas, then they are on the way to salvation. Now, if men have the belief that God exists, they also must have an idea of His character, His perfection, and His attributes, they must understand that God is indeed a God of mercy, of justice, of omnipotence, that He loves His children, that He is unchanging, the same yesterday, today, and forever, that 

He desires that all men should come unto Him, and live in accordance with His will, that they may obtain His favor and blessings. 

If men understand that God has made known, at various times in history, His will, and has undertaken to send men authorized of Him to proclaim His will, to make known that which He desires of mankind, to call them to live in accordance therewith, we can then perceive that it is necessary that men should undertake to submit their own will, desires and inclinations to the will of God. If they do this, they will pursue a course of life that is in harmony with the will of the Lord, in accordance with the commandments which He has made known; and, in pursuing that course throughout their lives, they will eventually obtain salvation in the presence of God, our Eternal Father. 

If mankind come to the condition of mind that they feel assured that God lives, they then understand that they can worship Him, they can understand His attributes, His character, and perfections, they can approach Him, and are able to ask Him for blessings, and seek to live in accordance with that which they feel He desires. As they grow in faith, as they develop a living faith, they will be able to sacrifice all that they possess for the love of the Lord, because of the fact that they have an assurance that He is wiling to bless them; and through that faith and devotion they will obtain salvation. 

The Latter-day Saints have accepted a faith which is indeed this living faith. It requires of men and women the sacrifice, if necessary, of their positions for the love of GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

God and for the advantage of His work. We have accepted it with that understanding. The Gospel of Jesus Christ at all times, in all ages when it has been upon the earth, of which we have any record in sacred history, has required of men and women that they should give themselves wholly and completely to the service of the Lord, that they should be willing to submit their desires, feelings and inclinations to the will of the Lord, and undertake to do His will as He has made it known. The greatest exemplar of this doctrine is the Savior Himself, the only Begotten Son of the Father, who came upon the earth to do the will of the Father. He was willing to submit Himself, even though He was one of the Godhead, to do that which God the Eternal Father had given Him to do. He came upon the earth and performed a wonderful mission, the mission which He was called to perform, the atonement. Although He was free to do that or not as He chose, He was willing in the hour of suffering, the very hour when the greatest sacrifice had to be made, to say, "Nut my will but thine be done." He accomplished that atonement; He drank that cup of bitterness. He passed through death, and suffering such as men have never endured upon the earth, and was resurrected from the dead without His body having seen corruption. He was resurrected to eternal life, and triumphed over death, and became the mediator between men and God, whereby men also, through following in His footsteps, endeavoring to live as He lived, and to observe the principles and doctrines He established^ may also come unto God and walk in the  to salvation. Through perseverance along this course, men and women will obtain salvation in the presence of our Father. 

This doctrine of the Church of Latter-day Saints is indeed a living faith, founded upon the principles of which I have spoken. It is necessary that men should have an idea that God actually exists. We have abundant evidences, before we join this Church, that God does exist, from various sources. We have it from tradition, we have it from sacred history, we have it from natural evidences. We can also in our own being feel that, inasmuch as we live upon earth and have being, there is one above us who is powerful, by whom all things have been created, and under whose guiding hand all things are regulated and controlled. We can understand the existence of a Supreme Being, through investigating the principles of the Gospel, as Jesus taught them, and as they are taught in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We can thereby obtain an understanding of the eternal nature of God. of His attributes, perfections and being. The Gospel teaches us that we . are created in very deed in His image, that we lived before we came here, in the spirit; that we will exist after we leave this earth, and will be rewarded according to the deeds done in the body. 

Now, the principles and doctrines of the Church of Christ, as stated by Brother Eckersley, are clear and easily understood. This is the substance of what I wish to say : Every principle, every ordinance, every doctrine, that is promulgated by the Latter-day Saints is entirely in harmony with, in fact, are exactly the same as were preached by the Lord Jesus Christ and His apostle* They are in exact harmony witu every principle that is contained in this Holy Bible; every principle and every doctrine that we believe in can be shown from the book itself, to be correct and in accordance with the Bible. 

The Savior's disciples were told when He was leaving them, after He was resurrected, to "go into the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved and he that believed not shall be damned, and these signs shall follow them that believe, In my name they shall yeast out devils. They shall lay their hands upon the sick and they shall be healed." And many other signs of which He spoke should follow them that believed; they should receive of these gifts and blessings according to their faith. The Latter-day Saints believe in these things; they believe that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. They believe that the doctrines which the Savior taught are and were the true principles of eternal life, and that, in order to be saved, mankind must accept these principles and obey them, in every period of the world's history, if they are to obtain salvation. And they must be taught these principles. These principles must be declared, and these ordinances performed, by men who are duly authorized of the Lord, in order that they may be recognized and sealed in heaven by our Eternal Father; otherwise they are of no avail. I repeat, they are not efficacious unless they are in accordance with His will, and performed by those who are duly sent and  to perform them. The Latter-day Saints have accepted these principles. The Prophet Joseph Smith, of whom we have heard this afternoon, and in whom we believe as having been a prophet of the Lord, received them from heaven by revelation from God, and the principles which he taught are entirely in harmony with the principles contained in the Scriptures. This harmony is evidence that the principles which he taught were revealed from heaven. Joseph Smith was not qualified of himself, any more than any uninspired man is qualified, to make up a system of religion corresponding in every particular with the doctrines, principles, and ordinances which the Savior taught and established, and which were promulgated by His apostles after His death and resurrection. 

Every principle and doctrine and ordinance in this Church is for the betterment, for the development of mankind, and there is in it principles, doctrines, and commandments for the improvement of every side of the human character. This of itself is a testimony to me of the divinity of this work. Among other things the people called Latter-day Saints have received what is called the Word of Wisdom. It was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith many years ago, long before the world, or even the learned men, except in a few instances, had declared the injury that would come to the human body through indulgence in tobacco, strong drinks and other articles of a narcotic and stimulating nature. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that these things were harmful; he received this word from the Lord by revelaGENERAL CONFERENCE. . He advocated moderation in all things, temperance in everything; that men should not run to extremes in any particular, but endeavor to be moderate and temperate under all circumstances. We find today that men are coming to accept and advocate the identical principles that were declared many years ago by revelation from the Lord. Recently we had in our midst a renowned authority on health, on the human body, on those principles which go to make up healthy, strong men and women. If any of us who are believers in the doctrines of the Gospel had closed our eyes, and not known who was speaking, we would have declared that he was teaching the doctrines of "Mormonism" with re gard to those things which concern the body; because he proclaimed principles which have been familiar to the Latter-day Saints for many years. They are now getting to be understood by the rest of the people of the world as necessary for human welfare. 

The Latter-day Saints believe in virtue, morality. We understand that men and women cannot remain true, cannot have a living faith in God if they are immoral, if they are unvirtuous in thought, in word, or in act. It is necessary that we should be true and pure in order to obtain the blessings of the Lord, in order that the Spirit of God may be with us and inspire us. We believe these things; we know these things. I know, and I desire to testify to every one who is present, that men and women cannot remain in this Church unless they are pure, unless they are virtuous, unless they are upright in morals and every other thing. Men and women will  from the Church if they become unvirtuous. It is one of the principles of this Gospel that we must live pure lives; unless we do it we cannot be temples of the Holy Spirit. 

We believe, as Latter-day Saints, in the law of tithing. The leaders of this Church have been accused of misusing the funds that are paid as tithing by the Latter-day Saints, because they teach this law, which was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith many years ago. Those critics do not understand the fact that practically all of the money thus paid by the Latter-day Saints is returned to them in a way that they will get the benefit of it. Those present at a meeting in the Tabernacle the other night heard statements read of the money expended in the work that is being done by this Church for the benefit of the people. It was shown that from 50 per cent to 90 per cent of all that is donated by the Latter-day Saints is returned to them, in their various stakes and wards, for their own benefit. It was shown also that in addition to this directly, that there was a very large amount of money expended for the benefit of those in need of charity, suffering or lacking for the necessities of life. It was shown also that a very large sum is expended year by year for purposes of education among the Latter-day Saints, for teaching our young people principles which go to develop men and women educationally, and also in the theology, the understanding of the principles of the Gospel. We believe in teaching theology in our schools, as well as other principles which pertain to life, which are a part of the proper education of 119 . The Church is assisting, by its tithing fund, in performing a wonderful work in the way of missionary labor — such a work as has never been seen upon the face of the earth before. It has been taken as an ideal by many of the ministers in the world today. I know of many prominent men, in various churches, who point to the missionary system of the Latterday Saints as being the ideal system, because it is the system which was inculcated and established by the Savior when He was upon the earth, when He sent His disciples out and said to them, Go out into all the world and preach the Gospel without money and without price. Preach the Gospel freely to all mankind; and he that believes the Gospel and is willing to submit his will to the Lord, and will develop a faith in God and submit himself to do the will of God, shall receive a testimony of it, and will obtain salvation through perseverance therein. 

The work in which we are engaged is of such a nature that it is constructive. It is not merely a system of principles or theories, but it develops, as I stated, a living faith in the hearts of the people, whereby they are willing to go, if necessary, to the ends of the earth to accomplish that which is made known to them as being, the will of the Lord. Young men and young women have been called to leave their homes to go out into all parts of the world to preach the Gospel, to spend two, three, or more years in this work, at their own expense, without receiving monetary help from the Church, sacrifice their time and means, and leave families for this purpose. They have done , and they testify to hundreds of thousands of people of the divinity of this work. The people have left their eastern homes, having been driven therefrom, through persecution, into a wilderness a thousand miles from civilization, and in the midst of that wilderness, have developed and established a system of community life that is unparalleled anywhere in the world today, a community life that is praised highly by people everywhere. If we work this out to its ideal condition, as we eventually will, it will be indeed the perfection and ideal that all people can point to with praise. The people have been constructive in their character as a result of the faith that they have espoused, and they work together in unity and harmony. The people were able to settle differences when they were all of one faith; there were few quarrels; everything was arbitrated. The courts did very little in the way of settling difficulties. They were settled peaceably,without expense, and without hard feelings toward each other, because the people were united. These things are evidences of the fact that this is more than a mere system of theories. It is a system of life. It includes principles whereby men and women may learn how to live; and that is the reason and object of our being, that we shall learn to live upon the earth as the Lord desires of us, that we may know how to live in eternity, when we leave this existence. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony of the truth. I know that this work that was established under divine direction by Joseph Smith, was and is, indeed, "the power of God unto salvation" of all GENERAL CONFERENCE.  will believe and obey it. It is a system whereby men and women may come to know the Lord, and obtain a testimony in their hearts that it is true, that it is divine, that God has established this work to remain, endure, and continue, to prepare the way for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know also, that not only was Joseph Smith a prophet of the Lord, that not only was he authorized of God to establish this work upon the earth, but that every man who has succeeded him in the presidency of the Church, every man who has been called to labor in the ministry and Priesthood, has been endowed with power from on high, inasmuch as he has endeavored to labor according to the will of the Lord. I know that these men who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith in this Church, as prophets, seers, and revelators, have been and are indeed inspired men. I rejoice in the fact that this is the case, that this work has continued, that there has been no break in the rightful succession in the presidency of this Church, and that we have at the head of the Church today a man who is indeed inspired of the Lord, endowed from on high, empowered by our Heavenly Father to direct this work; and with him are twelve apostles, also inspired of the Lord. 

I rejoice in the testimony I have, because I know this work is true. I was born of parents who were members of this Church, and I have been taught from my youth up to seek the Lord in prayer. I have received testimonies in praying to the Lord, evidences of the divinity of this work. I have received answer to prayer in accordance with the faith that I have exercised. I have been  by my parents to be pure and virtuous, and I know that these same principles are inculcated in the hearts of all the Latter-day Saint boys and girls as they grow up, that they may remain true, and pure, and virtuous in the sight of God, and^ thereby continuing on may obtain salvation in the presence of our Father. 

I pray that His Spirit may attend us, that everyone who is present, if we are converted to the divinity of this work, may seek to live it from day to day, from hour to hour, from year to year, and endeavor to make our lives better from one day to another, from one year to another, that we may progress in the principles of eternal life; and if we are not yet convinced that this work is true, that we will do as has been asked of us by the Apostle Paul, "Prove all things, and hold fast to that which is good." Seek and investigate these principles; if they are true, they are worth more than life itself. This religion is a living force in the world, and will continue to be so. 

May the Lord bless and help us to be true to these principles, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

BISHOP L0EENZ0 N. STOHL. 

(Of Third Ward, Brigham City.) 

I do not happen to be one of the fortunate ones whom Brother Goddard referred to as being accustomed to out-door speaking. My experience along that line has been very limited. I *pent a little more than three years in the mission field, and had the privilege only once of speaking to an out-door audience. But the result of that experience was very similar to that related by 121  brethren who have preceded me. Two Elders of our conference, who were choice men, clean, pure, virtuous, and faithful, and honest before God and man, were selected to bear the message of the Redeemer to the people who resided in the City of Raleigh, North Carolina. They were counseled to travel without purse and without scrip, to deliver that message without price, neither teaching for hire nor divining for money; and because they traveled in this manner, as did the disciples of the Master, they were imprisoned by the city authorities, and finally driven from the city. Later, President Lyman and Apostle Cowley visited our conference, and they counseled that we try it again. This time it fell to the lot of a very good Elder and myself to undertake this mission, without purse, and without scrip. We did this, and called upon the same city authorities, whom we found very bitter and antagonistic toward us and the cause that we had the honor to represent. They advised us that not only the same treatment that was accorded our dear brethren would be given to us, but harsher methods would be resorted to unless we refrained from preaching the Gospel as we believed it, in the city of Raleigh. We reminded them of the fact that we were American citizens and intended to insist upon our rights as such. We desired to become conversant with the ordinances, which we did; and we complied strictly with them — as Latterday Saints are accustomed to doing — living the law of the land and of God. We went in fasting and prayer, and the Lord most wonderfully opened up the way for us. As a result of the first meeting which  held, under adverse circumstances and conditions, at the conclusion of the meeting, we had invitations extended to us to share the hospitality of the good people, and to preach the Gospel, as we believed it, in some of the homes of the people. Without going into detail, and in order to make a long story short, it resulted, while I was there with my brethren, in the organization of a Sabbath School, and in the baptism of a number of heads of families — I think more than a score. That was the condition I had the pleasure of leaving the city in, after the experiences that we had. It was simply the blessings of the Lord, we knew it, we saw how He opened up the way, and we gave to Him the honor and the praise. 

My brethren and sisters, and friends, I have very much enjoyed the testimonies of our dear brethren, and listening to the beautiful teachings that God has seen fit to impart to us through His servants, at the various sessions of this Conference. To me, so far as I have been privileged to listen to them, it has been a veritable spiritual feast; and I most earnestly hope and pray that it will give to us such a renewed determination to serve the Lord, in spirit and in truth, that we will manifest in our every day life that we love Him, and appreciate what He has done for us, by living more closely in harmony with His holy laws and requirements. 

I have been very highly pleased with the beautiful eulogies that I have listened to from my brethren, paid to our beloved Redeemer and His life's work and mission in the earth. Today, throughout all the Christian world, services are being conducted commemorative of the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I do not recall the exact words of the Prophet Isaiah, but he testified to the fact that Jesus really took upon Himself our sins, the sins of the whole world; that He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; that with our iniquities was He bruised, and with His stripes are we healed. I remember, as you do, the occasion in the Garden of Gethsemane, when Judas Iscariot had accomplished his; work of betrayal of his Master, when the soldiers of the high priests surrounded the Lord and His disomies, and were about to lay hold upon Him. You remember, Peter drew his sword and smote off the ear of one of the high priests' servants, but Jesus chided him for this and said, "Knowest thou not that even now I can call down more than twelve legions of angels? But thus it must be that my Father's will might be fulfilled?" The whole thought and purpose was, "Father, not my will but Thy will be done." This act, this testimony of His, in connection with many others, and, in fact, all the incidents of His life and teaching, goes to demonstrate clearly that it was a voluntary act on His part. "Greater love hath no man than this, that he will lay down his life for his friend." Now Jesus not only did this, but more. He bore our cross, He carried our sorrows, and took upon Himself our sins, as John testifies, "the sins of the whole world," and He suffered as no mortal man could suffer. I take it that the finite mind cannot even commence to comprehend the sufferings that He endured; no wonder that He sweat great drops of blood. 

I glorify the name of Jesus Christ as my Redeemer. I praise Him, and feel to lo^e Him for what He has done for me and you, and for all the children of men, through His glorious atonement, whereby He gained the victory over the grave, with the result that we will all be resurrected from the tomb. Paul says that "as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." I remember the words recorded by John the Revelator, in the twentieth chapter of Revelations — how he goes on to explain about the resurrection of the just, that they are to live upon the earth, with their Redeemer, for a thousand years. At the expiration of that time, the general resurrection shall take place — and he says, "I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the Book of Life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and every man was judged according to his works." Therefore, we see how far-reaching is the effect of the atonement of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

The question that arises in my mind is whether or not our hearts are really in tune with our expressions in offering praise to Jesus, our Lord? Are we guilty, any of us, of worshiping Him with our mouths, doing Him nonor with our lips, and yet having our hearts far from Him? There have been people thus guilty, and it is possible that some are in that frame of mind today. The point that I desired to make was this : there is 123  question as to the love of Jesus for us, but there is a question, perhaps, as to our true devotion and love for Him, and our appreciation of what He has done for us. Now, the way we can manifest that love, the only way we can truly and fully manifest it is to live according to the laws and requirements which He, as the autnor of the plan of life and salvation, has laid down for our guidance. He says, "Not everyone that saith unto me, 'Lord, Lord,' shall enter into the Kingdom of Heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven." He says, many shall come to Him in that day and say they once prophesied in His name, in His name cast out devils, and done many other wonderful works, and then will He profess unto them, "I never knew you : depart from me, ye workers of iniquity." "Wherefore," says He, "Everyone who heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock, and the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock; but everyone who heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended and the floods came and the wind blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall thereof." The people marveled at His teachings, for they said He taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes, who were so imbued with the thought, and argument, and doctrine that all that was necessary was to confess God with our lips  order to be saved. He taught them a different doctrine. He taught them as one having authority, that if they were to enjoy the blessings which He, through His atonement, had placed within the reach of everyone of the sons and daughters of Adam, they must comply with the teachings which He had laid down for their guidance. "Though he were a son," says Paul, "yet learned He obedience by the things which He suffered, and being made perfect, He became the author of eternal salvation to all them that obey them." He said, "Peter, lovest thou me? Then feed my lambs." On another occasion He. said, "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments." John testifies that hereby we may know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments. ''But," says he, "He that saith he knoweth Him and keepeth not His commandments, is a liar and the truth is not in him." Now, then, this is the way in which we can manifest to God the Father, through Jesus Christ, His Son, our love and appreciation of their love for us. He gave , His only Begotten Son that all who would believe on Him might be saved, providing they would believe with that faith which James, the apostle, characterizes as a living faith, an active faith, a faith that is not dead — because it is associated with works. He says, "Ye believe that there is one God. Ye do well. The devils also believe, and they tremble. But yet, know thou, O vain man, that faith without works is dead, even as the body withoutl the spirit is dead." 

I am proud to be able to say to you that the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Saints believe in this living, active, vitalizing faith that will bring salvation in the presence of God. We believe in a practical religion, in doing as well as in saying things. I have a testimony, my brethren and sisters, that God lives, and that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. I have a testimony abiding in my heart, for which I am deeply grateful, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, and that all who will obey the teachings of the Gospel, will find it verily, as Paul testified, "The power of God unto salvation." May this salvation be our lot, and that of all the honest in heart, is my earnest prayer for one and all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Serenade," a violin solo, was rendered by Prof. Wm. C. Clive. The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter 'days; 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles B. Felt. 





