4
Morning
04 04 1902
Elder C. D. Fjelsted
9
8

None

None

It was very gratifying to listen to the remarks of President Smith this morning, that the work of God is growing, both at home and abroad. We feel that it is quite an encouragement to us to do the will of our Father. "We certainly have a testimony that this is the work of God. We have not been left to guess at it, or to be in doubt about it, but the Lord has given us a testimony, right from the beginning, that this is the work of the Lord. Opposition to it will never stop it; for it has come here to stay. The kingdom of God will stay here, His work will progress, and the blessings of God will rest upon His people. We will prosper in everything that is good, if we will do the will of our Heavenly Father continually. We are thankful that we have a living Priesthood among us — a genuine Priesthood, not a bogus Priesthood; men that are inspired of God to teach us the way of life and salvation. When we meet together it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to send up a prayer in silence to our Heavenly Father that He will inspire His servants, that they may be fed with the bread of eternal life and have the word of God, that we may be blessed and renew our determination to stand faithfully in the kingdom of God. For my part, I have enjoyed a great deal of the Spirit of God when I have been out preaching the Gospel in the world; and I can testify to this people that your sons who are sent out to preach the Gospel are doing well. They are intelligent, and they are working hard, and the work of the Lord is progressing. Those that oppose it never have the advantage of the servants of God. The servants of God are assisted by the Spirit of God, because this is His work, and He sustains them. 

I feel to say, the Lord bless Israel. The Lord bless all His servants. May we rally around them, listen to their counsels, and do the will of our Father as it is delivered to us through His servants from time to time, is my prayer for Christ's sake. Amen.
