32
Afternoon
06 04 1902
Patriarch John Smith
34
82

None

None

My brethren and sisters, it is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you. For one reason, I was not expecting to occupy this position; but I trust, by your faith and prayers I may say something which will be of benefit, not only to you, but to myself. I can bear testimony to the truth of that which we have heard thus far during this conference. I can bear testimony that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us, and has guided those who have spoken to us. I trust that we as Latter-day Saints, will treasure up in our minds that which we have heard, and carry it with us to our homes, that it may abide with us and guide our actions in the future. I can bear testimony that this is the work of God, and that we are His people. So far as we will follow the instructions we receive from those who are set to preside, and be guided by our Father in heaven, I know that His blessings will rest upon us. If we will strive to do our duty, live our religion, and conduct ourselves in that way that shall be pleasing unto our Father in heaven, all will be well with us. I know that my Redeemer lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, and that if we will do our duty as Latter-day Saints we will reap the reward which our Father has in store for us. I feel to exhort my brethren and sisters to faithfulness and to diligence; for we understand that every Latter-day Saint has certain known duties to perform. We realize that it is our duty to remember our prayers, to pay our tithes and offerings, and to do unto others as we would wish them to do unto us under like circumstances. But if I have a hobby, it is what I have said in times past: I feel to exhort my young brethren to faithfulness, to diligence of duty, to prepare themselves by study and by attending the Mutual improvement associations, and striving to inform their minds at home, that when they are called to labor in the ministry they may go forward enabled to perform that duty unto which they may be called; for I realize, from many circumstances I have seen, that oftentimes our boys, although they are honest and willing to do their duty, have neglected to prepare themselves for the ministry, so much so that when they get into the field they are at a loss, and it takes them sometime before they can commence to do that amount of good that they would do from the start if they informed their minds before they left home. I feel to strive to know my duty and to perform the same in that way and manner that shall meet the approval of my Father in heaven. I desire an interest in the prayers of the Saints, that I may be able to fill my mission in honor and accomplish the work whereunto my Father in heaven has called me. May the blessings of our Father rest upon all Isreal, and guide us in the true path, that when we have finished our course we may be worthy of the blessings which He has promised us, is may prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
