22
Overflow
06 04 1902
Elder Heber J. Grant  
10
60-61

None

None 

I am very pleased indeed to have the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints, and I have listened with pleasure, interest and attention to that which has been said. 

Brother Taylor requested Brother Penrose to occupy his time. Some people are always inclined to criticise, and, as Brother Penrose talked a little longer than the rest of us, some may go away and find fault with his talking so long. I have given much advice to the Latter-day Saints in my time, and one of the principle items was never to criticise any one but ourselves. I believe in fault-finding for breakfast, dinner and supper, but with our own dear selves. 

I endorse all that has been said here this morning. I am delighted to see this building full of Latter-day Saints. It is a testimony and a confirmation of the remarks of our Prophet yesterday, that Zion is growing, and that the Latter-day Saints are increasing in faith and good works and are laboring for the advancement of the kingdom of God. I rejoice exceedingly in being here with you today to lift up my voice in testimony of the divinity of the work of God in which we are engaged. I rejoice that the testimony of the Gospel grows and increases within me day by day; for every day of my life it seems as though the Lord blesses me with additional knowledge. I rejoice, as I said the other evening in Priesthood meeting, that we stand as a united whole. I rejoice that the adversary, who inspired the men to kill our Prophet and Patriarch, has been routed. I rejoice in thinking that a son of the martyred Patriarch stands at the head of this Church. I rejoice that a love has always existed in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints for all the Prophets of God since the organization of the Church down to the present time. I rejoice in the love and confidence the Latter-day Saints have for the First Presidency of the Church, and for the Apostles. I rejoice in the testimony that is borne in my heart that all of the authorities of the Church — the First Presidency, Apostles, Seventies, Stake presidents and ward authorities, as well as the presidents of the various auxiliary organizations — are seeking for and desiring the advancement of God's work. I rejoice in seeing the harriers broken down whereby the Gospel may be carried to all the nations of the earth. I rejoice in the testimony in my heart that, as was stated by Brother Penrose, the opening in Japan will prove the opening of the oriental world, not merely the opening of the little islands that form the nation of Japan, but it shall also lead to the Gospel being preached in China and other oriental nations. 

One of the pleasures I had recently was the privilege of baptising a gentleman who speaks the Corean language. His wife also speaks that language, and I expect she will also soon join the Church. I believe this man will soon be an instrument in the hands of God in preaching the Gospel in Corea. I also met a man that has written considerable in a paper in our favor, stating, among other things, that we are the only people that teach as the Bible teaches. This man has, for many years, been taking trips into China, trying to advocate improvements in that country. He looks different from the ordinary Japanese. He is a very large man, and looks like an oriental. He wears his hair long, and forms it into a cue when he takes his trips to China. I think he, among others, will also come to a knowledge of the truth. Brother Snow, our late President, who passed away since I left Salt Lake City last year, said, when I was called to go to Japan, "I feel in my heart that this will be the opening wedge for the Gospel in that country." Brother Penrose was just saying he believed this would be the case, and I want to say to you that I believe it, and I believe it with all my heart. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. I rejoice in being permitted to attend the first general conference presided over by the son of the martyred Patriarch. 

May God bless each and every one of us, that as we grow and increase we may grow in the knowledge of the Gospel, and that we shall have a determination to serve God and carry out in very deed the teachings of the Savior; to let our light so shine that men seeing our good works shall glorify God. If we set an example worthy of imitation it is sure to have its effects. I received a letter from a man in London, stating that the Latter-day Saints were the only people, so far as he knew, who carried their daily beliefs into their daily life, as though they believed what they taught. Well, God bless you, one and all; I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
