30
Overflow 2
06 04 1902
Elder Abraham O. Woodruff
47
78-79

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters, I thought I was quite a rapid speaker myself, but Brother Grant (who has just presented the general authorities of the Church) has so outdistanced me that it has made me a little nervous. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of this great conference, which is now drawing to a close. 

Much has been said, during the general meetings of this conference, in regard to looking after the young of our community. As I am a young man myself, and have the same feelings, to a great extent, that other young men in our midst have, I desire to say a few words to the Latter-day Saints in regard to the way they approach their sons and daughters with reference to some of these matters that have been mentioned, and, in doing so, I do not wish to declare, or to be understood as proclaiming, that there are conditions existing among our people that ought not to exist; for I believe we are freer from the vices, crimes and evils which exist in the world than any other people to be found on the face of the earth. I am not inclined to take a pessimistic view of humanity, and, thus far, have been able to recognize some good in the efforts and acts of men. I believe, as Elder Douglas M. Todd expressed himself at one of our conferences lately, that we ought to preach the Gospel using ten words of commendation and instruction where we would use one of condemnation. I also think it is not a good thing for the Latter-day Saint parents to doubt the integrity or honesty of their children. Personally, I cannot conceive of anything that could have shaken my faith more in my parents or associates, when a boy, than to have had them ask me something regarding myself, or regarding anything, and then have them doubt my answer. I believe it would be better for the parents to enquire of their sons and daughters in regard to their habits, and, in nine cases out of ten, they will tell you the truth. 

My brethren and sisters, I believe that, in the vast majority of cases, where fathers or mothers will sit down with their sons and their daughters and question them in regard to their past conduct, they will be honest and frank with those fathers and mothers, and tell them the truth. I have that much faith in humanity, and I do not want anyone to be suspicious of me; if they want to know anything regarding my past life, I want them to ask me, and, with the help of the Lord, I will tell them the truth. I believe there are a number of young men in the Church who feel exactly the same way, and that they are not afraid to have their fathers and mothers become acquainted with their past; but the trouble is, or has been, in many instances, that the parents have not been as companionable with their sons and daughters as they ought to have been. They have pushed them away, rather than drawn them to them. 

I feel doubly interested in this matter, my brethren and sisters, for I believe that we have a good young people, and I do not wish to magnify their faults, which exist, perhaps, to a greater degree than they ought. I believe that the burden of the responsibility for the secret crimes and vices, which it is reported are making headway among our people, rests upon the heads of the fathers and mothers, from the fact that they have not cautioned their sons and daughters against such things. If the parents want to rid themselves of this responsibility, let them remember, and put into practice, the passage Elder Cowley read in your hearing here, placing the responsibility where it belongs, at least until children come to be of that age that they are able to judge between good and evil. My brethren and sisters, if you cannot teach your children and bring them up in the knowledge of the Gospel in the spirit of kindness, as stated in the revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants, from which Elder Taylor has just read — if you cannot turn them from evil with the spirit of kindness and persuasion, and by reasoning with them, you cannot do it by force. 

I firmly believe that ignorance is the mother of crime, and that if any one who has sinned knew the results of wrong-doing, they would not have done so with their eyes open; for I believe it is due to our ignorance of the results of wrong-doing, our ignorance of the consequence that will surely overtake us for committing wrong. Inasmuch as the glory of God is intelligence, let us see to it that we try, in an intelligent manner, and in the spirit of love and kindness to make plain to the young men and young women of Zion the terrible consequences of wrong doing, and see to it that they are warned; then if they go astray, their blood will not be required at the hands of their parents. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. I Anow that you are all anxious to hear from Brother Grant; he may not be with us at our next conference. I pray God's blessings upon you and all Israel, in this matter of which I have spoken; may we go at it in the proper way, and not do more harm than good in endeavoring to follow out what has been said, but that we may be governed always by the spirit of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I ask it for Christ's sake. Amen.
