18
Overflow
06 04 1902
Elder Chas. W. Penrose 
25
50-54

None

None

It is a great pleasure to be permitted to assemble with the Saints in this general conference. During the meetings that have been held in the Tabernacle, and this morning, in looking upon this congregation, I was reminded of a revelation, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith before the organization of the Church, which was alluded to by one of the speakers during our services in the Tabernacle. The Lord said that a great and marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. This thought is also conveyed in the Book of Mormon, and was taken from the prophecy delivered through the Prophet Isaiah many hundreds of years ago. You will find it in the 29th chapter of the book of Isaiah. The Lord gave one of the reasons for the corning forth of this marvelous work. He said. "Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men: Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." But the Lord said that the meek among men should rejoice in the Lord, and the poor among men should increase their joy in the Holy One of Israel; but that the scorner should be brought to nought. The eyes of the blind were also to be opened and the ears of the deaf unstopped, and they should hear the words of the book that was to be brought forth; for the word of the Lord was to come out of the ground, and to speak, as it were, "low out of the dust." 

Now we are witnessing the fulfilment, to a very large extent, of these predictions of the Prophets of the Lord. This work with which we are associated is indeed a marvelous work and a wonder. When we look upon the people assembled in the Tabernacle and at this overflow meeting, and realize that we who are gathered here are but a small representation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which forms the majority of the people of this region — when we realize this, we are led to exclaim, "What hath God wrought!" It was "a marvelous work and a wonder" when the Book of Mormon was translated by the power of God into the English language, from the hieroglyphics made on the metallic plates. Nothing of the kind had ever occurred, so far as we are aware, in the history of the world. In all the developments of science and in all the gifts and blessings which God bestowed upon His servants in ancient times, I do not know of anything to compare with the marvelous work and wonder of bringing forth those plates and translating the characters which were upon them. It is so marvelous and wonderful that the people of the world will not believe it. But we, my brethren and sisters have been led to believe in the truth of this book which the Lord has given us in the last days. Through our faith in the word of the Lord and the testimonies that have been borne unto us we have been led to receive the Gospel as taught in that book and in the New Testament, through the labors of the servants of God in the latter days. We have also received the Holy Ghost as a gift from God to us, to enlighten our minds, to lead and guide us in the ways of truth, and to bear witness to us concerning every truth that the Lord has revealed, that He is revealing and that He will yet reveal. Through this glorious gift which the Lord has given us our minds have been led upward from the things of earth to comprehend, in some degree, the things of heaven — from the things of time to those of eternity. 

In contemplating that which God has already accomplished in this marvelous work that He has commenced on the earth, we can look forward to that which is to be. The Gospel is to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The nations that sit in darkness are to see the marvelous light. The people that know not God are to be brought into such a condition that they can learn of His laws, walk in His ways and keep His commandments, and the barriers that have been builded up by the powers of darkness, through the craft of men, will be broken down, in the due time of the Lord. They will be removed from the way, and this Gospel of peace, this marvelous work that God has commenced in the earth, will spread over all the globe, and there will not be a corner of this earth wherein the Gospel will not be preached. Now, this lies in the future, but the Lord will accomplish it. This is part of the work that He said He was about to bring forth among the children of men. 

The preaching of the Gospel by the Elders of this Church is a marvelous work. Where will you find among the differing religions a man like the Elders of Israel, who is willing to go to any part of the world, without money and without price, who is willing to sacrifice all the temporal comforts of home and its surroundings and carry the message of life and salvation to his fellow-creatures? It is marvelous in the eyes of the preachers of the various Christian sects. They can scarcely believe or comprehend it. When they see how our boys, without training, go out in the world, and face an opposing people, the traditions of men and the influences and powers that are against them, trusting wholly in God, and preaching the Gospel without purse or scrip, they are amazed and confounded. It is something marvelous, something unique in the world's history, aside from the labors of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ and their associates in the early days of the Christian Church. The fact that many people of the nations of the earth, wherever this Gospel is proclaimed, bear testimony that they receive a witness from God concerning its divinity, is marvelous. It matters not where those men or women were born, or what their traditions or language may have been, when the light of the Gospel, through the testimony of the humble servants of God, penetrates their souls they are brought to a unity of the faith. When they come together they may not be able to understand each other's languages, but they understand the spirit that permeates their minds, and understand the influences by which they are led, and rejoice together. The same light is in all their souls, the same warmth in all their hearts, and they can fraternize and feel that they are brothers and sisters in very deed. 

It is a marvel when we look at it naturally, to behold how this influence spreads throughout the whole Church, to see what a bond of union is formed by the power of the spirit and teachings of the Gospel. When we come to think how the way has been opened up for the people who have been brought from the various nations of the earth to these mountain vales, is it not wonderful? Most of them were raised in what are called the lower ranks of society. I do not mean the lowest classes, or the criminal element of society, but the working people, the bone and sinew of the nations of the earth. Most of the people who have come up here into these mountain vales were not from among what is called the upper classes, the learned. and wise after the wisdom of this world, but were from among the plodding class. The Gospel has reached them and the Lord, in a marvelous manner, has opened the way whereby they might gather here in these mountains by the thousands. They have come away out here, across the bleak and barren plains, up into these mountain vales, to worship the Lord, to learn of His ways and walk in His paths. This was also predicted by the Prophets Isaiah and Micah. Is it not marvelous in our eyes, when we think of what God hath wrought, bringing these people from afar, from the north and from the south, from the east and from the west? He has said "to the north give up, and to the south keep not back. Bring my sons from far and my daughters from the ends of the earth." They are gathered here, and we see them spreading out over the face of the land, and still they say, "Give us room that we may dwell." They are overflowing into Canada on the north, and away down into Mexico, Arizona and New Mexico, on the south, and into Colorado, Idaho and Wyoming. We are spreading out, and the influence that we carry is a marvel in the eyes of the world, and many are warning the people against "the menace of Mormonism," the peril that is to come to the nation because of the wonderful increase of the Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons." 

Some years ago President Brigham Young sent missionaries to China, Siam and the East Indies. The brethren accomplished but little in Siam and China, but a few converts were made in India, and some of them came here to these mountains. We might think the trip was a failure, on the whole. Sometimes, when people go into a new country to found settlements they make big mistakes in the beginning. They flounder away and have a hard time, and sometimes forsake the spot where they were sent to live; but, in most instances, they go ahead, and, after a little experience, the way is opened up before them, the barrenness is taken from the soil, the elements become propitious, the water is increased, and the blessing of God comes upon the land, and flourishing settlements are built up. When the Lord, through His servant Brigham Young, sent men into Arizona, on the first expedition, they did not succeed in founding any settlements, but returned and gave a bad report of the land. But Prest. Young had seen it by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost, and knew the way was to be opened up in that southern country; so he did not give up. When at first they did not succeed he was determined that they should try, try again. Now we learn that settlements are flourishing in Arizona, New Mexico and Old Mexico, and we have a good representation of Saints from that country attending this conference. Even so the Lord moved upon His servant Brigham to send missionaries to the Orient. If their mission accomplished no great good, it did, at least, help to prepare the way, in a small degree; and now, the servants of the Lord, Apostle Heber J. Grant and his associates, through God's assistance, have been successful in opening up the work in the Japanese empire, and persons have been brought to a knowledge of the truth, and others are enquiring. We shall find, I believe with all my heart, that the opening of the Japanese mission will prove the key to the entrance of the Gospel in the Orient. We will find that an influence will go out from Japan into other oriental nations. The ice has been broken, and the barriers will be removed from the way, and the Gospel will spread into other eastern nations. If we only succeed in getting a few converts, who can open the door of the kingdom for their ancestors in the spirit world, what a wonderful work will be accomplished! 

When the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were slain for the testimony of Jesus it was in the providence of God; it was with His permission. They went to open the door of the kingdom in the spirit world, and thus a marvelous work and a wonder has begun there also. When we get there we will find out the magnitude of it; for we will see that the Elders of Zion who have tabernacled in the flesh are laboring there, under the direction of him who holds the keys of the last dispensation, and the Gospel is being preached to millions upon millions of spirits, and a far greater work is to be accomplished there than among men in the flesh. We have but just begun the work here, for there are many millions upon the earth that have not heard the Gospel, and know nothing of this marvelous work and wonder; but they will yet hear the Gospel message, and the way will be opened everywhere and the purposes of the Lord will be accomplished. 

The great thing for us, my brethren and sisters, is to know, to have a full understanding, a firm conviction and real knowledge that this is God's work, and that it is not the work of man. "We can reason this out when we look at what has been accomplished, and can reasonably come to the understanding and conviction that a superior Power has been at work with this people, with the Elders of this Church and with our leaders, and that it has not been done by human wisdom. Human wisdom has perished before this work; the understanding of the wise has come to naught before it, and we can reasonably come to the conclusion that a stronger Power must have been at the head of this work to accomplish what has been done, in the inspired preaching of the Gospel; the gathering of God's people, the building up of Zion and the establishment of this great State. There is also an influence of oneness and union among the Latter-day Saints that cannot be found anywhere else. The sects and societies have great gatherings in different parts of the world — religious gatherings, political gatherings, scientific Gatherings and educational assemblies — but where will you find among any of them such a spirit of union, brotherhood and enthusiasm as is found in the gatherings of the Latter-day Saints? There is a kind of enthusiasm among the people of the world in their religious revivals. They get spiritually intoxicated and sometimes indulge in various spiritual gymnastics. but what does it amount to? There is no light or intelligence in it; it is merely a feeling worked up by human oratory and energy. Where do we find that spirit and influence that are experienced in our gatherings? Look at the great congregation in the Tabernacle and in this building today! Where can you find such an exhibition of union and spiritual light and enthusiasm as we feel and experience here in these assemblies? There is nothing like it in the world. Well, reviewing these matters, we may come to the conclusion that there is something more than human about it, a Power greater than that of man. But, my brethren and sisters, we need something greater than these conclusions as a foundation upon which to build. We need the testimony of Jesus, the Spirit of prophecy, the witness of the Holy Ghost in our hearts; not only a reasonable conviction, but a knowledge of the truth, and it is our privilege to have this. 

All those who have repented of their sins and been baptized in water, by immersion, by one having authority, are entitled to receive the Holy Ghost, as a gift from God, to enlighten their minds and to bear witness of the things of God, and to open up a channel of communication between them and the Eternal Father, through Jesus Christ, the Son. Now, have we that blessing, you and I? If we have not we should get it; we can all have it. There is nothing in the way but ourselves. God has promised the gift to us, and if we have not received it let us seek for it. We need not look for some wonderful spiritual exhibition of power, something different from the ordinary. What we should look for is the light to our souls; that we may know that it shines in our hearts, so that we have no dubiety in this thing. It is our privilege to have this. I hope you all have it this morning. I am very thankful that I have received it, and have had it for a great many years. I received it when I received the Gospel; it began to glimmer in my soul when I first heard the truth. I had a place for it in my heart when I was a boy. No One else belonging to the family I was connected with received it. When I obeyed the Gospel and was baptized I received the gift of the Holy Ghost, a witness from God that this work is true; and I am very thankful this morning that it has always been with me from that time until the present. I have been in this Church a little over fifty-two years, and was called, shortly after embracing the Gospel, to go and preach the glad tidings to the world. O how glad I am that I responded to that call, in spite of all the discouragement and influence brought to bear upon me not to do so! The Lord has been with me from that time until now. It is marvelous in my eyes, "A marvelous work and a wonder," and I can bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I do know that this is the work of God. This is the work of the Father, and, of course, it is the work of the Son and of the Holy Ghost; for they three are one in all things — not one in person, but one in purpose, and their efforts are for the uplifting of the children of men, not only on this litle globe, but on others also; but we will confine ourselves to this glebe, for it is ours and will be in the future. I know that God has commence! the great latter-day work and will cause it to continue to grow and spread until it fills the whole earth. It will never be overcome. 

One thing we should have inscribed on our memories in conection with this knowledge is, that when the Lord commenced this work He commenced it "for the last days and for the last time." It will not be thrown down or given to another people. It is to endure and abide forever, and, instead of being overcome by the things of this world, it is to overcome them. My brethren and sisters, it will conquer, it. will endure. It matters not what may be brought against it, it will prevail; for it is the work of the Lord, and it is "a marvelous work and a wonder." Let us not turn to the right or to the left through the influences of that Evil One, who deceives the nations. Many people will fail; many persons will turn aside, and they will endeavor to lead others astray. But this work will continue onward, and it will overcome everything that arises in its path; it will revolutionize the world. It will turn things upsidedown, or rather rightsideup, for they have been turned upsidedown already. This work will rectify the evils that exist in the world. But, before that is accomplished we must rectify every evil among ourselves. If there is anything in our hearts that is contrary to the word of the Lord, let us eradicate it; let us pull the weeds from our own gardens and remove every root of selfishness, every seed of bitterness and everything that is not good, and live together, as brethren and sisters, as the Lord has commanded, in love and humility, and in obedience to His laws and commandments. Let us attend to the little duties as well as the big duties. They are all big enough when we understand them properly. Let us attend to every duty in the Gospel and live according to the laws of God, and the testimony of the truth will abide with us forever. 

Now, I rejoice in what has been done, and I can see a great deal that will be done; but I will not take time to enter upon such a subject as that, as there are others to speak, and I will bring my remarks to a close. 

Brethren and sisters, I am with this work with all that I have and am, and I am in it for "keeps." I want to be with this people and labor for the cause of humanity, for I know that this is God's work and that it will prevail. I know this Gospel will go to every nation, and that the Lord will gather from the nations His sons and daughters, to labor in His cause, that His work may be perfected in the redemption of the human race, both the living and the dead. It will not be fulfilled until every soul of Adam's race that can be redeemed in some degree of glory is saved. The Captain of our salvation will overcome, and the Adversary of our souls will eventually be discomfited, and will gain none but those who are called the sons of perdition. 

May God help us to understand the truth and to labor in this great work for the salvation of mankind, with all our hearts, that we may never falter or fail, but finally be prepared to go into the presence of the Lord and inherit a fulness of glory in His kingdom, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
