36
Afternoon
06 04 1902
President Anthon H. Lund 
15
87-89

None

None 

Past and present status of the Church — Work of God spreading wherever it has reached — Authenticity of the Book of Mormon. 

We have had a great many instructions given us during this conference, and I believe all who are present have rejoiced in what they have heard. When I look upon this vast assemblage I ask myself, what would the Prophet Joseph have thought, 72 years ago today, if he could have beheld what we see — this large Tabernacle filled, the Assembly Hall full, and still hundreds of people on the grounds? When they met on the 6th of April, 1830, to organize the Church, it was accomplished with six persons, and there were not more than that number of members of the Church at that time. Those who met on that occasion rejoiced in their meetings; and experienced a rich outpouring of the Holy Ghost. 

Even at that time the principle enunciated by our President today, that all things should be done by common consent, was carried out. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery had received the Aaronic Priesthood under the hands of John the Baptist. Afterwards they received the Melchisedek Priesthood under the hands of Peter, James and John. This, no doubt, was in the summer of 1829. We do not know the exact date, but the Prophet Joseph tells us that the Lord commanded him that when the Church was organized he should ordain Oliver Cowdery an Elder, and Oliver Cowdery should ordain him an Elder. Mind you, they held the Melchisedek Priesthood, but the office of an Elder was to be given them when they could be sustained by the Church. Before they were ordained, they laid this matter before the members of the Church, who sustained them by their votes; then they ordained each other to this office in the Melchisedek Priesthood. They held the Melchisedek Priesthood before, but to be the presiding Elders of the Church they must have the consent of the members, and it was granted. 

Prom that little beginning 72 years ago, this has come to pass! Thousands have heard the name of the Prophet Joseph. In Europe, on the islands of the sea, in America, and in Asia, messengers bearing glad tidings, are proclaiming that God has revealed Himself, and that Joseph Smith was His prophet. Many who hear their testimonies believe and join the Church, while many others have not the moral courage to do so. We feel encouraged to look back on the work of last year. Wherever the Elders have gone success has attended their labors. In England they have baptized more this last year than they have done for a number of years before. We thought that the work was nearly done there, but still the Elders have been baptizing hundreds in that land. In Germany there are good prospects. The Elders there are laboring faithfully and gaining the ears of the people. This morning I read an account of a Sunday school at Koeningsburg, in East Prussia, very close to the Russian empire. The school is composed of children of Saints and of outsiders; in fact, four-fifths do not belong to our Church. These children go to the school, and sing our songs. They sing them, too, in their homes; and other children are falling in love with the songs of Zion. It has been said, "If I can have the making of the songs of a nation, I will mold the sentiment of that nation." If we can get the people to sing the songs of Zion, the Spirit will go with them, and it will draw the hearts of the people to us. In other places likewise they have had success in the Sunday school movement, and also in preaching. In Saxony — a place where the cradle of the Reformation stood — we have had the most success as a conference; over 100 were baptized there last year. In the Netherlands our Elders have had more baptisms to the Elder than in any other mission in Europe. In Scandinavia the work is progressing as usual. The members of the Church are trying to build a meeting house at the capital of Denmark, which I hope they will finish this summer, so that our good Copenhagen Saints may have a suitable house of worship to which they can invite their friends and be proud to take them. On the islands of the sea the Gospel is also spreading. 

The Book of Mormon has been translated into Tahitian and Samoan, and it is already printed in the Maori and Hawaiian. You have heard the good report from Apostle Grant concerning Japan. There a Shinto priest has joined the Church. In Turkey a leading Mohammedan has been baptized — something very unusual. When the Lord begins the great work of touching these nations, many will accept the truth. His work will grow in the earth. He has commenced it, and He will see that it is carried forward triumphantly. The Book of Mormon has also been translated into the Turkish language, by Brother Hintze. Gradually the word of the Lord contained in that book will be translated into the leading languages of the earth, so that all men can read it. The external and internal evidences in favor of it are many. Any one who will read the Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart will feel that he is reading what has been written under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Men have doubted the origin of it; they knew that Joseph Smith could not write it, and have therefore tried to give the honor to others. The theory that Spaulding was the author of it has been exploded by the discovery of the Spaulding manuscript, though I hear that the argument is being put forth now. "Who knows but he wrote some other manuscript, if that which has been found and given to the world is not the origin of the Book of Mormon?" If such arguments as that may be used, when can anything be refuted? Others have said that Sidney Rigdon was the writer. Sidney Rigdon did not see the book till it was printed and delivered to him by Parley Pratt and others who visited him. Anyone who will read what Sidney Rigdon has written may know that Sidney Rigdon was not the author of the Book of Mormon. His style was totally unlike the style of that book. The style of the Book of Mormon is plain and simple. Sidney Rigdon's style was diffuse and labored, often lacking in clearness. He was a great preacher, and when he was moved upon by the Spirit he could enthuse his hearers; but he could not have written the Book of Mormon. Who that has seen a man's handwriting and become familiar with it, that cannot tell it when he sees it again? Men show their individuality in their writing, and one does not write like another. If you have studied style, you will readily see that Sidney Rigdon is not the author of that book. 

The Prophet Joseph did not pretend to be a writer; still he had a clear and forcible style. When I read his little daybook from 1832 to 1834, I am struck with his ability to express his thoughts. 

Notwithstanding all that the Lord had done for him he was a humble man. Yet he was by nature an able man, and when the Lord endowed him with the Holy Spirit and gave him revelations from on high, he became a great man — the one chosen to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and by the help of our Heavenly Father he laid the foundation broad and wide. 

Brethren and sisters, let us do our duty in helping to carry on this work. You have received a testimony of the truth; let it continue to burn in your hearts. Do not feel to stop your work or to lag in your diligence; but continue zealous for the cause. Remember what you have received, and how the Lord has blessed you in giving you the truth, and remember the duty that rests upon you to make it known unto others. How thankful I am when I see the response our brethren give to the calls to go upon missions! Daily we receive their letters, and generally they contain these words: "We are ready to go." We commend the brethren for this readiness, and hope that in all other duties devolving upon them they will show the same readiness. God bless you, and help us to serve Him, to do our duty while opportunity is given us, that at last we may be saved, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
