27
Morning
06 04 1902
Elder John Henry Smith 
35
68-71

None

None

Progress being made in different missions — Favorable change of sentiment in the East toward the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed a pleasure to me to meet with you in this conference, although I failed to be with you upon the first day and regret that I did not hear the remarks that were made by the brethren who spoke during that day. 

It has been my privilege during the past thirty days to visit in various parts of the East. I met with the Elders in Chicago, and had a very pleasant and agreeable time with them. President Woodruff of that mission regretted very much that he could not attend this conference, for the reason that appointments had been made and the conditions were such that he felt it unwise to leave his field of labor. I also had the privilege, in connection with President Ben E. Rich, of attending a meeting in Richmond, Virginia, and mingling with the Elders there. I found that the spirit of inquiry is manifest in that capital city of the Old Dominion. From there it was my privilege to visit the states of New York and Massachusetts and, in connection with the Elders in those fields hold meetings. I believe the work is developing fairly well in Boston. The Elders seem to be hopeful, and the officers of that municipality seem to be quite fair. The Elders are now allowed to hold their meetings upon the Boston Common — a privilege that was denied some little time ago; and they feel that the chances for success in that field are very good indeed. They have a very nice branch of the Church there, and the spirit of inquiry Is manifesting itself among the people. President McQuarrie of that mission is indeed an active, intelligent and devoted Elder. His heart is given to his work, and he is doing everything consistent to extend and spread the Gospel among the people over whom he is called to preside. His conferences were also being held, which prevented him from coming here to attend the general conference. In the city of New York the spirit of inquiry is quite manifest. The Elders are very devoted to their work, and are holding meetings constantly upon the street corners, upon vacant lots, or wherever opportunity may offer within the confines of that great city. Fair treatment is accorded them generally, and many are inclined to investigate the doctrines of the Church. The recent baptism of a few choice people in that city has awakened some interest, and is causing others to investigate the principles of the Gospel. I had the pleasure, in connection with the Elders in the city of New York, of attending six meetings. At two of them representatives of all the leading papers of New York City were present, and their notices of our meetings, taken as a whole, would be regarded as very fair, considering the spirit that sometimes actuates the reporters in their idea that they must cater to a prejudice that exists in the minds of the people. The feeling manifested by them in conversation was also fair, and indeed quite generous upon the part of most of them. 

My own observation, in my brief visit to these fields of labor leads me to believe that the feeling of the people is undergoing a change, and that while the spirit of investigation may not be all that we could wish it to be, the people generally are inclined to treat us fairly. The American people, to a great degree, are not inclined to have much to do with religion. While they attend the churches and display their good clothes in their visitations there, there is an evidence of an indifference to the doctrinal views presented by the religious world at the present time. During my absence in the East I attended a Catholic service in the cathedral at Baltimore, and while I did not have the privilege of listening to Cardinal Gibbon, I heard a very fine discourse given by Father O'Gavin. In his effort before his congregation he sought to establish among them an understanding of the reason that the Catholic Church in the world hold in respect and reverence images, and he made the argument, fully and explicitly upon his part, that it was not the images that they worshiped — they did not worship idols — but that it was simply to impress upon their minds the nature of the Catholic faith. 

This, I believe, gives you in brief some idea of my visit to the East. During the trip I attended ten meetings among the Elders and Saints, and found them, in every part where it was my privilege to go, actively engaged in the accomplishment of their work, devoted and true; and everybody whom I met in connection with them gave them a good name and spoke well of their devotion to the cause that they had gone forth in the world to represent. 

With you I rejoice in the privilege of being in this conference, and in listening to the remarks that have been made by our brethren touching the many questions upon which they have spoken. The work of the Lord has been established, never more to be thrown down, nor given to another people. The Holy Priesthood, with its rights, its powers and its privileges, has been given to man in the day and age in which we live. It is the purpose of the Master that the world shall be warned in regard to this matter, that the truth shall be preached among the children of men, and that the spirit of this work shall be felt in every land, in every tongue, and in every nation. To this end the best efforts or the lives of thousands of men and women have been devoted in the past, and for the future the possibilities of their accomplishments can alone be told by the spirit of revelation. But our duty in this respect is as full and clear, I trust, before our eyes, and before the eyes of the Presidency of the Church, today, as it was when in the beginning the Lord revealed His will and declared that this message of eternal truth must be taught to every nation of the world, and that mankind must be warned of the truth and of its re-establishment. Today we are better equipped for the accomplishment of that mission than at any time in our past history. We are becoming more fully established in our homes; better opportunities are furnished for the education and training of the young; and the schools that have been established in the Church, together with the various organizations and associations that have been builded up, are all aiding in that preparation which shall qualify the young men and maidens of our communities to go forth under the inspiration of the Divine Spirit, equipped for their ministry, and relying upon God their Father for the accomplishment of His holy will. I trust that in every home among the Latter-day Saints the foremost thought will be that, so far as lies within their power, the members of that household shall be fully equipped for the performance of their part and the discharge of the obligations which they took upon themselves when they entered the sacred waters of baptism. The world is not warned. Its sons and its daughters by millions are not conversant with the truths that have been revealed through the ministrations of the prophets of these later days. They have heard bad words spoken of the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ. Thousands of them have believed, and are believing, that the people called Latter-day Saints are of the worst possible stripe among men and women. While thousands have heard the truth, and while thousands are from time to time visiting our mountain homes, and thereby changing their spirit and thought in regard to us as a people, there are thousands whose ears have never been saluted by the testimony of the truth, but who have been impressed with the thought, presented by someone as lacking in knowledge as they themselves, that the mission and purpose of the Latter-day Saints is simply to do evil among their fellowmen. But these thoughts are giving way. The proud and the mighty, conversant with the conditions of our own land, are not inclined to avoid the companionship of a "Mormon" Elder. Those possessed of wealth, and standing in comfortable positions, as they are thrown in contact with the Elders of the Church are surprised at their character and deportment, and they bear witness to their honesty and uprightness. But a short time ago, in the home of a Methodist family in the State of Massachusetts, the lady of the house expressed her dislike of "Mormonism," as the world calls it, but, said she "the people around us do not understand Mormonism. A few days ago, in the chapel where I was worshiping, a person from your section of country made a representation of the conditions among your people that I knew was not true, and I told her so. I said that while I was not a believer in the doctrines taught by Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, I knew her statements were not true, because I had mingled among the people and knew the conditions that existed among them." Thus in the towns and cities of our own land and in every part of the world may be found upright men and women who will not tolerate the suggestions that go forth from the lips of the unwise and imprudent, the disgruntled and the dissatisfied because of the failures that have come to themselves, who are belittling the cause of Christ, and seeking to trample beneath their feet and dishonor the system that the Almighty has established in the world. These honest people who mingle with and are in the companionship of the Elders of the Church raise their voices in testimony of their good character, and are inclined to defend them by giving forth what is the truth, so far as they have been made conversant with it. 

I desire to say that in my brief visit to the Eastern States, it has been all that I could have wished. In associating with the missions, in talking with the Saints, in visiting with strangers and expounding the doctrines of the Church, in mingling with men in exalted stations, the same spirit of fairness and of justice seems to manifest itself as you converse with them in regard to the character of the work which the Latter-day Saints represent in the world. 

My brothers and my sisters, the work of the Lord is onward and upward. The spirit of truth is disseminating itself little by little. There are, perhaps, millions of people within the confines of the United States who believe in the mission and ministry of Joseph Smith, and the day will come when, in the providences of Almighty God, they will link their destines with that cause and aid in its development and growth among the children of men. They are convinced in their souls, but they are restrained from an acceptance of it by the pride that exists and the feeling that it would be unwise for them to link their destines with it. In their hearts, however, the seed has been sown, the light of truth is springing up, and the day will come when they will be humbled and will receive the truth. I have no more doubt of this than that I stand before you as a witness for that self-same truth and for that great God and His Holy Son who introduced the Gospel in this dispensation and taught the boy Prophet the way of life and the means by which the human family can be reclaimed. 

My brothers and my sisters, I pray that the blessings of heaven may abound in your hearts and homes. May the spirit of inspiration be in the mind and heart of every father and every mother. Let every boy and every girl be impressed with the sacredness of this mission that has been given to them — the sowing of the seeds of truth, the calling to repentance of the children of men, the pointing of the way of life to all who will listen. They that will listen, their hearts will be touched; for as the days go by and we meet men upon the right hand and upon the left, they say, "I heard upon such an occasion the testimony of a Mormon Elder. It unsettled my life, it changed the trend of my experience, it turned me from the course I was pursuing, and it brought me to sense that there is something in the world aside from the struggle for wealth, or for affluence, or for place and station among men." The Gospel is true. Jesus is indeed the Redeemer of the world. God in heaven is our Father. He has restored His Priesthood and placed it upon the shoulders of men, and, as He promised, it will never be taken from the earth again, nor will it ever be given to another people. The key, the power, the authority, the dominion, is here; and Almighty God is ratifying His promises by His still small voice in its declaration of truth among His children. To this end I trust that we may be faithful to the promises we have made to the Almighty, that we may reap the reward promised to the just, and that we may eventually stand in His presence, having been reclaimed and brought to a perfect knowledge of the principles of everlasting life, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
