16
Morning
10 10 1920
Heber J. Grant 
10
83-86

None

None

I had no idea of saying anything more at this conference, but after listening to the very splendid remarks of Elder Ballard, I desire to read a revelation given a year before the Church was organized. 

REVELATION TO HYRUM SMITH AND COMMENTS THEREON 

This revelation, among other things, says that it is not only for the man to whom it was given — Hyrum Smith, who was martyred with his brother, the Prophet Joseph Smith — but that it is to all of us, and therefore I desire to read it: 

A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

Behold, I am God, and give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. 

Behold the field is white already to harvest, therefore whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God; 

Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God; 

Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

I will say that Hryum Smith and many other men came to the Prophet Joseph, believing that he was in very deed a prophet, believing that God had chosen him to organize again the Church of Christ upon the earth, they came to him and asked: "What does the Lord desire at our hands?" And many of the revelations in the fore-part of the Doctrine and Covenants were given, before the organization of the Church, to individuals, in answer to this inquiry that they made of the prophet. This section I am reading is one of those revelations: 

Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments. 

THE KEY-NOTE OF THIS CONFERENCE 

Remember, ye Latter-day Saints, that that is the key-note of this conference. 

Keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion, 

Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me, so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

TRIBUTE TO HYRUM SMITH 

No mortal man who ever lived in this Church desired more to do good than did Hyrum Smith, the patriarch. I have it from the lips of my own sainted mother, that of all the men she was acquainted with in her girlhood days in Nauvoo, she admired Hyrum Smith most for his absolute integrity and devotion to God, and his loyalty to the prophet of God. And God honored that man by allowing to come from his loins the late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. 

The devil, through his emissaries, thought to destroy this Church by having them kill the prophet and the patriarch; but the son of the patriarch lived to be the Prophet of the living God, and his great-grandson sits here today as the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. Nothing can be done by the people of the world to retard the progress of the work of God. Murder and all that has been done against the Latter-day Saints has had no effect whatever. The work of God has gone steadily on from the day that the Church was organized with only six members. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me, so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

Say nothing but repentance unto this generation: keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. * * * 

Behold thou hast a gift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee; 

For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. 

And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good; yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously, and this is my Spirit. 

No man in all the Church put his trust in that Spirit more perfectly than did Hyrum Smith, or than did his son, the late prophet, Joseph F. Smith. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit; which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy. 

And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive. 

Behold, I command you, that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

Remember, the Church was not yet organized. 

Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine; 

And then behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith, shall it be done unto you. * * * 

Keep my commandments, hold your peace, appeal unto my Spirit. 

Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which have been spoken; yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

The work of the translation of the inspired record, the Book of Mormon, was in progress at the time of the giving of this revelation. "Behold, this is your work," and it is the work of all the Latter-day Saints: 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind, and strength; 

Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea the power of God unto the convincing of men; 

But now hold your peace, study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereunto. 

Behold, thou art Hyrum, my son, seek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just. 

Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; 

Deny not the Spirit of revelation, nor the Spirit of prophecy, for woe unto him that denieth these things; 

Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. 

Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. (Doctrine and Covenants Secs. 6 and 11.) 

THE SAINTS EXPECTED TO STUDY THIS REVELATION 

Read this revelation, ye Latter-day Saints, over and over again, because it applies to you; and time and time again you will find that the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave this revelation, repeats himself in saying: "Keep my commandments." 

Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. 

I am the same who came unto my own and my own received me not; 

But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen.
