20
Overflow
10 10 1920
Elder Nephi Jensen 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
92-94

None

None

My brothers and sisters, I am deeply thankful for this opportunity of coming to Zion to worship our God with you. I am thankful for the opportunity of listening to the sweet singing of the choir this morning. In my heart I pray that the sweet spirit which has actuated the singers will actuate me in what I shall say to you. I want to say the thing that ought to be said; I want to speak the words that will help you and help me to a better and deeper appreciation of the truth which God has revealed to us in the day and time in which we live, for I do know in my heart that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, I know it is the power of God unto salvation; and the dearest desire of my heart, at this time, is to impress the children of men with the truthfulness of the gospel which has come to us as our greatest heritage. 

My heart has often been touched when I have been made aware of the bad name which our people have been given in the world. Just a few weeks ago, one of our lady missionaries in Canada went to a home in Toronto with the view of offering to the people of that home the Pearl of Great Price. When she made known to the folks that she was a "Mormon," the lady of the house sneered at her and scorned her, and said, "I would rather feed a criminal than feed a 'Mormon.'" 

When that young girl came to the mission home, and made a report of her experience, I was deeply touched in my heart, and I resolved that I would use the humble talent given to me in writing and in speaking the defense of the best people in the world. And since coming home I have been deeply grieved to find that, even here, some of us so far forget ourselves as to be guilty of the crime which has been responsible for placing upon the fair brow of our religion the hideous mask; I refer to the crime of slander. Our people have suffered as no people have suffered since the days of the ancient Saints because of the crime of slander, and I do hope and pray that this sin shall not creep in among us. I do hope and pray that we will remember the noble words of the great Shakespeare: "Who steals my purse, steals trash; 'twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; but he that filches from me my good name, robs me of that which not enriches him, but makes me poor indeed." These are noblle words. They are as true as anything that ever was written, and I have taken pleasure in quoting these words in the mission in which I work, and I commend them to Israel at home. When I have met the slanderers of our people and our faith, I have often said I would rather be a ghoul, a graverobber, and scratch around among dead bones and steal grave clothes than rob people of their good name. I want to tell you that there is nothing so small, so ignoble as the disposition to want to magnify other men's faults. There is nothing that so soon brands a person as a small and ignoble soul as the desire to make out other people bad. 

A few evenings ago I spoke in the open air near the city hall in the great city of Toronto. While I was speaking, a man in the crowd who had a grudge against the "Mormons," and especially against that grand and great man Brigham Young, shouted out while I was speaking, "What about Brigham Young?" 

My feathers were up immediately, and I said, Brigham Young was a grand man; he redeemed a wilderness, he built an empire, and endowed colleges and universities, and if he should be talking to us today, to the little souls who are barking at his heels, he would be apt to say, "I don't mind being swallowed by a whale, but I do hate to be nibbled to death by minnows." And after all is said, it is only small dogs that bark at the heels of our people in the hope of making them bad. 

I was deeply touched last night in meeting with a friend who, immediately upon my mention of some prominent men in this city who have given their lives to the service of God and the uplift of this people, spoke in disparagement of those men. Every time we do that sort of thing we condemn ourselves, for the Apostle Paul, in his letter to the Romans, said: "Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest, for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things." I commend to you these inspired words of the Apostle Paul, and I commend to you also a motto which I saw in Chicago recently upon a great bill board: "Throw away your hammer and get a horn. Knockers never did themselves or anybody else any good." 

Now I feel that I have talked as long as I ought to. I want to say that I rejoice with all my heart in the knowledge I have of the divinity of this work. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and I know that Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God, as I know that light is light. So I know that great man is God's prophet, for I know that during the last year, the promise which he sealed upon my head, when he set me apart to labor in the Canadian mission, has come true; and I testify to you that God Almighty is with that man, and does sustain him and uphold him by the power of the Holy Ghost. God bless you. Amen.
