22
Overflow
10 10 1920
Elder Heber C. Iverson 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
98-102

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters, when I look into your honest, eager faces, I feel the sincere desire of your heart for the word of God and his message to you. I am overwhelmed with my own inability, weakness and dependence upon him, and trust, most sincerely, that if such message shall be delivered to you through me, I may enjoy the spirit thereof to the honor and glory of his name. 

You, who were privileged to attend the opening session of our conference, I am sure, you can say with me that it was a glorious event, and the glory of it has continued up to the present moment. My soul was overwhelmed with gratitude to God for the blessings therein obtained, and has since that time been filled with unspeakable joy. When President Grant announced to the audience the keynote of the conference, that it should be the love of God, which includes, necessarily, the love of fellow man, the spirit of truth and forgiveness, which is God-love; and when, with power befitting a prophet of God, he delivered to us his message, my soul was thrilled, and in my heart I said: 

We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank thee for sending the gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays. 

My favorite theme, my favorite scriptures, have been quoted during this conference. To my heart there is no thought more sublime than the love of God as evidenced in the love of his Son and manifest in those who possess his Spirit. "For the fruit of the spirit," says Paul, is "love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith;" and inspiring in others love for their fellow man, the spirit of peace, in their souls, the gift of faith and of longsuffering. They are inspired by God's Spirit. How definitely the Lord declared this important principle when to him there came the lawyer, asking: "Master, which is the great commandment in the law." Remember his words: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Nay, upon the first, we might say without being prresumptuous, hang all the law and the prophets, because the second is contained therein; for by the same Master these words were spoken: "If a man say, I love God, and hate his brother (mark the strong language employed), he is a liar; for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" Hypocrisy, the spirit of the Pharisee, was most contemptible in the estimation of the Master, and brought forth such strong condemnation in such forceful language as he was not wont to use. Again he said, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye shall love one another; and hereby shall all men know that ye are my disciples, because ye love one another." 

An invariable evidence of discipleship of Christ is love for our fellow men. And to me these commandments are just as important, just as absolute as the commandment, "Except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." For into God's presence no man can go with hatred in his heart toward his fellow men; for, "inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of my little ones, ye have done it unto me," with which we receive the illustration of the interpretation, no man loves his God more than he loves his fellow man; no man will serve his God more than he is willing to serve and bless his fellow men, for in this way only we evidence to him our love for him. 

Upon my soul there has been a serious thought, and I must refer to it only, it is closely related to the thought of love of mankind, I fear that modern tendencies are drifting from that principle. I fear that most sacred institution, the home, is suffering greatly at the hands of the people of the world. And to our own people, I make a plea here. Among the many wholesome slogans that have been given to us may I be presumptuous enough to add one other — "Back to the Home." You no doubt have observed the tendency to stray from the home, and it was emphasized in the experience of the recent past, when into the ranks of the nation's defense were called our sons and our brothers, and in the avenues of commercial activities were called our daughters and our sisters; there they received magnificent salaries with which they could secure to themselves not only a good living, but many of the luxuries their hearts desired. To return to the simple duties of home has been a difficult task for many of our dear girls, and yet the noblest task that ever was laid upon the children of God. The immortal Roosevelt said: "No work, I care not how important it may seem to be, whether in church or state, in science or philosophy, begins to compare with that done in the home, by the father and the mother, who are the first of sovereigns and the divinest of priests." 

What is home? The best definition I ever read is this: "The place where mother is," be it a mansion or a humble cottage, a tent upon the desert sands; where the mother and her little ones, immortal souls, dwell, that is home. Therein is kept the first commandment given of God to our father and to his wife, our mother, in the garden of Eden, and because of its importance it came first. "Neither can we without our children be made perfect, nor they without us," and I decry with all the power of my soul, the abominable practice that has gone abroad, that form of murder known as race suicide. I was astonished when a good woman who has charge of one of our young ladies' associations told me that some of our girls belonging to the best families, noble girls, have had their minds poisoned concerning this matter to the extent that they had come to look upon criminal operations as little less than having a tooth treated or drawn. 

I think perhaps I can do no better than to read an article, because it has become a subject of very sincere consideration by thinking men of the world. This article is taken from a Denver paper, and to President Knight I am obligated for possession of it, on the question of marriage and divorce and kindred evils. I shall take time to read an article on "the modern tendencies" which are strongly attacked by another thinking man, for it is evident that lying at the foundation of these evils is the deadly sin against which the Prophet Joseph F. Smith sounded a warning voice just shortly before his death; in his statement that "the dominant evil of the age is unchastity," it is evidenced in so many ways, the spirit of it, is everywhere. To your attention I call this article: 

"With science giving the shrug of doubt as to the existence of God, with law courts grinding out divorces and nauseum, with passing literature that finds it pays to portray characters reeking with moral shame and condoning the offense, with young and old gone mad over the lurid motion film, with the drama depraved in spite of heroic efforts of the many who patronize and love the clean play, with the daily press mirroring the crimes and sins of society, with feminine dress mocking at decency and modesty, with ever-decreasing respect for authority and reverence for the flag of our country, where is the power, who has the wisdom, where is the salvation of the youth of our land? 

"When Luther repudiated the sacramental idea of marriage he struck a blow at the family and set to work forces which today are placing the home in serious jeopardy. 

"Marriage, divested of its religious character and reduced to the condition of a pure civil contract, voidable at will, has become the plaything of the passions, and if those bonds are severed, the family is broken asunder, children are born by later unions, to one or both of the parents, and the family is torn from its true relationships. O, what a mockery! What a travesty of what St. Paul called, 'A great sacrament in Christ and in the Church.' And yet the world in which we live not only condones the evil of those who are guilty of this mockery, but admits them freely in the charmed circle of society. It repels with high disdain the poor Magdalene whom the Savior himself pardoned, but it honors with special friendship the Herods and their consorts. It is high time for society to outlaw such sacriligious profaners and offenders to Christian decency. 

"The pagans of old cast their infants from the Tarpeian rock, immolated them before the idol of Molock, but they had not learned the refinement of crime to which their modern devotees are addicted — birth control. There are women who profess to be Christians who are forever going about poisoning the minds and hearts of every young bride they can reach with the venom of their hell-flamed tongues, advising them to forestall the laws of nature and nature's God by preventing the conception, and birth and the rearing of children. Oh, Herod, Herod! what a tyro you were. The modern husband and wife have put you to shame in the damning sin of the 'slaughter of the innocents'. They tell us it is a crime to bring children into the world in poverty, but why be hypocrites? If poverty be the cause, how happens it that the evil flourishes most among the wealthy. Not long since there was a gathering of fashionable women in this very city. Among them were six women who boasted of eighteen husbands. Thhe eighteen husbands and six wives boasted of four children, two of whom were weak-minded." 

There is a condition against which we Latter-day Saints, who have taken upon us the name of Jesus Christ and made covenants with our God, must set our faces as flint. And, oh, that woman who denies herself the glory of motherhood, the crown of the celestial glory which none other shall transcend, truly knows not what she does. "A partnership with God is motherhood. What purity, what love, what self-control should belong to her who helps God fashion an immortal soul." Can you think of any glory that can come to one greater than to enter into an actual partnership with God our Father and the Father of our children, and to be in sacred nearness to him in the guidance of those immortal, precious souls! 

God help us to know our duty and to do it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.