24
Overflow
10 10 1920
George F. Richards 
28
103-105

None

None

It was said by our Savior while he ministered among men, that he spoke as one having authority; and the scriptures tell us that if a man speak, "Let him speak as the oracles of God."

ENDORSEMENT OF THE PREVIOUS SPEAKERS 

You, my brethren and sisters, having accepted the principles of the gospel and the ordinances thereof, and having tried as well as you could to keep the commandments of God, in the midst of weakness, you know as well as those who have testified, this afternoon, in your presence, that this is, indeed, the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that it is indeed the power of God unto salvation. I rejoice exceedingly, and join my brethren in adding my testimony to this great truth, and also endorsing that which has been said by those who have preceded me. 

THE PURPOSE OF INSTRUCTION 

I take it, my brethren and sisters, that in embracing the gospel and coming along thus far in your life's work, you are resolved and determined to be true and faithful unto the end, remembering that the race is not to the swift, neither the battle to the strong, but to those who endure faithful to the end. The instructions which are given are calculated to bring us to a remembrance of the covenants which we have made, of the undertakings which we have entered into, of the aim and objects we have had when, in our thoughtful moments, we have considered the purpose of our existence here, where we came from, and where we are going to; and to remind us of our weaknesses and imperfections, and of the straight and narrow way in which we must travel continuously if we shall reach the goal and aim of our lives. 

I hope, dear brethren and sisters, that we will not be deceivers of ourselves, but hearing these things and locking them up in our lives. This is not what is intended, but rather that we shall consider these admonitions, cherish them in our minds, weigh them, and apply them to ourselves, that we may profit by them. For, if after we have been instructed so thoroughly and plainly, in regard to our duties, we still continue to neglect them, we will not be without condemnation in the day of judgment. This gospel is a "savor of life unto life, or of death unto death" unto those to whom it comes. The hearing of the word is just as much our condemnation, if we neglect to accept and live by it, as it is our salvation if we accept and live by the word of the Lord. 

IN COMMENDATION OF THE SAINTS 

I commend you, my brethren and sisters, for your integrity, faithfulness, and many sacrifices which you are making for the gospel's sake. I know that this is pleasing to our Father in heaven. I know that you know that when you have done that which is right, and tried to live the law in the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes, you know he is pleased with you, and that his Spirit is upon you. You are happy in the work. I know, too, and you know, that if we love the brethren, it is a good index to our love of God, and if we love our Father and his Son Jesus Christ, we will keep the commandments; and if we do that we will obtain eternal life. That is what our heavenly Father has designed that we should do. That is what he has designed that we should attain to; eternal life in his presence. And may God help us to this end, and may none of us be failures, but may the success we will attain be to the advantage and glory of our lives in the world to come, I earnestly pray, in the name of Jessus Christ. Amen.