28
Second Overflow
10 10 1920
David A. Smith 
95
118-121

None

None

At a gathering in this city, the other day, a prominent railroad man recently from Europe, in making a few remarks, stated that when he applied to the American Consul for a passport to come to America, a number of questions were asked. One of them was, "Are you a Bolshevist?" He answered, "no." Another, "Are you a 'Mormon'?" and he answered, "no." 

I volunteered the information that these were the two extremes; and he said, "Yes, I know what Bolshivism is: I have lived with it; but until now, I have not known what 'Mormonism' is; and I want to say to you men here that such a spirit of friendship, I have never seen in Europe." 

It was my pleasure to bring that man over here to the temple block; his time being limited I turned him over to Brother Goddard and some of his associates. I called for him again in an hour, in order to get him to his train, and he did not care to leave the block — he stayed here until the very last minute. He said, "Mr. Smith, it is wonderful, it is wonderful, and I want to know more of your people and your doctrine! I understand you have missionaries in Holland. I intend to look them up when I get home." 

A few months ago some business men from England, made a tour of the United States. I read a letter day before yesterday from one of those men, saying, "We regret that we considered our stay at Salt Lake City of so little importance that we did not allow more time for it. Of all the visits we made to the cities of the United States, none were so profitable as our visit to your city." 

Soon after they were here, a number of Boy Scouts, from New York, called upon us. Their leaders said that they had debated some time as to whether it would be wise to bring those boys to Salt Lake City, but inasmuch as their return trip took them this way, they thought they would stop off for a little while. He said, "We regret that we did not arrange to stay longer; we have not been treated so well in any city of the United States as you have treated us while we have been with you." 

A few months ago, Brother Oscar A. Kirkham, our Scout Leader, was chosen as morale officer to go to Europe with the Boy Scouts selected from all over the United States. Some objected to a "Mormon" going for this purpose, but the leaders of that work recognized through their association with his, that he was clean, that he was a leader and in every way qualified to take that responsible position, and look after those young fellows who were going to visit Europe. 

My brethren and sisters, "what God hath cleansed that call not thou common." And I want to tell you that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have the gospel in its purity. I am sorry to say that there are some who profess to be laboring for the welfare of God's children who are constantly trying to drag it into the mire and to cover it with filth. O, it is a wonderful work, and those who labor in it unceasingly, in faith, with a desire to be helpful, and to do God's work, receive joy and satisfaction in their work. I want to tell you that I have a testimony that this gospel is true. I know as well as I know anything in this world that President Heber J. Grant holds his position through the will of God, and that he is influenced through the Holy Spirit which is promised to all who are faithful. I have seen it manifest, through him, time and time again, and I want to say to you that he will be successful in his administration, in just so far as we, his brethren and hiss sisters, God's children, will support him and uphold him with our means, with our faith, and with our prayers. 

All the world is looking upon us as they have never looked in all our history. Are we doing things that will cause them to distrust, now that they are beginning to see the good things? Let us be "swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath." 

I get much comfort in the statement made by the Apostle James, a part of which we quote quite often: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." As a rule, we stop here, but I think the most important part of this quotation is that which follows: "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord." 

And again we are told, a double minded man is unstable in all his ways. Let us not be double minded; and when we are in doubt, let us go to God in faith, nothing wavering; let our lives be such that our houses are in order, that we are in condition to go to God and ask for his blessings. I know, my brethren and sisters, that if we will do this, with faith, nothing wavering, God will make known unto us, as individuals, his will, as it concerns us, and we will know and understand. He is not forcing his doctrine upon us, nor his blessings, and he is not influencing us through his Spirit, except when we are in condition to be influenced. 

May God's choicest blessings rest upon us, I pray, my brethren and sisters, let us uphold the authorities of this Church, every one. They are men of God, who are trying to uphold each other and to accomplish all that God requires of them. So I say again, let us set our houses in order, let us take to our homes the spirit of this conference. O what a wonderful thing it would be for us, as a people, if we could at all times earnestly carry out the instructions of this conference. 

O I tell you, while the people of the world are looking upon us more favorably at this time, if we would carry out the instructions we have received during this conference, and especially the text of President Grant, "keep the commandments," it would only be a little time until they would be attracted by the great influence we would have for good. 

May God's choicest blessings be with us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.