30
Third Overflow
10 10 1920
Elder Wm. H. Mendenhall 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
127-130

None

None

My beloved brethren: It is an inspiration to me to stand before this congregation, to look into your faces, and to listen to the testimony and the teachings of the presiding authorities during this conference. And I have been made to feel that the hand of the Lord is visible, and that he is leading and directing the brethren of the priesthood that preside over us in this Church. 

Permit me for a few moments to call your attention again to the revelation contained in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that part that has been read and referred to by President Wood. The Lord inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith in this revelation, given before the organization of the Church, when he declared that this gospel, the word of the Lord, shall be carried as a witness unto all nations by the men and women who may be called in the last day. 

When Brother Wood was relating his experience, showing that none should stay the hand of the Lord in carrying out his purposes, it reminded me of an incident in my missionary experience, when I labored on the Sandwich Islands. It was customary at that time, when the missionaries were going from one island to another, to present to the officials their missionary certificate, which we always carried in our pockets. I remember being sent out to one of the islands, when I first lived in that mission, and after I had taken my place on the boat the officer came around inquiring who we were, and asking for our missionary certificates. I presented my missionary certificate to him, but he did not want to accept it, and he told me I would have to go ashore. And I argued with him, that I had been called of the Lord as a missionary, that I had my missionary certificate signed by President Wilford Woodruff, and I was entitled to go where I had been sent by the president of that mission. While we weere arguing, the steamer weighed anchor and began to leave the shore; and in our heated argument he saw that was his last chance to get back on to the wharf; so he jumped on to the wharf, and I remained on the boat. It was too far for me to jump, so I went on my mission, as I had been directed by the president of that mission. So I know, my brethren and sisters, that the hand of the Lord is in the ministry of this gospel in the nations of the earth. And the Lord has said in this revelation, that this gospel shall be preached in all the world by his disciples who shall be chosen in the last days. They are gone forth. The gospel has been preached in almost all the nations of the world. Men and women are accepting its principles. They are becoming members of the Church, full of the Spirit of the Lord and a desire to serve him and keep his commandments. 

There is a certain responsibility rests upon us, in respect to our attendance at these conferences. I very often wonder in my mind, in my visits to these conferences, why so many people from all over Zion, and from the missions in the world, can spend their time and their means attending these conferences, and I wonder what benefit we derive from the attendance at the conferences. The Lord commanded through the Prophet Joseph Smith that these conferences should be held, that the people might come up to the center place of Zion and hear the word of the Lord from the presiding authorities of his Church, that their faith in the work of the Lord might be strengthened, that our determination may increase to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. So we come up here, and listen to the presiding authorities of the Church, the presidents of missions and brethren who are called upon from time to time to teach us the word of the Lord. It becomes our duty, in order that the purposes of the Lordd might be fulfilled in these conference gatherings, that when we shall go to our homes, when we go to the different stakes and wards of Zibn, that we shall reflect the spirit, the admonition, the teaching, that we receive at these conferences in our lives, that by so doing the brethren and sisters who are not able to attend these conferences might be benefited in a general way for our having come up to worship the Lord. Thus I understand why so many of us take advantage of this opportunity of gathering together. 

There is a great deal of work for us to do in the Church. We make every effort to send our boys into the mission fields to preach the gospel. We make every sacrifice necessary that they may be sustained while in the world preaching the gospel. We rejoice that they have been considered worthy by the presiding authorities of the Church to go out into the world to preach the gospel. Yet right here at home, in the stakes of Zion, in the wards, there is ample missionary work for us all. Among our neighbors, among our associates and friends, an opportunity presents itself for us to labor, to do missionary work. In this connection, I desire to read from the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Joseph Smith, Senior, early in the beginning of this work, in the year 1829, was full of a desire to promote the work of the Lord as in part it had been revealed to his son, Joseph the prophet. Joseph, Senior, accepted the testimony of his son. Desirous of helping in this great work, he went too his son, and he said: "My boy, what can I do to help this work along? What can I do that the same Spirit of the Lord that I possess, that has been manifest in your ministry, might be felt by all the people of the earth? What may I do to help you to accomplish this work?" And the Lord said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

Now, behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that you serve him with all your heart, might, mind, and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work, for behold, the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, goodness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen.

This is the admonition, the instruction, of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to his father, and it applies to us in our ministry and service in this Church. If we have a desire to serve the Lord, we are called to the ministry, we are called to set examples that will be worthy of imitation. We are called to use our hands and the powers of our minds in the advancement of the work of the Lord among our associates and friends; and the Lord charges us with the responsibility of being kind, full of love, and full of his Spirit in our ministry among the people, that we shall be charitable towards each other, that we shall uphold the authorities of the Church, that we shall in no way find fault with them or tear down their character, but that we shall sustain them in our ministry and labors, with our faith, prayers and determination, to the end that the work of the Lord may grow and increase in the earth, and that it shall fulfil its destiny among the people. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel. I know that it is true; I have no doubt in my mind. I am in harmony with the presiding authorities of the Church. I uphold and sustain them in their work. And when I was called upon a mission, a number of years ago, I remember that President Heber J. Grant set me apart to labor as a missionary in the Sandwich Islands; and I remember in blessing me he placed his hands upon my head and said, "Brother Mendenhall, if you will but serve the Lord, do your duty, rely upon him, the Lord will give you a knowledge of his work. The Lord will enable you to do much good while you labor upon the Islands, and you shall come home in safety. The Lord will prosper you so long as you accomplish the duties of your mission, and keep his commandments." I want to testify to you that the words of the prophet upon my head have been fulfilled. The Lord gave me a knowledge of the Hawaiian language. He gave me power and influence among the people, and I believe I was ablee to do some good; and upon my return home, I have endeavored to devote my services to the work of the Lord, and I thank him for the blessings that I enjoy. This is my testimony in relation to this work that has been established on the earth for the salvation of the children of men.

May the Lord help us to do our duty, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.