40
Afternoon
10 10 1920
Heber J. Grant
10
155-156

None

None

I am inclined to think that we will have to arrange, in the future, to have four days for conference. It seems that we can't get through in three days. 

A LETTER FROM ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I have a letter from the absent member of the Council of the Twelve, Brother George Albert Smith. I would like to read it all to you — some four or five pages — but I shall read only a very few words: 

Owen Woodruff is making good. He is a splendid man, and I hope to give him every opportunity and encouragement that lies within my power. 

Owen Woodruff is a grandson of President Wilford Woodruff, and the son of the late Elder Abram O. Woodruff, of the Council of the Twelve: 

President Angus J. Cannon is doing a wonderful work, and in my judgment ought not to be released until next spring, unless you have somebody to take his place who is thoroughly familiar with conditions in Switzerland and Germany. President Cannon has endeared himself to the members of the Church all over. He loves them and they love him, and his heart is in the work. But for his mother and son I am sure he would be pleased to remain here indefinitely. His wife is doing a noble work, she stands by him and does her best all the time. I visited, as far as my time would permit, the various conferences of Switzerland and Germany. President Cannon has nine men working full time in Switzerland, and thirty-eight giving full time in Germany, in addition to the five elders who have come from Utah. These men are all expecting to perform missions of two years or more. Many of them are traveling without purse or scrip and it is a real joy to see the faith that they manifest and to hear how the Lord blesses them. 

We held a meeting with the German missionaries at Leipzic. There were thirty-three present. As neat and fine a class of missionaries as I have ever seen. I was sorry to be compelled to leave them„ We held conferences in different parts of Germany, the largest being at Chemnitz where more than seven hundred people assembled. We had a joyful time. * * * 

From present indications the Swiss and German mission will be the big end of the European mission, so that in selecting a successor for President Cannon, I hope you will choose a strong man who understands the people and can do the work. 

I wrote Brother Smith that we had chosen just that kind of a man; no better; and I believe you can all testify to that fact, after hearing Brother Ballif here today: 

The New Home in Basel is all that could be desired. It is a commodious place that will be a credit to the Church, and there is plenty of room to build a chapel sufficiently large to take care of all our people who assemble there. I feel to compliment President Cannon on the purchase that he has made. 
