42
Afternoon
10 10 1920
ELDER JAMES N. LAMBERT 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
158-160

None

None

I am indeed surprised, my brethren and sisters, to be called to occupy this position, but, nevertheless, I feel honored; and I trust that the few remarks I may make on this occasion may be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord. 

As stated by President Grant, I have just returned from a mission to New Zealand, where for upwards of four years I presided over the work of the Lord. I am happy indeed to report that the New Zealand mission is progressing, that the Lord is at the helm, that he has sustained us in our efforts to preach the gospel to the people living on those islands. We have had considerable trouble in securing missionaries to go there to preach the gospel, but through the prayers of the Saints and the efforts that have been put forth, a way has been opened up for us to continue our work there. The people are anxious to hear the gospel, the natives particularly who take to it very readily, and I believe the reason is because of the blood of Israel that is in their veins. It was my privilege and blessing, acting under instruction from President Grant and his counselors, to bring a company of Maori Saints to the Hawaiian Islands to perform labors in the temple. While there it was demonstrated beyond any question of doubt that the people who now inhabit the New Zealand islands, and are known as Maoris, were at one time connected with the people living on the Hawaiian islands, known as Kanakas, or natives of that place. For a great number of years efforts have been put forth by people who have written the history of the New Zealand people to connect them in some way with the people who have come from the West; and when the statement has been put forth by a "Mormon" elder, that the Maoris at one time came from the north, or particularly from the Hawaiian Islands, they, have been laughed to scorn. When directing this company to the Hawaiian Islands, in connecting up their genealogy, sixty-five generations back, with the genealogy of the Hawaiian people, it has been demonstrated clearly that they are one and the same people, or were at one time. 

It was my good fortune to witness a great number of the leading men of Honolulu, both whites and Hawaiians, who joined together in honoring the Maori people who had come there and who had demonstrated that they were connected with the Hawaiians. Never in my life have I seen people who were more anxious to show honor to native people than the people of Honolulu were on that occasion. Something like three thousand or more gathered at the armory hall and, as President Woolley remarked to me, it would have done President Smith's heart good indeed to have seen such an outpouring, such a desire on the part of the leading men there, to welcome our Maori Saints, as well as the Hawaiian Saints, because it was left to the Hawaiian Saints, not to the Hawaiian people generally, but to the Hawaiian Saints, to acknowledge that the connection that was made on that occasion was true. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege that has come to me in going to New Zealand to preside over that mission. I bring back to you, the parents, the fathers and the mothers of the elders who are laboring there, their best wishes. They are happy, they are contented in their work, they are desirous of spreading the gospei, of being equal in every way to the demand that is made upon them as representatives of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are doing a good work. The additions that are made, from year to year, show that our Church in that land is in a healthy condition. We are not dying out but on the other hand the principles of the gospel that we have taught the natives ever since the Church has been opened up in that land, ever since the gospel has been preached to that people, has demonstrated that we are preaching a gospel of temperance, a gospel that is doing them good, a gospel that is being felt, not only by the people who are obeying it, but by the people who represent the government. Doctor Pomare, a prominent native, a man who has spent years in this land and was educated here and in Germany, stated in Parliament, a short time ago, that in all his visits in the various parts of New Zealand he had never seen a place that would compare with Nuhaka, a place that is composed of ninety-eight per cent "Mormons," and when questioned further as to why it appealed to him, he said it was because of the cleanliness of the Latter-day Saints, because of their teaching, sobriety, temperance, because of their teaching the people to be industrious and to attend to their own business. The members of Parliament were astounded. He was questioned over and over again in regard to it, and yet he claimed that it was the truth in every way, as he had demonstrated it while he was an officer in the health department, later when he was a representative in Parliament, and then as a member of the Prime Minister's cabinet. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will ever make us appreciative, make other people appreciate us, and that our light may shine before all people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
