44
Afternoon
10 10 1920
Brigham H. Roberts
29
162-163

None

None

I have been impressed, as doubtless you all have been, with the large appeal that has been made during this conference to the written scriptures. This large use of them is a testimony of their value, and certainly justifies the eulogy pronounced upon them by the Apostle Paul who said that "all scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good work." 

I do not feel adequate to undertake the formulation of my own thoughts that have been inspired by my attendance upon this conference, and so I, also, will appeal to the written word to assist me in discharging the duty I have to perform on this occasion. I think, however, that my appeal to the scriptures may be a little different from other appeals that have been made. Someone has said that when we read the scriptures God speaks to us; and when we pray, we speak to the Lord. So in a sense I give way, for the brief time that I am to occupy, in order to permit the Lord to deliver a message to you, a message of comfort, a message that should bring great encouragement to the Latter-day Saints. And first a testimony of the majesty and glory of God, and then his message: 

"Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof; for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. Great is his wisdom, marvelous his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out. His purposes fail not; neither are there any who can stay his hand. From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail." 

At this point I recall a sweet message in a rather popular hymn, namely: 

Change and decay in all around I see, 

Oh, thou who changeth not, abide with me. 

And now for the message: 

Thus saith the Lord: I the Lord am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth to the end. Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory, and to them I will reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom. Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations, and their wisdom shall be great and their understanding reach to heaven. And before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish and the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught. For by my spirit will I enlighten them, by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will, yea, even those things which eye hath not seen nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 76.) 

Such is the message of the Lord, such his word of encouragement and uplifting power to you. 

Now, I think perhaps we have time to speak a word to the Lord, and in speaking that word to him by use of the scripture, Jesus the Christ may be our mouthpiece. I pray you make what we now do an act of worship and prayer unto God: 

"Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen." 