Second Overflow
10 10 1920


ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I am reminded very much this morning in our assembly here, of conferences that we frequently hold in the mission field. We usually have just such a place as this in many of the great cities of the country, and just about a gathering of this kind — though sometimes smaller; so I feel quite at home here. I have felt the Spirit of the Lord here. I felt it when our young elder prayed in opening the meeting; and I am reminded of the words of the Savior, that where there are a few gathered together in his name, there he would be also. This is the Lord's work, it is not man's work. Our Father in heaven is at the helm, and he governs and controls, according to the conditions of men. It is true that he can do much better with men and women who are faithful, and true than he can with men and women who are not, but he guides and controls. This life of ours has much to do with our future life and with the destiny of the human family. 

When the Lord appeared unto the prophet Joseph Smith, he told him that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight. Now I am reminded of a word that Brother Talmage gave us by way of instruction yesterday, that it is not recorded that God hated man. I was glad to hear him say that, for we are God's children, no matter whether we belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or to any of the different denominations of the earth, or to none at all — we are the children of our Father in heaven, he is the Father of our spirits. And I am certain that he loves his children — not that he condones their iniquity, any more than a father or a mother here in the flesh condones the wrong-doing of the child that God has given them, but he loves his children. So, when he told Joseph the prophet, in answer to his prayer, that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight, he had in mind the things that his children were doing and teaching. 

There were thousands of ministers, men who professed to have the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, who had never considered, perhaps, what that authority really was, or what it meant to obtain it; and as a result, they were teaching doctrines that were erroneous. It had been a doctrine of the teachers of religion for centuries that God, our eternal Father, was without body, parts, or passions, that he filled the immensity of space, that he was everywhere present, and yet could dwell in the heart of the smallest child. They had never considered, as someone has said before, that anything without parts could never be a whole. And yet men who professed to act in the name of God and to teach men and women to worship God were teaching that doctrine concerning our Father in heaven. This was an abomination in his sight, because it was untrue, and was leading men and women away from him as fast as they would listen to it. Those professors were undoubtedly corrupt; they drew near unto him withh their lips while their hearts were far from him; for we cannot help but conclude that those who were without a guide would surely as the world go into transgression. A man that will teach an erroneous doctrine, and a man that will teach a doctrine merely for a livelihood must fail to be receptive to the impressions which God Almighty has declared should come unto man, and must fall into error. There were thousands of people also who were preaching that God no longer spoke from the heavens above, that he no longer revealed himself. This is at once discovered to be an untrue principle, for it would be robbing God, our eternal Father, of his attributes of love and mercy and justice; for he whose love is greater than the love of any human being, so much so that there can be no comparison, could not forsake his children of the last generation of time when he in former generations walked and talked with men and discussed life and life eternal, until they knew him by the thousands. Do you tthink that a mother — whose love is greater than any other love on the earth, could in the last portion of her life, so to speak, forsake the children that came to her the last, in preference to those that came to her in the beginning of her life, the elder children, whom she had been careful to teach, as Christ and our Father in heaven were careful to teach the children of men, according to the revelations we find in Holy Writ? If a mother failed to teach the children of her later years, would she be a real mother to them, as she had been to those who had come to her in the former portion of her married life? It is unreasonable to believe a mother would do it — in fact her love would increase, rather than decrease. And so it is with our Father in heaven; for a man to say that he no longer speaks to men and that he has given unto the children of men all that is necessary, would be, as I stated before, to attempt to deprive him of his rights, which no man can do. God has never said thatt he would not reveal himself, but he has stated that he would reveal himself unto his servants the prophets. But when men failed to kneel down and make an honest appeal unto him, there was nothing sincere about them, the mark of sincerity could not be found in their lives, and so he found they were unreliable, and as a result, the work of God was not found among the children of men. 

When the prophet Joseph appealed to him, he came to him and spoke to him, as one man speaks to another; and Joseph saw and bears record, that he had a body of flesh and bones, and that he was able to speak; he saw that the children of men were formed after him, that he was our Father in very deed. 

Through that revelation the prophet gives unto the children of men this fact, that God is a man, a man who was once mortal, who had become immortal as a result of his achievements, as a result of the life that he had led in some former world; that we are his children, fashioned after him, and that the Holy Scriptures are true, and that men who profess to teach a doctrine contrary to this were teaching a thing that was abominable in the sight of God. Yet God did not hate those people, but he hated the things which they did, as he does today. There is not any doubt in my mind but that the Lord is very much displeased with the children of men, and especially the children of this Church, who have received the message from him, a testimony of Jesus, when he finds them doing things that are absolutely wrong. 

He gave unto the prophet Joseph Smith the testimony that he gave unto Peter, the testimony of the Holy Ghost, which says unto every man who has it, "I know that my Redeemer lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that this is his work here upon the earth." Paul says that no man can say Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost, which comes as a result of obedience to law. Men were not obeying the gospel, they were not obeying the principles taught by the Christ and his apostles, they had drifted entirely away from it, and were teaching doctrines that were untrue and leading the whole world astray, until there were none who were walking in the path which God had decreed the children of men should walk in in order to return to him. You will recall the incident in the life of the apostle Peter at the time when the Christ was about to be crucified. Peter had said to the Christ that he would follow him unto death, and the Savior turned unto him and said, "Before the cock crows, Peter, thou shallt deny me thrice." Why? Because Peter did not at that time have the Holy Ghost. Christ had blessed those apostles, he had breathed the Holy Ghost upon them, but he said, "If I do not go, the Spirit, or the Comforter, will not come." And he told them that they were to go to Jerusalem, and they were to remain there until they should be endued with power from on high, and then they would receive the witness that he was the Christ. There was no need for it while the Christ was there. The miracles that he performed were absolutely genuine, and would prove to any man that desired to know, that he had the truth. So Peter had him as a witness as long as he was there, but when he was separated from him on that night before the crucifixion and was accused of being one who was associated with him, he denied him; when one of those maidens accused him of being one of those associated with Jesus, he said, "No, I am not," and even denied him three times; the scripture says that he cursed, or swore; and then the cock crowed, and Peter wept bitterly. But upon the day of Pentecost, when the apostles were assembled at Jerusalem, as recorded in the second chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, we find that those apostles upon that occasion felt the power of the Holy Ghost. It came upon them in such power that people heard it as it came — according to the description — like a mighty rushing of the wind; and those men, filled with power, spoke, and the people, gathered together from among all nations, heard, each one in his own language. They became pricked in their hearts, and they cried out, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" Then came the Apostle Peter, that man who God had decreed should be at the head of his Church, to bind on earth and to bind in heaven, and to loose on earth and to loose in heaven, whichever he decreed, according to his judgment — which judgment would be, of course, inspired by that power which God gave unto him as a witness — and he stood there in the majesty oof his power and said, "Repent, and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." — They had not received it, they had partaken of the influence of it. It was there as a witness unto them, a special occasion; but Peter declared unto them if they would repent, that they would receive the manifestation of it through the gifts as promised in Holy Writ. And so we are told that there were three thousand added to the Church at that time. 

Now, coming back to this generation of time; Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, suffered persecution, yet he bore record that he saw the Father and the Son; both before and after he had received baptism, and the witness of the Holy Ghost, that member of the Godhead, which was placed in the Godhead to be a witness unto you and to me and unto all men that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ — he declared that he had both seen and heard the voice of the risen Redeemer, that he had heard the voice of his Father in heaven, and he bore witness of it unto his death, he failed not at any time to be the man that God had decreed he should be as a result of his former obedience. The world did not have the light, because they had not walked in the path by which men obtain that light. They had attempted to climb up in some other way. Men could purchase positions in the churches by their money and obtain pews just where they desired them, and if they did not go, their sins could be forgiven anywaay — which thing was an abomination in the sight of God, our eternal Father. 

Joseph Smith brought again the gospel of Christ, so that there have been here gathered together within the vales of these mountains, a people who do know the Lord; and even if they have not lived as perfectly as they might have done, and are not doing as perfectly as they might do, the testimony of Jesus is in their hearts. When they go among the children of men, they have that power renewed from on high, so to speak, and they speak with power and as one having authority, and they are not afraid. They go into the countries of this earth and bear testimony that God lives, and no man can say that he does live or that Jesus is the Christ without this great witness, which God has decreed should be the heritage of all men and women who desire to have it in their possession by obedience to his laws. 

So here has been introduced in the dispensation of time in which we live, a true order of worship, a worship which is not an abomination in the sight of God, but a worship which pleases God, our eternal Father. And there never need be any fear of successful contradiction. The things that Joseph Smith brought into the world by way of principles of intelligence have never been proved to be untrue. Men may say that he was not a prophet of God, but I want to tell you this, that when men say he was not a prophet of God, the burden of proof is always upon the man who doubts and the man who contends, and not on the man who bears a testimony. Joseph Smith brought into the world the gospel of Christ, which binds men and women in the earth and in the heavens above forever, and no man has ever been able to prove it to be untrue. The Book of Mormon itself stands as a monument always before men — that the prophet Joseph saw heavenly beings in the dispensation of time in which we live, men who had ddied and passed away. They still live, they do not lose their identity, but they are individually real, and possess their faculties. He bears testimony of it, and that book itself, is a revelation to the children of men, and proof that he has spoken the truth. 

A man who professed to be a Presbyterian minister approached me not long ago, after one of our street meetings, in one of the Eastern States, and said, "I do not believe the Book of Mormon." 

I said, "Have you ever read it?" 

He said, "No." 

"I did not think you had," I said. "I told you that in order to believe the Book of Mormon, men must be humble, and prayerful, they must be honest and earnest, and must read it for the purpose of finding out whether it be true or whether it be false. You told the truth when you said you did not believe it, for I tell you that it takes work, and it takes faith, and it takes devotion to believe the Book of Mormon and to learn it, and it comes as a result of a declaration and a determination in the heart of man to know whether it is true or whether it is not. There is no gold-brick swindle in the 'Mormon' Church; it is real. You can sort the principles, any one of them, and take them into your church and discuss them, and I tell you everything that you preach which comes through Joseph Smith the prophet will be an enlightenment to the minds of every man and woman who listens to you. Go ahead and do it, and I tell you you will be preaching the word of God, and Presbyterianism and all otherr 'isms' will disappear." 

I said further to him, "Personally I have never desired to attack a man for his religious belief. I do not believe in it. I do not believe in debates. I never saw any good come from them. I never saw any good coming from one man and another getting into a quarrel, a physical quarrel. They never were peaceful friends afterwards, never had confidence in each other. Men and women are not converted through conquest of that sort, they are only converted through intelligent research and discovery; and when men and women do make an actual discovery, it is written in their hearts because they are the children of God and in their hearts dwells the Spirit which emanates from God, our eternal Father, who fashioned it in the world from which we came. And so I say to you, we make no attacks, we would like you to read the scripture, as we do. You do not believe Joseph Smith was a prophet, but if there is anything in the scripture which goes to prove that he was a prophet you ought to learn it. You aare a child of God. There will come a time when you will have to stand befor the judgment bar of God to give an account of the deeds done in the flesh, and I feel that I would be held accountable, inasmuch as I have come in personal contact with you, if I did not bear my testimony to you and give you something to think about and give you something to read and say unto you, in a friendly way, not in an antagonistic way, that you are in error." 

After I had discussed the gospel with him for half an hour he shook hands with me, and said, "I am glad to have had the interview." 

I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that the time will come when this thing called prejudice will be swerved to one side or the other, and men who are honest and yet who are living an abomination in doctrine and practice before God will accept the truth. — A man who is in adultery cannot accept the truth, a man who lies and a man who bears false witness, and a man who is not true to himself, will not accept the gospel of Christ, and he will not be in tune and in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. It will be absolutely necessary for him to repent. God does not love him in his iniquity — his heart yearns for him, as the mother's heart yearns for her child; he, with greater power — so much greater than the human mind is capable of understanding — yearns with a yearning that we are not capable at all of appreciating, for the return of one of his sons or daughters, no matter where they may be in the earth. 

Men were led by the power of the Adversary, through false preaching for centuries, when no man upon the earth had the power of the Holy Ghost as a witness in him. They were led astray for centuries into believing that God had done it all, that he himself had fought the fight and there was nothing for the children of men to do but bow their heads and worship him and so be saved; it was an easy way to salvation, and thousands and millions of people accepted it. But when the true order of worship came, and it was taught that work, and faith, and intelligent devotion are necessary, there were only a few who found themselves willing and ready to accept the doctrine which God, our Father, had declared should be the way by which men should follow in order to return unto him. 

I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, this gospel of the Kingdom of God will purify men and women, it will cause them to repent, and when they repent they are not an abomination, nor will their creeds be, in his sight, for everyone will know the truth, everyone will be a brother in very deed. The name of the prophet Joseph Smith will be revered and written into the hearts of the thousands of men who forsake sin. 

But, as was stated yesterday, and as has been written, "God cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, and none need try to reach God — whether they be in the Church or out — when they have in their hearts the spirit of hate, the spirit of iniquity, the spirit of falsity, for those are the creeds which God hates, and which men and women must be relieved of before they can feel that sweet, beautiful influence which emanates from our Father in heaven. May God give you and me the grace and the power to live as we ought to live, I pray in Christ's name. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

"Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counselors there is safety." 

This scripture came to my mind and remained with me during Friday and Saturday as I listened to the voices of the inspired servants of God; and especially was it impressed upon my heart during the delivery of that splendid discourse by President Heber J. Grant. 

What a beautiful thing it is to forgive and to forget. A poet has said: "To err is human: to forgive is divine." 

Israel is blessed with wise counselors and happy is the man and the woman who walks in the path of counsel. The faults we have, the Lord seeks to remove, because thereby our progress in his kingdom is made more rapid. These faults act as a brake on our endeavors and make us fall short of the full measure of success which God has promised to his faithful children. 

Unto Joshua, that mighty warrior of old, came God's command to take a certain city. The soldiers were sent against the enemy, but they returned in the confusion of retreat. Upon the ground, upon his face, Joshua prostrated himself and asked God why "Israel turneth their backs before their enemy." The Lord said: "There is an accursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel: thou canst not stand before thine enemies, until ye take away the accursed thing from among you." 

The accursed thing was found in the tent of one of Joshua's soldiers. God had commanded those men that when the city of Jericho was taken they were to keep themselves away from the accursed thing in the city. One of the soldiers disobeyed. He took a garment upon which the curse rested. He also took some of the silver and gold which belonged to the Lord, to be used in the holy sanctuary and hid them in his tent. The man was dealt with according to divine injunction, and then the command was repeated: "Go up to Ai." Joshua did so. The city fell into his hands, because the accursed thing had been removed from Israel. 

And when we violate a command of the Lord, when we take anything that is forbidden or keep anything that belongs to our Father, it is an accursed thing: it is a brake on our endeavors, and to get rid of this thing is our first duty, so that we may go on in the path toward eternal perfection. 

Someone has said, "Blessed is the man who has found his work." Then thrice blessed are the people of God, for unto them hath been given a great work. The mission of this Church is to preach the gospel unto every nation and kindred and tongue and people. So long as a man will work there is hope for him, but when he sinks in despair and refuses to exert himself, then it is hard to save him. One of the shining and great evidences that we are the people of God is that in our hearts and in our lives is the spirit of service. Look at the magnificent work the Latter-day Saints are doing in the world. At great sacrifice, which is sacred unto the Lord, they are sending their sons and their daughters to preach the gospel. The Book of Mormon is being distributed by the tens of thousands. The word of the Lord is being delivered to the world, to the children of our heavenly Father; and the testimonies of the elders, the discourses they deliver, the books, the tracts that they distribute, the sermonns that we  have heard during this conference, the testimonies of the servants of God upon the isles of the sea, in the north and the south, the east and the west — all these combine as the loud voice, saying: "Fear God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." That is the mission we are engaged in, and the Lord will bless his people for the sacrifice they are making. 

We are a great people. Why? Is it because we are great in ourselves? No. We recognize that the authority which we profess to hold — and which we do hold, I testify unto you — is powerless unless the spirit of service accompanies it. Is not authority, without service, without work, powerless as faith without works? The spirit of service is in our hearts, and this is what is making the people great. It has been said that it is not what we take in this life, but what we give up that makes us rich. And the Latter-day Saints have given, because, in the words of the Savior, it is more blessed to give than to receive; and the great work which the Father has definitely commissioned us to perform is making this people great, through the law of service and of sacrifice, which is the soul of the work in which we are engaged. 

If you will permit me, I want to substitute two words in a verse which was written to eulogize the world-famed Yale college. I want to substitute for "old Yale," the words "the Church," and then see if this does not apply to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

"Mother of men, grown strong in giving, 

Honor to him thy lights have led, 

Rich in the toil of thousands living, 

Proud of the deeds of thousands dead, 

We, who have felt thy power and known thee, 

We, in whose lives thy lights avail, 

High in our hearts enshrined, enthrone thee, 

Mother of men, The Church." 

When the Prophet Joseph Smith was going to his martyrdom, he made a declaration, filled with love and charity, that will go ringing down the ages as one of the noblest truths that ever crossed mortal lips. He said, "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of none to myself." That truth is the soul of the work of the Lord. It is the truth that is in the heart of President Grant and all the leaders of this Church. It is the truth in the heart of every president that has presided over the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Now, brethren and sisters, we are not going about this work blindly. Our vision is clear. The prophet has said, "Where there is no vision, the people perish." But we are blessed with the vision of the Holy Ghost, that guides us into all truth. 

On the way to Atlanta from Chattanooga a few weeks ago, I was in conversation with a Baptist minister, a very fine gentleman. He invited me to answer his questions concerning the doctrines of the Church, which I did to the best of my ability, and with a prayer in my heart that the Lord would help me. I said to him, "Do not these great events, this world war, this pestilence, portend some great event such as the second coming of the Son of God?" 

"Well," said he, "I think so now, but I did not used to think so; and if any man seven years ago had predicted this world war would fall upon the world in its destructive fury and awful bloodshed, we would have laughed him to scorn, and then crucified him." 

I said, "The world did kill him, for the Prophet Joseph Smith did predict this world war. He was laughed to scorn, and the world killed him; and he went to his doom a martyr for the testimony of Jesus Christ." 

Brethren and sisters, thank God for this vision, that we may see our duty clearly and thank God for our prophet, seer, and revelator, who by the mercy and the goodness of God, guides his people, and unto whose counsel we will rally — because I know and I bear my testimony that the sons and the daughters of this people love the Church — and will come to her help in the divine mission which God hath commissioned her to perform. 

I bear my testimony that we are led by prophets and apostles, wise counselors; and if we will give heed — which we will do, with the help of the Lord — to their teachings and counsels, we shall reap eternal life, which is the greatest gift that God can give to man. 

The Lord help us to keep firm and faithful unto death, is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

I endorse from the bottom of my heart the words of the previous speakers, for I am engaged, as they are, in the mighty work of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we are not alone in this mighty ministry; there are 1,700 of us sent out from the stakes of Zion to bear the message of the restored gospel. There is joy in this work, for, as President Callis has said, It is the service that we give that brings us happiness. 

The missionary work of the Church is progressing. The message that Christ was in very deed the Redeemer of the world, that he gave us a plan of salvation that will save the souls of men, that the gospel, after the ages of darkness, was restored and given to the children of men through the Prophet Joseph — this message is what we are bearing to the world. We go where we are sent. We go gladly. We give our time, we give of our talents, we give the best that is in us, for we know that God's work is paramount, here on the earth, and that ultimately the gospel of our Lord will triumph. 

It is true that 

High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; 

Ye nations, now look up; 

It waves to all the world; 

In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land; 

On Zion's Mount behold it stand. 

We have gathered this week by the thouands, from the north and the south and the east and the west, many of us from distant parts, to hear the advice and counsel of our leaders; and to sustain them in their high and holy callings. I trust, and I really believe, that all of us who attend these meetings and listen to the words of our leaders, go back to our homes more determined to keep the commandments of God than when we came here. 

It is a wonderful thing, this gospel of our Lord. It is not to be absorbed by merely sitting idly by and wondering how we are going to be saved. All of us have an idea of some kind, of salvation. Rarely do you meet a man who does not have some belief in immortality; but when you propound to him the question, "What is the immortality in which you believe? what is the salvation for which you hope?" in most instances you will find that he cannot give you an intelligent answer. To the Latter-day Saint, however, who is living his religion, and who is progressing in a knowledge of his religion, through prayer, faith, and diligent study, there is a pointed, plain, beautiful conception of immortality and eternal life, that gives his life something new, gives him hope, gives him courage, and gives him an understanding that his life here on earth is more than merely gaining the things of this life. 

The Savior said, "This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." And truly the Savior spoke the truth when he made this wonderful statement. It is life eternal to understand the plan of salvation and to order our lives so that we are in accord with its teachings. It is life eternal to find such joy in our lives here, by righteous living, that when the end shall come, we will pass away in peace, not fearing death, but knowing that we have fought a good fight here, and that for having fought this good fight, the reward that awaits us will truly be ours. 

Again, the Savior said, "Search the scriptures, for in them ye have eternal life." My brethren and sisters, we, the Latter-day Saints, are blessed above all peoples of the earth in regard to the scriptures that we have to search. We have the holy Bible, that grand old book that has come down through the ages to us. We worship God and we read of him and we search that scripture and we order our lives in a large degree by its teachings — to us the holy Bible is most sacred — but we have more, we have the Book of Mormon, the parallel history, if I may say it, of the inhabitants of this continent. Then we have still more, we have the history or the recorded word of our heavenly Father as it has been given to his children in this day and age; and still more, we have that record, the Pearl of Great Price." These four books we accept as the standard works of the Church, as the divine revelations of our Father, as his law unto his Church. 

But, my brethren and sisters, in accepting them and declaring to the world that we believe them, do we know them? Do we search them, do we even read them? Do we study them that we may know the plan of salvation and that we may build up our most holy faith and our determination, by prayerful, consistent research? I fear that far too many of us take this matter of life and this matter of our duty to ourselves in the truth, far too lightly. I fear that far too many of us leave our books dusty on the shelves, rather than taking them down and reading the wonderful words that they contain. We can turn chapter by chapter through the Book of Mormon, and every chapter that we read opens our minds to something new; we can study it phrase by phrase, and our minds will brighten, if we will only do it. How many here today have read the Book of Mormon through? How many have read the other scriptures? Ask yourselves these questions. 

We are too prone, my brethren and sisters, to take life easy, to order our lives along the lines of least resistance. We are too prone to read the light, foamy, entertaing things of life, that do not benefit us, and to leave unread the vital works that make us mighty and strong and intelligent for our life's work. We have these four books, the holy scripture, which we should search. We have other works, and we can read and study and none of us will ever master one tithe of the wonderful truths embraced in these books. 

I want to read to you just one verse from the Book of Mormon. It is a beautiful verse, and has been published many, many times. I fear that most of us are not yet familiar with it. It is the 13th verse of the second chapter of Second Nephi: 

And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness, there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness, there be no punishment nor misery. And if these things are not, there is no God. And if there is no God, we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished away. 

In this marvelously philosophical verse that we have in that chapter, there is so much truth to be pondered over and thought about, that if we will take it, read it, study it, analyze it, and pray over it, our minds will be opened and we will have an understanding of the things of God as we never had them before. 

As I said a moment ago, we are too prone to follow the lines of the least resistance, and not to strive to search the scriptures and to find out the things of God. The things of God are more than faith, repentance, and baptism, these first principles; the things of God embrace all truths, and if we search the scripture and master these basic truths of our Father, and then go outside and take the works of commentary of the great thinkers, we can day by day grow in an understanding of God and really know him. 

"This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent;" and, my brethren and sisters, we cannot hope to know the only true God nor Jesus Christ, if we do not seek them. True, it is within the power of our heavenly Father to bless us with positive knowledge, with no effort on our own part. It is within his power to magnify us so mightily that we could stand up as shining lights so that the world would marvel at our wonderful achievements. But God moves along natural lines; he gives us the intelligence, he gives us the faith, he gives us the wisdom, and if we will utilize these God-given faculties and will exercise them and will study and will seek, then we will know. Frequently do the missionaries come to us in the field with not even an idea of God. They have gone on a mission purely because they have been sent. How much finer, how much more capable would they have been if their parents had trained them in the home, and they had beenn trained in the schools and in the organizations of the Church, so that they had gone into the mission field positively knowing that the gospel of Christ is true; with no doubt in their minds. While they would not necessarily be wonderful preachers; and while, probably, they could not explain the gospel in detail, yet there would be something burning in their souls that tells them that the gospel is true, that Jesus was the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is indeed a prophet of the living God. This is life eternal to know these things, and in order to know them, we must search, with sincerity, we must be prayerful, and we must be really and truly and genuinely prayerful, — we must go on our knees before our God; he demands it. 

Why he instituted prayer, I do not know, but he did it, and it suffices me to know that since he did it, my duty is to bow myself before my God and to appeal to him in prayer. Why the other ordinances were given, I do not know, but they were, and they have a purpose, and he who fails to keep these commandments of our Father cannot hope for the blessings. 

There is a remarkable relationship between keeping the commandments of God and enjoying his blessing. God chose in the beginning to give to his children positive commandments, that was his scheme, he laid down the law, and he said, my children must abide by that law if they will have the blessings. The prophet Joseph tells us, as recorded in the 130th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "There is a law irrevocably decreed in the heavens before the foundations of this earth, upon which all blessings are predicated, and when we obtain any blessings from God, it is by obedience to the law upon which it is predicated." And the opposite of this is true, that when we violate the law, the punishment that God has designed that his children must take, if they violate the law, will be meted out to them. How, then, my brothers and sisters, can we hope to know, can we hope to develop, can we hope for the blessings of God if we do not exercise our God-given faculties. I said there is a relationsship between the keeping of the commandments of God and the enjoying of his blessings. We must put ourselves in tune with him. We must keep his commandments. We must obey the law, or we cannot hope for, nor will we receive the blessings which God has in store for his children. In his justice, in his mercy, in his love for his children, he could not give to the sinner the blessing when he failed to keep the law, the same as we would give it to the righteous child who did keep that law. 

Now, knowing these things, and knowing that we must know God, that we must find him out, that we must know for ourselves, why is it that we stand by, let the world go on and let the Church go on, while we do nothing toward the salvation of our own souls? 

The message of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a wonderful one, it is the message of life and the message of salvation. The doctrines of the Church stand alone, they have borne the acid test of 100 years. The world, the best brains of the world have endeavored to disprove them. This wonderful book from which I have read, the Book of Mormon, has been held up to ridicule but after 100 years it stands unimpeached and unimpeachable, for it is indeed the word of the true and the living God. We have these things, they are ours, we have them in our hearts, most of them; and the books lie on the shelves in far too many cases, dirty and dusty from disuse. Why do we not magnify the intelligence that we have, study and learn, prepare ourselves, so that when the time comes and the opportunity presents itself for us to explain the principles of the gospel, that we will know what the gospel is, and that we will declare it to the people in power and in truth. 

The testimony that God lives is a gift to us; it comes to us when we are worthy of it. He blesses us when we strive for that blessing and reach out and try to get it. He is indeed our Father in heaven, to whom we can go and from whom we can ask a blessing. We know that the world gazes on an immaterial something, which they worship, in a way, as God. We know the true and the living God, the God of Israel, and we know that in this day and age he reveals his mind and will to his children. That testimony that the Prophet Joseph gave 100 years ago, rings in the hearts and the ears of the Latter-day Saints today. Hundreds are coming into the fold, the message is bearing fruit, and while he is not accepted generally, his teachings and his principles are being accepted by the world today. Mormonism is going forward, it will triumph; and the message that the missionaries bear by the hundreds and the thousands will bring the honest in heart into the Church, for it has the ring of sincerity. My bbrothers and sisters, it is life eternal to know God, it is life eternal to know his Son, it is life eternal to know that in this day and age God has revealed himself, his mind and his will to the children of men. 

May we be worthy, may our testimonies grow, may we, by righteous living, be so strong and so solid that we will know of ourselves without a doubt that God lives and that this is his Church, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) 

At a gathering in this city, the other day, a prominent railroad man recently from Europe, in making a few remarks, stated that when he applied to the American Consul for a passport to come to America, a number of questions were asked. One of them was, "Are you a Bolshevist?" He answered, "no." Another, "Are you a 'Mormon'?" and he answered, "no." 

I volunteered the information that these were the two extremes; and he said, "Yes, I know what Bolshivism is: I have lived with it; but until now, I have not known what 'Mormonism' is; and I want to say to you men here that such a spirit of friendship, I have never seen in Europe." 

It was my pleasure to bring that man over here to the temple block; his time being limited I turned him over to Brother Goddard and some of his associates. I called for him again in an hour, in order to get him to his train, and he did not care to leave the block — he stayed here until the very last minute. He said, "Mr. Smith, it is wonderful, it is wonderful, and I want to know more of your people and your doctrine! I understand you have missionaries in Holland. I intend to look them up when I get home." 

A few months ago some business men from England, made a tour of the United States. I read a letter day before yesterday from one of those men, saying, "We regret that we considered our stay at Salt Lake City of so little importance that we did not allow more time for it. Of all the visits we made to the cities of the United States, none were so profitable as our visit to your city." 

Soon after they were here, a number of Boy Scouts, from New York, called upon us. Their leaders said that they had debated some time as to whether it would be wise to bring those boys to Salt Lake City, but inasmuch as their return trip took them this way, they thought they would stop off for a little while. He said, "We regret that we did not arrange to stay longer; we have not been treated so well in any city of the United States as you have treated us while we have been with you." 

A few months ago, Brother Oscar A. Kirkham, our Scout Leader, was chosen as morale officer to go to Europe with the Boy Scouts selected from all over the United States. Some objected to a "Mormon" going for this purpose, but the leaders of that work recognized through their association with his, that he was clean, that he was a leader and in every way qualified to take that responsible position, and look after those young fellows who were going to visit Europe. 

My brethren and sisters, "what God hath cleansed that call not thou common." And I want to tell you that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have the gospel in its purity. I am sorry to say that there are some who profess to be laboring for the welfare of God's children who are constantly trying to drag it into the mire and to cover it with filth. O, it is a wonderful work, and those who labor in it unceasingly, in faith, with a desire to be helpful, and to do God's work, receive joy and satisfaction in their work. I want to tell you that I have a testimony that this gospel is true. I know as well as I know anything in this world that President Heber J. Grant holds his position through the will of God, and that he is influenced through the Holy Spirit which is promised to all who are faithful. I have seen it manifest, through him, time and time again, and I want to say to you that he will be successful in his administration, in just so far as we, his brethren and hiss sisters, God's children, will support him and uphold him with our means, with our faith, and with our prayers. 

All the world is looking upon us as they have never looked in all our history. Are we doing things that will cause them to distrust, now that they are beginning to see the good things? Let us be "swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath." 

I get much comfort in the statement made by the Apostle James, a part of which we quote quite often: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." As a rule, we stop here, but I think the most important part of this quotation is that which follows: "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord." 

And again we are told, a double minded man is unstable in all his ways. Let us not be double minded; and when we are in doubt, let us go to God in faith, nothing wavering; let our lives be such that our houses are in order, that we are in condition to go to God and ask for his blessings. I know, my brethren and sisters, that if we will do this, with faith, nothing wavering, God will make known unto us, as individuals, his will, as it concerns us, and we will know and understand. He is not forcing his doctrine upon us, nor his blessings, and he is not influencing us through his Spirit, except when we are in condition to be influenced. 

May God's choicest blessings rest upon us, I pray, my brethren and sisters, let us uphold the authorities of this Church, every one. They are men of God, who are trying to uphold each other and to accomplish all that God requires of them. So I say again, let us set our houses in order, let us take to our homes the spirit of this conference. O what a wonderful thing it would be for us, as a people, if we could at all times earnestly carry out the instructions of this conference. 

O I tell you, while the people of the world are looking upon us more favorably at this time, if we would carry out the instructions we have received during this conference, and especially the text of President Grant, "keep the commandments," it would only be a little time until they would be attracted by the great influence we would have for good. 

May God's choicest blessings be with us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The congregation sang, "Praise to the man." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Benjamin Goddard, of the Bureau of Information. 