Overflow
10 10 1920



ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(President of the Canadian Mission) 

My brothers and sisters, I am deeply thankful for this opportunity of coming to Zion to worship our God with you. I am thankful for the opportunity of listening to the sweet singing of the choir this morning. In my heart I pray that the sweet spirit which has actuated the singers will actuate me in what I shall say to you. I want to say the thing that ought to be said; I want to speak the words that will help you and help me to a better and deeper appreciation of the truth which God has revealed to us in the day and time in which we live, for I do know in my heart that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, I know it is the power of God unto salvation; and the dearest desire of my heart, at this time, is to impress the children of men with the truthfulness of the gospel which has come to us as our greatest heritage. 

My heart has often been touched when I have been made aware of the bad name which our people have been given in the world. Just a few weeks ago, one of our lady missionaries in Canada went to a home in Toronto with the view of offering to the people of that home the Pearl of Great Price. When she made known to the folks that she was a "Mormon," the lady of the house sneered at her and scorned her, and said, "I would rather feed a criminal than feed a 'Mormon.'" 

When that young girl came to the mission home, and made a report of her experience, I was deeply touched in my heart, and I resolved that I would use the humble talent given to me in writing and in speaking the defense of the best people in the world. And since coming home I have been deeply grieved to find that, even here, some of us so far forget ourselves as to be guilty of the crime which has been responsible for placing upon the fair brow of our religion the hideous mask; I refer to the crime of slander. Our people have suffered as no people have suffered since the days of the ancient Saints because of the crime of slander, and I do hope and pray that this sin shall not creep in among us. I do hope and pray that we will remember the noble words of the great Shakespeare: "Who steals my purse, steals trash; 'twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; but he that filches from me my good name, robs me of that which not enriches him, but makes me poor indeed." These are noblle words. They are as true as anything that ever was written, and I have taken pleasure in quoting these words in the mission in which I work, and I commend them to Israel at home. When I have met the slanderers of our people and our faith, I have often said I would rather be a ghoul, a graverobber, and scratch around among dead bones and steal grave clothes than rob people of their good name. I want to tell you that there is nothing so small, so ignoble as the disposition to want to magnify other men's faults. There is nothing that so soon brands a person as a small and ignoble soul as the desire to make out other people bad. 

A few evenings ago I spoke in the open air near the city hall in the great city of Toronto. While I was speaking, a man in the crowd who had a grudge against the "Mormons," and especially against that grand and great man Brigham Young, shouted out while I was speaking, "What about Brigham Young?" 

My feathers were up immediately, and I said, Brigham Young was a grand man; he redeemed a wilderness, he built an empire, and endowed colleges and universities, and if he should be talking to us today, to the little souls who are barking at his heels, he would be apt to say, "I don't mind being swallowed by a whale, but I do hate to be nibbled to death by minnows." And after all is said, it is only small dogs that bark at the heels of our people in the hope of making them bad. 

I was deeply touched last night in meeting with a friend who, immediately upon my mention of some prominent men in this city who have given their lives to the service of God and the uplift of this people, spoke in disparagement of those men. Every time we do that sort of thing we condemn ourselves, for the Apostle Paul, in his letter to the Romans, said: "Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest, for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things." I commend to you these inspired words of the Apostle Paul, and I commend to you also a motto which I saw in Chicago recently upon a great bill board: "Throw away your hammer and get a horn. Knockers never did themselves or anybody else any good." 

Now I feel that I have talked as long as I ought to. I want to say that I rejoice with all my heart in the knowledge I have of the divinity of this work. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and I know that Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God, as I know that light is light. So I know that great man is God's prophet, for I know that during the last year, the promise which he sealed upon my head, when he set me apart to labor in the Canadian mission, has come true; and I testify to you that God Almighty is with that man, and does sustain him and uphold him by the power of the Holy Ghost. God bless you. Amen.

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission) 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, that I have the privilege of attending this conference. I am thankful to the Lord that we have inspired men to teach us the principles of the gospel, and I am more grateful than I could possibly express for the gospel that has been restored to us in these days in which we live. I am thankful to the Lord for the gifts and the blessings of it. 

I am thankful to the Lord that I have a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, and that the power of the Priesthood is upon the earth today; and I know as I know that I live that the men who stand today at the head of the Church are men endowed with the power of the Lord, and they are in very deed prophets, seers and revelators unto the people. 

I should like to read to you the words of the Savior, for we believe that the gospel restored to us is none other than that set up by him when he ministered among men here upon the earth, and I believe that the same powers and the same gifts and the same blessings follow those who believe and those who minister in his name and by his power. After he had appeared unto his apostles he gave unto them a commandment, as follows: 

And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe; in my name they shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. 

We as a people stand up and bear this message and this testimony in the world. Your sons and your daughters, many of them, are today in the world crying repentance to the children of men, and they are fearless and are boldly declaring to the people that if they will believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, have faith in him, and repent of their sins, and be baptized, they will be saved. And just so fearlessly and firmly do they declare that if they will not do so, they will come under the condemnation of the Lord. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is no other system in the world, no other plan, no gospel given to man save that which we have that is "the power of God unto salvation." And we declare to the people of the world that these signs spoken of here by the Savior shall follow the believer, and I am a witness to you today that these things are true. The people of the world among whom we labor believe that the signs followed the believers in days of old. They believe in the mmiracles recorded in the Bible, in the New Testament; but men are wont to tell us in this day that we are not living in a day when these powers are made manifest unto the children of men. They believe that the apostles of old had great powers, and ministered unto the restoring of people to health and strength; that the blind were made to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, and the lame to walk; but when we tell them that these things are a part of the gospel to us, they are skeptical, and they do not believe, and they do not have faith sufficient to bring these things down upon their heads for their blessing. They believe that the Lord's hand has been shortened and his power has been lessened. But I am glad to say that we can witness before them that these things do exist in the world today through the gospel, as it has been restored and as we enjoy it. There is an account here, in the third chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, of a remarkable healing, that I would like to read tto you. This is accepted and believed by the people of the world, I think, because it happened so long ago: 

Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour. And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple; who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms. And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up; and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God. And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which hadd happened unto him. And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering. And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk. The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go. 

As I say, the world believe that this man, although paralyzed, was restored so that he walked with the brethren who had restored him, by the power of God. Now, do we believe — that is the vital point for us to consider that the same power that rested upon these men exists in the Church today? When our little ones are sick, when sickness comes into the homes, can we call upon the elders with the same faith as evidenced here, believing firmly that the prayer of faith will heal the sick? Time will not permit me to speak long, but I want to bear you my witness, I have seen many manifestations of the healing power of the Lord. 

I recall an incident in far off Mexico, where a little girl came into the presence of the elders, having suffered from smallpox, and as a result of that dread disease, a white film had grown over one of her eyes, causing total blindness in it. The elders administered to her and they testify that when she left them, the afflicted eye was as clear as the other one. 

Last June I was visiting the elders in the city of Laredo, Texas. On Sunday night we held a meeting in a hall we had rented, there being about eighty in attendance, and as Elder Pierce, the presiding elder, was speaking, I noticed a little confusion at the door, and as I looked more closely, saw that it was two persons supporting a man who was paralyzed, and bringing him into the meeting. They placed him on a rear seat, and all listened attentively till the meeting was out. Soon after the meeting was over, all those who had attended dispersed, with the exception of the man referred to and those who had brought him. I approached them and asked them what it was they wished, and one of the men who had helped to bring in the sick man replied: 

We have heard the teachings of these young elders and the claims by them made that the signs shall follow the believers in the gospel which they teach, and we believe what these elders have told us, and that they are endowed with power to lay hands upon the sick and they shall recover. It is our wish that you should lay hands upon this paralyzed man and bless him. 

The case looked to be a very hopeless one to me, but I said to the elders, "Brethren, the Lord has said that these things can be done, so let us exercise all the faith we can." 

So we gathered around the man and blessed him, after which we put him in his wagon and sent him on his way home. 

The next night we held meeting in the same place with about the same sized crowd present. This night the sick man was again present, but came before the services started, and I spoke to him, asking him how he felt, to which he replied, "I feel much better." I am sure I could not see wherein he looked any better, but I have no doubt that even then the Spirit of the Lord was operating in him and that he did really feel better. After the meeting we again blessed him. 

The next day I left Laredo, visiting in other parts of the mission, and it was ten days before I returned home. On reaching home and looking over my mail, I found a letter from one of the elders in Laredo who had assisted in administering to the sick man. He asked, "Do you remember the paralyzed man? We have found that he was stricken a year ago, and during that time he has not been able to stand alone or to walk, but today he is walking all over." 

Brethren and sisters, that did not happen 2,000 years ago, but it was only three months ago. Peter said to the people who marveled when they witnessed the wonderful healing of the paralyzed man at the temple gate that it was not by his power, nor that of his brethren that it had been done, but that once again the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob had manifested his power through his Son, Jesus Christ. So it was in the case I have related. It was not by my power, nor by the power of my brethren, but by the power of the Holy Priesthood that the paralyzed man was made well. God had once again made manifest his power through the Holy Priesthood and through his Son, Jesus Christ, in the healing of that man. I testify that this is true. About a month ago I visited Laredo again and learned that the sick man, subsequent to his healing had been baptized a member of the Church. He was not so wholly cured that he was able to walk without a cane, but had been walking with the assistance of a cane. 
On my last visit he asked that we administer to him again and after we had done so, he said, "I feel that I can now walk without the assistance of this cane," and he left the hall walking straight to the door with no assistance, very much to the surprise of all those who saw him. 

I call your attention to these circumstances in order that our faith may be renewed, and that we may believe that the Lord is the same yesterday, today and forever, and that there is no change, no variation, in him, and that his power and blessings may be made manifest wherever the faith of the people is sufficient to call down these blessings upon their heads. I testify that the Holy Priesthood, by which these things are done, is upon the earth today, just as much as it ever was. 

I have a clipping here from the Cosmopolitan magazine for the month of August, dealing with this subject which seems to be troubling the minds of some people, and the writer of this article asks, Why is it that we do not find in the religious world today, a manifestation of the power of God in the healing of the sick and in the revealing of his mind and will to man? Why is it that Elijah, Moses and the prophets of old, were able to see beyond the veil and tell the people what they saw, and to do other wonderful and mighty things which modern ministers say cannot be done? He asked the religious world some very perplexing questions which I think would do them good to contemplate seriously. Speaking of the example cited, he said: 

"While these examples may not be of gifts we should class as psychic, they are instances of power. If the Old Testament is to be taken seriously, man was once in control of universal law beyond the point at which he stands today. But as I have stated, what was once a law is still a law, and if things were ever done, they can be done again. The question naturally arises here as to whether the Old Testament is to be taken seriously or not. If it is not, then its mass of evidence as to universal powers once in the possession of man is worthless. But my appeal in the present series of articles is to those who believe the Old Testament to be the inspired word of truth. If that is so, how are these declarations of power, love, and the sound mind to be treated? Are they to be flatly denied, or deprived of substance by being explained away, or taken as historic? Either man had these powers or he had not. If he had not, shut the Old Testament and banish it from the churches. But if he had, why not seek to recover them? If Moses or Joshua or Peter or Paul of two or three thousand years ago could see beyond the material veil, and tell us what they saw, why cannot the Moses or Joshua or Peter or Paul of the twentieth century do the same? Has it not become a matter of life and death to the whole Christian system that it should demonstrate its possession of power and love and the sound mind by deeds rather than by declarations?" 

I ask, can not the power of God today work the same miracles that it could in the days of old? I maintain that it can, and truly it seems to me that it has become a matter of life and death to the whole Christian system to demonstrate that it is in possession of this power, and I maintain that if the religious systems of the world continue without incorporating into their systems this power, their whole system will crumble under them and come to naught. 

I maintain that the Peters and the Pauls and the Joshuas and the Moses of this dispensation, as represented in the leaders of this Church, are endowed with power to look beyond the veil and to reveal to the children of men the thing that the Lord would have them know, and also to work through faith the same mighty miracles that were wrought through the Priesthood by those who held it in times that are past. And I testify that the signs spoken of by the Savior of the world, will follow those who truly believe, in this day, just as much as in the time when the Savior himself, was upon the earth. 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem. 

"The Restoration," a solo by Mrs. Lawrence Meers. 

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, when I look into your honest, eager faces, I feel the sincere desire of your heart for the word of God and his message to you. I am overwhelmed with my own inability, weakness and dependence upon him, and trust, most sincerely, that if such message shall be delivered to you through me, I may enjoy the spirit thereof to the honor and glory of his name. 

You, who were privileged to attend the opening session of our conference, I am sure, you can say with me that it was a glorious event, and the glory of it has continued up to the present moment. My soul was overwhelmed with gratitude to God for the blessings therein obtained, and has since that time been filled with unspeakable joy. When President Grant announced to the audience the keynote of the conference, that it should be the love of God, which includes, necessarily, the love of fellow man, the spirit of truth and forgiveness, which is God-love; and when, with power befitting a prophet of God, he delivered to us his message, my soul was thrilled, and in my heart I said: 

We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank thee for sending the gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays. 

My favorite theme, my favorite scriptures, have been quoted during this conference. To my heart there is no thought more sublime than the love of God as evidenced in the love of his Son and manifest in those who possess his Spirit. "For the fruit of the spirit," says Paul, is "love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith;" and inspiring in others love for their fellow man, the spirit of peace, in their souls, the gift of faith and of longsuffering. They are inspired by God's Spirit. How definitely the Lord declared this important principle when to him there came the lawyer, asking: "Master, which is the great commandment in the law." Remember his words: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Nay, upon the first, we might say without being prresumptuous, hang all the law and the prophets, because the second is contained therein; for by the same Master these words were spoken: "If a man say, I love God, and hate his brother (mark the strong language employed), he is a liar; for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" Hypocrisy, the spirit of the Pharisee, was most contemptible in the estimation of the Master, and brought forth such strong condemnation in such forceful language as he was not wont to use. Again he said, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye shall love one another; and hereby shall all men know that ye are my disciples, because ye love one another." 

An invariable evidence of discipleship of Christ is love for our fellow men. And to me these commandments are just as important, just as absolute as the commandment, "Except a man be born of the water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." For into God's presence no man can go with hatred in his heart toward his fellow men; for, "inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of my little ones, ye have done it unto me," with which we receive the illustration of the interpretation, no man loves his God more than he loves his fellow man; no man will serve his God more than he is willing to serve and bless his fellow men, for in this way only we evidence to him our love for him. 

Upon my soul there has been a serious thought, and I must refer to it only, it is closely related to the thought of love of mankind, I fear that modern tendencies are drifting from that principle. I fear that most sacred institution, the home, is suffering greatly at the hands of the people of the world. And to our own people, I make a plea here. Among the many wholesome slogans that have been given to us may I be presumptuous enough to add one other — "Back to the Home." You no doubt have observed the tendency to stray from the home, and it was emphasized in the experience of the recent past, when into the ranks of the nation's defense were called our sons and our brothers, and in the avenues of commercial activities were called our daughters and our sisters; there they received magnificent salaries with which they could secure to themselves not only a good living, but many of the luxuries their hearts desired. To return to the simple duties of home has been a difficult task for many of our dear girls, and yet the noblest task that ever was laid upon the children of God. The immortal Roosevelt said: "No work, I care not how important it may seem to be, whether in church or state, in science or philosophy, begins to compare with that done in the home, by the father and the mother, who are the first of sovereigns and the divinest of priests." 

What is home? The best definition I ever read is this: "The place where mother is," be it a mansion or a humble cottage, a tent upon the desert sands; where the mother and her little ones, immortal souls, dwell, that is home. Therein is kept the first commandment given of God to our father and to his wife, our mother, in the garden of Eden, and because of its importance it came first. "Neither can we without our children be made perfect, nor they without us," and I decry with all the power of my soul, the abominable practice that has gone abroad, that form of murder known as race suicide. I was astonished when a good woman who has charge of one of our young ladies' associations told me that some of our girls belonging to the best families, noble girls, have had their minds poisoned concerning this matter to the extent that they had come to look upon criminal operations as little less than having a tooth treated or drawn. 

I think perhaps I can do no better than to read an article, because it has become a subject of very sincere consideration by thinking men of the world. This article is taken from a Denver paper, and to President Knight I am obligated for possession of it, on the question of marriage and divorce and kindred evils. I shall take time to read an article on "the modern tendencies" which are strongly attacked by another thinking man, for it is evident that lying at the foundation of these evils is the deadly sin against which the Prophet Joseph F. Smith sounded a warning voice just shortly before his death; in his statement that "the dominant evil of the age is unchastity," it is evidenced in so many ways, the spirit of it, is everywhere. To your attention I call this article: 

"With science giving the shrug of doubt as to the existence of God, with law courts grinding out divorces and nauseum, with passing literature that finds it pays to portray characters reeking with moral shame and condoning the offense, with young and old gone mad over the lurid motion film, with the drama depraved in spite of heroic efforts of the many who patronize and love the clean play, with the daily press mirroring the crimes and sins of society, with feminine dress mocking at decency and modesty, with ever-decreasing respect for authority and reverence for the flag of our country, where is the power, who has the wisdom, where is the salvation of the youth of our land? 

"When Luther repudiated the sacramental idea of marriage he struck a blow at the family and set to work forces which today are placing the home in serious jeopardy. 

"Marriage, divested of its religious character and reduced to the condition of a pure civil contract, voidable at will, has become the plaything of the passions, and if those bonds are severed, the family is broken asunder, children are born by later unions, to one or both of the parents, and the family is torn from its true relationships. O, what a mockery! What a travesty of what St. Paul called, 'A great sacrament in Christ and in the Church.' And yet the world in which we live not only condones the evil of those who are guilty of this mockery, but admits them freely in the charmed circle of society. It repels with high disdain the poor Magdalene whom the Savior himself pardoned, but it honors with special friendship the Herods and their consorts. It is high time for society to outlaw such sacriligious profaners and offenders to Christian decency. 

"The pagans of old cast their infants from the Tarpeian rock, immolated them before the idol of Molock, but they had not learned the refinement of crime to which their modern devotees are addicted — birth control. There are women who profess to be Christians who are forever going about poisoning the minds and hearts of every young bride they can reach with the venom of their hell-flamed tongues, advising them to forestall the laws of nature and nature's God by preventing the conception, and birth and the rearing of children. Oh, Herod, Herod! what a tyro you were. The modern husband and wife have put you to shame in the damning sin of the 'slaughter of the innocents'. They tell us it is a crime to bring children into the world in poverty, but why be hypocrites? If poverty be the cause, how happens it that the evil flourishes most among the wealthy. Not long since there was a gathering of fashionable women in this very city. Among them were six women who boasted of eighteen husbands. Thhe eighteen husbands and six wives boasted of four children, two of whom were weak-minded." 

There is a condition against which we Latter-day Saints, who have taken upon us the name of Jesus Christ and made covenants with our God, must set our faces as flint. And, oh, that woman who denies herself the glory of motherhood, the crown of the celestial glory which none other shall transcend, truly knows not what she does. "A partnership with God is motherhood. What purity, what love, what self-control should belong to her who helps God fashion an immortal soul." Can you think of any glory that can come to one greater than to enter into an actual partnership with God our Father and the Father of our children, and to be in sacred nearness to him in the guidance of those immortal, precious souls! 

God help us to know our duty and to do it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Western States Mission and of Ensign Stake) 

"Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are whom ye list to obey, whether of sin unto death, or obedience unto righteousness." This scripture has borne itself upon my soul as I have listened to the instructions received from our presiding brethren. There are two great forces working in the world, the forces of evil and of righteousness, or the powers of sin and the powers of God. 

I have been very much impressed with the sessions of this conference, and I shall leave this place with my face towards the rising sun, and my heart against doing the things against which our leaders have spoken. I believe there is no thing that will destroy the faith of the Latter-day Saints so much as criticism of the Presidency of the Church, or the presiding authority of the Church, and in the stakes of Zion, over one of which I have the privilege and honor to preside, I have raised my voice against these damning practices; and I believe that it will undermine the faith of the young people of Zion if they indulge in these things. 

Permit me to read to you from the Book of Mormon. Alma, that mighty prophet of the living God who declares repentance to the people of this great nation, a thousand years and more ago, found the same condition prevailing among the people of that day and time, and he raised his voice in protest against it. I realize that it is time when we should instil into the hearts of our young people the love of God, a love for their fellow men, a love for the gospel of the Master. And I believe, in order to do that, we should be exemplary in our lives, that we should have in our souls a testimony of the truth, and we should endeavor to surround the youth with the influences of the gospel of the Master, and to hedge up the way that the power of the adversary shall not overcome them in their lives. Alma, you will remember, desired that he might have the voice of an angel to declare repentance unto the ends of the earth, and then he says: 

I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm, decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea I know that he allotteth unto men, according to their wills; whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; or he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. Now seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called? Why should I desire that I was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth? For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word; yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according tto that which is just and true. I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in it; I do not glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God, to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy. 

I care not, my brethren and sisters, how much opposition comes from without. We meet opposition in the Western States. There are men and women who, in the language that has been quoted by Elder Iverson, used by the reverend gentleman in a discourse in Denver, "with their hell-flamed tongues are poisoning the minds of the people" against this thing that is known as "Mormonism;" but all the powers of darkness and of earth and hell combined cannot stay the onward progress of the work of God. He has set his hand the last time to accomplish his purposes in the earth, to establish the truth, and to bring to pass his righteousness, and there is no power that can stay its progress. It is destined to go on until it fulfills its destiny in the earth. But there is danger when there is internal strife, when there is bitterness in the hearts of the sons of God, that they will destroy our faith, and undermine our lives, and thus we will be servants to sin; and I raise my voice in protest against theese practices. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony of the gospel and in the privilege that I have of lifting my voice in its defense. There is no joy that comes to the soul equal to that joy that comes in declaring the message of salvation. I want to say to you that men and women by the thousands are willing to listen to our message, and I care little for these fellows who oppose us. I want to testify to you that it is a splendid thing that opposition comes into the lives of the missionaries; it puts them on edge, it makes them determined and very anxious to bear witness of the truth that has been restored in this day and age of the world. 

Now, may we, my brethren and sisters, go from these gatherings and carry with us the inspiration and the spirit of them, and let us carry it to our various wards and stakes and missions, that the work of God may go on unhindered, and that our brethren and sisters who hold positions of responsibility may receive the sustaining power of the Priesthood of the Son of God, that they may carry on the great latter-day work entrusted to their care, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.

ELDER GEO. F. RICHARDS 

It was said by our Savior while he ministered among men, that he spoke as one having authority; and the scriptures tell us that if a man speak, "Let him speak as the oracles of God."

ENDORSEMENT OF THE PREVIOUS SPEAKERS 

You, my brethren and sisters, having accepted the principles of the gospel and the ordinances thereof, and having tried as well as you could to keep the commandments of God, in the midst of weakness, you know as well as those who have testified, this afternoon, in your presence, that this is, indeed, the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that it is indeed the power of God unto salvation. I rejoice exceedingly, and join my brethren in adding my testimony to this great truth, and also endorsing that which has been said by those who have preceded me. 

THE PURPOSE OF INSTRUCTION 

I take it, my brethren and sisters, that in embracing the gospel and coming along thus far in your life's work, you are resolved and determined to be true and faithful unto the end, remembering that the race is not to the swift, neither the battle to the strong, but to those who endure faithful to the end. The instructions which are given are calculated to bring us to a remembrance of the covenants which we have made, of the undertakings which we have entered into, of the aim and objects we have had when, in our thoughtful moments, we have considered the purpose of our existence here, where we came from, and where we are going to; and to remind us of our weaknesses and imperfections, and of the straight and narrow way in which we must travel continuously if we shall reach the goal and aim of our lives. 

I hope, dear brethren and sisters, that we will not be deceivers of ourselves, but hearing these things and locking them up in our lives. This is not what is intended, but rather that we shall consider these admonitions, cherish them in our minds, weigh them, and apply them to ourselves, that we may profit by them. For, if after we have been instructed so thoroughly and plainly, in regard to our duties, we still continue to neglect them, we will not be without condemnation in the day of judgment. This gospel is a "savor of life unto life, or of death unto death" unto those to whom it comes. The hearing of the word is just as much our condemnation, if we neglect to accept and live by it, as it is our salvation if we accept and live by the word of the Lord. 

IN COMMENDATION OF THE SAINTS 

I commend you, my brethren and sisters, for your integrity, faithfulness, and many sacrifices which you are making for the gospel's sake. I know that this is pleasing to our Father in heaven. I know that you know that when you have done that which is right, and tried to live the law in the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes, you know he is pleased with you, and that his Spirit is upon you. You are happy in the work. I know, too, and you know, that if we love the brethren, it is a good index to our love of God, and if we love our Father and his Son Jesus Christ, we will keep the commandments; and if we do that we will obtain eternal life. That is what our heavenly Father has designed that we should do. That is what he has designed that we should attain to; eternal life in his presence. And may God help us to this end, and may none of us be failures, but may the success we will attain be to the advantage and glory of our lives in the world to come, I earnestly pray, in the name of Jessus Christ. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang the anthem, "Inflammatus," solo by Ada McDonald. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph S. Lindsay of the Cottonwood stake of Zion. 


