Afternoon
10 10 1920


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am inclined to think that we will have to arrange, in the future, to have four days for conference. It seems that we can't get through in three days. 

A LETTER FROM ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I have a letter from the absent member of the Council of the Twelve, Brother George Albert Smith. I would like to read it all to you — some four or five pages — but I shall read only a very few words: 

Owen Woodruff is making good. He is a splendid man, and I hope to give him every opportunity and encouragement that lies within my power. 

Owen Woodruff is a grandson of President Wilford Woodruff, and the son of the late Elder Abram O. Woodruff, of the Council of the Twelve: 

President Angus J. Cannon is doing a wonderful work, and in my judgment ought not to be released until next spring, unless you have somebody to take his place who is thoroughly familiar with conditions in Switzerland and Germany. President Cannon has endeared himself to the members of the Church all over. He loves them and they love him, and his heart is in the work. But for his mother and son I am sure he would be pleased to remain here indefinitely. His wife is doing a noble work, she stands by him and does her best all the time. I visited, as far as my time would permit, the various conferences of Switzerland and Germany. President Cannon has nine men working full time in Switzerland, and thirty-eight giving full time in Germany, in addition to the five elders who have come from Utah. These men are all expecting to perform missions of two years or more. Many of them are traveling without purse or scrip and it is a real joy to see the faith that they manifest and to hear how the Lord blesses them. 

We held a meeting with the German missionaries at Leipzic. There were thirty-three present. As neat and fine a class of missionaries as I have ever seen. I was sorry to be compelled to leave them„ We held conferences in different parts of Germany, the largest being at Chemnitz where more than seven hundred people assembled. We had a joyful time. * * * 

From present indications the Swiss and German mission will be the big end of the European mission, so that in selecting a successor for President Cannon, I hope you will choose a strong man who understands the people and can do the work. 

I wrote Brother Smith that we had chosen just that kind of a man; no better; and I believe you can all testify to that fact, after hearing Brother Ballif here today: 

The New Home in Basel is all that could be desired. It is a commodious place that will be a credit to the Church, and there is plenty of room to build a chapel sufficiently large to take care of all our people who assemble there. I feel to compliment President Cannon on the purchase that he has made. 

HYRUM G. SMITH

I think I am duly sensitive of the position to which I have been called, and I am very grateful indeed that the Lord permitted me to come into this sphere of action, through that wonderful and blessed lineage spoken of here this morning by the president of the Church. It has been made known to us that we are direct descendants of that Joseph who was sold by his brothers, who dared to stand for that wonderful principle which gave him his standing before his fellowmen, that principle of virtue which has made him and his posterity blessed in all the land, which has been given him by blessing through the patriarch that was blest of the Lord to have such a noble son. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." During this conference we have been admonished to keep the commandments of the Lord. Therefore, we must first learn them, and from this quotation which I have just read we learn that we must obey the law upon which our blessings are predicated, if we get our blessings. 

While my brethren have been speaking to you in plainness, and inspired of the Lord, my heart has burned with enthusiasm and with that testimony which has been born in me of the truth of the work and of the importance of it; and oh, how I have wondered why we are not more faithful. But then the thought comes, well, we are just mortals. We are weak, and wonderfully weak sometimes. We need the encouragement of one another. We need the support of one another as brothers and sisters in very deed. We need the prayers of one another. And when I see my brethren stand up in public and pray for the president of the Church and his counselors and the members of the Twelve Apostles and then all the rest of the brethren who are called to hold positions of responsibility in the Church, I always come in for my share of the blessings because I need it. And therefore T would like to admonish my brethren and sisters to think of one another when we pray in our homes, think of those who need the blessings of the Lord. And I testify that the prayers of the Saints do prevail for good. I think we have a wonderful testimony in this direction, in the sustaining blessings that have come to those who have spoken in this conference. Everyone has spoken under the influence and power of the Holy Spirit in answer to the prayers of the Saints; those who have gathered here in this great conference and the many hundreds, who are unable to meet with us, many of them scattered throughout the nations of the world, who know of this occasion and are earnestly praying that the blessings of the Lord be upon this conference and upon those who are called to direct and preside in Israel. 

I testify unto my brethren and sisters, that the Lord lives, that he is blessing the land for our benefit. I have gone through many stakes of Zion during the past summer. I have seen the products of the earth in bounteous harvests in all the land that I have visited; and oh, I do pray that the Saints will remember the Lord, in their harvests, for he has abundantly blest them. Water has been secured in the many wonderful canals and rivers that thread this country, the land has been blest, the homes of the peoples have been blest. We have been wonderfully provided for, and through all the stress of the high cost of living, none of us are particularly suffering. We can turn to the Lord and thank him abundantly, and as a humble servant, of the Lord, I do petition him in your behalf (and with you I wish to be numbered) to give unto you faith to acknowledge his hand in your blessings, temporally and spiritually, and faith to remember him in your tithes and offerings, and when you humble yourselves in prayer around the family altar, remember those whom the Lord has called to hold positions of responsibility, each and all in their callings, as they may labor either at home or abroad. And oh, brethren and sisters, let us not be compelled to keep the commandments of the Lord. Let us love the Lord in such a way that we may not have to be compelled by the governments, either local or general, to keep our Father's biddings. Shame on us, if we have to be compelled. For then we are looked upon as slothful in very deed. 

I bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus, that through your faithfulness and obedience to the laws and commandments of the Lord you may not be looked upon as slothful, nor forgetful of your privileges, your blessings, or your birthrights, but that you may acknowledge the hand of God, and learn and love to live and keep his commandments in your homes, and in your labors, whether directly or indirectly, in his service. I bless you, my brethren and sisters, that you may have strength of memory sufficient to take home with you the spirit and teaching of this conference, and that you may not be forgetful of the kernels of truth and light, and that you may not be so burdened with the numerous teachings that you will lose sight of the important things, but remember them and put them into practice, and teach them to the many hundreds of our number who are not able to attend this conference. 

I bless you, my brethren and sisters, that you may be Saints in very deed, through your faithfulness and your devotion to the teachings which have been given in this conference, and may God be ever honored and glorified for his manifold mercies unto us as his children, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES N. LAMBERT 

(Recently Returned President of the Nlew Zealand Mission) 

I am indeed surprised, my brethren and sisters, to be called to occupy this position, but, nevertheless, I feel honored; and I trust that the few remarks I may make on this occasion may be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord. 

As stated by President Grant, I have just returned from a mission to New Zealand, where for upwards of four years I presided over the work of the Lord. I am happy indeed to report that the New Zealand mission is progressing, that the Lord is at the helm, that he has sustained us in our efforts to preach the gospel to the people living on those islands. We have had considerable trouble in securing missionaries to go there to preach the gospel, but through the prayers of the Saints and the efforts that have been put forth, a way has been opened up for us to continue our work there. The people are anxious to hear the gospel, the natives particularly who take to it very readily, and I believe the reason is because of the blood of Israel that is in their veins. It was my privilege and blessing, acting under instruction from President Grant and his counselors, to bring a company of Maori Saints to the Hawaiian Islands to perform labors in the temple. While there it was demonstrated beyond any question of doubt that the people who now inhabit the New Zealand islands, and are known as Maoris, were at one time connected with the people living on the Hawaiian islands, known as Kanakas, or natives of that place. For a great number of years efforts have been put forth by people who have written the history of the New Zealand people to connect them in some way with the people who have come from the West; and when the statement has been put forth by a "Mormon" elder, that the Maoris at one time came from the north, or particularly from the Hawaiian Islands, they, have been laughed to scorn. When directing this company to the Hawaiian Islands, in connecting up their genealogy, sixty-five generations back, with the genealogy of the Hawaiian people, it has been demonstrated clearly that they are one and the same people, or were at one time. 

It was my good fortune to witness a great number of the leading men of Honolulu, both whites and Hawaiians, who joined together in honoring the Maori people who had come there and who had demonstrated that they were connected with the Hawaiians. Never in my life have I seen people who were more anxious to show honor to native people than the people of Honolulu were on that occasion. Something like three thousand or more gathered at the armory hall and, as President Woolley remarked to me, it would have done President Smith's heart good indeed to have seen such an outpouring, such a desire on the part of the leading men there, to welcome our Maori Saints, as well as the Hawaiian Saints, because it was left to the Hawaiian Saints, not to the Hawaiian people generally, but to the Hawaiian Saints, to acknowledge that the connection that was made on that occasion was true. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege that has come to me in going to New Zealand to preside over that mission. I bring back to you, the parents, the fathers and the mothers of the elders who are laboring there, their best wishes. They are happy, they are contented in their work, they are desirous of spreading the gospei, of being equal in every way to the demand that is made upon them as representatives of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are doing a good work. The additions that are made, from year to year, show that our Church in that land is in a healthy condition. We are not dying out but on the other hand the principles of the gospel that we have taught the natives ever since the Church has been opened up in that land, ever since the gospel has been preached to that people, has demonstrated that we are preaching a gospel of temperance, a gospel that is doing them good, a gospel that is being felt, not only by the people who are obeying it, but by the people who represent the government. Doctor Pomare, a prominent native, a man who has spent years in this land and was educated here and in Germany, stated in Parliament, a short time ago, that in all his visits in the various parts of New Zealand he had never seen a place that would compare with Nuhaka, a place that is composed of ninety-eight per cent "Mormons," and when questioned further as to why it appealed to him, he said it was because of the cleanliness of the Latter-day Saints, because of their teaching, sobriety, temperance, because of their teaching the people to be industrious and to attend to their own business. The members of Parliament were astounded. He was questioned over and over again in regard to it, and yet he claimed that it was the truth in every way, as he had demonstrated it while he was an officer in the health department, later when he was a representative in Parliament, and then as a member of the Prime Minister's cabinet. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will ever make us appreciative, make other people appreciate us, and that our light may shine before all people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder James H. Nielson and quartette sang, "Oh, give me back my prophet dear." 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Senior President of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have great pleasure, my brothers and sisters, in standing before you this afternoon, to lift up my voice in testimony of the goodness of the Lord unto me and to my brethren and sisters of this great organization of which we form a part. The spirit of this conference has been one of divine acceptance, I believe to every Latter-day Saint. The Spirit of the Lord has been with our brethren, our leaders in all they have said and done during the sessions of this great conference. 

I had recently the pleasure of visiting Independence, Mo., the headquarters of our Central States mission. President Bennion had already started for the west to be present at this gathering. I had the pleasure of visiting at his home, at the mission headquarters, where I was royally entertained by the young missionaries, brethren and sisters who have charge of the home. I also visited further afield, out into the state in a northeast direction from Independence, one hundred miles away to the scene of the Haun's Mill Massacre, which occurred on the 28th of September, 1838, according to the records of the state and county. In visiting this sacred spot, I tried to realize the sorrows of those who were at that time subject to the evil powers by which they were surrounded. Just a few weeks previous to this terrible event, a little band of Latter-day Saints, my father and mother among them, twenty-five families in all, had left the town of Kirtland, wending their way across the state of Missouri and had stopped by the way-side to recuperate and earn some provisions at a mill kept by Mr. Haun. This little band of devoted Saints were attacked on the evening of the day above mentioned by a mob of two hundred men armed with guns and eighteen of the brethren were shot and killed, and several others were seriously wounded. I am reciting this to recall to you this great fact: the devotion of that little band of emigrants that were on their way westward to find a home. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, with five of his brethren were at this time imprisoned in a dungeon in Liberty jail, subjected to the insults and abuse of an unrelenting guard during their term of confinement in the Liberty jail. The old cell in which they were confined is still standing near the center of the town of Liberty, and that is the only remains of the old jail. 

After the massacre of the brethren, and on the following day, my father and four others that were left alive gathered up these bodies and placed them, by consent of Mr. Haun, in the circle of an old dry well which they prepared by enlarging the circle sufficiently to receive the bodies of the sixteen brethren and the one little boy, Sardius Smith, and there they were tenderly laid, and covered with mother earth; and today this is their mausoleum. I recite this to show the faith of that devoted company of Latter-day Saints. The brethren left alive gathered up the families that had been bereaved, including the wounded and the widows and orphans, and helped them on their journey across the state till they reached the Mississippi river. After crossing the river they landed in the town of Quincy, where they were kindly received during their short stay in that city. In relating this incident, I am reminded of the early Christians who were compelled to enter the colliseum to make a spectacle for those more savage than the beasts, these were no doubt entreated to give up their faith and thus save their lives, but kneeling in the center of the arena they prayed and sang until they were devoured. How helpless they seemed, and, measured by every human rule, how hopeless was their cause; and yet within a few decades the power which they invoked proved mightier than the legions of the emperor. Like history might be recorded concerning the Latter-day Saints. From the imprisonment of the prophet in Liberty jail, from the horrible and cruel massacre at Haun's Mill, from the martyrdom at Carthage jail, the faith of the Latter-day Saints and power with God has increased. The faith of the Latter-day Saints induced them to continue their journey to these mountain valleys where they were led by an inspired prophet who succeeded the martyr, Joseph Smith, as their leader. Those composing this great gathering, at this conference, are an evidence that they were led by the inspiration of Almighty God to these mountain valleys. 

I rejoice because I can say at this time, as Nephi said of old: "I was born of goodly parents," and the faith of my father and mother has always been an encouragement to their children. I rejoice today that this gospel came to them in the early part of their lives, and that they were among the pioneers of this great work. Though witnessing the terrible scenes of slaughter in the very begining of their Church experience, they never turned from the faith, but deep down in their hearts cherished a love for the principles advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Today this gathering is a credit to the Latter-day Saints, and in the remarks that have been made by our leaders, the Prophet Joseph Smith is recognized as the leader of the dispensation of the fulness of times, the prophet of God in very deed. He was faithful and true even unto death, and those who have followed him in his ministry, in the presidency of the Church, have exemplified to the world, to all the people who have listened to the gospel sound, that they, too, have been inspired with the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

After seventy years of experience in the Church, as a Church member, and as a laborer in this great work, responding to every call, I testify today that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith was indeed God's prophet inspired to bring before the world these great truths, and to plant the gospel again upon the earth, and to say to the world, God has again spoken from the heavens. 

May the spirit of this conference go with us to our homes, and continue with you brethren and sisters who are visitors, and with you presiding brethren, to every stake and ward in Zion, that all may be blessed with the spirit and teachings that we have received from the presiding brethren of the Church, that the Saints may continue to grow and increase in the knowledge of the truth, till they shall arise to a perfect knowledge, is my humble prayer through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have been impressed, as doubtless you all have been, with the large appeal that has been made during this conference to the written scriptures. This large use of them is a testimony of their value, and certainly justifies the eulogy pronounced upon them by the Apostle Paul who said that "all scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good work." 

I do not feel adequate to undertake the formulation of my own thoughts that have been inspired by my attendance upon this conference, and so I, also, will appeal to the written word to assist me in discharging the duty I have to perform on this occasion. I think, however, that my appeal to the scriptures may be a little different from other appeals that have been made. Someone has said that when we read the scriptures God speaks to us; and when we pray, we speak to the Lord. So in a sense I give way, for the brief time that I am to occupy, in order to permit the Lord to deliver a message to you, a message of comfort, a message that should bring great encouragement to the Latter-day Saints. And first a testimony of the majesty and glory of God, and then his message: 

"Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof; for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. Great is his wisdom, marvelous his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out. His purposes fail not; neither are there any who can stay his hand. From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail." 

At this point I recall a sweet message in a rather popular hymn, namely: 

Change and decay in all around I see, 

Oh, thou who changeth not, abide with me. 

And now for the message: 

Thus saith the Lord: I the Lord am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth to the end. Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory, and to them I will reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom. Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations, and their wisdom shall be great and their understanding reach to heaven. And before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish and the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught. For by my spirit will I enlighten them, by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will, yea, even those things which eye hath not seen nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 76.) 

Such is the message of the Lord, such his word of encouragement and uplifting power to you. 

Now, I think perhaps we have time to speak a word to the Lord, and in speaking that word to him by use of the scripture, Jesus the Christ may be our mouthpiece. I pray you make what we now do an act of worship and prayer unto God: 

"Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen." 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

I am always awed in my spirit when I stand before this wonderful congregation. My soul is subdued. I have felt in my heart that we have had a time of rejoicing together this conference. I know with a certainty and a surety that this is the work of God. 

"MORMONISM" OF SPECIAL PLANTING 

This thing called "Mormonism" is of his special planting and nurturing and bringing to pass. As was read in our hearing by President Grant this forenoon, "a great and a marvelous work is about to come forth." It is coming forth. We are only, it is true, at the beginning of it, but it is growing marvelously; and it has gathered, by the Spirit of the Lord, the inspiration of his Spirit in the hearts of our parents who received the gospel in the old countries and in this country, and brought us of the younger generation, to this choice and favored land. It has grown to such an extent, through his blessing, that we ourselves are not apprised of the influence and power that it exerts in this nation and in the world; but it is his work that is doing it, it is he that hath made us and not we ourselves. So all honor and glory be given unto him through his beloved Son. I rejoice to be connected with such a work and such a people, the best people that the Lord has in all the world. There are many good people, many millions of good people, all over the earth, in many respects as good as we are; but of all the world, of all those who dwell on the earth, this people up to this hour are the only ones, after all, who have been willing to listen to the call of the elders and the voice of the Spirit, who have sought him sufficiently so that they know in their hearts and souls, as well as you know, as well as the Latter-day Saints everywhere know, that this is the work of the Lord, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ; not only so, but that he is our Father, that he is the only true and living God. Dead gods — there may be false gods, plenty on every hand, but our Eternal Father is the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom he hath sent. We worship him and he has revealed himself to this Church. He it is who has built up this Church; Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. He it is who is guiding it now. It is not President Heber J. Grant; it is not in his wisdom or power to guide this Church aright as a man, not at all, nor in Anthon H. Lund, nor C. W. Penrose. It is the Lord God Almighty that guides this Church, that has founded it, that has placed it where it is, and he will magnify it, lead it, bless it, and prosper it in the earth; and I say that the Lord has chosen a good people. They are the best, since they are the only ones, yet, who have been willing to listen to his call. Many more will come as the gospel is preached, and the gospel is to be preached in all the world, as a witness before the end comes, and there is an abundance of preaching to do. 

A GOOD MISSIONARY WORK 

I rejoiced in the priesthood meeting the other night to hear of the organization in some of the different stakes, Liberty stake, Granite stake especially, and probably in other stakes, missionary laborers, brethren called, sisters called, set apart by the power of the holy Priesthood to proclaim the gospel to their neighbors here at home, to visit from house to house; a good work, very best kind of work! Where is there any work that brings the joy that the preaching of the gospel brings, the reaching out to save a soul? There is no other joy like it. 

SAVING AND THRIFT ENJOINED 

I want to say a word or two upon another subject. We have been blest greatly as a people; and during the late years, the years of the war, means have flowed in upon us in rich abundance. These conditions will not always continue. If we are in debt I think we ought to try to get out of debt. I think we ought to observe thrift. A good many people have forgotten what that word means. Thrift, saving, not necessarily being stingy, but save your means, economize. We have grown in the expenditure of our means to be extravagant and a good many of us are in debt heavily. We ought to make every effort this fall, and from now on, to free ourselves from debt. Then we will be free to go and preach the gospel if we are called to go. I know I try to economize, although I have plenty to live upon, yet if I may be pardoned for being a little personal, I haven't bought a pair of shoes for more than a year; I never had but two pairs of shoes at any one time in my life. I have had my old shoes patched up. I have felt it was my duty to economize, and to practice thrift, to be careful of expenditure; and so, brethren and sisters, for the sisters also can help in this just as much as the brethren, let us try to practice old-time thrift and economy. I don't think it matters a great deal whether the feather in your wife's hat is just about six inches longer than the feather in my wife's hat. I don't think it makes such an awful difference. And that is about all there is in these foolish and extravagant expenditures. 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ARIZONA TEMPLE 

I rejoice to know that the Latter-day Saints are remembering the Lord. I can testify to you, it is my privilege to do so, that the Latter-day Saints are a good people, notwithstanding all their weaknesses — and we have a good many weaknesses, I have, oh, so many, doing foolish things, uttering foolish words. I need the Spirit of the Lord every minute to guide me and to direct me aright; and yet, the Lord has blest the Saints, so that they are remembering him in their tithes and in their offerings. I want to praise this people, notwithstanding a wave of criticism, a wave that carries us sometimes off our feet in this direction or the other. If we will only be a little patient, that will all pass by, and in thirty days probably we can say with McCarty, who, I think, was the author of If I were King — "Where are the woes of yesterday? The wind has blown them all away." 

A little while ago the Presidency sent out a notice which was printed in our newspapers, asking for those who felt like contributing to the building of the Arizona Temple, to send such offerings to the Presiding Bishop's Office. There has been reported something over five hundred wards out of nearly nine hundred wards and branches and missions, and more than seventy-seven thousand dollars has been received at the Presiding Bishop's Office up to this date. More than three hundred wards have not yet reported. Some missions have not yet reported. In all there will pretty surely be received from the Saints for the building of the Arizona Temple more than one hundred thousand dollars. Now when you consider what the people are doing, sending out missionaries, doing so many things, building meetinghouses, engaged in so many Church activities that take means, and then this added contribution, I say it is a testimony that the Latterday Saints, after all, are a mighty good people, and I believe the Lord in the main is pleased with us. 

THE CHURCH IN BUSINESS 

One other item, and I am through: I hear a very considerable criticism among our people here at home about the Church being in business. What right has the Church to be in business? they ask. It is not fair. Other churches are not in business. No, that is true. Other churches experience considerable difficulty in raising funds enough to pay their ministers. So they are trying to combine the different Protestant churches and thereby save considerable expense. And, since there is no special difference in doctrine, no special, positive point for them to stand for, one church would be just as good as a dozen of that kind. But I want to tell you my brethren and sisters, that this is not that kind of a church. The Lord has established this Church. The time was when these Protestant churches had a very definite and positive principle and ground to stand upon and to stand for, to live and die for, if necessary, and they did die for it by the thousands and tens of thousands, and that principle was the principle of liberty, liberty to worship God as they pleased, liberty to give if they pleased, liberty to believe in indulgences being sold, if they wanted to believe in them, and liberty to disbelieve in it; and for this definite principle of liberty they fought and died that we might inherit the liberty that they purchased with their blood. I recall returning from Europe on one trip with President Smith, and I secured on the boat for him to read, because he didn't have much time to read except when at sea, Motley's Rise of the Dutch Republic, and after he had read it he made this observation: "Why the persecutions and trials that we have suffered as a people are nothing to what those Holland people, those Dutch people, have gone through in their eighty years' war." Liberty came to this nation, liberty has been established here. All honor to Protestantism. I take off my hat to the work that Protestantism has done for the world in bringing liberty, with its Luther and all who followed him. That having been accomplished, there seems to be little, so far as I can see — and I am not judging or criticising — of any definite purpose in Protestantism to stand for. But this Church is different, this Church is established to be in business. That is what it is here for, so that it has means to help in this direction and the other. Why, what would it amount to without the ability to do things, to accomplish results? Do you need help in this direction, or the other, in colonizing, in building up towns and cities, in establishing this industry or the other, that will be for the benefit of the people? If so, the Church is here to help. That is what it is here for. 

THE CHURCH WILL GROW MORE AND MORE HELPFUL 

And it will grow more and more helpful all the time. Do not forget that, as Elder Ballard told us this forenoon, the Lord in his mercy, after he had revealed the law of consecration, and when we were not able, and we are not able yet by a long way, to accept that law, the Lord then revealed a lesser law, the law of tithing. The time will come when the law of consecration will be in force and instead of the Church being in business in a small way, it will be in business in the greatest possible way, because it will control all our means. That is what it is here for. That is what it will accomplish ultimately, but now we are not able, we are not far enough along to even consecrate ten per cent as tithing, so we need not clamor for the united order, or the law of consecration, not yet, until more of us — and I include myself in that number — until more of us are able to accomplish the consecration of ten per cent of what he gives us. So I raise my voice in protest against this criticism about the Church being in business, this or the other. As the years roll on it will be ten times more in business than it is now. The very thing that is criticised is largely what gives it power and influence in the world. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be upon this people, continue upon them. I know they are a good people. This people shall be my people; their God my God; where they go or stay, I go or stay, because there is none like them in all the world. God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret to say that Brother J. Golden Kimball, who came from California to be present at our conference, on account of ill health is unable to be with us. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

"If any man say I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar, and the truth is not in him." 

I have been greatly pleased in listening to the expounding of the law of God, the weightier matters of the law, which have been the theme of this great conference: judgment, mercy, love of God and love of our fellowmen. A great appeal has been made to the Latter-day Saints not to pass judgment upon their brethren, but to be charitable unto all men, and particularly to the household of faith. No greater commandment has ever been given; it is the greatest of all, that we should love God with all our hearts; and the one that is like unto it, that we should love our neighbor as ourselves. These constitute the law and the prophets. If we do these things we will yield obedience to the commandments of God. "If you love me, keep my commandments." 

It devolves upon Latter-day Saints to cultivate the spirit of charity, good will and brotherly love toward the members of the household of faith, that we may be united, even as the heart and voice of one man, in all the things pertaining to the upbuilding of the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth; and inasmuch as we ourselves are not perfect, we should not be too eager to pass judgment upon those who perchance may be less perfect than ourselves. Again, let no man boast of his own virtue or of his own righteousness; nor say in his heart or otherwise: "I am holier than thou," for let it be known, there are none righteous. "If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us." But if we have in our hearts the love of God and the love of our fellow men, nothwithstanding our weaknesses, there is hope for us; we may be redeemed from sin and be brought to a knowledge of the truth; we may be exalted and brought back into the presence of our Father. But, if we have not this love, neither for God nor man, there is no hope. Let no one think that because he may be in his outward life a little superior to some others, that he therefore is assured of his salvation and exaltation; he may be wanting in many virtues which may be hidden in the hearts of those whom he condemns. 

Instead of being so ready to judge others let us sit in judgment upon ourselves. Let us take an introspective view and perhaps we shall see that we are full of weaknesses and imperfections — a little selfish — not always true, hard-hearted, greedy, envious, or perhaps our thoughts are not always pure. I am appalled when I take an inventory of my own shortcomings and overwhelmed with the gigantic task that lies before me in my effort to overcome the world of sin. Then comes to my mind the comforting words of the Apostle Peter: "Charity shall cover a multitude of sins." 

Let us then cultivate charity for the sinner. How beautifully did Brother Talmage differentiate between sin and the sinner. There are all grades of sinners, from those whose sins are slight to those who sin unto death; but we are all sinners for "all have fallen short of the glory of God." If we can only appreciate this one truth, that we are all sinners and have need of repentance, and will let our hearts go out in love and charity towards all men, we will not be quite so ready to condemn them. When we bow the knee before the Lord in humble prayer and ask that he "forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those that trespass against us." I think that our prayers will have greater weight with the Lord if we ourselves have charity and harbor no bitterness in our hearts, forgiving those who trespass against us. All men and all women are, to some extent, under the bondage of sin, and in order that we might be redeemed, in order that, we might be cleansed and purified from sin, the Lord in his mercy has revealed his glorious gospel, and happy are those who will receive the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and through obedience make it effectual for the salvation of their own souls. 

If we see some others who are not so ready to lay hold on eternal life, through their obedience, as perhaps we have been, let our hearts go out in sympathy for them and let us manifest that sympathy by lending a helping hand. Let us endeavor to lift them up and bring them to a knowledge of the truth. Those that have no love of God and none of the milk of human kindness, have little chance to gain the presence of God. Greater by far are the opportunities of those who are still living a life of sin, if, at the same time, there is something of the love of God and of their fellow men remaining in their hearts. I would rather be a pauper and eke out an existence in the slums of Liverpool, if I may yet have something of the love of God and human kindness still lingering in my heart — than to dwell in a palace and in luxury without it. I would rather be a drunkard and die in the gutter having charity and love for my fellow men in my soul than to occupy a high station among men and be honored by the world and yet be wanting in this principle. The gospel has been revealed for your benefit, for mine, for those who sin but a little, and for those who sin a great deal; and the effect of it is, if we yield obedience to it, that we shall be cleansed from our sins, yea, though they are as scarlet yet shall we be made as white as wool. The very purpose of living upon this earth, at least one of the great purposes, is that we might repent of sin. We are a fallen humanity, fallen from the grace of God, full of weakness and imperfection; but through the atoning blood of Christ we can be cleansed and purified through obedience to his glorious gospel. 

Let us then practice the principles of eternal life. Let our hearts be full of charity towards all men, and let us garnish our thoughts with virtue unceasingly. Then we are promised that "our faith shall wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon our souls as the dews from heaven; the Holy Ghost shall be our constant guide and companion, and our scepter shall be a scepter of righteousness and truth; our dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, which without compulsory means shall flow unto us forever and ever." God grant that we may attain these blessings, my brethren and sisters, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

There has been a passage of scripture upon my mind today, one given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, to this effect: 

Therefore strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, and in all your prayers, and in all your exhortations, and in all your doings. 

I feel that we have been strengthened during this conference by the prayers and by the exhortations of the brethren. It has been a source of continuing satisfaction to me that the spirit and teachings of this conference have been in accord with my own spirit and feelings. This text goes farther than the mere praying or preaching in a meeting. It goes, you will observe, to our daily walk and conversation — to our doings. A sociologist of national repute, in a friendly spirit of constructive criticism, pointed out to me sometime ago, as I was preaching the gospel to him, some weaknesses which he had observed in communities largely made up of Latter-day Saints. I feel that the instructions of this conference will correct, or tend to correct in the fullest, the weaknesses which he pointed out. 

One of Tennyson's characters, "wearing the white flower of a blameless life," was one "who spake no slander, no, nor listened to it." Slander and the receiving of slander are condemned not only by the Holy Scriptures as presented in this conference, but by other writings, and by the laws that have been formulated against wrongdoing. The Talmud of old is strong against it, perhaps too strong. It says: "He that slanders, he who receives slander, and he who bears false witness against his neighbor, deserves to be cast to the dogs." Again, "All animals will one day remonstrate with the serpent and say: 'the lion treads upon his prey and devours it; the wolf tears and eats it; but thou, what profit hast thou in biting?' The serpent will reply, (Ecclesiastes 8:2) 'I am no worse than a slanderer.'" The same writings represent Deity (I think it is a misrepresentation) as saying to the prince of hell: "I from above and thou from below shall judge and condemn the slanderer." I accept the idea so far as it represents even the prince of evil as condemning slander. One of the things about slander is the difficulty of correcting it, although the defamer may be penitent. Someone has given us the suggestion of one standing upon a tower, in a wind-storm, scattering feathers by the pound and then after becoming penitent, undertaking to gather the scattered feathers. So, a poet has said: 

Boys flying kites haul in their white-winged birds, 

But remember, you can't do that way when you're sailing words. 

Thoughts unexpressed may sometimes fall back dead, 

But God himself can't kill them when they're said. 

I may add: unless he works a miracle, which he may not be willing to do for our benefit, although we become penitent. 

The slogan or keynote of this conference correlates nicely with the course of instruction given to the parents of the Church through the Sabbath Schools, an elaboration upon the ten commandments. Months of time have already been spent upon a single command: "Thou shalt honor thy father and thy mother," and so forth; and in view of the fact that the other commandments which will be studied later are so largely negative in form, it is very timely that the instructions of this conference should be given. 

There is modern revelation teaching the spirit of forgiveness and tolerance. My time is very brief and I shall read only a few of these verses given in connection with the Lord pointing out the weaknesses of his people at Kirtland, just as, at a later time, the shortcomings of the Saints in Missouri were declared to them: 

Now I speak unto you concerning your families; if men will smite you, or your families, once, and ye bear it patiently and revile not against them, neither seek revenge, ye shall be rewarded; 

But if ye bear it not patiently, it shall be accounted unto you as being meted out a just measure unto you. 

And again, if your enemy shall smite you the second time, and you revile not against your enemy, and bear it patiently, your reward shall be an hundred fold. 

And again, if he shall smite you the third time, and ye bear it patiently, your reward shall be doubled unto you four fold; 

And these three testimonies shall stand against your enemy if he repent not, and shall not be blotted out. 

And further: 

And again, verily I say unto you, if after thine enemy has come upon thee the first time, he repent and come unto thee praying thy forgiveness, thou shalt forgive him, and shall hold it no more as a testimony against thine enemy, 

And so on unto the second and third time; and as oft as thine enemy repenteth of the trespass wherewith he has trespassed against thee, thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven; 

And if he trespass against thee and repent not the first time, nevertheless thou shalt forgive him; 

And if he trespass against thee the second time, and repent not, nevertheless thou shalt forgive him; 

And if he trespass against thee the third time and repent not, thou shalt also forgive him; 

But if ye bear it not patiently, it shall be accounted unto you as him, but shalt bring these testimonies before the Lord, and they shall not be blotted out until he repent and reward thee four fold in all things wherewith he has trespassed against thee. 

Some of us are less tolerant with our brethren than the custodians of the law are with the condemned criminal. In the first place, he is not convicted until either eight men or twelve men after hearing all the evidence, and arguments and instructions, have an abiding conviction to a moral certainty that he is guilty. Then, when he is imprisoned in modern times, he is treated as a human being, and not as an unforgivable outlaw. These are some of the facts developed by our social committee in the recent course of instruction at Provo. They found that the old regime of punishment is being done away with, and that men are treated as human beings in our penal institutions; that some offenses that used to be severely punished — the taking of a piece of bread from the table or the indulgence in conversation at the table, are no longer made punishable and the men, as they go to their work now, go singing and joyous with the humane treatment and the hope they have of redeeming themselves. They are not escorted to their road-work by an armed guard as formerly, but by an unarmed foreman. When these men are strengthened by their custodians, by conversation, by exhortations and by the fair treatment they receive, they are reformed and graduated. They look upon the prison as a school graduate does upon his Alma Mater, and they write back kind letters of appreciation for the consideration shown them and for the opportunity given to redeem themselves. The thought is that surely we can be as generous and as charitable to our brethren and to our sisters as the law is, and as the custodians of the law are, to those whom they may have in hand for correction. 

May the Lord bless the proceedings of this conference and may we all be able "to strengthen our brethren in all our conversation and in all our prayers, and in all our exhortations and in all our doings," is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I have been interested in everything that has been said at this conference. May we all give our faith and prayers to the work of the Church in the missionary field of all the world, for the gospel of Jesus Christ must be taught to the children of God in every nation and clime. We have heard the humble testimony of Elder Serge Ballif who is leaving for Germany and Switzerland to preside over that great mission. Brother Ballif is a man of few words but wonderful spirituality, and he will do a good work in spreading the word of the Lord in Europe. I had the honor and pleasure at one time of presiding over the Swiss and German mission, and I want to add my testimony here that those Germanic peoples will accept the truth, for they are intelligent and have developed a wonderful civilization. The German people of the Empire of Germany will rise and accept freedom and truth and be saved. They are a good people, those Germans, and we as the Church of Christ as well as the government of the United States must approach them with the spirit of love and not of revenge and hate. No lasting peace can come to this world until a peace is based on the love of God for all peoples. 

I remember going once to the home of a German peasant in the little city of Gotha, when a man opened the door and went to strike me with a hammer. I turned to him and said: "Please read this little tract. It is the word of God to his children in these last days." He lowered his hammer, took the tract, and looked at the cover. I said to him: "Come, let us pray to God to help us see the truth as contained in this book." We knelt down together and prayed, and today, that man who received me in anger, is now a member of the Church, and is here in Zion. Love conquered him. Those German people are the children of God, and they must hear us in the Spirit of God's love. 

This has been a conference of good and mighty words inspired of the Lord. The subject of thrift and industry; of government and learning; and the divinity of the family life as well as the sanctity of the Church of Christ, all have been spoken about with great power. These are the institutions of civilization, and we as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stand for them in all their meaning to life. The great central theme of this conference, however, has been to know God and to keep his commandments. But we cannot know him without the spirit of love; for now abideth faith, hope, love — these three, but the greatest of these is love. 

Let us stand for God and his work. He has spoken to us; he has made himself known. His prophets are upon the earth today. The great work is being carried on. Let us place our faith in him as never before, and go forth hand in hand, and heart to heart toward the perfect day which God is preparing for his children. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and officers of the Auxiliary organizations of the Church, who were voted upon, and unanimously sustained as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

First Presidency: Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

President of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Anthon H. Lund. 

Acting President: Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard. 

Presiding Patriarch: Hyrum G. Smith. 

Prophets, Seers and Revelators: The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Presiding Bishopric: Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop. 

David A. Smith, First Counselor. 

John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust: Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Church Historian and Recorder: Anthon H. Lund as Church Historian and recorder, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph Fielding Smith, A. William Lund. 

Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education: David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman. 

Superintendent of Church Schools: Adam S. Bennion. 

Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer, and all the members of the choir. 

AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS 

Relief Society 

Officers: Emmeline B. Wells, President. 

Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor. 

Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. 

Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary. 

Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary. 

Emma A. Empey, Treasurer. 

Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musical Director. 

Edna H. Coray, Organist. 

Members of Board: Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie E. Thomas, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Sarah M. McClelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Janette A. Hyde, Sarah Eddington, Lillian Cameron, Donette Smith Kesler, Annie Wells Cannon. 

Deseret Sunday School Union 

Officers: David O. McKay, Superintendent. 

Stephen L. Richards, First Assistant. 

George D. Pyper, Second Assistant. 

Laurence W. Richards, Secretary. 

John F. Bennett, Treasurer. 

Members of the Board: Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, Seymour B. Young, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, E. G. Gowans, Adam S. Bennion, Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, T. Albert Hooper, Alfred C. Rees, Robert L. Judd, Charles J. Ross, Frank K. Seegmiller, George N. Child. 

Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association 

Officers: Anthony W. Ivins, Superintendent. 

Brigham H. Roberts, First Assistant. 

Richard R. Lyman, Second Assistant. 

Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Director. 

Moroni Snow, Secretary. 

Members of the Board: J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Le Roi C. Snow, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley, Preston D. Richards, Brigham S. Young, B. Cecil Gates, Ernest P. Horsley, Melvin J. Ballard, Preston Nibley, Arthur L. Beeley. 

Young Ladies' Mutual Invprovement Association 

Officers: Martha H. Tingey, President. 

Ruth May Fox, First Counselor. 

Mae Taylor Nystrom, Second Counselor. 

Clarissa Beesley, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member. 

Margaret Summerhays, Chorister. 

Members of the Board: Adella W. Eardley, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Julia Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Laura B. Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Sarah Richards Cannon, Lucy M. S. Carter, Charlotte Stewart, Lucy G. Cannon, Emily H. Higgs, Martha G. Smith, Catherine Folsom. 

Primary Association 

Officers: Louie B. Felt, President. 

May Anderson, First Counselor. 

Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor. 

Mary R. Jack, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Matilda W. Cahoon, Chorister. 

Jane Romney Crawford, Organist. 

Members of the Board: Eliza S. Bennion, Edith Hunter Lambert, Ella S. Capener, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers, Helen Davis, Marion Belnap Kerr, Genet Bingham Dee, Nellie A. Talmage, Cordia H. Smith, Zina Y. Card, Sadie Grant Pack, Edna C. Ericksen, Emily S. Stewart, Afton Young, Alice T. Sheets. 

Honorary Directors: Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia S. Rogers. 

Advisors to the Board: Anthony W. Ivins, David O. McKay. 

Physical Directors: Isabella S. Ross, Ann Nebeker, Edna Harker Thomas. 

Religion Class 

Officers: Rudger Clawson, Superintendent. 

Joseph Fielding Smith, First Assistant Superintendent. 

William A. Morton, Second Assistant Superintendent and Secretary. 

Members of the Board: Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Hyrum G. Smith, George H. Brimhall, P. Joseph Jensen, Willard Young, N. Andrew Jensen, Guy C. Wilson, Levi Edgar Young, John Wells, Newel K. Young, Adam S. Bennion, Samuel G. Clawson, Joel Richards. 

General Church Music Committee 

Melvin J. Ballard, Chairman; George D. Pyper, First Assistant; Edward P. Kimball, Second Assistant; Anthony C. Lund, B. Cecil Gates, John J. McClellan, Tracy Y. Cannon, Evan Stephen, H. G. Whitney, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Joseph Ballantyne, Margaret Summerhays, Jane R. Crawford. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Before the close of this conference I desire to express to our heavenly Father, on behalf of myself and associates, the deep gratitude of our hearts for the rich outpouring of his Holy Spirit that has been with all those who have addressed the conference since the first opening remarks. I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints, to fill their hearts full of charity and love and long-suffering, to give them a love of God and of their fellows that they may, in very deed, remember the teachings of the Savior. May the people of Christ love God with all their might, mind, and strength, and may they love their brother as themselves. May the peace of heaven attend the Latter-day Saints. May the Lord bless their flocks, their herds, all their possessions, and all that pertaineth unto them. May they grow in a love of the gospel, in a love of truth, in a love of their fellows; and I, as the mouthpiece of the Lord here upon the earth, bless all the Latter-day Saints and the honest the world over, and pray God to confound the wicked and to bring their schemes to naught, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

