Morning
10 10 1920


RICHARD R. LYMAN

It is more than a hundred years since the Prophet Joseph Smith received his first vision. It is more than ninety years since the Church was organized. It is more than eighty-eight years since the prophet received and gave to the world the revelation on the Word of Wisdom. 

A LESSON FROM THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT

The thought of the amount of time that has elapsed since these important events in the Church took place suggests that I read the following from the seventh chapter of Matthew — a few of the last stanzas in the Sermon on the Mount. I begin at the 15th verse: 

Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. 

Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 

Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 

Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. 

Many will say to me in that day Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. 

Therefore whosoever [I draw attention to these words after these long years have passed in the history of the Church] therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 

And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it. 

"WE STAND FOR THE NON-USE AND NON-SALE OF TOBACCO" 

More than eighty-eight years since the Word of Wisdom was given to the world through the Prophet Joseph Smith. A business man of this city stated in my presence a few days ago that the stir we are making with respect to the use of tobacco is having the effect of increasing rather than having the effect of decreasing the amount of tobacco that is being used. This man needs but to be associated with our Church auxiliary organizations in order to learn that his assertion is not correct. If he had looked into the faces of those who assembled this morning as Mutual Improvement officers and other workers, if he had seen their clean faces, if he could know their clean lives, if he could know the intensity of their determination to labor for the improvement, the education, the uplift of the young people of the Church, he would realize that his assertion is not correct. Audiences of this same quality I see when meeting with the Young Men's Mutual Improvement workers in the various stakes of Zion. And what can be said of these can be said also of the workers in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, of the workers in the Relief Society, in the Sabbath Schools, in the Primary organizations and in the Religion Classes. 

The slogan of the Mutual Improvement Associations for this year is: "We stand for the non-use and non-sale of tobacco." When our legislature was in session recently one active Mutual Improvement worker presented a bill in the state senate providing for the abolition of the cigarette in the state of Utah. When he presented his arguments in favor of this measure his fellow legislators told him there was no sentiment or little sentiment in the state of Utah in favor of legislation of that sort and no serious demand for it. 

IS THE SENTIMENT OF THE PEOPLE FOR THE WORD OF WISDOM? 

I want to know whether we believe in the Prophet Joseph Smith or not. I want to know if this great multitude of people, assembled in this historic place, followers of the Prophet Joseph Smith, worshipers of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, believe in these revelations nearly eighty-eight years since that revelation was given. The President of the Church said in one of our meetings a little while ago: "Certainly in this length of time we ought to begin to see the fruits of our labors." 

The promises that are made in the Word of Wisdom and which were read yesterday by President Rudger Clawson, are, or ought to be in themselves, enough to induce us to live in accordance with the teachings of this great revelation. Nor is it necessary for us to base our conclusions with respect to these matters entirely upon this revelation. 

ANDREW D. WHITE ON TOBACCO

One of the great American educators, only a few years ago, asked the multitude of teachers who were before him, to go out and take to the young people of the country a message from him, Andrew D. White, against the habit of smoking. I wrote to this great teacher and college president later with respect to this matter. One sentence of his reply reads: "I consider any young man at school, in college or in any professional school, is seriously, indeed, almost fatally handicapped by the habit of smoking." Andrew D. White was a great educator, and statesman. It was he who served so ably as ambassador to the Imperial German empire. It was he who, as a professor at the University of Michigan, and as president of the Cornell University, lived in close touch with college men for a period of fifty years. 

That the Latter-day Saints have a tremendous work to do we all agree. We can only do this work well if we live in accordance with the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We cannot stand around with our hands in our pockets and get things accomplished. We cannot drink tea, we cannot drink coffee, we cannot drink liquor, we cannot use tobacco, we cannot be unkind, or dishonest, and in reason expect to accomplish our tremendous task. If we live these teachings we shall be known everywhere for our good works — the charity that we extend, the kindness that we put forth, and the honor which characterize our dealings. These are the genuine products of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

SENTIMENTS OF DAVID STARR JORDAN 

Another quotation on the subject of smoking from the great educator, David Starr Jordan: "I am not much of a mathematician, said the cigarette, but I can add to man's nervous troubles, I can subtract from his physical energy, I can multiply his aches and pains, I can divide his mental powers, I can take interest from his work and I can discount his chances of success." 

Another from Dr. Jordan. This I heard quoted many years ago by President Heber J. Grant: "Boys who smoke cigarettes are like wormy apples. They drop long before the harvest time. They rarely make failures in after life, because they don't have any after life. When the other boys are taking hold of the world's work these are concerned with the sexton and the undertaker." 

APPEAL TO ENFORCE THE LAWS 

"Whosoever," says the great Master, "whosoever heareth these words of mine and doeth them, I shall liken unto a wise man who built his house upon a rock and the rains descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon this house and it fell not, for it was founded on a rock." I appeal to you as a young man, as a Mutual Improvement worker, one who is interested, intensely so, in the welfare of the boys of this state, I appeal to you every one to see to it that the laws of the state, as they exist today, are enforced, that these boys who, in their ignorance are destroying, by the use of cigarettes, their chance of success may be protected against themselves. 

OUR DETERMINATION 

An election is coming. I wish that in all the conventions all over the state the same resolution had been adopted that was presented and adopted in one of the counties by one of the political parties. I think they used these words: "We stand for the non-use and the non-sale of tobacco in the state of Utah." 

When the next legislature meets, I beg of you, see to it that the men who represent you realize that there is in Utah a determination to preserve the brains, the memories and the reasoning powers of our boys. We are determined to increase and not decrease their chances of success. Whosoever heareth these teachings and liveth in accordance with them, the great Master himself has likened unto the wise man who built his house upon the rock. The rains descended, the winds blew, the floods came and beat upon the house, and it fell not, for it was founded on a rock. Let the legislators know that our faith, too, is founded on a rock, I ask it through Jesus Christ. Amen.
Emma Lucy Gates Bowen sang a solo, the words of which are found on page 66, L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Should you feel inclined to censure." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, that I find myself in complete accord with my brethren, and with all that has been said during the sessions of this wonderful conference. Many times, as I have sat here looking upon this wonderful scene — the gathering of the children of the Latter-day Saints who entered these valleys — I have been thinking, again and again, of the question: Do we really realize who we are and why we are here? 

WHO ARE WE? 

I am sure if we shall give it a moment's thought it will impress itself upon us that our being here is no ordinary circumstance; and if we shall give attention to what the Lord has said, I am sure we shall be convinced that we are no ordinary race of individuals. We have learned, through the revelations of the Lord in this dispensation, that when "one of a city and two of a family" should be gathered, as we have been gathered from the nations of the earth, those who would thus be gathered would be the children of Israel; and individually we have received assurances, through the words of the inspired patriarchs, that we are descendants of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, upon whose posterity were placed blessings beyond the blessings of his progenitors, and these blessings are ours, even to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, where we are now assembled. 

We have learned that the Lord has had in training, before they came into this world, tried and tested individuals, even as he revealed to Abraham, to be his leaders in the various dispensations — men whom he knew, prophets, statesmen, wise men, and leaders for all nations. I am convinced also that when our Father sent these leaders into the world he did not send them alone. He sent, in connection with them, hosts of other tried souls who would be helps to those who were selected of the Lord to be his leaders. I believe, therefore, that when the time came for the birth into the world of the chosen prophet, Joseph Smith, who was selected before he came into the world to be the prophet of this last dispensation, — he did not come alone, but there came with him men and women like unto himself, tried souls. God knew them. He held them in reserve for ages, until this day should dawn. They were scattered among the nations of the earth. They were born in those houses where the blood of Israel still remained, and inherited the promises made to our ancient fathers. These choice souls were sifted among the nations of the earth, but they heard the call, and they came willingly because they had to, in very many instances; and the Lord gave them no peace in their native lands. Their own homes were closed against them. They were denied admittance to their former circles, and so the way was closed up behind them, and the way was opened up before them. They followed the inspiration of the Spirit as it appealed to their souls, and the circumstances with which they were surrounded made it necessary for them to come. They came here that they may inherit the blessings and promises made unto their fathers. So I bear witness to you that the Lord not only called them but he was sifting them out as they came to these abiding places of the Latter-day Saints, sifting them out by trial, by difficulty, by the hardship of crossing the sea and crossing the plains, and the difficulties of the desert. All these things were as a sieve, parting those who would have been of no great profit in the establishment of this work, from those who had the faith, the quality and the power necessary to contribute to the establishment of Latter-day Zion. So I am impressed, my brethren and sisters, that we are shown whom we are — chosen sons and daughters of God, sent into the world in this age for a specific purpose, and we are gathered here for the accomplishment of definite things. 

THE CHOSEN SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF GOD 

I want to read what the Lord said on this subject. You will find in the eighty-sixth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the fourth paragraph, these words: 

But behold, in the last days, even now while the Lord is beginning to bring forth the word, and the blade is springing up and is yet tender. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, the angels are crying unto the Lord day and night, who are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields; 

But the Lord saith unto them, pluck not up the tares while the blade is yet tender, (for verily your faith is weak) lest you destroy the wheat also. 

Therefore let the wheat and the tares grow together until the harvest is fully ripe, that ye shall first gather out the wheat from among the tares, and after the gathering of the wheat, behold and lo! the tares are bound in bundles, and the field remaineth to be burned. 

Therefore, thus saith the Lord, unto you, with whom the Priesthood hath continued through the lineage of your fathers. 

For ye are lawful heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from the world with Christ in God; 

Therefore your life and the Priesthood hath remained and must needs remain through you and your lineage, until the restoration of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began. 

Therefore, blessed are ye if ye continue in my goodness, a light unto the Gentiles, and through this Priesthood, a savior unto my people, Israel. The Lord hath said it.  

I am willing to accept this statement. I believe it. I am convinced that the Latter-day Saints are the "wheat," and they have been, and are being gathered out from the midst of the "tares" of the earth. They are the salt of the earth, and the gathering of the wheat from the midst of the tares is almost completed. There remains but the gleaning of the wheat; and when the wheat is gathered the tares shall be bound in bundles, and the burning time remaineth for them. The Lord gathered this people out from the midst of the nations of the earth to preserve them from the desolations that would come. 

I bear witness to you that the angels of God, who hold the power delegated to them to pour out his judgments upon the wicked, marvel at God's leniency and patience to this generation. That is why they cried: "Why are we not permitted to go forth?" They are stayed and held back. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THIS GENERATION 

I believe that great responsibility rests upon this generation, because light has come into the world, and men sin in the presence of light and knowledge, and thereby their condemnation exceeds the condemnation of Sodom and Gomorrah. I believe that the Lord not only called the Latter-day Saints here to escape the judgments of the world, but he called us here to be a light unto the gentiles; the world's hope, the world's inspiration. God has assigned a mission to the Latter-day Saints. Let us not forget it. 

I believe that we are to solve the problems of the world, and when I think of one of the most distressful things that exists in the world today — the great conflict between capital and labor, that is rending the nations, that is poisoning the hearts of men, I feel that the Latter-day Saints have a great mission to point the way for the solution of those questions. I believe the Latter-day Saints are one hundred years nearer their solution than anybody else in the world. The Lord gave us the key a long time ago; but we were not prepared to live up to it at that time. So, when he discovered our lack of training and ability to do this work, the Lord gave us another principle, known as the law of tithing; and the law of tithing, he states in these revelations, was to act as a schoolmaster to bring us to the higher law, the order that was established among Enoch and his people, by which there was no rich and no poor among them. I want to bear witness to you that the time of our probation in that school will not be forever. I believe there are hundreds and thousands of Latter-day Saints who have profited under that schoolmaster, so that they are about ready for graduation, and I believe the day of their graduation is coming. When the Lord shall see fit, they shall be called by the leaders of this Church to join in the grand demonstration that shall prove, not only to the Latter-day Saints but to the world, that the right order of things God ordained from the beginning can and will be established in these latter days. So, if we have not profited under this schoolmaster, if we have been poor attendants, if we have been truants, if we are not ready for graduation, let us repeat, my brethren and sisters, and resolve we are going to be honest with the Lord in the payment of our tithing, that we may be among those who shall be ready for promotion, and the accomplishment of these glorious purposes. For Zion must show the way. We have the key. We know the way, and we are in training to accomplish those things. I want to advise you, my brethren and sisters, there is no solution to those questions, except by and through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF RICH AND POOR 

I will read you a few more words from the fifty-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, sixteenth verse — an inspired statement that seems to fit exactly our times: 

Woe unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation.— The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved. 

Do no let us mistake, my brethren and sisters, the meaning of the Lord. He has no purpose to deny the rich the blessings of heaven. He has no enmity in his heart against the rich whose hearts are broken, and who give to the maintenance of his work. I rejoice that in this Church we do have men of wealth and means whose hearts are broken, and who pay their honest tithing, whose example is a shining one for all Latter-day Saints; but there are those who live only for themselves, who hold all they get for themselves, and therein they are in jeopardy. 

I am reminded again of the suggestion made by the President in the opening of this conference, when he read us the letter from Brother and Sister McCune, giving their beautiful home to the Church — a splendid example for all others in their circumstances to follow. Our safety is in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The solution of the world's troubles will not come by the rich banding together and thinking only of themselves. Then the Lord said: 

Wbe unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, who will not labor with your own hands. 

Do you know anybody like that? The world is full of them! It is a sin of this age, that men of poverty become envious and are in as great condemnation before the Lord as the rich whose hearts are not broken, who are full of envy, who are full of malice toward those who have some of the things of this world. That is the spirit of Bolshevism. It should have no place in the hearts of Latter-day Saints. The poor should love the rich, and the rich should love the poor, otherwise we shall never come into universal brotherhood and reach a solution of these problems, which we hope to be able to solve, by and through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

But blessed are the poor [yes, and the rich, too], 

Blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and those spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. 

For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; 

And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, for ever and ever. 

I am just simple enough to believe it. There is no solution of these problems outside of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by adherence to these things the rich and the poor shall live together as brothers. We shall not be banded off, one group of laborers into one class, fighting only for themselves and their own against all others. We shall be living together in the spirit of love and co-operation. I believe that it is necessary that we Latter-day Saints should keep our minds upon these things, for this is the goal to which we are destined to come. 

SALVATION TO ISRAEL 

Then there is one other promise that was made. We were not only to be a light unto the Gentiles; we were to be the means of bringing salvation to Israel; and in conclusion I want to read a few words from the forty-fifth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, on that subject. These words are a repetition to Joseph Smith, on the 7th day of March, 1831, of words originally spoken by the Master upon the Mount of Olives, when he was discussing with the disciples the judgement that would come upon Jerusalem, its destruction, the dispersion of the Jews, and then their gathering again, and the coming of the Lord in the last days. He said, beginning with the twenty-second verse: 

Ye say that ye know that the end of the wold cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away; 

And in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled, 

And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem, and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; 

But they shall be gathered again, but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. 

And in that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth. 

And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound; 

And when the times of the Gentiles is come in, — [that is, the beginning of this period] — 

And when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel; 

But they receive it not, for they perceive not the light and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men; 

And in that generation [the generation when the light shall break forth] 

And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. 

THE GOSPEL FIRST TO THE GENTILES 

Now, my brethren and sisters, plainly as anything that the Lord has ever given us, we understand that the beginning of the times of the Gentiles was when the light broke forth in these latter days, and the gospel was given first to the Gentiles. It was written in olden times that those who were first, the Jews, who received the gospel first in former days, should be last in receiving it in the latter days; and those who were last in receiving the gospel in former days, namely, the Gentiles, shall be first in the latter days. So the gospel dispensation in the latter days was to the Gentiles first; and now our souls thrill when we think of the great labor that has been accomplished among the Gentile nations for nearly a hundred years. For it is a hundred years ago now since that light began to break forth, and finally came in its fulness, ten years later, when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established in the earth; and for all these many years, by thousands and tens of thousands, the elders of this Church have preached the gospel among the Gentile nations, and the blood of Israel hath been gathered out from the midst of the Gentiles, until the day of gleaning draweth nigh. There shall come a day when the Gentiles shall reject this gospel, they will close their doors against it. That will be the day when the wheat is gathered and when the salt of the earth is taken from among them. When that day comes they will care no more for the word of God, and they will close their doors aganist it. When that day comes then cometh the day of the redemption of Israel, and that day is nigh at hand. For, when the Gentiles shall begin to reject this word, Israel shall begin to receive it. We see the evidences of God's preparation for that great work of the redemption of Israel under way. Our souls were thrilled as we saw the armies of the Allies march through the land of Palestine, and break down the power that had held that land under its dominion, in cruelty, for ages. 

THE JEWS NOW TURNING TOWARD JERUSALEM 

Now our souls are thrilled to see our half brothers, the Jews, turning toward the land of promise; and for the first time since their long dispersion one of their own people, an orthodox Jew, is the ruler of the land of Palestine. The Jews will go there. God knows how to bring them. He did it in our case, and he knows how to bring them. They may say they will not go, but they will. The Lord will hedge up the way behind them, and he will open up the way before them, and unto his appointed place they shall go, in preparation for their conversion at the hands of the Master. For he shall come in the day of their trouble, to their deliverance. He will stand upon the Mount of Olives, which shall cleave in twain, and a valley shall open for their rescue from their oppressors; and when they come to the feet of their Deliverer they shall see the marks of the nails in his feet and in his hands, and shall say: "What are these wounds?" Then he shall say unto them: "I am Jesus Christ, who was crucified. These are the wounds I received in the house of my friends." Then shall a nation be converted in a day, and shall respond and become God's chosen people. 

THE LAMANITES TO BE REMEMBERED 

Then another part of the House of Israel, the children of Father Lehi shall not be forgotten, though they have long been in dispersion. A prophet of old, in the Book of Mormon, said that at the hands of the Gentiles they would suffer and be scattered, but again the Gentiles should become their blessing. I bear witness to you that God, through the Gentile nations, is preparing the Indians of this, the American continent, through their allotments of land, through their education, and in divers other ways, for the acceptance and living of his gospel, and the day of their redemption draweth nigh. The Lord said, in the third section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that for this very purpose the Book of Mormon was given to the Latter-day Saints, to bring to pass the redemption of Father Lehi's children, the Lamanites. 

THE LOST TRIBES SHALL ALSO HEAR 

Not only the Lamanites, but others of Israel shall hear — the lost tribes, to whom the Master said he would go, and they should hear his voice. My witness and testimony is that they are preparing themselves; that even now their prophets prophesy of their deliverance and are preparing that people. The mountains of ice shall flow down before them, and a highway shall be cast up, and they shall come forth with songs of everlasting joy, to be crowned at the hands of the children of Ephraim. These are only a few of the glorious things that are before us. It is for that purpose we are assembled here. Let us look upon the means which God has given us as only a means to an end, and not the end itself. 

OUR POSITION, STATION AND PRIVILEGE 

This is our station; this is our position. These are our privileges; and oh! when we look upon them in all their glory, how mean, how small, and how petty it seems to me for us to get down and quarrel with each other, and backbite, and slander, and fight over the petty little things, and forget the glorious purposes God had in bringing us here. 

Now, the Lord keep our hearts upon his purpose and his mission for us, that we may be true unto him, and fail not to come unto the standard of perfection necessary to become the light of the world, the redeemers upon Mount Zion for Israel, the salt of the earth, the city set upon a hill, whose light shall shine forth to all men, and attract the good and the great from all nations, who shall come and say: "Let us go up unto the mountain of the house of the God of Jacob," for the light to the Gentiles is manifest, "and learn of her ways and walk in her paths," and become so perfect that we shall attract the attention of the angels of heaven; and the Lord Jesus Christ shall come again to live upon the earth among men, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

At the close of Elder Ballard's sermon, President Grant proposed that out of love and respect to the prophet Joseph Smith, all the Latter-day Saints would like to arise and sing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." This was done with great spirit. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I had no idea of saying anything more at this conference, but after listening to the very splendid remarks of Elder Ballard, I desire to read a revelation given a year before the Church was organized. 

REVELATION TO HYRUM SMITH AND COMMENTS THEREON 

This revelation, among other things, says that it is not only for the man to whom it was given — Hyrum Smith, who was martyred with his brother, the Prophet Joseph Smith — but that it is to all of us, and therefore I desire to read it: 

A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

Behold, I am God, and give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. 

Behold the field is white already to harvest, therefore whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God; 

Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God; 

Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

I will say that Hryum Smith and many other men came to the Prophet Joseph, believing that he was in very deed a prophet, believing that God had chosen him to organize again the Church of Christ upon the earth, they came to him and asked: "What does the Lord desire at our hands?" And many of the revelations in the fore-part of the Doctrine and Covenants were given, before the organization of the Church, to individuals, in answer to this inquiry that they made of the prophet. This section I am reading is one of those revelations: 

Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments. 

THE KEY-NOTE OF THIS CONFERENCE 

Remember, ye Latter-day Saints, that that is the key-note of this conference. 

Keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion, 

Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me, so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

TRIBUTE TO HYRUM SMITH 

No mortal man who ever lived in this Church desired more to do good than did Hyrum Smith, the patriarch. I have it from the lips of my own sainted mother, that of all the men she was acquainted with in her girlhood days in Nauvoo, she admired Hyrum Smith most for his absolute integrity and devotion to God, and his loyalty to the prophet of God. And God honored that man by allowing to come from his loins the late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. 

The devil, through his emissaries, thought to destroy this Church by having them kill the prophet and the patriarch; but the son of the patriarch lived to be the Prophet of the living God, and his great-grandson sits here today as the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. Nothing can be done by the people of the world to retard the progress of the work of God. Murder and all that has been done against the Latter-day Saints has had no effect whatever. The work of God has gone steadily on from the day that the Church was organized with only six members. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me, so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

Say nothing but repentance unto this generation: keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. * * * 

Behold thou hast a gift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee; 

For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. 

And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good; yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously, and this is my Spirit. 

No man in all the Church put his trust in that Spirit more perfectly than did Hyrum Smith, or than did his son, the late prophet, Joseph F. Smith. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit; which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy. 

And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive. 

Behold, I command you, that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

Remember, the Church was not yet organized. 

Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine; 

And then behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith, shall it be done unto you. * * * 

Keep my commandments, hold your peace, appeal unto my Spirit. 

Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which have been spoken; yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

The work of the translation of the inspired record, the Book of Mormon, was in progress at the time of the giving of this revelation. "Behold, this is your work," and it is the work of all the Latter-day Saints: 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind, and strength; 

Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea the power of God unto the convincing of men; 

But now hold your peace, study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereunto. 

Behold, thou art Hyrum, my son, seek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just. 

Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; 

Deny not the Spirit of revelation, nor the Spirit of prophecy, for woe unto him that denieth these things; 

Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. 

Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. (Doctrine and Covenants Secs. 6 and 11.) 

THE SAINTS EXPECTED TO STUDY THIS REVELATION 

Read this revelation, ye Latter-day Saints, over and over again, because it applies to you; and time and time again you will find that the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave this revelation, repeats himself in saying: "Keep my commandments." 

Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. 

I am the same who came unto my own and my own received me not; 

But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen.

We will now ask Brother Joseph W. McMurrin to speak to us briefly. Brother McMurrin has proclaimed this gospel of Jesus Christ on three separate and distinct missions in Europe. He is now proclaiming the gospel as the President of the California mission. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission) 

My heart has been made exceedingly glad, my brethren and sisters, in listening to the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as they have been expounded by the brethren of the presiding authorities of the Church who have been called upon, during the sessions of this conference, to bear record concerning the truth. I thank the Lord, my brethren and sisters, that I have the opportunity of being present in this great gathering, and I am glad in my soul for the joy that is in my heart in connection with the wonderful purposes of Almighty God as they are being wrought out among the inhabitants of the earth, and among the people also who have given allegiance to the work of the Lord, and who have come up from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south, in response to the call that has been made by the Redeemer of the world through the glorious gospel that has been restored in this last dispensation. 

It has already been stated, my brethren and sisters, that it is my good fortune at the present time to be laboring in the missionary field, in the California mission. The California mission covers the state of California, and portions of the state of Nevada, and portions of the state of Arizona. We have about thirty branches of the Church in these three states. The great bulk of the Church population resides in the state of California. California is not made up of people who are seeking, to any very great degree, to find the message of the everlasting gospel. There are, however, many very good men and women to be found in the state. Sometimes when our missionaries are attending to their missionary labors, going from home to home, seeking opportunity to present the precious principles of the gospel, they are asked: "Why are you coming here? We do not need your services. We have an abundance of churches, many educated ministers, and there is no room or place for you here. Why do you not go with the message that you say you have, to the people who are in darkness, to the heathen nations of the world?" We are striving to impress upon the minds of men and women with whom we come in contact, that the gospel message, as it has been revealed in this dispensation, is just as it has been declared to be by inspired men who, lit up by divine inspiration, have said that the gospel should be preached in all the world, to every nation, and to every kindred, to every tongue and to every people. We are under obligation not only to carry the gospel to those who live in heathen nations, but we are under like obligation to carry the gospel to every nation and to every people upon the face of the whole earth. 

We are trying to impress upon the missionaries, the young men and young women who have been appointed from time to time, to take up their ministry in the California mission, that they are under a very serious responsibility, and that it is their right to know and feel that they have been called, not by bishops, not by presidents, not by apostles, to be ministers of salvation, but that they have been called by the Lord God of heaven to represent him in the preaching of the gospel in the California mission, and that they should dedicate to the Lord our God, their time and means and their talents. We teach them that they should seek unto our Father in heaven, by right living, and by humble and secret prayer, that they may have the companionship of that Spirit that can take of the things of the Father and reveal them unto men. We are trying to impress upon their minds that the gospel of the Redeemer of the world cannot be taught acceptably to our Father in heaven in the enticing words of man's wisdom, but that it must be taught and can only be taught satisfactorily to the Lord, in the power and demonstration of the Holy Spirit. We are trying to tell men and women everywhere, who are not of our faith, that the Lord Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God, that he is the author of salvation, and the only source of divine authority, and that in fulfilment of the promises that have been made by holy prophets in all past dispensations, the divine authority essential to the preaching of the gospel and administering in its holy ordinances has again been revealed by the Lord our God in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

We are trying to bear record of the truth, but we are not building up men. We are in no way trying to exalt the names of men, but we are trying to advance and magnify the gospel of the Redeemer, which is the power of God unto salvation. As we bear this record concerning the wonderful things of the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored gospel, we also feel that we are under obligation, because of the commandment of God, to bear record to the wonderful mission of the prophet and disciple and apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, Joseph Smith, for we feel and know in our hearts that God has placed this responsibility upon us, and that we must tell the inhabitants of the earth, wherever our lot may be cast, that the Lord Almighty has chosen as his instrument, Joseph Smith, to reintroduce in the latter time, the precious principles of the everlasting gospel. 

We are trying to impress upon men that they cannot be saved by simply declaring with their lips the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, but that they must do as he has taught, as has been advocated in this conference. Men must not only be hearers of the word, but they must be doers also. We are trying to impress upon men the necessity of repentance, to turn away from the evils that are in the world, and from all improper conduct and give their hearts and their time and their attention to the Lord Jesus Christ, repenting in very deed of their sins, but turning away from all sinful conduct. We are trying to impress upon men the importance of the principle of baptism, the principle that has been given by the Lord our God whereby men can receive a remission of their sins. Baptism, to the world, is a mystery. Most men are unable to conceive the necessity or the advantage of this great principle that has been given of God whereby men may be made members of the Church of Christ, and receive a remission of their sins, and by this act of humble obedience be fitted to enter into the kingdom of God. We are trying to bear record to our father's children that they can only comprehend and understand the message of the everlasting gospel by the power of the Holy Ghost, and that they can only be in possession of the Holy Ghost by yielding obedience to the principles that have been revealed. The companionship of the Holy Ghost can only be received by the laying on of hands. We are trying to bear record to the people that men cannot call themselves to preach the gospel, but that they must be called by the Almighty; they cannot assume to take this authority unto themselves, but they must be ordained by revelation, and by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands. 

I am glad to say God fills our souls with joy and peace and contentment as we strive to preach these principles among the people, and he increases upon us, testimony, understanding and knowledge concerning his wonderful purposes. I am glad to bring up to you fathers and mothers assembled in this conference the glad news that your sons and daughters believe the message of the everlasting gospel, and that they are consecrating their time and their lives to advocate the principles of salvation, and to reach the hearts of men with the message that has been committed into their hands. 

I would that men who are in authority and who select missionaries and recommend them to the Presidency of the Church, would sense more fully the great responsibility that rests upon the people of the Latter-day Saints in the preaching of the gospel, and that they would not only call the boys and girls — thank God for all of these young men and women — but oh, that there might be called into the mission field men of experience, thirty or forty years of age, men who have had experience in teaching the gospel, that they might be a help and a succor, and a sustaining power to the youth of Israel who respond so generally and so cheerfully to these missionary appointments. 

I am glad with you, my brethren and sisters, in the work of God. I believe in it from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet. I have confidence that all the promises of the Lord our God will be fulfiHed, no matter how marvelous they may appear, or how past possibility they may seem in the minds of men. They will all be brought to pass. God has so decreed and he has the power to fulfil his decrees and his promises. God help us to believe the promises that have been made and to yield obedience to the commandments of God, and may we be under the constant guidance of that kind, forgiving, glorious Spirit that belongs to the gospel of the Redeemer of the world, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

No more diligent, faithful, inspiring mission president have I ever been associated with than Elder Serge F. Ballif, while presiding over the Swiss and German mission. He has been called to go back again to that country. The gospel found his father there and he gave up a place as a preacher, I understand, to come here and labor for his livelihood in this land as a Latter-day Saint. We will now hear from the new president of the Swiss and German mission, Elder Serge F. Ballif. 

ELDER SERGE F. BALLIF 

(Newly appointed President of the Swiss and German Mission) 

My beloved brethren and sisters: I say "beloved brethren and sisters" because we are all here born into the kingdom of God through baptism, by faith and by a knowledge which we have received from heaven of this great work that has been restored in our day, and therefore I say, we are all brothers and sisters, children of our heavenly Father. I am grateful from the very bottom of my heart that I have a standing in the Church and Kingdom of God. I thank the Lord for the knowledge of the gospel which I have received, and I know beyond all question of doubt that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. 

As intimated by President Grant, I have spent a great deal of time in the mission field. Since 1890, I have devoted a great part of my time to missionary work. I have traveled in all the provinces of Germany, of Austria, Hungary, Switzerland and France. I have borne my testimony before the authorities of those lands; I have borne my testimony before kings; and I can say to you, my brethren and sisters, that I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is the power of God unto salvation, to all those who hear and render obedience unto its principles. 

I feel to say this morning, as the Savior said when he was talking to his people and one of his servants said: 

Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee. 

But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren? 

And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! 

For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven the same is my brother, and sister, and mother. 

I feel today that those who are keeping the commandments of God, they are my brethren, they are my sisters in very deed. 

While I was laboring in my last mission, I never will forget the time when a great conference was called in Berne, the capital of Switzerland, and the president of this Church — the prophet, seer and revelator, Joseph F. Smith — met with us in that conference. In speaking to that people, he held out his hand and said: "The time will come when this land will be dotted with temples, where you can go and redeem your dead." I thank God from the bottom of my heart that I have been called again to go into that land, I want to do my mite to bring about the fulfilment of the prophecy by President Joseph F. Smith in the capital of Switzerland. I believe it with all my heart, that soon the time will come when there will be temples erected in that land of Switzerland, and I also believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is no greater mission in all the world today than the mission of preaching the gospel in continental Europe. I have traveled in all the provinces of Germany. I know the meek and lowly of Germany; and notwithstanding the great troubles, and the great bloodshed in those lands, during the last few years, I want to say to you that you will find the blood of Israel among the people in those provinces. I say that there will be a great and a mighty work accomplished in that land. I wish to say, also, that I go to Germany to represent you, and I want to represent you honorably and nobly. In turn, I want you, as my brethren and sisters, to support me in that land, that I may be faithful, that I may keep the commandments of God, that I may set an example that will be worthy of emulation; that I can say to those people: "The people of Utah are serving God and keeping his commandments." That is the greatest testimony that I can give. I wish to say to that people that we are observing the Word of Wisdom, the word of God, that we are paying our tithes and our offerings. I want to say to them that we are laboring in the temples of God to redeem our dead. I want to say to those people that there is love and harmony among the Latter-day Saints; that they are a unit; that they support, with all their might, mind and strength, the authorities of this Church, from the head to the very last ordained member; that the spirit of love, the spirit of peace, the spirit of harmony is found among the Saints in Zion, and not the spirit of criticism or fault-finding, but that they are a united people. We are all laboring for one common purpose, and that is to establish the Kingdom of God, here upon the earth. 

One more thing I want to say. When the Savior was preaching and ministering among his people, the sick were healed, the lame walked, the blind were made to see under his hands; and when he called his twelve apostles he set them apart and ordained them; he gave them power to heal the sick and to accomplish the mission that he had begun; and he said: "I send you out without money, without price. Freely you have received, freely you shall impart." When you send your young men into the mission field, I want to ask you, my brethren and sisters, to instil into their souls the principles of the gospel, which will be worth more to them than unlimited means; and by so doing you will help to build them up in their testimonies and knowledge, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I do not care whether they have a dollar in their pockets or not; if they have only that spirit burning in their bosom, God will open the way before them. There wiill be friends raised up to them; they will accomplish a great and a mighty work, and the people in those lands will receive them with open arms. While, on the other hand, if you send them out there with their pockets filled with money, you know what they will do; I do not need to tell you. With all my soul I believe in preaching the gospel without money and without price. The laborer is worthy of his hire, and I am willing to put my trust in the Lord. I will promise you, my brethren and sisters, that I never will ask one of your boys, in the mission field, to do one thing that I will not do myself, with them, with the help of the Lord. God bless the Latter-day Saints. May we be united in keeping his commandments is my prayer, and I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
The choir and congregation sang the beautiful anthem composed by Evan Stephens, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Edward H. Snow, President of the St. George Stake of Zion. 

The congregation adjourned until 2 o'clock. 