Afternoon
05 10 1903



ELDER M. F. COWLEY. 

The Saints responsible to .God- How we are regarded by the world— United order versus socialism—Necessity of exact compliance with law of tithing — Development of natural resources — Important general duties. 

My beloved brethren and sisters.I re joice with you in the privilege of attending this conference, and, feeling my weakness in standing before you. I am anxious that you will sustain ma by your prayers of faith, that the Holy Spirit may suggest, as He has done to the other brethren, what ought to be said. 

Many good things are said to us. and the benefit that we shall derive from them will depend upon the use we make of them. We should not be hearers of the word alone; we should be doers of it. It is the doing of the word of God, the keeping of His commandments in all things, that will count to our credit, to our salvation from the evils of this life, and to our complete redemption from the effects of sin and the fall, in the life which is to come. 

This is a practical work. It is a work in which every individual should feel a personal responbility — a responsibility that awakens a consciousness in our souls that God expects something of us, and that we are accountable to Him for the light which we have received. We are indebted to the Lord, and not to man, for the light that we have, and for the situation that we occupy before the world in a religious sense. I claim that every favorable condition surrounding the Latter-day Saints and every blessing we enjoy, whether it be spiritual or temporal, is due to the Gospel and the great work God has established. Our situation in these mountains is not the result of the wisdom of man. A gentleman said to me the other day, as we were coming through Echo, "When Brigham Young established himself and his people in these mountain valleys he made no mistake. He understood that it was the best spot of earth between the Missouri river and the Pacific coast, and was the place for the people." Of course, he told the truth, but he did not wish to acknowledge that President Brigham Young was  in the selection of this land by the spirit of revelation from God. He did not feel to acknowledge that God had His hand in it at all. It is the same in regard to every other feature of this work. We had pointed out to us this morning very clearly, througn the inspiration of the Holy Ghost upot* Elder Taylor, how that the Gospel, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is affecting the religious world. This is true, and they are proving that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, whether they believe it or not. But they are not adopting our ideas for the purpose of drawing interest to this work, or of establishing any disposition in the hearts of the people to investigate what they call "Mormonism." They have no such purpose in view. And in this connection I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that understanding as we do that these truths have emanated from God, » and have been presented to us in His revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we ought not to be so blind as to go off after some kind of a side issue. 

I met a brother some time ago who was quite prominent in the community where he lived, and he had organized a little socialistic party, which, I suppose, from a political standpoint, he had a right to do; but he told me that all the people ought to be socialists, for the reason that socialism, he said, is the United Order, and the more we can get .to join the Socialist party the easier it will be to establish the United Order when the time comes. I had to ask him if he was so blind as to believe that after God has revealed the principles of the United Order, and the people are not prepared to carry them out, you can go to some institution of the world and find those principles and exemplify them for the benefit of mankind. I told him that no matter how near the world come to the theories of the Gospel, no matter how much they try to establish them, without the Spirit of the Gospel and the authority of the Holy Priesthood they never can carry them out, worlds without end. Humanity is too selfish to  out these great laws of God. The disposition of the world to accept some of the theories and doctrines of the Gospel as enunciated by the Prophet Joseph Smith over 70 years ago, is designed by the adversary as a delusion more than anything else. I remember trying to show a preacher that these doctrines, some of which he claimed to believe, had been advanced by the Prophet Joseph Smith over 70 years ago. He wanted to deny it, but could not bring the proof to sustain his denial. He said that the principle of the redemption of the dead was intimated by some theologians before the days of Joseph Smith. In this way they are trying to keep the people from the fountain of truth. In effect they say to the people: We have the law of tithing, we have the doctrine of the atonement of Christ, and we believe in infant salvation, and you need not join the Latter-day Saints for these doctrines. They are commencing to say that they have the doctrine of the redemption of the dead, and that the spirts are preached to in the spirit world, and it is not necessary to go to the Latter-day Saints to find out those things. By this means they are seeking to keep the people in the dark and away from the authority of God where the ordinances of eternal life are" to be found. 

With the testimony that we have of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, I say that no Latter-day Saint is justified in going after these spirts and following after these institutions in the world, whether they be of a spiritual or of a temporal nature. God has established His work, and within it is found every element that is essential for the salvation of the people, temporally and spirtually. The Lord has revealed unto us a plan of temporal salvation. He has given us the law of tithing. He has said that if we abide by that law this land shall be a land of Zion unto us, and by this law it shall be consecrated. This is the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints, and in connection with it He has promised that the seed of the  shall never be found begging for bread. Have we faith, my brethren and sisters, to carry out the laws of God, that we may enjoy the blessings which come from obedience thereto? As has been stated, men of the world have discernment enough to see that there is some power in this work which they do not comprehend. One of our leading senators, who is now deceased, made the statement in California that the "Mormon" Church was the only religious institution on earth that contemplated the temporal salvation of its members. He stated that in the city of San Francisco were people reveling in wealth, while side by side with them were others in the dregs of poverty; but the "Mormon" Church, he said, looked after the poor. By their law of tithing they see that no one suffers, they build their temples and their sacred houses; and after awhile, by their law of consecration and stewardship they claim to have a union in spiritual and temporal things that will bind the people together completely. 

My brethren and sisters, it is our duty to keep these glorious principles in view. I do not know of any path of safety for the Latter-day Saints, only that which finds us in the discharge of every duty. When our tithing is due, we should pay it, and not put it off to the end of the year. If we use that which belongs to the Lord, when we come to settle our tithing it will not be on hand, and in all probability we shall find ourselves unable to pay an honest tithing. Those who have indulged in this practise ought to repent of it. We should pay our tithes when our substance comes to us. And we should pay in kind, and not sub stitute something that is inferior to that which we ought to pay. In ancient times the Lord forbade this. I recall that the Lord actually pronounced a curse upon anyone who would offer as a sacrifice anything that had a blemish, or that was old and useless. It was designed that the offering should be clean and pure and without blemish, that it might symbolize in the best possible manner the offering of the Son of God. The law of tithing is similar. God does not demand of us the very best, and yet He would not be displeased if we were disposed to offer the best; but He is not pleased when we select from our substance that which is the poorest and bring it into His storehouse. You perhaps remember the law in ancient Israel regarding the selection of animals that were to be consecrated as tithing. The Lord said, that every one that passed under the rod should be holy to the Lord. As I undertstand this, they had what we would call a corral, and as the animals passed out one at the time, every tenth one was marked by a rod in the hands of the man who stood at the entrance, and that one was holy unto the Lord. He did not demand the best, nor did He justify the selection of the poorest; but He dealt fairly with the people. Yet He has dealt with us far more generously than He did with ancient Israel. When we think of how He has blessed us in this glorious land — how the people are extended from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south — Fifty-one stakes of Zion— and how we have increased and prospered, surely He has blessed us exceedingly. 

I almost shudder sometimes when I hoar men say they have made great sacrifices for the Gospel's sake. Have we made any sacrifice for the Gospel's sake? Is it a sacrifice for a man to lay aside his sins? Is it a sacrifice for a man who is addicted to tobacco, to lay it aside? or addicted to liquor, to repent of that evil? or addicted to profanity, to lay that aside and honor the name of Deity? or a violator of the Sabbath day, or guilty of any vice, to lay that aside and purify himself by obedience to the laws of God? Why, it is no more of a sacrifice to the immortal spirit of man than it is to wash our bodies when they are unclean. Now, I have never been across the ocean, and I have not personally witnessed the temporal condition of the Saints of God in Europe; but I have been in the United States, and I have mingled with the Saints in various parts of the 

LTnion, and I have found scores and scores of families that did not own one foot of land, did not own the house that covered them, and did not own a horse or a cow. They were simply tenants. What has brought a change to these families and made them prosperous in these mountain valleys? Has it not been the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Has it not been the principle of gathering? I see the Salvation Army has adopted the principle of gathering now. They are gathering and colonizing. But it is the great work of God that has brought us here. Where in all these Stakes of Zion are the families that have no home of their own? What percentage of those living in rural districts do not possess their own homes, with teams and cows, and other resources of employment? How m a ny are there in such a destitute condition as they were in the world? I will venture to say that there are very few indeed. And let me say furtner, if the Latter-day Saints were prepared to carry out the counsel of the servants of God there would be a still better condition among us than there is today, speaking from a temporal standpoint. 

You heard what Brother Heber J. Grant said yesterday in regard to the effort that had to be made to establish and maintain one little sugar factory in the community. Men feared to invest for the benefit of the people, and the Lord came to the assistance of His servants. He inspired President Woodruff to say that it was the will of the Lord that that should not be a failure. Nevertheless we had to send outside and borrow money of the Gentiles, in order to establish that industry; but they have been paid back, and the enterprise is a great success. So I say we have not sacrificed very much temporally for the Gospel's sake. When it come? to religious matters, what kind of houses of worship had we in the world? It is only recently that we had any of our own at all. Down in the Southern States they used to burn them up almost as soon as they were built. I believe the last one they built was in 

Kentucky, and in order that it might not be burned down they insured it; but the mob took axes and cattle and tore it down, and pulled the logs apart with their oxen, in order to beat around the protection our people had placed upon it. No matter about that; as I was saying, our people had very few nice houses of worship to meet in before they gathered to Zion. What do we find here? In almost every ward we find a suitable place of worship, and we are improving in this direction all the time. We have a most beautiful house in Pocatello — just as good as any in Salt Lake City, I believe. They are building another one at Wellsville. Then, we have not sacrificed anything in that direction, have we? And when you talk about forsaking father and mother, sister and brother for the Gospel's sake, how much of a sacrifice have we made? What did Jesus say to His disciples when they asked, "Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore?" He said unto them, "Every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life." Maybe you forsook your father and mother; maybe they turned their backs upon you. What if they did? You have come to this land and found fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, just as the Son of God said to His disciples. One came unto him and said, "Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee;" ana He asked, "Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?" Answering the question himself, He pointed to His disciples and said, '"Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of My Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." And have you not found it thus? What else can we say? Why this: that' the man who forsakes his father and mother for the Gospel's sake has accepted something in the Gospel that will bring his father and mother, his sister and brother to him, and they will fulfill the words of  Prophet Obadiah that "saviors shall come up on mount Zion." 

I might say more in this line if there were time, but let me say to the Latter-day Saints that we ought not to talk about sacrificing for the Gospel's sake. We ought not to forget the obligations we are under to God for the great blessings that He has bestowed upon us. We ought not to be unmindful of the fact that it is through the Gospel that all these blessings have come unto us. Now, it does not matter what the world do — whether they are friendly to us or not — so far as the work of God is concerned. It matters to them materially,, however, whether they treat the work of God properly or not. If they do not. treat it right, if they persecute the people of God, woe unto them! for thus saith the Lord, I will fight against those who fight against Zion. That is the word of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth. But whether they oppose it or not.the work of God is onward and upward, and the principles of the Gospel are spreading abroad among the nations of the earth. I am happy to say that our Elders bring good reports, as a rule. The more they put their trust in God and travel without money and without price, the better report they bring, the stronger testimonies they come back with in regard to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the power connected with it. 

I rejoice in this work, and in the opportunity of mingling my testimony with that of my brethren. I know that this is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that the men who have succeeded him in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been men of God, and that our President today is a man of God, a man of righteousness and justice, a man of example in the Gospel that is worthy of our following in every sense of the word. I say to the brethren and sisters, do not only sustain the presidency of the Church, but also sustain your Bishops, sustain your stake presidents, sustain your ward teachers, and sustain the humblest in the holy Priesthood whom God has appointed unto the work of the ministry In the fourth chapter of Ephesians Paul names the purpose of apostles, prophets, etc. He said they were for the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, and for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to a unity of the faith. But he mentions another purpose— a very distinct purpose, and I thought, in listening to the remarks of Elder Taylor, that it was a very important purpose among the Latter-day Saints. The purpose is, "that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive." My brethren and sisters, if you will bear in mind that purpose, and follow the ordained ministry that God has established in your midst, you will not go astray. Follow their counsel, pay yo.ur tithes and offerings, and sustain the work of God temporally and spiritually, and I am willing to promise you, in the name of the Lord, that you will not be led astray by the winds of doctrine that are going forth in the land. If you do not do this, you will be led away. We want men and women who accept the Gospel in its fulness; good, substantial Latter-day Saints; not those who, like the world, make a hobby of one principle and neglect all others, but Latter-day Saints who, if they go on missions andare greatly blessed by the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, are willing on their return to be ward teachers, or Sunday school teachers, or Deacons in the house of the Lord, and not expect to occupy all their time in standing before the people and preaching big sermons. Some of the best Latter-day Saints we have do not say much, but they do a great deal. The thing for us to do is to go to work, and we need not talk about it either. When we pay our tithing, we need not sound a trumpet before us. When we pay our fast offerings we need not publish it in the papers. But do our duty, honor God and keep His commandments, and  nothing about it. The Lord will see us, and He will bless us. The Son of God pointed out the hypocrisy of the world in this direction. He said, "They love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you. They have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into they closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret, and they Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." Remember that, my brethren and sisters, and seek God in secret prayer. And when I say this to you, I say it to myself also. 

Before I close, I w r ant to ask the Latter-day Saints to sustain the religion classes of this Church. I say that we need them. There is no family in the Church so perfect in its family government, no man and no woman has such unbounded influence over their families, but what these auxiliary institutions will be of some benefit unto them. 

I want to say another thing. I said it yesterday in the Assembly Hall, and the Lord revealed it to me while I was upon my feet. If any of you have any grievances with your brethren or your sisters; if any of you stand adverse to the authorities of your Ward or Stake, or have anything against them, I ask you not to talk about it before your children. If you do, you will poison the minds of your children against the work of God, and the day will come when you will wish that you could draw it back. You will have cause to be sorry for their condition, and you will have a consciousness that you have helped to poison their minds against the servants of God and against the principles of divine truth. Remember this. It is the simple things that will secure our safety. It is the little foxes that spoil the vines, Solomon and Bishop Reuben Miller used to say. It is the performance of the little duties that will establish us in the work of God. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May you return to your homes renewed in your determination to serve God. Sustain the religion class work, and all  institutions that the Lord has established in the work of God, and God Himself will sustain you by His power in time and in all eternity. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

The sin of idleness— Arduous duties of the Firs Presidency, the Tweive, Seven Presidents or Seventies, Presiding Bishopric and other quoums of the Priesthood. 

Brethren and. sisters, I trust that I shall be able to make you hear. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit and teachings of this conference. We have had a rich outpouring of the Holy Spirit, and we are indeed a blessed people. 

While sitting here, the thought occurred to me that the system and order of the Priesthood in this Church is so perfect, there is no need for any of us to waste time; and it would be a shame for a man in this Church, holding any portion of the holy Priesthood, to say he had nothing to do. It is a mistaken idea for any man to entertain, for there is plenty to do. I remember, reading in one of the revelations, a passage that bears upon this point. You will find it in Section 107 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and these are the closing words of the revelation: 

"Wherefore now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. 

"He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand." 

In another revelation — Section 68 — these words occur: 

"And the inhabitants of Zion, also, shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord." 

Again, in Section 75: 

"Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the Church, except he repents and mends his ways." 

From these passages, we can see that idleness is a positive sin, and that those who indulge in this spirit, to the neg of their- duties, shall be found unworthy of fellowship in the Church. 

Brethren and sisters, if I can have the freedom of the Spirit, I would like to make a brief report concerning some of the general authorities of the Church. I think the Saints are justified in looking to the general authorities for an example. If the head is sick, the body will also be sick; but if the head is wideawake, the body will be full of light. This is true of the Church in all ages of the world. 

First, I would like to say a word about the First Presidency of the Church. We have them with us today. They are in good health and form. We have heard their voices. I think I can truthfully say there are no three men in the Church who are busier, more industrious or whose time is more occupied, than the Presidency. There is a great weight of responsibility resting upon them. They are called to stand at the head of the Church, and direct matters pertaining to fifty-one stakes of Zion and fourteen missions. These brethren have to consider matters of moment that are submitted to them from the stakes of Zion. Many written communications of great importance are received by them, which require the most thoughtful consideration. They are in session almost daily, giving their attention to these matters. In addition to the very large correspondence which they have to answer, many of the officers of the stakes come in person and seek interviews with the Presidency of the Church. They must be seen; it is their right to be seen; they come for counsel on matters of moment and interest to the Latter-day Saints. Furthermore, many strangers call at the president's office, anxious to meet the president and his counselors, and to shake hands with them. The reputation of this people has gone abroad to the world, and many eminent people, in passing through, stop in Zion, being anxious to see those who preside over this peculiar people. And let me say to you, brethren and sisters, the stranger within our gates who desires an interview is never denied. The Presidency are very happy to see them, talk with them, and bear testimony to them. In addition to these arduous and strenuous labors, the President of the Church presides over some very important auxiliary organizations. He is the head of the great Sunday school organization in the Church. We had some evidence of its magnitude last night, when this Tabernacle was crowded, every seat occupied and people standing up, all interested in the Sunday scnools. He is also general superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, which embrace about 28,000 young men of Israel — a whole army; and they acknowledge him as their special leader, counselor and director. He is also editor of the "Improvement Era") and the "Juvenile Instructor." In addition to all this, the President has been called— and very fittingly— to stand a t the head of some 1 of the great temporal institutions of Zion. Does it not seem right to you that he has been called to represent the great co-operative movement that was instituted by President Brigham Young, and that has accomplished so much good for Zion? I refer now to Z. C. M. I. We all know about this institution, and what it has done for the people. To use a common expression, it has "set the pace" in business. It has a wonderful influence in the business affairs of this and other states, in adjusting prices, and conducting business in a right and proper manner. If you do not always trade there, brethren and sisters, you want to remember this: when you go to other places and get low prices, Z. C. M. h has helped to establish those prices, by its powerful influence. The President has also been called to stand at the head of two or three sugar factories, which are great and prosperous industries, benefitting the people of Zion. Therefore, he is not only our spiritual leader, but also our temporal leader in some important directions. In our Church the spiritual and temporal, it may be said, go hand in hand, the dividing line cannot be drawn. In addition to all these duties, which I have but briefly mentioned, the 

Presidency of the Church often go into the different Stakes of Zion to visit among the people. I cannot understand how they get the time to do it. First, you hear of the Presidency being down in Arizona, or in Mexico; and next you hear of them in Canada, or in the Big Horn country, or in Oregon. So far as I understant, they are very happy indeed to go and mingle with the Latter-day Saints, and lift their voices in counsel or warning. I have sometimes wondered if the Presidency realize, to the fullest extent, the amount of good accomplished through their visits to the Stakes of Zion. The Apostles who follow them understand it. I reiterate my former statement, that there are no three men in all Israel who are busier and more active than the Presidency of the Church. I rejoice in the truth of this testimony. 

Now we come to consider the labors of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Let me speak briefly in. relation to the quorum, which stands next to the Presidency. The quorum of tne Twelve Apostles meets regularly once a week with the Presidency. They meet as a quorum every quarter, for three days. To the members of the quorum, these meetings are of the very highest importance. The brethren come together in order to pray, bear testimony and take into consideration such matters as may be brought before them. Wherever duty calls, the Twelve must go. They are willing and anxious to visit the Saints in Stake conferences, or to go into the world. They hold themselves in readiness to respond at a moment's notice to the calls of the Presidency of the Church. When they return from such visits, they must render an account of their stewardship. The labors of each week mwst be reported to the Presidency. In this way the Presidency of the Church are made familiar with conditions in Zion. Let me say, there is not a stake in all Zion that escapes notice. There is not a president of a Stake nor a counselor and, in a general way, I may say, there is not a Bishop but who comes under the notice of the Presidency of the Church, through these reports. We want the brethren in the various stakes to understand that their labors are appreciated, and that their faithfulness is known. And when things are all right, oh how grand and beautiful it is! How pleased the Twelve arc to report favorable conditions in the stakes of Zion! When anything is wrong, when there is a lack of faithfulness upon the part of any holding the Priesthood in the stakes of Zion, it is known; and known only to be corrected. We would like the people to understand that the Priesthood is mindful of them. We know your faithfulness; and where there is indifference, we are aware of it. Although existing evils may not be corrected at once, let me say to you that generally they are known and discussed in the councils of the Holy Priesthood. The Twelve esteem it as binding upon them, when in the city, to be present at their meetings. They regard it as one of their highest duties; they feel they must be there, unless perchance there is sickness or death in the family, or they are sent elsewhere by the Presidency. That is how they feel in relation to their quorum meetings. That is how we want the brethren of the Priesthood throughout the Church to feel, in relation to their respective quorum meetings. We rejoice in our labors. I testify that there is a spirit of oneness, and of love, in the quorum of the Twelve, and existing also between them and the Presidency of the Church, such as you will hardly find among any other men upon earth. A love for one another that almost exceeds the love of a man for his wife. It is the love of the Priesthood — the love of God. 

Next to the Twelve Apostles are the First Seven Presidents of the Seventies. Oh, what a heavy weight of responsibility rests upon these seven men! They are called to preside over 143 quorums of Seventy — ten thousand men! Suppose they were lined up in the Tabernacle yard in one body, what an army of the Lord it would be! These seven presidents are called to look after the interests of this great body of Seventies, to counsel, to direct, to warn them  the spirit of neglect and indifference, or commend them for their good works. Have they any time fors idleness? Have they any time to waste? No. indeed! These men meet together regularly once a week, that they may counsel concerning the affairs of the quorums of Seventy, which are scattered throughout the Church, from Canada in the north to MexicfO in the south. Then, they are constantly visiting the quorums, organizing and reorganizing. They have some serious difficulties to meet in this work, because, when, in some instances, they get a right good man to fill an office and do the work, he is called to another position in the Church, and then they must select some other man in the quorum to meet the requirements. It needs constant watchfulness upon their part to keep the members active in their quorum duties. In addition to this, the seven presidents of Seventies labor under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, and hold themselves in constant readiness to respond to every call. They are always on hand; we know where to find them. They go with the Twelve into the stakes of Zion, or wherever duty calls, in a spirit of cheerfulness and willingness. These brethren are faithful to their duty. 

Then, we have the Presiding Bishopric of the Church. They are called to a great and heavy responsibility. Three men who look after the temporal interests of Zion and supervise the tithmg donated by the people. The principle of tithing is an important one. One of the speakers said today, if the members in some of the other Christian denominations pay tithing, who will take care of it? Where is the prophet to direct how the tithing shall be used and handled for the Lord? It belongs to the Lord, and not to the people; it must go into the storehouse of the Lord, and where is the servant of God authorized to direct its proper use? Here are the Bishopric called to this sacred duty, under the Presidency of the Church, and who are held to strict accountability for their stewardship. As the 600, and more, Bishops of the Church must report to them, so they must report to the Presidency of the Church. It is a heavy duty that rests upon these brethren, and they are in session— I was going to say day and night; but every day they consult together, and many important questions come up before them. They have many things to look after, which necessitates their going into the different stakes and correcting errors that may arise. I bear testimony that never in the history of the Church, so far as I know, has the tithing of the people been so carefully looked after and accounted for, cent fo.r cent, as it is today. The Latter-day Saints need have no anxiety upon this point. The tithing is taken care of scrupulously, under the direction of the First Presidency, and this according to the revelation and commandment. It entails great anxiety and labor upon these three men, and they cannot escape it, in fact, they cheerfully sustain the responsibility. Through the blessing of the Lord, they successfully perform this duty. If it were not for His blessing, they could not bear up under the pressure. 

Some people have said to me, "Oh, what a lovely time you Apostles have! You are traveling here and there, and enjoy yourselves and have a delightful time." Yes, yes, a very delightful time. (?) If the Apostles have the spirit of their calling resting upon them, it is delightful, it is happiness and joy to them; but if the spirit of the Apostleship did not rest upon them, it would be a very strenuous duty. The Apostles are away from their families about two-thirds of the time, and are seldom at home on the Sabbath day. Others can go to the house of worship with wives and children, and have the children under their supervision; it is not so with the Apostles, they are usually absent in the stakes of Zion. With them it is a constant change — change of diet, change of lodging, change of surroundings; which would make it a very disagreeable vnd strenuous life to lead, were it not for the sustaining power of the spirit of their calling. So it is with the Seven Presidents of Seventies; and so, I apprehend, it is with the Bishopric. Doubtless the pre Bishopric have a great deal of joy and satisfaction in their labors, because the spirit and power of the Bishopric is upon *hem; but if they were without that spirit, their position would be very undesirable. And so it is with all the Bishops, and all the presiding authorities. 

In conclusion, I wish to say that the presidents of stakes are desired to meet legularly every week, to counsel, and devise plans for the benefit of those over whom they preside. "We expect them to hold these weekly meetings without fail, and to give attention to the purposes of them. We also desire the Bishops of wards and their counselors to meet regularly once a week, with the same faithfulness as is shown by the presiding authorities. No Bishopric should let a week pass without coming together, to enquire into the conditions that prevail in the ward, and to correct any evils that may exist. These meetings also bring them into greater harmony, and they become better acquainted with one another. It is necessary that the Bishop and his counselors should understand each other thoroughly, that they may labor unitedly for the benefit and blessing of their people. So with the High Council; and so with the presidency of quorums. We want the leaders to be alive and wideawake, and faithful to duty in all things. 

May God bless you and all Israel; and, above all things, may He bless the priesthood, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. ^ 

Relating to colonizat ion - Re11glou9 education commended — A plea for righteousness — Training of children — Importance of scholastic education. 

I am very thankful, my brothers and sisters, for the privilege I have had of listening to the remarks that have been made during this conference. I have enjoyed the testimonies that have been borne, and the Spirit of God that has been present. I am thankful for the prayers that have been offered. Each prayer in itself has been a sermon. I am thankful for the statements of principles that have been given during this conference, and that I am in harmony  the same. I am thankful that the world is growing in knowledge pertaining to some of the revelations that God has given His children. I am thankful that the Presbyterian ministers have seen the error of their position in advocating the detestable doctrine of infant damnation, and have announced to the world that they no more will preach that false theory. I am thankful that some of the Methodist ministers have seen the light, and are advocating the observance of the law of tithing. I am thankful that General Booth-Tucker, of the Salvation Army, is preaching to the world the great principle of colonization. At the National Irrigation Congress, held recently at Ogden, Utah, the gentleman named read a paper on the subject that was indeed praiseworthy. I listened with rapt attention to every idea he expressed upon that important theme. The mode of colonization adopted by the Salvation Army, compared with that established and followed by th? Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, shows to me, and must ultimately prove to the world, that there is always a. difference between the ways of God and the ways of man. The general told us that the Salvation Army people believe in colonization, and that the body of religious people he represented were spending money, time, and influence in gathering their people from this and other countries, placing them upon farms, and making homes for them. But they are Idoing it, my brethren and sisters, by the help of th e great mo n e y p ow e rs of the world. They are borrowing money by the hundreds of thousands of dollars, and making the land on which they colonize their people, together with the labor of the colonists, become security for the money advanced. With them it is simply a business proposition. I have thought to myself, however, what would they do if they were in the same condition as the Latter-day Saints were when the great principle of gathering and colonizing was revealed and established, with no friends anywhere upon the face of the earth, no credit with the money powers of the world, and hard a dollar to buy lands for the people to go to. v I thought of the perpetual emigration fund that was started with a small sum of money, through which a few souls here and there were brought to the valleys of the mountains; and, as soon as God blessed them with sufficient means, they paid it back to the Presidency of the Church, who controlled that fund, and it in turn brought others here. It was slower; it was a great deal more of a sacrifice and required a great deal more faith, but it brought many an honest soul here, and they learned what colonization was in its truest sense. They learned also what gathering meant, and believed the revelations that God had given concerning it; and they learned through hardships, trials and troubles that it was God's will they should gather, and that they were here for the purpose of living their religion and serving God more fully. 

I am thankful, too, that many of the leading men in great institutions of learning in the United States, are at the present time deploring the lack of church training shown by the average student attending these great 1 universities. Not later than last "Wednesday, September 30, Chancellor McCracken of New York University, in his address to the student body, made the following statement: 

"I wish we could require from every freshman a Sunday school diploma that would certify that he kne.v by heart the ten commandments, the sermon on the mount, a church catechism of some kind, a score of scripture pslams and best classic hymns. This university will join any association of universities and colleges that will demand this as an entrance requirement. So much as in us lies, we will make the college a place for preserving and strengthening reverence for things divine." 

President Brigham Young, when establishing the Brigham Young Academy at Provo, and the Brigham Young College at Logan, told the people, and required of those who had these institutions in charge, that nothing should be taught therein, not even the simplest studies in arithmetic, reading, or grammar, or a lesson on any subject, without the Spirit of God being with the teacher and in his instructions. I see in Chancellor McCracken's remark that they are beginning- to see the light, and I care not whether the world gives us credit as the original teachers of these truths or not. The honest people of the world, those who read and think, those who are watching the events of life as they pass, will learn ere long who were the first teachers of these great truths; and ascertain what Church first taught the law of tithing in this dispensation, and that it was the Lord's revealed plan for raising means to carry on His work. The world will have to acknowledge sooner or later that it was no other than the Latter-day Saints; that it was the Prophet Joseph Smith who received that revelation in this dispensation. The truths revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we are presenting to the world, will demonstrate that he was a Prophet of God, and not a man with false ideas or vicious doctrines, as our enemies declare. I feel that every step forward, every advance we have made is towards the goal of success, and the firm etablishment of the Church of Jesus Christ, representing the little stone cut out of the mountain that will roll forth and fill the whole earth. 

I thought yesterday, when President Lund was pleading with the people, asking them to keep the commandments of God, also when President Joseph F. Smith referred to the proper training of our children, calling particular attention of the people to these two important items, how natural it sounds. Have not these admonitions been given by every inspired man of God from the day of father Adam down to the present time — men whom God recognized as His mouthpieces upon earth? I thought of the words recorded in Deuteronomy, chapter 11, commencing at the 13th verse: 

"And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently to my commandments which I command you this day, to love the Lord your God, and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul, 

"That I will give you the rain of your land in due season, the first rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather  thy corn, and thy wine, and thine oil. 

"And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that thou mayest eat and be full. "Take heed to yourselves that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them; 

"And then the Lord's wrath will be kindled against you, and he shut up the heavens, that there be no rain, and that the land yield not her fruit; and lest ye perish quickly from off the good land which the Lord giveth you. 

"Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand, that they may be as fjontlets between your eyes. 

"And ye shall teach them unto your children, speaking of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down and when thou risest up. 

"And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine house, and upon thy gates. 

"That your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children in the land which the Lord sware unto your fathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth." 

Away back in the beginning of the history of this world we find these teachings, and they are repeated to the Latter-day Saints. I call to mind a revelation given through Joseph Smith the Prophet teaching the same subject. It is in section 68: 

"And, again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; 

"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized; 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of hands, 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also remember their labors inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord." 

I believe every word of this revela, and I believe that one of the most important things that rests upon every Latter-day Saint, father and mother, is the training of their children, teaching them the laws and commandments of God. Do we teach our children to pray? If there is a home in all Zion; if there is a father or mother in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, who do not teach their children to pray they will live to see the day when they will repent of that neglect. I believe with all my heart that God revealed those words to the prophet Joseph Smith, and thaft parent^ should follow them strictly. 

I believe it was two years ago that Elder A.O.Woodruff in conference referred to the duty of praying in the family.not only praying,but before prayers, reading some part of the scriptures, and advised all to do so. I accepted that advice. We should designate a certain time, just before supper, or breakfast, or just after as the case may be, to get all the family together, and then take 10 or 15 minutes for the purpose of reading to them the word of God, and offering devotion to Him. I promise the father and mother who adopt this as a family rule that they will be blessed in so doing. Their children will bless them in years to come, and they will feel blessed in doing it as long as they live. I have heard others say they have adopted this plan for family devotion in their homes, and through it they have become better acquainted with the scriputures: that they have been better able to teach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ than ever they were before. I earnestly ask every Latterday Saint family to adopt this plan. I see in the audience Brother E. J. Wood of Cardston, Canada. I stopped at his home on a recent visit to Canada. Every morning there was a chapter read from the Bible, the Book of Mormon, or some other book containing the principles of the Gospel; a hymn was sung, and prayers were offered. He took his turn as mouth, his wife took her turn; his wife's sister was there, and she took her turn; the children took their turn, and the spirit of prayer and peace was in his home, as it  be in every home where that is done. Not only that, it makes people better, and has an influence for good on all who visit the home. In my home we have prayers night and morning, and my children pray in turn. No matter who comes to visit us, we pray as usual, and they can not help but feel the spirit of prayer. I have had individuals who are strangers to this people and to the Gospel we believe in, come to my home, and they have heard my children ask a blessing upon the food; they have seen them kneel with the family and heard them offer their simple but earnest prayers to God, and I tell you it has had an influence upon them, and it has been an influence for good. Afterwards I have heard of it, outside of the state, while in conversation with men and women who said that the person who visited me reported to them what they had seen and heard. 

This is one way of living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and teaching it to strangers. Everything we do in this life that leads people to understand that we love Jesus, that we love His Gospel, and that we are trying to serve him and keep his commandments, is preaching, by action at least, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It will have its influence upon every soul. The fruits of the Gospel should be shown in the lives of the members of the Church. I have heard it said that missionaries have been called, set apart, and gone to their fields of labor, never having prayed in public or in the family circle. Thank the Lord there are not many of these, but as long as there is one such there is one too many. I hope and trust that no father, claiming to be a Latter-day Saint, will ever raise a boy or girl in the Church of Jesus Christ to manhood or womanhood and not teach them how to pray. 

Last night, Brother Joseph J. Jackson, superintendent of the Alpine Sunday schools, paid a tribute to the results of teaching in our Church schools. He said the Saints in that stake are favored by living close to the Brigham Young Academy, and the teachers in their Sunday schools were nearly all educated in that grand institution. They had received special training that fitted them for teachers, and had also a testimony that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ; consequently the Sunday schools of the Alpine stake are in a flourishing condition, being blessed with such teachers. I am an advocate of church school education, they are doing valuable work among the Latterday Saints. I also call attention to the fact that the district schools are doing a good work in this state; and, fathers and mothers, you should let your younger children go to the district schools. Do not take them out when they reach the sixth grade. Let them remain long enouerh to complete the eighth grade in the district school. Why do I say this? Because, if you take your child out as soon as it reaches the sixth grade, in years to come it will become dissatisfied with the limited education received. There are hundreds of young men, many of them married and too old to attend the district schools, who decide that they must have a better education, after learning the necessity of it, and they are now attending our Church schools. This would not have been necessary if they had not been taken from school so soon. God bless them for the energy that they display in this regard. Many of them, if they had been left in the district school a couple of years longer, would have completed a course in the two higher grades, and, more than likely, would have been satisfied, and received education enough to have fit them for the occupation they had to follow. Therefore, I hope and trust that the fathers and mothers will see that the boys and girls are educated sufficiently. The world can not deplore the lack of religious training, or devotion to religion, any more than the Latter-day Saints do. We have been taught the need of it from the first, and the benefits have been shown to us in our Church schools, and in our lives here in the Rocky Mountains. 

I ask the blessings of God upon all the people, and upon His Church. ^ I am proud indeed to belong to the Church that has all of the principles in it that Jesus Christ taught. I want to emphasize the statement made here by Brother John W. Taylor this morning, that no one principle will ever save a soul in the kingdom of heaven. One srood act will never save a person, but one bad act may be the means of his downfall and damnation. We, as Latter-day Saints, know what the teachings of Jesus Christ are. We know what the revelations are that have been given to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and all of the prophets of God in this dispensation, and we should try to honor every one of them. In order to receive the exaltation we all so much desire, I know we must obey them all. God give us strength to do it, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang. "We thank Thee, O God for a Prophet," and benediction was pronounced bv Elder David H. Cannon 65
