8
Afternoon
06 04 1933
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
32-33

None

None

I have but one desire in my heart at this moment; — that I may find favor with my Heavenly Father and be enabled to discharge this duty acceptably before him, and for your and my blessing. 

The Saints residing in the Western States Mission, like you at home, are beset with the problems of how to live and meet the present conditions of life. Many of them are unemployed and are living almost alone on hope. Many of them are employed. Those who live in the country regions, following agricultural pursuits, are reasonably comfortable and happy. The rest of them are hoping for relief from present conditions, but they are enjoying their worship, and I believe our meetings have never been better attended than they are at the present time. We try to find comfort in the thought that has been expressed here today, that all things are for our good. 

As a matter of fact, my brethren and sisters, I think if we will ask ourselves the question: What is a blessing? that we will get some comfort out of the answer. I remember that once, while I was teaching a class of boys in the Forest Dale Ward, the question was asked. I asked them this question in return: Of all of Jacob's sons which was the most blessed? And the answer came back very promptly — Joseph. Yet Joseph was a slave in a foreign land. He was incarcerated in a dark prison. He was without friends or kinsfolk, while his brethren were at home enjoying the blessings of the land. They had plenty to eat and to spare. They had their houses and their farms, their lands and their possessions. But Joseph was in favor with God. His spirit was in tune with the Holy Ghost. He had the companionship of that marvelous influence, and he was by far the most blessed. 

The Lord tells us in the thirty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants that his commandments are spiritual; that he never has given a temporal commandment to any one, not even to Adam, our father. Therefore I conclude that if we can live so that we can be in harmony with our Heavenly Father, no matter what we may be called to pass through, or how difficult our trials may seem to be, we are a blessed people. If the Latter-day Saints measure themselves by that yard-stick, we have, I trust, little to complain about and much to give us joy and satisfaction. 

I rejoice that it has been my privilege to be associated with the men and women of this Church, both at home and in the mission field, and that they have influenced my life. In enjoying their companionship I have been brought into a nearer communion with my Heavenly Father. I rejoice that the Spirit of the Lord strives with me, that the Lord is patient and kind to me, that he seems to overlook my weaknesses and to bless me in time of need, and I esteem that a great blessing. So I count my blessings, I rejoice and am happy. I have many things to rejoice for. 

I am deeply grateful for the experience that I am having and have had in my life. I am grateful for the confidence of the Saints with whom I associate and labor, and of my brethren and sisters in the ministry in that mission. I am grateful for the confidence and love of my brethren who preside over me, and for every blessing that I enjoy. Brethren and sisters, let us count our blessings, and let us esteem them at their true value, and if we do we are a happy people. That we may do that is my most humble prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
