11
Afternoon
06 04 1933
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
40-42

None

None 

I pray that I may be led to say that which the Lord would have me say on this occasion for our good. There is an excellent spirit among the Latter-day Saints and I do appreciate the opportunity I have had for a goodly number of years of coming home to attend the conferences of the Church and to partake of that spirit. 

I believe with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that the mission of this Church is to carry the Gospel of salvation to the children of men, for their benefit, not only here but in the eternities to come; this is a responsibility laid upon our shoulders by our eternal Father. 

I believe, too, that we learned this Gospel plan before we came into the world; that we participated in the great program that the Lord arranged for the benefit of his children when they should come upon the earth. And men endowed with the spirit which responds to that plan are yet scattered among the nations of the earth, waiting for the Gospel to reach them. 

It has been my responsibility for a number of years to play my part in the preaching of the Gospel, and I have taken a great deal of pleasure in it. I have no question whatever in my mind as to the divinity of the great calling of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. I am positive that he received that which he said he did from our Father in Heaven, and that our eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared unto him in this dispensation and revealed unto him the true order of worship. This has been made known through the Prophet to thousands of men and women from that time until now. The evidences of it I see continually in the history of this Church, a history that must attract the attention of the children of men who are honest. Men and women who are seeking for the better things in life are being led to the great door of opportunity, by investigating the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We have a hundred years of history which must stand out as an assurance to all honorable men that no body of people could operate or live as long as this Church has done and make the progress that it has made in the world if it were not divinely guided and inspired. Its doctrines have never been successfully assailed. 

I love the children of men. I believe that I owe it to men everywhere to do all that I can to lead them back into the path of duty. I know they kept their first estate, else they would not be here. And I know that the future life of all men rests largely upon their work here in mortality. This period of time allotted to us is a temporary existence, one where we can prove ourselves unto the Lord and unto our fellow men; where we can take advantage of that which the Lord has revealed. It is a marvelous thing to be able to live in this world, to have the experience of being tabernacled in a body of flesh and bones, taking upon oneself the responsibility of life, the making of a world in a temporal way, accomplishing this through the power of our eternal Father. 

There is nothing in all of his creation greater than the sons and daughters of God. The youth of our country are most appealing. In my travels among the children of men I am greatly impressed by the boys and the girls with whom I come in contact. When I attend to my prayers morning and night I pray for the youth of Zion. I pray that they may turn unto the Lord. I pray that wise men may be raised up to lead them along paths that are safe, that they may be able to enjoy the great opportunities that are theirs. 

It is a glorious privilege to know that God lives; to be able to testify of him without fear. I never saw Joseph Smith or his brother Hyrum with mortal eyes, or any of those who laid the foundations of Zion. I never knew Brigham Young, only as I have read of him, but I know that he and those before him labored under the direction of God the Father, and that they established his work in the earth; and that those who followed them, from then until now, have had that same power and influence and authority. 

There can be no failure at all on the part of the Lord's work, if men and women will do their part. I have faith and confidence in the people of this Church and in the priesthood. I am sure that they are men of God, and that he is training them for the great events that are to take place in the further establishment of his work. I am not at all worried over the success of this Church. I know that if we will do our part, if we will be true to him in the calling whereunto we have been called, our eternal Father can accomplish his purposes much faster than otherwise. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to live up to the requirements that have been made of me and the appointment that I have received this day. I can do it if I do my part, and if the brethren and sisters of the Church will do that which I hope they will, sustain me as they do all others who are in positions of trust, either in the wards or stakes of Zion, or in the leadership of this Church. May we all stand for God our eternal Father and those whom he has selected to represent him here in the earth. 

I hope the congregation that was here this morning will read and re-read the address that was made by President Heber J. Grant; and that men and women in all parts of the world will read it. People who are not honest in their hearts will not be swerved by it, but those who are sincere will be touched and led to believe in that great doctrine that was taught here today by a prophet of the living God. It will bring to their souls evidence that God lives and that he speaks through the mouths of his servants and gives unto them the evidence that they may find him if they so desire. 

A There are millions of men and women in this world who are intelligent and morally good, if they can only be reached. We pray that the doctrines of this Church may go to the honest in heart through the mouths of those who are appointed to preach it, and through the living of it by those who have received it as the truth. To this end I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
