4
Afternoon
06 04 1933
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
22-26

None

None

I was very greatly pleased this morning in listening to the remarks by our President, and to have our attention called to matters which I consider to be of great importance. 

I think I have stated before from this stand that we are living in perilous times, times when the members of the Church should be thoughtful, diligent, persevering, and determined to keep the commandments of the Lord as they have been made known unto us by revelation. 

A WONDERFUL ADVANTAGE 

We have a wonderful advantage over the world in this, that we have the right and privilege of receiving instruction through inspiration and revelation. For one hundred years the Lord has spoken unto this people, giving us line upon line, precept upon precept, and one example following another, counsel, advice and knowledge in abundance concerning the things pertaining to our salvation and the kingdom of God. 

We have learned through revelation and through the guidance that has come from holy men, both ancient prophets and those of our own day, it is our duty to live in accordance with law which governs us in this life, and which pertains to this life, just as well as to be governed by laws which pertain to the spiritual life, or the life which is to come. Temporal salvation is just as important in its sphere as spiritual salvation is in its sphere. In fact, temporal salvation and spiritual salvation are so closely united that they cannot be separated. There is no dividing line. 

THE PURPOSE OF MORTAL LIFE 

We have been placed here in this world for the purpose of gaining experience, also for the purpose of proving ourselves, whether or not we will be worthy, before the Lord, of a place in his kingdom. It has been made known unto us that even before the foundation of the world  council was held, and there the plan of salvation was made known unto the spirits of men; and the Son of God, even Jesus Christ, who gave instructions upon that occasion — and perhaps there were more occasions than one — stated that he and others would go down and form a world upon which these spirits should dwell, the object being to prove them herewith, to find out whether they would be obedient in all things. There the plan of salvation was discussed, and the promise was made that those who were obedient in that first estate should have a place in this second estate in which we now find ourselves. And they who prove themselves true and faithful to the commandments, the guidance and the instruction which have come from the Lord in this present estate, should have glory added upon their heads forever. 

THE LORD'S PLAN 

Now, we know that it is the plan and purpose of the Lord to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of all men. No matter whether they believe in him or not, no matter whether they are rebellious, or whether they receive the truth and walk in the light, all who have the privilege of this mortal life are to be redeemed, so we are informed, from death. All mortal souls are to receive the resurrection. All are redeemed from Adam's transgression, as we are pleased to call it, through the mercy of Christ; because we are not responsible for that transgression; we do not have to pay the price. Christ came and paid that price and redeemed us from death, from what is generally spoken of as original sin; but on conditions of our repentance and obedience to Gospel law, for salvation in the kingdom of God comes on no other terms. If we are obedient, if we will keep the commandments that are given, walk in the light of truth, known as the principles of the Gospel, then we are to have added upon our heads exaltation and glory forever. 

OBEDIENCE TO TEMPORAL AND PHYSICAL LAWS REQUIRED 

But in this life we are subject to the vicissitudes of mortal life; we are subject to all the laws which govern in this world. We speak of many of these laws as temporal laws, or physical laws. Nevertheless, it is just as necessary that we be obedient to the temporal and physical laws, or rather, the laws which govern in this mortal life, as it is for us to be obedient to things which we are pleased to call spiritual, and which we look upon as pertaining to that life which is to come after the resurrection from the dead. 

One of the great objects of our existence here, indeed the greatest, is to receive these bodies or tabernacles of flesh, tabernacles for our individual spirits. Then, of course, through obedience our physical tabernacles and our spirits, unitedly known as the soul, receive a fulness of joy; and it is destined that the obedient, the faithful, shall go back into the presence of God, there to become sons and daughters, receiving a fulness of the blessings of the kingdom of God. 

ETERNAL BLESSINGS THROUGH CLEAN LIVING 

If in this life we abuse these tabernacles of flesh, if we treat them with contempt, if we permit them to be filled with all manner of corruption, then we are destroying that physical tabernacle which pertains to the spirit and which, with the spirit united, constitutes the soul, so that we as individuals cannot receive that fulness of joy which is promised to the sanctified. 

I think enough of my body to want to keep it clean. I have been so trained. My comprehension of this Gospel, my study, all that pertains to the Gospel as I have learned it, teaches me that it is my duty to keep this body clean and unspotted from the contamination of this world. Now, we are in the presence of temptation, we are in the presence of grievous sin. It was understood in the beginning, for we were informed before we came here, that we would be confronted with all these earthly conditions, and be subject to temptation; but it does not necessarily follow that because temptation is before us, we have to yield to it. It is the overcoming of the world, the overcoming of sin, that makes us strong, and prepares us for things yet to come. The man who yields to every appetite and every desire of the flesh cannot receive exaltation, because he does not prepare himself for and make himself worthy of it. 

SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF GOD 

This life is a school. It is a most wonderful school, because here we receive that training that will prepare us and qualify us, through obedience to the principles of the Gospel, to become sons and daughters of God, to dwell in his presence, to receive all that the Father has. What a glorious thought this is! Oh, how I rejoice to know that the Lord has made this known unto us, that it is within our power to become like him! 

I think so frequently of the words of John, as they are recorded in the third chapter of the first epistle that was written by him, and which I desire to read to you: 

"Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. 

"Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is." 

Now, John understood clearly, as did Peter and Paul and the others of the apostles, that through obedience to the Gospel, including all the ordinances and the covenants that they entered into, they were even then the sons of God, because of those covenants and obligations they had taken upon themselves. So John says, speaking unto the Saints — he is not speaking to the world: 

"Now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he [Christ] shall appear, we shall be like him." 

That is we shall see that we are like him, also sons of God as he is a Son of God, with this difference, of course, that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, one of the Godhead whom we worship. We are his brethren, joint heirs, as Paul has said, with him in that kingdom. That is our privilege. 

THE LORD'S DESIRE CONCERNING US 

John continues: 

"And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he [Christ] is pure." 

We should keep ourselves clean and pure from sin, from anything that tends to destroy the functions of these bodies, these tabernacles. The Lord intends that we should keep them holy, sanctified, cleansed from all iniquity. We cannot do that if we partake of the evils that we find in the world. No man who uses tobacco can keep his body clean. No man can keep his body clean when he puts into it alcoholic beverages. That cannot be done. The Lord has pointed out, in that wonderful revelation to which reference has been made, what we shall eat and what we shall drink, as well as the things that we should not eat and drink. He has warned us and told us what things are not good. We have our agency. Every man has the power within him to act for himself. No man is compelled to do the will of God and enter into the kingdom. He may reject that; but every man is going to answer for his works. He is going to receive a reward according to that which he does in the flesh. 

I say again, my training makes me feel to honor this tabernacle that has been given unto me. When I say Me what do I mean? I don't know what life is. I could not give you a proper definition of it. But I know that there is an individuality which I call myself. You each have your individuality. That individuality is composed of spirit and body. The body is the tabernacle of the spirit. Together they shall rise, after the resurrection, to receive that fulness of joy in the kingdom of God, provided they have kept this estate and been true and faithful to all the commandments of God. 

DUTY TO SAFEGUARD THE YOUTH 

I am a firm, believer in this, and that we should throw out every safeguard to hedge our youth about and protect them from the evils of the world. I do not think it is necessary for them to come in contact with sin. There is temptation enough, there is sin enough, that they will find; and it is my duty, as far as I am able to do it, to protect my children and your children. I want them protected. For that reason I am absolutely opposed with all my soul to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. I know what it means. I know what the conditions were before we had prohibition. I think I know what the conditions will be after it is repealed, if that shall come. 

Latter-day Saints, from one end of the earth to the other, especially the good people living in these states of this Rocky Mountain region, we should stand for that which is right, for the truth, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, for the protection which we are entitled to receive; and therefore we should stand unitedly against these evils that are creeping in among us from the world. The world is full of evil. 

STAND IN HOLY PLACES 

So I pray. May the Spirit of the Lord guide us, protect us, keep us free from these contaminating influences and evils after which the world seeks. We should not seek for them. It is our duty to stand in holy places, as the Lord has commanded us, and be not moved. I want to say to you that day is not far distant, as I have read here, when the Son of Man shall come in a cloud of glory, to reward men according to their works. He shall come in a day of wickedness, of corruption, to take vengeance upon the ungodly, and to reward the righteous. Therefore, it behooves us, as I say, to stand in holy places and be not moved. May we do it, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
