20
Afternoon
07 04 1933
Elder William R. Sloan 
97
82-83

None

None

Several years ago we had 150 missionaries in the Northwestern States. Our numbers have been reduced until there are only 36 today. Because of the great shortage, and I believe through the inspiration of George F. Richards, new light came when we were advised to draft into service local people in our mission. Acting upon this suggestion we now have 293 special missionaries. I wish I could tell you just one-tenth of the many testimonies we have received from these brethren and sisters through the blessings of the Lord. We have mothers with families of two, three, and four children, spending part of their time in this wonderful work along with their husbands. Many of them have reported to me that they have never known such happiness in their homes before. Not only spiritual but financial blessings attend them in their work. 

We have tried in our mission to take the counsel given by President Grant and President Ivins. We have made desperate efforts to rid ourselves of obligations, and I am sure that it has been pretty well accomplished. Ninety-five per cent of all the contributions made in our mission have come from non-tithe payers, and the tithe-payers are self sustaining. We have counseled our people to provide supplies for their families, and in the homes of almost all our branch presidents and our leading men you will find provisions enough to last them almost another year. One of our branches has sufficient flour, wheat, sugar and groceries to last every member of the branch for one year from now. This spring, as part of them were living in the city and others on ranches, one of our brethren with a large ranch turned over to the people in the city sufficient ground for them to raise all the garden truck they need, and already gardens are being planted which will provide every family with enough for the coming year. We feel that the Lord is blessing us. Our organizations have never been in a better or more healthy condition, our meeting houses and places of worship are crowded to their capacity, inadequate in some instances to accommodate the people who attend our Sunday Schools and the Auxiliary work. We are happy for this. I could tell you so many things about our activities in the mission but the time will not permit. 

I wonder if you know, here in Salt Lake, what was accomplished by a kind deed one day years ago. A sister, not a member of our Church, was stricken with a serious malady. Her doctor gave her no hopes and said she had only six months to live and that would be conditional that she would move somewhere into the mountains. He recommended Salt Lake City. She had never been among the "Mormons" in her life and came here with considerable misgivings and unacquainted with the people. She shipped her furniture here and rented a little home in the eastern part of the city. The drayman took the furniture out to the home one afternoon and she busied herself as best she could adjusting the little cottage as her future home. In the evening she heard a rap at the kitchen door and as she opened the door there stood a lady with a tray in her hand, covered with a nice white napkin. "I am your neighbor," she said in introducing herself; "I saw you move in this afternoon, I knew you would not be able to cook today and so I have prepared an evening meal and have brought you a nice warm dinner. Although we are strangers will you accept of our hospitality?" "Oh yes," she said, "And how thankful I am to you for this act of kindness." 

The next day they became a little better acquainted, and so as time went on their friendship grew. The children in the neighborhood made friends with her and were so kind and did many little acts of kindness for her. Her health was restored and a year or two later she returned to her home in the Northwest. 

One day she called me up from the hotel and asked for an audience with me. A few moments later she came to my office, where she related the above story. Among other things she said, "President Sloan, the peculiar thing of it all was that this woman was a 'Mormon' and her neighbor and her children were 'Mormons,' and because of their kindness to me I have always felt from then until now that I was obligated to your Church, and I feel that I must do something in a monetary way to show my sincere gratitude to the 'Mormon' people who did so much for me." She handed me a check for one thousand dollars and asked that I accept it as a contribution, as a slight token of her appreciation. 

I am sure that the sister who furnished that meal never expected any remuneration. I am sure she considered it a mere passing incident, as any good mother would do. I am wondering if she is still alive and if she is hearing my voice today. It is far better to give than to receive. 

I would like to bear witness in behalf of our wonderful Choir and tell Brother Lund and his associates in this great work what they are doing for the Northwestern States Mission. The hearts of tens of thousands of people are gladdened by the strains of the glorious old organ and our wonderful Choir, famous the world over. You are doing a missionary work for us far greater, in many instances, than our missionaries can do. 

God bless you my brothers and sisters and these men who represent God. I pray that we may take their counsel. May we not only sing "We thank thee, O God for a Prophet," but let us take the word of God's holy prophets, his counsel, and reduce it to our every day practice in life, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
