21
Afternoon
07 04 1933
Elder Miles L. Jones 
101
84-85

None

None

President Clawson has just expressed the feelings that come to me in standing before you this afternoon. My experience has taught me this, brethren and sisters, that when we are called to take an active part in the work of the Lord he will always make us equal to the occasion, provided we put our hearts and souls into the work. 

I am very pleased to bring to you greetings from the missionaries laboring in the East Central States Mission. We have a splendid group of young men and young ladies laboring in that mission who are active in the service of the Lord. I am also pleased to meet with many of those who have returned from the mission, some of whom are here in the congregation this afternoon. 

We have the spirit of love and unity in our midst, both with the Saints and missionaries. I am very pleased to state that many are coming into the Church, and many others are interested in our teachings and have signified their intention of becoming one with us in the near future. Through the testimony and the teachings of these humble lady missionaries and Elders who are laboring in their midst many are giving serious consideration to their spiritual welfare and as to what the future holds for them. 

I was very pleased to hear the address given by President Grant yesterday morning, in regard to the observance of the Word of Wisdom. Just a short time ago, while holding conference in one of our branches or districts, a young man just blooming into manhood came up to me, and I noticed that his countenance was much brighter than usual; his complexion was clear, his eyes sparkled, and he said to me: "President, I wanted to tell you that for the past six months I have observed the Word of Wisdom. I have quit the use of tobacco." 

I said to him: "My boy, I am glad to hear that. Now," I said, "how do you feel physically? Don't you feel much better?" 

"Yes, I do." 

Then I said, "Don't you feel much better spiritually? Don't you feel now as though you would like to receive the priesthood, and become active in the work?" 

"Yes, I feel that I would." 

Then I said: "There is another phase of this question," and I asked him how much tobacco he had been in the habit of using. 

"Oh," he said, "I wasn't a very heavy user. A package of cigarets lasted me a whole day." 

I said: "What did they cost you?" 

"Only fifteen cents." 

"Well," I said, "three hundred days at fifteen cents would be forty-five dollars, and sixty days at fifteen cents would be nine dollars — or a total of fifty-four dollars. The other five days at fifteen cents would be seventy-five cents. Making a total of $54.75 a year. Now," I said, "my boy, if someone would come to you at the end of the year and hand you $54.75, what could you do with that?" 

He replied: "I have never figured it in that way." He then went on to enumerate what he could purchase with that amount of money. 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if there are many of us here at home who are spending money for candy and other things of that kind, that we could put to better use and especially during these trying times? 

I am very pleased to state that the health of the Saints, with few exceptions, as well as that of the missionaries, is very good throughout the Mission. We are coming in contact with men and women of influence and of standing in the communities. They are giving consideration to our teachings, and I can see a bright and a glorious prospect for the work of the Lord, in that part of the land. 

I rejoice in a testimony of the divinity of this work. I am thankful to the Lord that I have been called to labor in various capacities from time to time, both at home and abroad, because I have realized many blessings that come to those who serve the Lord. 

God bless you. May his peace ever abide with you, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
