22
Afternoon
07 04 1933
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley 
12
85-86

None

None

I am delighted with the opportunity of at least bearing my testimony before this great audience. Since I addressed you last a great many things have happened. I do not wish, to speak of calamities. I wish to speak of blessings. 

I am exceedingly happy and my heart rejoices, for I realize that in the calling in which I am now engaged I am actually about my Father's business; that I am a soul that has been called, by prophecy and by the laying on of hands, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof, the most blessed work, the most soul-satisfying work in the world. What a glorious privilege to move about, directed by the Spirit of God, feeling his presence, knowing that he goes before you, that he is upon your right hand and upon your left, preparing the way, that you might present for him the everlasting Gospel to the honest in heart; to be placed in a position where you think no evil, where selfishness is done away, where pride is laid aside, where love holds sway, where unity is perfect. What a blessed condition to be in, surrounded with young men and young women who constitute the missionary force, the very elect of the Lord, clean in mind and clean in body, true to the faith; to feel their friendship, their supporting love and confidence, brings a joy unspeakable. 

They may have come into the mission field perhaps crude, perhaps with little experience, but they have worked, they have studied, they have prayed, they have practiced righteousness; and then they go forth, in the vigor of their young manhood and womanhood, to conquer, and their spirit is a contagious spirit. It is heavenly in its influence. I love them. The Saints love them, truly respect them. The purity of their lives is appealing, and they win their way into the confidence of all men and all women that are pure of heart. I say they are young. The Lord has used, the young. I think that Orson Pratt was only nineteen years of age when the Lord gave a special revelation, and said: 

"Blessed are you because you have believed; 

"And more blessed are you because you are called of me to preach my Gospel; 

"To lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming." 

This is our great mission. This is the work we rejoice in. This is the work we are united in, and the Lord abides with us in performing this great mission under his command. 

The past year has been a glorious year for the Saints of the California Mission. Our numbers have increased to a greater degree than they have increased in any of the recent years that have passed. The faithfulness of the Saints was never more manifest. Their unity was never more perfect. Their devotion to the cause fills them with joy and satisfaction. Could you enter into our branch meetings and listen to the testimonies of these faithful Saints, your heart would thrill because of the spirit that is there present. 

I don't know that an earthquake is an activity that pertains to church duty, but at least it is an activity. I tell you, if you want to have a peculiar sensation an earthquake will give it to you; you can make no appeal for help to any human source, you sense your dependence upon a higher power, you think instantly of the predicted calamities. My heart is a believing heart, thank God, for I have read his holy word; I have read of the calamities and of the testimonies which are to follow the testimonies of the Elders, but I have never longed for the time to come when calamities should be the testimony. Oh, I felt to pray for a stay of the day, that the Lord should multiply the messengers of salvation, that he should intensify the results of their labors, that whenever the day must come when peace is taken from the earth, and when Satan shall rule amongst his own, the Lord shall rule gloriously among his Saints, and their number shall be multitudinous. Oh, may he spare the people and give us the opportunity to labor with them. 

It seems to me that there are thousands and millions of honest and true and undefiled. May we reach them, until they shall say in their hearts: "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" And may those bearing the priesthood be able to answer, in the voice of God: "Repent and be baptized for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost," and receiving it, may they walk in its light and be saved. 

That is my prayer, that is my labor, and I testify that it is glorious, that it is of God, that it is the true way of salvation in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
