35
Afternoon
09 04 1933
Elder Levi Edgar Young
48
120-121

None

None

My brethren and sisters: As I have sat on the stand here and looked into your faces, the past day or two, I have been built up in spirit and in truth. I realize the fineness and the honesty of the brethren who hold the priesthood of God. 

This is a time of much trial and sorrow. The greatest need today is that human hearts shall find comfort, and I believe you have found comfort in coming up to this holy tabernacle of God, where one hears the word of God. Men need encouragement; they need divine light and understanding. They need to see those "divine truths that come of the Eternal Father in the name of Christ," as a prophet of old once said. And this American prophet further said: 

"If ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." 

Do we believe and understand these divine words? Jesus once said: "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." Do we see? Are we opening our hearts to the truth that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good? Are we learning obedience by the things we suffer? If so, you and I are bending to the will of God, and coming through the strife unto greater faith and unto peace. 

This is a day of sore trial for all the inhabitants of the earth. Nations are tottering and governments are in danger of being overthrown. Hardly a day passes but what we hear of some terrible catastrophe or some awful tribulation that has come to the children of men. "Darkness covers the earth, and gross darkness the people." We are being disciplined; and when we come to know the wisdom of this, we will look upon the whole of life as a means of sanctification. 

One time when Israel was sore tried, her homes destroyed, her children starved, her people driven into the wilderness, one of her prophets wrote: 

"Comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith your God. * * * "Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. * * * He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. * * * 

"But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint;" 

I sincerely believe that these days are bringing us closer and closer to God. We have prayed in our hearts; and we have come up to this conference with joy. Therefore, may we abide in the thought and the words of the psalmist of ancient Israel: "Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?" And the answer was: "He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart." 

My brethren and sisters, we need not fear; we need not be afraid to live, and to look up with ever increasing faith. 

"Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. * * * He shall feed his flock like a shepherd; he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. * * * But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount with wings as eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint. 

"And so what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly; and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." 

May we become the pure in heart and see God, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.
