28
Morning
09 04 1933
Elder George S. Romney
133
105-106

None

None

It is written in the scriptures: 

"But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." 

Sometimes people misunderstand this statement of faith and what it is. Some seem to believe that faith is merely a belief or an acceptance of the truth. The doctrine as taught by the Latter-day Saints clearly indicates that it is necessary not only to believe and to have knowledge but to put that knowledge into practice. More than that, faith is not only a belief with action, but also a confidence in God; a belief of such a nature that we can accept and do his will and he will keep his promises to us. 

A week ago today I was in attendance at a conference of the Northern States Mission. The night previous there had been a Mutual Improvement contest in which the contestants of the Columbus Branch of the Church traveled nearly three hundred miles to the city of Detroit; and singing, and speaking, and drama, and dancing were exhibited in that contest. At this conference and also at the evening entertainment were a very intelligent and splendid man and his wife. One of them was a direct descendant of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Also in attendance at that conference was a leading member of the faculty of the University of Ohio, who is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This gentleman and his wife invited this professor and myself to dinner, and I was somewhat startled at some of the questions that were asked by these good people, whom we love, though they are not members of the Church. 

The gentleman said that the particular reason for inviting us to dinner was that he wanted to ask Dr. Russell how it was that he, an educated man, a man who had attained prominence in the world in the educational field, still had faith in the story concerning Joseph Smith, the Prophet. He said that in his church, which is the Reorganized Church of the Latter-day Saints, whenever men became educated they no longer accepted that statement. And then he very frankly said: "We feel that there is something lacking in our church." 

Dr. Russell told him that he had a strong testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that his faith was just as sincere and just as earnest as that of any member of the congregation of that conference; and not only that but he told him that throughout the educational institutions in the United States there were many men of that character. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord is pleading with these people, that the testimony of the truth is in their hearts, and that what is needed is greater faith. The world is in turmoil, but I do not believe that more knowledge will cure it. The thing that is needed is for men and women to accept and obey that which they already know. There are not many people of intelligence, in my opinion, who believe that the use of strong drink is good for the youth of the nation or that it will help us. What is needed is faith in the hearts of the people sufficiently strong to get them to accept the knowledge which they have and practice it, and to have confidence in the Lord. 

My heart is touched at times when poor people — and in the Northern States there are many at the present time — send in one dollar, and I know that is a full tithing for the month, and express in their letters to us that they have confidence in the Lord, that if they will keep his commandments and do their part, they are sure the Lord will do his part. It is the universal testimony of those who pay their tithing that the Lord will take care of them and those who have sufficient faith to do that are better off than those who do not. 

Tomorrow the missionaries of the Northern States Mission will be walking the streets of the cities, and they will hear, as they meet the people, about this wonderful concert to which we have listened this morning. This testimony of song and music, and the testimony of the Elders of the Church, and the testimony of the example of this people shall go forth to the world, and after that will come the testimony of earthquakes and the testimony of the raging tempests, as the Lord has said. 

My faith is stronger than it ever has been and I want to say that I support and sustain the Authorities of the Church, and I want to leave my testimony with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
