16
Morning
09 10 1910
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 
33
65-68

None

Mormonism and its results. — How the truth has been misrepresented. — Faith and works. — How to meet the enemy. — Opposition strengthens the work of God.  
  
In an address put forth to the world, a few years ago, by the Presidency of the Church, are found these words: "Mormonism is in the world for the world's good." We believe that is a true statement. If it be true that the world is better for having a good man live in it, then it must also be true that the world is better for having multitudes of good men living in it. Mormonism has made better men out of multitudes of already good men, and has even made good men out of bad men; but in all the history of the church it has never made a bad man out of a good one, nor has it ever made men worse than they were before Mormonism found them.  
  
Notwithstanding this, Mormonism has met with a very persistent and bitter opposition from our socalled Christian friends. It can not be claimed, in truth, that we are not a sincere people, for insincerity has never produced and never can produce that which the Latter-day Saints have brought forth, manifested in part by their strength and power in the world. They cannot be accused of impiety, because they have manifested a devotion to God, and have kept His commandments, so far as they understood them, from the beginning. It cannot be successfully maintained that we love ignorance and are a degraded people, because we present to the world an example of intelligence, and among our people is found a spirit that yearns for knowledge and education. It cannot be said in truth that the Latter-day Saints are indolent, because, wherever they dwell, by their industry and their intelligent enterprise they have redeemed deserts and made them blossom and bloom with all that is beautiful, beneficial, and for the happiness of man. They have builded cities, towns, and villages, and filled the land with orchards, gardens, and farms.  
  
The Latter-day Saints have been misrepresented with respect to their home lives yet nowhere in the world can a people be found who love home more, who have builded more homes in proportion to their numbers, or who love their families more. We venerate the aged; we are always ready and anxious to help the weak, and never has the cry of the widow or the orphan ascended unto God against us. In our midst there can be found no poor to whose petition the Church has turned a deaf ear. Our religion is not a theory; it is a fact. Ours is not a mere confession of faith; it is a great profession with a splendid practice. Ours is not a faith that is dead, being alone; but a live, active faith, closely associated with a conscientious performance of good works.  
  
We have not hung our hope of salvation upon a single peg, nor do we rely for our salvation upon one word of scripture. We believe not only the Bible, as a compilation of sacred books, but we believe also in the very contents of these books; and therein we differ greatly from our Christian neighbors. Those passages of scripture upon which they seem to rely most for their hope and salvation are: "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved," "God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever should believe on Him should not perish but have everlasting life." These passages have formed a basis for most of the arguments that I have heard put forth by sectarian preachers, in their supposed defense of the Gospel of Christ. Now, we challenge the Christian world to believe in these passages of scripture more honestly or earnestly than we do, but we have not entirely hung our hope of salvation upon them. We believe with equal earnestness in that other scripture containing these words of Christ: "Whosoever breaketh one of these least commandments, and teacheth men so, shall be counted the least in the kingdom of heaven; but whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be counted great in the kingdom of heaven." We also believe in the scripture that says:  
  
He that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock.  
  
And the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.  
  
And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:  
  
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it.  
  
We believe that to attain eternal life a man must know the only true and living God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. We believe that we must understand the doctrines that He preached. We believe that all who do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine. We believe that men must have faith in God, for without faith it is impossible to please God. We believe that a man must repent of his sins, because no unclean thing can enter the kingdom of heaven. We believe that men must be baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins, in order that their sins may be washed away and they become clean in the sight of the Lord. We believe that men can only know the true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom He sent into the world, by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost. We believe that no man can receive that power and that gift except through faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; for no man can say, Jesus is the Christ, but by the Holy Ghost, and no man can receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, except it be conferred upon him by the laying on of hands of one having authority.  
  
Now, our sectarian friends may continue their opposition and their warfare upon us. They may continue to declare that Joseph Smith was an imposter, a false prophet, and that the Latter-day Saints are fanatics and dupes. They may continue to misrepresent the doctrines of the Church, and declare that we prefer Joseph Smith to Jesus, our Redeemer. They may continue to say everything they have heretofore said; but we have a very effectual way of meeting them and answering all such statements — and what is it? They say that we dread, most of all, to be brought face to face with the Bible and its doctrines. The remarks of Brother Penrose this morning, in which he quoted extensively from the scriptures, disprove that statement, as do the remarks of all the brethren. We will go to the Bible for our defense against such methods, and will not answer railing with railing, nor slander with slander, but will endeavor to put into practice the law of God, and love even our enemies. We will, first of all, pray for them. We cannot pray with much faith that so-called ministers who have taken the wrong course will repent for many of them have steeled their hearts against the truth and against repentance; but we will pray — and with great faith, too — that the Lord will cause that they shall not blind the eyes of the innocent and those who love truth. We will pray that they may not have power to deceive the honest seeker after salvation, and with the Bible in our hands we will go out into their midst, into the very midst of their congregations, and with the power of the holy priesthood, which is the authority we hold, proclaim the gospel in all its purity, as contained in the scriptures, and by the power of the Holy Ghost bear testimony to the truth.  
  
We will continue to testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. We will continue ro testify that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world; that He died for the sins of mankind; that He came forth from the Father, begotten of God and born of woman; that He grew to manhood; that He preached the gospel of salvation, and was crucified, after which He went into the spirit world and there proclaimed liberty to the captive, and opened the prison doors to them that were bound. He preached the gospel to the dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. We will preach that on the third day He arose from the dead, broke the bands of death, was the first fruits of the glorious resurrection; and that after His resurrection He was among His disciples, teaching them, instructing them, opening the eyes of their understanding, and expounding the words He had spoken unto them before His death. We will teach that His disciples beheld Him, that they beheld the wounds made in His crucifixion, and further that He declared, "All power is given unto me, both in heaven and in earth; go ye, therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost."  
  
We will declare these truths, and further proclaim that this same Christ came to Joseph Smith, the prophet, and that He sent Moroni an angel, a man who had lived and died, and was also raised from the dead; and that he came and instructed the prophet. We will testify, also, that every man born into the world shall come forth in the resurrection, and shall take up the very body he laid down. We will declare the restoration of the gospel the establishment of the Church of, Christ, the committing of the keys of the kingdom of heaven unto men upon the earth; and these things we will declare in words of soberness, by the power of the Holy Ghost; and by that means we will take away from them their congregations, so that darkness shall flee away, light shall come, and members of their own churches stand up and declare to them, "All that thou hast taught us from the beginning is false, concerning the closing of the heavens and the doing away of the gifts of the Holy Ghost, for there are apostles, and prophets, and evangelists and teachers, and the gifts of healing, visions, revelation, diversity of tongues, and they are now enjoyed by men;" and we will have these same members say to them: "We know the truth by the power of the Holy Ghost, through obedience to the principles of the gospel and the doctrines of the Bible. We have come to know the truth for ourselves." That is what we will continue to do.  
  
Now, my friends, you who oppose Mormonism, let us reason together. What is the use of your opposition? You have opposed the Church from the beginning, and you have seen it grow and increase and become mighty in spite of all. The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, and the Church of God grows and thrives on misrepresentation and persecution. Cease it, then. Let me call your attention, once more, to that presentation of truth made here by Brother Roberts which proves that Mormonism is in the world for the world's good; and if men will but approach it in the proper spirit, with a view to investigating its claims, they will see its glories and beauties, and will help to promote, rather than tear down that which, most of all, seeks to lift up and make glorious the life and destiny of mankind. God bless the Latter-day Saints. Be true and faithful, and spread these gospel truths by example and precept; in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
