19
Overflow
09 10 1910
Elder Charles A. Callis. 
3
74-76

None

None

(President o£ Southern States Mission.) 

Brethren and sisters, in serving the Lord we reap everlasting joy. We are not striving for the praise of men, but for the praise and honor that comes from God only. We are told, on page six hundred and twenty-one of the Book of Mormon, "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." This is a great comfort to the Latter-day Saints. Our faith stands not in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. The testimonies we have received of the truth and divinity of this gospel do not rest upon delusions. Our testimonies rest upon the rock of revelation, ancient and modern, and, standing upon that rock we are secure from doubts, divisions and dissensions, if we give heed to the promptings of the Spirit of God, which every faithful Latter-day Saint is entitled to possess for his or her guidance. More and more, it becomes apparent that Joseph Smith spoke the truths for which the souls of men were and are yearning. We ourselves do not fully appreciate the benefit and the eternal riches that the testimony of the truth of the gospel brings to us. By the power of the Holy Ghost we may know the truth of all things; and as John the Revelator said, "The anointing which we have received of him" (God) does not render it necessary that we be taught of men. But we are taught by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and led by God's servants whom He hath appointed to lead and to guide His people to edify them and to bring them to the unity of the faith.  
  
What has this testimony of the gospel done for us? A great many people in the world today are considerably exercised over the question whether there can be any communication from file spirit world to this world. Only a few weeks ago an eminent scientist and philosopher died. He had promised his friends that if it were possible for him to do so, he would communicate with them after his death. These people are now living in a state of expectancy. filled with a spirit of curiosity and doubt, awaiting the fulfillment of that promise. Brethren and sisters, the inspiration of the Holy Ghost has given us an assurance, a knowledge that there is communication from the spirit world to the earth. But, it comes in an orderly manner. God does not do anything merely to satisfy man's curiosity; but the testimony He gives to us and the communications we are blessed with are for some specific and useful purpose. When Stephen beheld Jesus seated at the right hand of God that testimony was given to him in order that he might be able to declare of his own knowledge that Jesus was the Christ, and that He occupied His rightful and fore-ordained place at the right hand of God the Father. So when Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris received that glorious testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon, and with it the important truth that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, this testimony was given them that they might bear that testimony to the world, to the conversion of thousands and tens of thousands of the children of men to a belief in the divine authenticity of the sacred Nephite record.  
  
How do I know that immortality is a reality, and that heavenly beings appear at the proper time and for the proper purpose, to God's servants? Joseph Smith testified that he saw the Father and the Son. He beheld the God of our fathers and the Lord Jesus Christ. Unto every man and woman that hath accepted this gospel, that have received the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God hath planted in their hearts this grand testimony, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. If Joseph Smith falsified when he declared that he saw the Father and the Son, think you that God would reveal unto His saints that he was a true Prophet? No. The evidence then is sure, for God does not uphold a man who testifies falsely. Joseph Smith declared that John the Baptist, the fore-runner of the Savior, appeared to him and conferred upon him the Aaronic priesthood. He testified that Peter, James and John, who were "pillars" in the primitive church came and bestowed upon him the Melchizedek priesthood, which gave him the authority to establish the Church of Christ in the earth and preach the gospel to the inhabitants thereof, as well as to officiate in the ordinances of the plan of life and salvation. Do we know that Joseph Smith spoke the truth? Yes, for the Holy Ghost hath borne testimony to our souls that he was a Prophet of God. Nay, more; you who have felt the power of the priesthood, and witnessed the remarkable growth of Christ's Church, you who have felt the power held and exercised for good by the leaders of this Church, know that these divinely appointed beings did bestow upon the Prophet the priesthood of God, and that he worked and operated under God's guidance by that power in founding this Church that shall never more be taken away nor given to another people.  
  
Today as in the days that are gone, this hope, this testimony, is worth all the sacrifice that we are called upon to make. We do not need to be taught of men, for by the power of the Holy Ghost we may "Know the truth of all things." John the apostle said, "every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as Christ is pure." The Latter-day Saints, imbued with this living, divine hope, this glorious knowledge, this wealth of testimony, will, by right living, purify themselves with this splendid hope until they rise to life eternal, heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Amen. 
