2
Morning
06 10 1910
President Anthon H. Lund
15
5-8

None

The way to regain our Heavenly Father's presence has been made known. — Interest in Temple work greatly increased. — Recent persecution of missionaries in Germany seems to have resulted beneficially. — Gratifying progress in all the European countries, in spite of obstacles. — Children should be taught practical religon. — Attendance at Sacrament meetings an important duty.  
  
I am very happy, this morning, to be present at this conference and to see so many of the saints who have assembled here at this first meeting. I rejoice that we have had the pleasure of listening to our president, that his health has permitted him to leave his room and to come here and bear such a powerful testimony unto us. I know that you, with me, are happy to see him and to listen to him, and our prayers are that President Smith may regain his wonted health, and be released from all pain of the kind he has suffered so long.  
  
I was pleased to listen to the beautiful song that has just been rendered, and my thoughts were drawn to that happy period concerning which our sister sang, the time when sorrow and crying shall not be found, and death be no more; and then to be in the presence of our heavenly Father. What a beautiful hope we have; and we have learned the way to realize it. Jesus is the way; He taught us how to regain our Father's presence; He atoned for our sins and made us one with the Father again. Now, if we desire to have a share in that happy condition of which our sister sang, we must follow the example He has given us. We must study the way and walk therein; we must study our duties and perform them, and not shrink from them, nor neglect them.  
  
I believe that during the last six months there has been great progress in the Church, and that the saints are drawing nearer unto God, and are trying to perform their duties better than before. When I look upon the eagerness with which the saints flock to the temples, I know that in spiritual matters they feel well. During the last year, the temple here has been crowded, and I congratulate the saints upon this fact, which shows that they love to go into the house of God and take part in the ordinances which are performed therein. The prophecy of Malachi is fulfilling; the hearts of the children are turned to their fathers. During the last six months we have had a great increase in the number of the members of the Genealogical Society, which proves the interest that the saints are taking in the great work for the dead. Many are sending abroad, obtaining their records to quite an extent, and I want to encourage the saints in this good work.  
  
Yesterday we had seventy-two couples of young people come into the temple to be married. That is a good sign. We want the young people to begin married life aright. We want them to go to the house of God and make covenants with Him to serve Him, and also enter into covenants with one another in regard to married life, and to obtain the blessings of the sealings performed under the authority of the holy priesthood.  
  
The work abroad continues to prosper. We have the joy to learn that the work in Europe is going forward in spite of all opposition. About three months ago, we heard about a wholesale exiling of our elders from Prussia. I believe there were twenty-one cast into prison, and it looked as if that government would succeed in its determination to stop the progress of the work of the Lord in that kingdom. Our elders, however, did not feel disheartened. If they could not labor in Prussia, there were other countries where they could go and la in the Lord's vineyard. We have had letters from prominent men in Germany and in France, asking us for literature. They wanted to know more about us and gave as a reason, that they had read about the persecution of the elders by the government of Prussia. They say they could hardly believe that such things could take place in the twentieth century. The report of the German mission shows that the work there has not been stopped, for the month after this occurrence was, I believe, one of the banner months in that mission, as to baptisms.  
  
In a late letter from President McKay, we learn that the branch established at Vienna last year, with three members, has now grown to thirty-five; and at a meeting he attended there were a hundred people present and this was only a meeting by invitation. He thinks that there is one of the best openings for the proclamation of the gospel. Likewise in Hungary. Our elders have not done much in that kingdom. It belongs to Austria, but is a separate nationality. We have a brother there who has studied the language, and has published tracts in it, and a considerable awakening is witnessed there. People are eager to know something concerning the gospel of Christ, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph, and there are good prospects that many in that nation will come and join us. The brethren are continuing their labors in the French part of Switzerland, in France, and in Belgium, and are meeting success. Likewise in Holland in the Netherlands mission as a whole, our missionaries are obtaining gratifying results. In Norway there was some excitement, this summer, among the people. The priests and the press sought to have laws passed against the elders being allowed to preach in Norway, and it looked for a while as if such laws would be passed. But, I am happy to say that the committee having the bill in hand reported to the Storthing or Congress of Norway, that there was no need of any more legislation in that regard. So our saints there feel to breathe freer.  
  
Whatever men may do, I feel that nothing can be done to stop the progress of the work of the Lord. This is the gospel, restored unto the earth, and it must be preached to all nations. John, in describing the mission of the angel, that should come with the everlasting gospel, tells us that his proclamation was to go to all nations. None should be exempt; none had the gospel; it had to be restored and preached to all; and this has become our mission, brethren and sisters; we must do this work. We are sending two thousand elders abroad. They are working diligently, and they are gaining the love and confidence of those with whom they become acquainted. The people look upon these men, as men who are what they profess to be — earnest ministers of the gospel, who seek to enlighten their fellow-men concerning their belief; and in their works an in their lives they show the fruits of the faith which God has given them. We are sending out missionaries every year, in fact, every month.  
  
I want to say to the saints, that our children should be taught in the principles of the gospel; they should be encouraged to attend the different organizations that have been established for the development of our children and our young people. We have several of these organizations. Our Mutuals are doing a splendid work. We like to encourage those who are angaged therein, and encourage our fathers and mothers to see to it that their sons and their daughters take the courses that are given in the Mutuals. We also want to encourage them to send their children to the Primaries, to the Sunday Schools, and to the Religion Classes. We know that this is necessary.  
  
Our children should be guarded against contaminating influences. When we read reports from the Juvenile courts, we feel shocked, and we are thankful that these courts have been established, for we believe they do a great deal of good. We hope that our legislature will sustain them; and we must take a hand with them. We must be warned by what we hear is going on among the young people, and try to protect them against the evil influences that are so demoralizing. Let us encourage our children to become members of the organizations I have mentioned and to receive as much training as possible in religion. We do not mean thereby that they should be taught theory entirely, but we want them taught practical religion. We want them taught how to pray, how to walk uprightly before God, how to learn to exercise charity to the neighbor, to do good to those who are in need, and to remember the sick. I was touched when I heard that a certain class in the Religion Class organization went and got flowers and sent them to a sick classmate to comfort him in his sickness, and thus gave evidence to the sick boy that he was remembered by his class. We should commend such things; we want to encourage our children to think of others besides themselves.  
 
Now, brethren and sisters, do not discourage the children from attending the Primaries, the Religion classes, or the Mutuals. All of these organizations are of the utmost importanme, and we desire to see them well attended, so that the young people may get the benefit of the teachings given therein.  
  
We hope that the saints will be alive in their duties to attend their meetings. We find there is a slackness, in some places, and this I believe, to some extent, can be ascribed to those who have charge. The bishops and their assistants must study their congregations, and must seek to make their meetings interesting, so that they do not have to preach to empty benches. This has not been the custom in Israel. As a rule, our meeting houses are filled; but in some places there has arisen indifference, and where such neglect is seen, our brethren who have charge should study conditions and the causes of this negligence in regard to attending meetings.  
  
We are commanded by the Lord to go to His house on the Sunday. The Sunday has been declared His holy day, and He commands us to go to His house and there offer up our oblations, there renew our covenants in the sacrament, there listen to those who shall address us, and take part in the worship of God. This duty cannot be neglected without our sustaining a great loss. Brethren and sisters, let us be thankful that God has given us the faith and a testimony of the truth, and has given us a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and that his successors have been men appointed by Him. We know this. This is our testimony, when we are called upon to speak, for we feel it within our heart of hearts. Now let us carry out in our every-day life that which we know to be right, and the blessings of the Lord will attend us. May He bless the congregations of the saints. May He bless us in this conference; bless the speakers who shall address us, that such things may be brought forth as shall be for our best good. I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

