20
Overflow
09 10 1910
Elder Levi Edgar Young. 
48
76-78

None

None

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

This is the first time I have had an opportunity of attending conference for some few months, and I have enjoyed the conference during the short time that I have been permitted to attend meetings, although I have had some duties that have called me away. I hope, the few minutes I shall speak to you that my mind may be clarified, and that such things may come from me as a message that will build you up, something of the message that has been given by the other brethren who have spoken to you.  
  
I was impressed with one remark that Brother Ivins made, in reference to the duty of the Saints of God to live up to law, for it is living up to law (which is always as just as man can make it) that makes a man free. It is obedience to the law of God that makes a man live his higher self every day, and it is obedience to the law of our country and of our state that makes good citizens at the polls, good citizens in our homes, good citizens on the street. Obedience to the law of God and obedience to the civil law raises the saints of the Most High God to the highest types of citizenship. It is one. trait of Mormonism, that has always been to me a leading ethical thought, that the more we live up to law in our daily lives, the more we live up to our higher selves, the freer we become, the more intelligent we are, and the better interpreters of life are we before the world. And I believe that the Mormon people, the Latter-day Saints, have already become the best interpreters of the meaning of life, of any people who have been on the face of the globe.  
  
A few months ago a Doctor Pfleiderer, of the University of Berlin, lectured to the students in theology, and he declared there before his class, that the world had been seeking truth for hundreds of years, and he believed that gradually had the world been finding truth; but above all, what man needs today, said the learned doctor, is not so much of delving into mystic truth that rules the universe, but what man needs is to take hold of the common man, the common self, in the every day affairs of life, and teach him to live his best life. That is what is needed, it is the uplifting of the common man. It is the making of every human being to see the divinity and the majesty of his own power, and standing up in that majesty and in that divinity, he respects himself as an individual, and respects all other people as well. In respecting himself as an individual, he respects his divinity, he respects his virtue, his honor, he respects all men; thereby he lifts himself into that grade and that standard of morality and of manhood and of very soul that makes him an ideal man — makes for the best, especially of Christian men and women, makes for the best type of citizenship. We often forget this point.  
  
It has been decreed of every one of us that we are divine, that our souls are divine, and the organized intelligence that we possess means that we should go on to perfection, adding each day a little to our power because of our free will to act. It is the majesty and cleanliness of the soul that the gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us, that makes this gospel so great. It is not to be wondered at today that Mormonism has permeated the nooks and crannies of the world. It is only a few months ago that a poor monk in far off Austria wrote a thesis on the rise and growth of the Mormon Church in the United States, declaring it to be one of the forces of the world with which the world has yet got to reckon. Though we are in our youth, nay, in our infancy, we will, as we live near to God in the dignity and majesty of our own souls, become a light to the world; and the world will question us, and try to make us out, in time. I have faith that the world will yet understand us. We must remember that over a billion five hundred millions of people now living are all God's children, and God is just as anxious for the Boer or the Hottentot, or the native of the South Sea Islands — just as anxious for the misguided girl of the underworld, or the pauper of the slums in the city, to have them all come back to Him as He is for us, or for any other people. He is a God of love and though we have been taught that we are the people of God, we are only the people of God as we live God's laws, and as we live our best selves. As we live well and in truth we become the people of love, people of honor, people of integrity and honesty, who, when we give our word as individuals, will abide by that word. When we arise in the morning we will dedicate our lives to God, because it is from communion with our Father that we derive the power that enables us to live that true life, that high life, that honest life for which every Latter-day Saint should contend, yea, every Christian of the world. And we obtain the testimony of the Spirit of God through our lives. Mormonism may become a mere shell that we lay upon the shelf, it may be a mere sounding brass to each individual. We are to see that with all the acts of baptism, the administration of the sacrament, with our prayers, with our fast offerings, with the offering of tithes to God, that behind it all there stands a cleanliness, a majesty, a power of our own souls and intellect, the power to know and the power to love, to worship Him, for the truth that is in Him, and to worship God, and Him crucified. That gives us the spirit of Mormonism. We obtain that spirit, the truth of it, the sweetness of it, the very marrow and the vitality of it, by our every day lives. Not the life of tomorrow, but the life of yesterday and the life of today, which go invariably to mold our thoughts for tomorrow.  
  
I believe, my brethren and sisters, in the revelations of God to man. I believe in my country, and in my people, and in fact, in all the race, for the race is to be saved. Mormonism is no condemning influence, it is a saving; influence for every individual child of the living God. And it is an influence, in the words of President Young, that "makes bad men good and good men better." It is an influence and power that makes men good loyal citizens each day. When we live the daily life of practicability, the life of practice, we are drawing near to our Maker. The gospel of Jesus Christ is, after all, the gospel of the deed, the gospel of the act. When Christopher Columbus stood before the learned doctors and professors of the university of Salamanca, where he had decided to appear, one of the old priors of the convent near by said to him: ''How dost thou know that by sailing west new lands may be found?" Columbus tried to explain, but failing to do so he declared it to be the light of God to him, and that by sailing west he could find new land. "I know it," said he, "because my soul teaches me the truth of it." So it is with the gospel. It is the soul-response to life; it is the spirit of truth that we possess it is the power to live every day our best selves that makes this gospel the gospel of Christ in the deed. Though all might drift from the Church, the gospel of Christ remains true. But it is the individual members who compose it, who bring to it their best selves, their manhood and their womanhood, and their sacred honors, that give to it the refining influence that goes out to teach the world. And so the question, I think, for us to answer in our own hearts is, are we living this gospel as best we know how? I put the question to myself sometimes. I sometimes fear, for Mormonism is so great, so majestic, so tremendous a power, that with all the knowledge we possess we cannot grasp it all. So we today should ask ourselves, Are we living our best selves? do we know for a surety? We should be able to answer ourselves. We do know for a surety, we do know that it is our desire to live this gospel as best we may. Then it is for us from today, and as it has always been from the days that the Church was organized, to begin again, for "every day is a beginning, and every day is a day of judgment." And it is for us to add a little power, add a little knowledge, to our store each day, and to let the total of that knowledge and that power go out to the world, that we may convince the world through the purity of our lives. Let us remember that this is the gospel of the deed, the gospel of the act, the gospel of thought.  
  
It is these things which will convince the world that God revealed Himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith in these the last days, and has revealed Himself since to men, to each individual heart, magnifying and manifesting to the souls of all the children of God the truth and verity of our divine birth. God wants all His children to come back to Him through the door which he has opened, and that door the principles of the gospel, the living of the gospel, which means the kindly, the loving, the goodly feeling of ourselves towards all men, toward the earth, and above all toward God. That we may sense this keenly and feel the majesty and the beauty of it, as we go from here, as we go on down through life to the end of it, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
