24
Second Overflow
09 10 1910
Elder Wm. H. Seegmiller. 
60
90-92

None

None

(Late President of Sevier Stake.) 

I realize it is an opportunity that should be valued by any of our brethren or sisters, to stand before the people and to testify concerning the work of our Father, in which we are engaged. I know it is the work of God. I learned it when I was a youth. In 1861, I first heard the Elders of Israel preach the gospel. My heart was pricked with what they said. I began an investigation of the truths that they taught. I found they coincided with that which was taught by the Savior and His apostles and disciples in the meridian of time I had, although young at the time, read some of the lying literature that was published in the magazines against the Latter-day Saints. I read in Harper's Weekly of the Mountain Meadow Massacre. I read of the killing of the "dummy" over here between the Big and the Little Mountain. I read some other things, all calculated to prejudice one against the Latter-day Saints. I did not know what kind of a people they were. But when I heard the elders preach the gospel, I wanted to know. The elders promised us that if we would obey the Gospel we should know. I thought that was a wonderfully fair proposition and, in the spirit of putting the matter to the test, my brother and I offered ourselves for baptism, and. thanks be to our heavenly Father, as I was being raised up out of the water by the person officiating in the ordinance of baptism, my Father in heaven gave me a testimony. I knew that my sins were forgiven. I knew that the gospel was restored, and the priesthood, and I knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. And O, how pleased I am to make the statement here today, that from the moment I received this testimony, I have never doubted it. It came to me with such force that all doubt was cast out, and I felt there was but one thing for me to do, during my life, and that was to labor to advance the cause of God in the earth. I have been engaged in that labor since that time, at home and abroad.  
  
Elder Whitney stated that I have lately been released from the presidency of the Sevier Stake of Zion. I was associated with the presidency of that stake for 37 years. I enjoyed my labors. I have rejoiced in seeing the fruits of my labors and that of my associate brethren and sisters. In the district of country that I have lived in great changes have taken place, from the time of first settling there up to the present time. The people settling in that country were poor people. Some of them had abandoned their homes because of Indian troubles, and they were returning, poor people in search of other land and places to make homes. At first most of our people lived in dugouts. A great change has come, and today most of them are enjoying comfortable homes. Our country there is what is known as a greasewood country, a forbidding looking part of the world. When President Young and his brethren were passing through that district, in an early day, around the camp fire he asked the brethren what they thought of the country. Some of them said they would not give a lot in the "Big Field," in Salt Lake County, for the entire country. Others, living on the Cottonwoods, in this county, said they would not give their farm there for all they had seen. The soil was red, and its appearance was forbidding. They did not know the value or fertility of it. President Young, after listening to them, made the statement that he could see facilities there for sustaining 150,000 people. I believe he was correct. I believe that when the facilities of that country are developed — and we are making good success in the development that 150,000 people can be sustained in Sevier county. God has blessed our efforts. We have been able to get the waters out upon the land, though at great cost. One canal that we built in that country represents an outlay of over $80,000, a reservoir that we constructed, close on to $100,000. Now the State has taken hold of another enterprise in the establishment of another reservoir, and in the enlargement of our $80,000 canal, building and extending the canal, so that it will reach a distance of about 50 miles.  
  
When President John Henry Smith was talking this morning about the facilities that abound in, the Uintah country, I could not help but think we did not need to go off quite so far as that. People can find homes closer than that, if they want to have homes of their own. But you know some of us are wedded to the city. I could not help but think, last night, as I was moving around your city here, what wonderful attractions you possess. Why, I could not count all the theatres and places of amusement that you are provided with. When we settle in the outlying districts, if we have anything of this kind, we must provide it ourselves. But this can be done. It is being done, and the Latter-day Saints are rejoicing in the prosperity that attends their efforts in the establishment of homes.  
  
This is the work of God. His name is written upon it. We can assist Him, but the honor and glory of achievement that will be brought about in the due time of our heavenly Father will be His. All of our labors and efforts to accumulate means, to improve our surroundings, to make them inviting and pleasant should all be made or per formed with the feeling that we are striving to advance the purposes of God in the earth.  
  
The prophet Joseph Smith made known this eternal truth, that man cannot be saved in ignorance. Then, what intelligence is necessary to salvation? Why, that intelligence that will lead to an understanding of the gospel, to living its principles, and to devoting our lives, our time, our talents and the means that God may bless us with, in the advancement of His purposes in the earth. Nothing like it has ever been established. In it is a mighty destiny, and we will triumph with Him. But if we do. it will be because we live up to the gospel that we have embraced. It wont do for us to persuade ourselves to doubt the Savior, as did the young man who had lived so noble a life. He had kept the commandments, but one thing he lacked. The Savior said to him: "Sell all thou hast and give it to the poor and follow me." He could not do it. He was an idolater. He loved money more than he loved the Savior and the righteousness of God, and he turned away sorrowfully. O, I hope that we will not turn away sorrowfully. What is the price to be paid for eternal riches? It need not be money, but it must be faithful service rendered to our heavenly Father. All will receive the blessings that our heavenly Father has prepared for them, upon conditions of their faithfulness. Eternal life is the greatest gift of God, eternal life associated with eternal riches, eternal intelligence, eternal everything that is desirable, may be secured but it can only be secured by rendering faithful service to our heavenly Father.  
  
God grant that we may do this, that we may never become weary in well doing, but that we may avail ourselves of every opportunity that is opened before us for assisting in our Father's work, for they are opportunities leading to eternal riches. When we get through with this life we cannot take anything temporal with us but if our lives have been devoted to the service of God, even if when we die we go to a pauper's grave, yet are we the children of God, and will inherit eternal riches. Which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
