27
Second Overflow
09 10 1910
Elder Arnold H. Schulthess. 
62
97-100

None

Mone

(Of Liberty Stake Presidency.) 

I shall not detain you, my brethren and sisters, but during the very few moments which I shall occupy I desire, above all things, that I may have the attention of every person in this house and the help of the Spirit of the Lord, to bless me and to bless you. With my brethren, I rejoice in the blessings of this conference and the spirit which has characterized the various sessions of the same. While listening to the brethren I was thinking what a variety of good things we are receiving at each conference. I venture to say that not one man or one woman has attended any or all of the sessions of this conference, who came desiring to hear the word of God, who has not been impressed, if not with everything that has been said, with some certain thing, or some certain instructions along a certain line. When we sum it all up, we come to the conclusion that whenever we come together in the name of the Lord, hungering for the word of the Lord, that the Lord always has something for each of us.  
  
I was very much pleased to hear the testimonies of the brethren concerning those who are our leaders. I love to hear the brethren speak well of them, because I know that that which they have said, and do say, is true. I think very often that as a people who are blessed with so many good men and good women, we are altogether too slow and too backward in speaking well of the good noble qualities of the men and women with whom we are blessed and associated. We have, in every ward, and in every stake of the Church, men and women who are devoted to God and to His work. Think of the bishops who devote so much time in an unselfish way for the good of the people, and many other brethren associated with them. Think of our sisters in the Relief Society organizations, who are called out frequently at almost any hour of the day or night — it makes no difference to them when the call comes — who are always on hand to minister and bless others. And when I think of their unselfish, loving service in God's work, I feel that we do not bear testimony often enough of their goodness. You know that the Savior, when He was upon the earth, found fault with the Scribes and Pharisees, because they did honor to those who had lived long ago, and decorated their graves, but those that were sent of God into their midst they did not receive. They did not appreciate them, but even sought to put them to death. The Savior was crucified, the apostles were put to death, all except one. I do not mean to compare the Latter-day Saints with the Scribes and Pharisees to whom the Savior spoke, but I sometimes think we are too dilatory in speaking well of our brethren and sisters, as though we would say, "Yes, that is a good man, but don't you tell that to any man until he is dead, and then we will say all the good things we can about him." Let us say all the good things we can about our brethren, and our sisters, our good men and women, while they live, and thereby strengthen their influence among the people in the earth. I want to tell you that when I witness the unselfish and faithful service of our men and women in the various organizations of the Church, I lose sight of their weaknesses, no matter what or how many they are.  
  
I have thanked the Lord, and I do thank the Lord today, that we have men in our midst who are called of God, prophets and apostles, who hold the same authority as did the apostles and prophets of old. While Brother Penrose was speaking this morning upon this subject, that of authority, and the difference that distinguishes the Church of Christ from the various churches of Christendom in the world, I was reminded of something which I recently read in the Deseret News. I will relate it to you very briefly. The article reported the wonderful accomplishments of some of the students of a certain university in the East, in the laboratory. It reported that young men students had extracted sugar from an old piece of cloth, a piece of an old coat. They extracted sugar also from a piece of wood, and other things of such character. But the point I want to call your attention to is this: They took some wheat as it came from the field. It was ground up and separated into different substances, the bran, the flour and other elements. Then they took those various substances and put them together again, and made complete kernels of wheat, just as they were before; so that no difference, at least in their appearance, could be detected. But when they took that wheat, which they had ground, separated into its elements and put together again, and planted it in the ground and nourished and nursed it, gave it to the sunlight and shade and water that it might grow, and watched it every day, it did not grow. Life was crushed out of it. It was made up of substances which made up the kernel of wheat as it comes from the field; but by their handling it, by the grinding it and separating its elements, life was crushed and extinguished, and when they planted it that it might grow, it did not grow. It did not have within it that life-giving power. So I thought what a striking comparison it is with the religions, manmade doctrines in the world as compare with the doctrine of Jesus Christ. We do not wish to say anything against the religious denominations of the world, as Elder Penrose stated this morning. We very cheerfully and gladly acknowledge all the good they do, and they do a great deal of good; but when it comes to having the truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ which is, as Paul said, the "power of God unto salvation unto all that believe," they do not possess that. That life-giving power is not within them. But in the gospel of Jesus Christ as we are blessed with having it revealed again direct from heaven, we have that life-principle; it possesses that life-giving power unto salvation unto all those that believe and obey it.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I pray that the Lord will bless the Latter-day Saints, that we may learn to understand and appreciate, more and more, the truth as God has given it to us. While listening to Elder Brimhall this afternoon, I was reminded of the testimony, or at least of the words, of a very wealthy lady whom I met on my last mission in the city of Berlin. An elder succeeded in expounding and preaching the gospel unto her, and I heard her make the statement, more than once, "If I knew that this thing that you are preaching to me is of God, all my wealth and my possessions would be nothing to me. I would gladly forsake it all, if I only could believe, if I only knew as you know that it is the truth." Now, Latter-day Saints, we bear testimony that it is the truth. Let us feel, as this good woman did, that when we have the truth, all other things are secondary matters with us. The truth, the gospel, is the greatest and most important thing that we possess in this life, the only thing which will bring us temporal and spiritual salvation.  
  
May the Lord bless us and help us to be faithful, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
