28
Second Overflow
09 10 1910
Elder Orson F. Whitney. 
45
100-101

None

Criticism of the Authorities— President Kimball's Illustration. — Why Men and Women are Promoted. — The Lord has no Favorites. — Exhortation to Charity and Loyalty.  
  
Before we dismiss. I wish to thank this congregation for the unanimity of the vote given to sustain the General Authorities of the Church. My heart has been touched by the appreciative remarks that have been made, and I presume I am to be excused for feeling this way, owing to the position I occupy. I am aware of the criticism and censure that are often expressed toward men in authority. There seems to be a propensity in the human heart that leads men to find fault with their fellows who are placed in high positions. President Heber C. Kimball once illustrated this propensity thus: while conversing with a friend, he stooped and picked from the ground a twig encrusted with mud, for it had recently been raining, and holding it up, said, "As long as this little twig remained upon the ground it attracted no attention, although it had as much mud clinging to it then as now, but you did not notice it. When I lift it from the earth, however, and hold it aloft, the mud is about all that you can see; it is with difficulty that you perceive the twig at all."  
  
This is human nature. It seems to demand from men in office greatter virtues, greater qualities than other men possess, and is never weary of pointing out their imperfections. Of course, men in office should strive to be exemplary, but if they are not perfect, it should occasion no surprise. Who are the men and women that have been selected to hold general authority in the Church, or authority in the stakes and wards? Who are the brethren and sisters you have sustained this day? They are Mormon boys and girls, of no better material than you are; yet some people seem to think a high position ought to transform a man completely and convert him into an angel.  
  
Some imagine, too, that it makes every man proud to give him office and authority. I found very quickly, after being called into the quorum of the Twelve, that I had to be far more careful to recognize people than ever before, lest they should charge me with being lifted up, with "having the big head," etc. I never dreamed of such a thing. It had never occurred to me that I could be given an office that would turn my head. I never received an honor that made me feel one particle different toward my brethren and sisters. But some seem to think so. They are on the lookout for such things. They expect to be slighted; they go half way to meet it; and think they have found what they were looking for. How easy it is to find fault.  
  
I don't believe God ever chose any man to hold an office in His Church, that he might shine for his own sake, or because he was any better, in a general way, than his brethren around him. I believe there are just as good men down in the ranks as those who hold high positions. There are men serving as bishops, as high counselors, as stake presidents, who would honor the apostleship if called to it. The Lord does not give men and women high office because they are His pets or favorities, or because He wishes to honor them or their families above the rest of the people. Rather is it because He can use them in those places better than anywhere else, for the general good. He needs bishops as well as apostles. He needs good, strong men out on the frontier as presidents of stakes. All cannot be in the same place; where a man is needed, there is his proper place, and we must go where we are sent, and come when we are called.  
  
And brethren and sisters, if your turn should come to preside, it would be our duty to sustain you. We are asking no more from you than you would expect from us. Our duties are not always pleasant. They are sometimes very painful. We have to do things that we would rather not do; and we need the sustaining power of your faith, and the help of the Lord at all times. I thank you again for your hearty vote and unanimity of expression, whereby you agreed and covenanted this day that you would sustain these men and women, not only by your uplifted hands, but by your faith and prayers and good works.  
  
Now go and do it. Don't pull down the authorities of the Church. Remember what you have done this day, and also bear in mind that your turn may come to stand in high and responsible places. Your turn may come to do things you would rather not do, but that you must do in order to be true to your covenants. We ask you to sustain us just as we would sustain you, were the positions reversed.  
  
May the Lord bless us all with the spirit of loyalty and love for each other, and for our brethren and sisters upon whom rest heavy and solemn responsibilities, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
