29
Outdoor
09 10 1910
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
101-102

None

None

It must be a great satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints to observe the attendance at this conference, and the earnest desire of the members of the Church to obtain admission into our dedicated buildings. We rejoice, however, in the good weather that enables us to meet here in "God's own temple" to worship Him and to receive such instructions as He may inspire His servants to give.  
  
We are pleased to be here. We rejoice in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the opportunity we have of bearing our testimony unto its truth. I presume the majority present are members of the Church, and you rejoice in the organization thereof, that God has given us, in these days, "apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers," to lead us unto a knowledge of Him, to bring us unto a "unity of the faith."  
  
We rejoice in meeting so many who have come from distant stakes of Zion. These presidents of missions who are here undoubtedly think of the thousands of elders now abroad, who are not privileged to meet with us. I trust that your hearts are going out to God in prayer that He will bless His missionary servants and handmaidens, who are carrying the warning message to the people of every clime.  
  
You have joined in singing our national anthem, but I venture to say that none of you have sung it more fervently nor with more loyal spirit than our elders, who are now in the nations of the earth, sing it from time to time. I refer particularly to the second verse, and draw your attention to it, because we may at times sing it with our lips without reflecting upon the sentiment contained in the song. I take the liberty, therefore, of drawing attention to the verse named, which I think, reflects the thoughts, sentiments, and devotion to fatherland of our missionary representatives especially.  
  
"My native country thee,  
Land of the noble free,  
Thy name I love.  
I love thy rocks and rills,  
Thy woods and templed hills,  
My heart with rapture thrills,  
Like that above."  
 
I trust we shall remember the absent ones, and that you who are present will enjoy in very deed the spirit of this meeting.  
