30
Outdoor
09 10 1910
Elder Samuel O. Bennion.
2
102-105

None

None

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this privilege of standing before you this afternoon, and I trust that during the few moments I occupy this position, I may be blessed of the Lord, that what I say will be for our mutual benefit and good.   
   
I am absolutely converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, for I know, as did Paul, that it is "the power of God unto salvation." As I look today through these trees, across the grounds, I cannot help but think of the statements made by Christ the Lord when Ho. said, "Judge a tree by its fruit, for a good tree cannot bring forth corrupt fruit; neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit," and "By their fruit ye shall know them."   
   
As we were singing the hymns, in the opening exercises of our outdoor meeting, my thoughts were drifting back over the history of this Church, and back into the mission field. I thought of the great modern Moses, Brigham Young, who led this people into the valleys of the mountains. Many that knew Brigham Young are undoubtedly on the grounds today, who heard him speak under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, who remember the impress his remarks have made upon them all the days of their lives. I have read his sermons, and have listened to men who have heard him, and, when I see this vast congregation, I cannot help but cite the world to these valleys of the mountains, to this people, and ask if such a people as the Latter-day Saints could be the wicked people that our enemies represent them to be?   
   
I am proud, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of laboring in the ministry of our Savior. If there is one man under the sun that I can, through my ministry, reach, that will go down into the waters of baptism and become a convert to the principles and doctrines of the Church of Christ, yielding obedience to the call of the authority Jesus has conferred, I shall be well repaid.   
   
I know that in the country outside of the valleys of the mountains, wherever I travel. I find men and women, who in their hearts are sincere, who have a desire to serve the Lord; and just as soon as that blind prejudice can be removed, which has been so strongly established in the hearts of men by the enemies of God, just as soon will many be converted and go down into the waters of baptism. An honest man or honest woman cannot study the principles of Christ's gospel, as taught by the Mormon people, without it having some effect upon them. It will act as oil upon the waters, and will lead them into a condition whereby they will forsake their sins, turn unto the Lord, and acknowledge Him and His power to save; for all men desire to be saved in the kingdom of our God. Just as soon as honest hearted people become acquainted with the straight and narrow way they go in thereat, by hundreds and thousands.   
   
The Mormon people are making friends in the earth everywhere. It is a mistake for our enemies to do as they are doing, thinking that they are going to lead away from the path of rectitude the men and women in this country who dare to do right, and who love the truth. The reports that are sent out by enemies, concerning the Mormon people in these valleys of the mountains, are causing more investigations than anything they have ever done yet, for thinking people are investigating these reports. There was a time, perhaps, when all people might be easily misled concerning the Mormon people; but that day is past, for honorable men and women in the earth will investigate and see for themselves what the real status is of the great people out in this western land, that have builded such commonwealths as the world has scarcely ever known, and which commands the respect of informed men and women everywhere.   
   
"And by their fruits," the Savior said, "ye shall know them," and by the fruits of the labor of the Mormon people, their establishment of the Gospel of Jesus Christ throughout this world, will people be led to yield obedience to the principles that give them the power to excel in temporal and spiritual things. Not only in the stakes of Zion is this the case, but everywhere where this gospel goes. You will find in every little hamlet or village — where a Latter-day Saint is, that he begins to make friends around him by teaching his neighbor what he believes is right. As the missionaries go through the country establishing colonies and branches of the Church, they introduce the various auxiliary organizations as they are established in the Church here at home, which also teaches the converts organization and order.   
   
Down in the Central States Mission we have a great many branches of the Church, some of them quite large, and we have introduced among them our different auxiliary organizations, that they may thus harmonize with us at home.   
   
Brigham Young established in this country a great school system, which has commanded the respect of everyone that has investigated it, and this system is taught wherever the Mormon people go. We have elders who are teaching school in the Central States Mission. They are teaching day school as well as assisting in the branch work; and many of the saints are asking that a night or two a week be set apart that they might attend a night school, and thus become acquainted with the educational plans of the Mormon people. We are endeavoring to do this everywhere. One writer has said that the greatest prison is that of inefficiency. Teach efficiency, and you release the captives. I say to you that men and women everywhere delight in principles of education and right. They love liberty just as much in any part of the world, wherever this gospel goes, as we do here; because it carries with it liberty and loyalty, honor to God and to the nation in which they reside.   
   
Over in the State of Texas we have a colony of six hundred people, perhaps more, and in that colony we have a day school, taught by our missionaries from this city, who have been called to go there, giving their time and attention toward the uplifting of manhood. We believe that when a man goes down in the waters of baptism he has the right to receive all that the Church has for him, all that God has revealed for men to receive. We believe that it is right for each and every one of us to receive these privileges if we live faithful and true to our covenants, consequently the principle of establishing schools has prevailed wherever the Mormon Church has gained converts. The teachers who were called to this particular labor in Texas happen to be lady missionaries. They have, perhaps, one hundred and fifty pupils divided among three of them. They have a Sabbath School numbering over two hundred and fifty pupils. One night weekly they teach forty officers and teachers of that Sabbath School how to instruct the members of that school, thus giving them training; and they are doing many other things toward the benefit and uplifting of these people.   
   
I say unto you, my brothers and sisters, that there never was a time in the world when the people were receiving Mormonism better than at the present. Our elders are received almost everywhere with open arms. The eyes of the nations are upon the Mormons, and when people investigate the principles of our Church, the principles of right, liberty, love, and justice which we teach, they hasten their desire to find out more. Consequently, I say, none of us need have any fear as to the outcome of this work. The elders that have been sent forth into the missionary fields of this Church are bringing souls to God every day; honest hearted men and women, children of the same God, are yielding obedience to the principles that were taught by Christ the Lord and revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith.   
   
There was a time in the history of this Church when people scoffed if you mentioned the name of Joseph Smith in the streets, or in public places of any kind, but that day is past. I am a witness of it, and know that when the name of Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, is now preached or mentioned upon the streets or in halls of cities, hamlets, or villages, people listen to what we have to say concerning him with interest. We have established a history that is going to be proclaimed forever and ever, for God Himself will not recall what He has spoken. The history that has been made by the actual experience of the Mormon Church will be established in the earth. When people know that we love liberty, honor, truth and justice, and that, above all people in the world, we are loyal to each other, to this nation, and to God, vacancies will be caused in the synagogues and churches, and other places occupied by men who claim to have the authority to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, for truth will prevail. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the authority accompanying it, comes unto us by revelation, and it comes in no other way.   
   
I know, my brethren and sisters, that the gospel is true. I know this: that God the Father and His Son appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, over in the western portion of the State of New York, in that grove, I know this just as well as I know that I am standing here. That testimony can never be taken from me, because it has been gained by actual experience, it is a knowledge which comes through faith and work, and through fidelity to the cause of God on this earth.   
   
I ask the Lord to bless us in the name of Jesus. Amen. 