31
Outdoor
09 10 1910
Elder C. W. Sorenson. 
64
105-108

(Of North Sanpete Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters: one of the very strong testimonies, in my opinion, of the work in which we are engaged, is this large concourse of people, who assemble here at least twice every year. It is an astnishing fact that twice a year, the converts of Mormonism come from Mexico on the south, from Canada on the north, from the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts. From thousands of miles distant the people assemble from year to year semi-annually to hear the word of God as it is dispensed from the headquarters of the Mormon Church. Where in all the world can you find a spectacle like it?  
  
I want to ask what is it that moves upon the children of men to bring them thus together. By what power, by what affinities, are they thus attracted; by what power are they made to meet the sacrifices which it takes, not only in time, but in means, to gather in such large numbers upon such occasions?  
  
We heard yesterday from one of the speakers in the Tabernacle that some one had said that we were very lath, in fact afraid, to stand up by the side of the scriptures, that we were afraid to have our ideas and doctrines investigated in the light of the revelations of God, as contained in Holy Writ, particularly in the Bible. I say to you, as an elder in Israel, and I do not need to tell it to those of us who have embraced the truth and have knowledge of it, but, should there be any here who are not converted to the doctrines of Mormonism— I want to say to you that nothing is farther from the truth than that. I know there is nothing that I like better, that pleases me more, than the privilege of lining up the principles of Mormonism with the Holy Scriptures, the Bible. There is nothing I like better than to demonstrate the truth of the principles enunciated by our Prophet in the light of the revelations contained in the Word of God. I bear testimony to you today that Mormonism, as it was enunciated by the Prophet, and as it has been taught from that day to this, as it is proclaimed by us throughout the length and the breadth of the world today, is nothing more, is nothing less, than the doctrines laid down in the Word of God; is nothing more nor less than the preaching and teachings of the prophets of all ages since the world began. I repeat, it is an especial pleasure to any missionary to compare the doctrines of Mormonism, so called, with the doctrines taught in the Bible.  
  
It is conceded that we have one of the most wonderful organizations in the world. It has been said that it is second only to the German army, and while we are pleased with that comparison, we are willing to go them one better, and say, not even the German army can compare with the organization of our Church. It is organized by and under the direction of Almighty God, and it is perfect in all its ramifications. If there is a defect, or fault, I bear testimony that it is not because of a faulty organization, but because of faults in the men or women occupying offices in the organization. I emphatically declare unto you, therefore, that Mormonism is what the Bible teaches. I declare unto you that the Church, commonly known as the Mormon Church, is none other than the Church of God, in complete harmony with that system instituted and organized by the Savior of the world.  
  
But even these things are not all that has brought this vast concourse of people together. There is something else. We explain to the world the doctrines of Mormonism; we show to the world the wonderful organization of the Church, but this other element, the most vital content of this system, we cannot explain to them, although we know it. Every man that has been imbued with the Spirit of God understands it. He cannot give it to another — that is, he cannot give to another that feeling and those emotions that come to himself who knows it. He alone understands it and feels it. What is it? It is the spirit that permeates this work. It is but natural that this work, being the work of God, should be imbued with the Spirit of God. It is but natural that it should be permeated by that Spirit. The Spirit of God is given to every penitent sinner when he has received baptism at the hands of those having authority. The Spirit thus bestowed upon him, by the authority of God, becomes to him an assurance and testimony, and living fire within him, by which he knows, understands and feels that this is the kingdom of God. We cannot give that to the investigator. He can receive it only as God is pleased to give it to him, and God is pleased to give it only to those who, in penitence and humility, bow before him and receive and obey His word.  
  
I want to call your attention to the operations of that Spirit. You may feel it, but it is like the Savior said: "The wind bloweth: but whither it cometh we know not nor whither it goeth." The influence is there, the feeling is there, the emotions are there ;and every man or woman who honestly obeys the Gospel of the Lord Jesus receives that Spirit, and that testimony.  
  
That to me is the strongest testimony of this work. When all other things fail, when doubt and misgivings arise concerning this man or that man, there need never be a failure of the testimony of the Spirit of Truth, if the person is living so he is worthy of it. Men may judge the system, men may judge the doctrine, but none can judge the truth except he who is under the influence of the Spirit of Truth, and whose soul has been mellowed by its wonderful power. It is the same spirit that has moved upon the divine teachers, sages and prophets of all ages.  
  
I often think of that man Columbus. When he was westward bound across the mighty deep, when his men were dissatisfied, and mutinied and decided to cast him overboard unless he would listen to them and turn back, with death staring him in the face, with angry and determined men threatening him — I wonder that he could continue to plead with them for more time. Imagine how he felt on the third day, when the time was lapsing, when before him was apparently nothing but disappointment or a watery grave. Did he falter? Did he show timidity, or a laxity of faith in the object of his research? Not for one moment! Now I want to ask you, my friends, my brethren and sisters, what was it that moved upon him? Undoubtedly it was the Spirit of God. Somehow, he knew that success would yet perch upon his banner. Somehow, he understood that his efforts would terminate in success. Could he prove or demonstrate that feeling? No, but he could feel it, and I say to you, that even as he felt and understood his success before it was achieved, so do we know that this is the work of God. The same spirit that urged him on in the face of adversity and a watery grave, the same is that which actuates our boys when they go out in the mission field and come in contact with men of wisdom and learning and understanding. They are inspired with something within, and they are undaunted, courageous, and unfearing.  
  
This feeling that brings yon up from Arizona and Mexico on the south, and Canada on the north, from the Atlantic States, from all over the world, is the Spirit that moves upon the hearts of men and women in every nation under the whole heaven, where this gospel is preached, to turn their thoughts to this city on the sixth day of April and on the sixth day of October, and anticipate with deep concern and profound anxiety the utterances made from these pulpits upon these occasions. I say it is the Spirit of God moving upon them, and it is moving upon you.  
  
Brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony to you. I understand a part of this doctrine, and as I understand it, I believe that it is true: I may say I know that it is true. I am not ashamed of it, because I know it to be the power of God unto salvation.  
  
May God grant that we may be faithful and true to this cause, that we may not be unworthy of it, and that our Father in heaven may never have cause to be ashamed of us, either individually or collectively, is the prayer of your humble servant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
