36
Afternoon
09 10 1910
Patriarch John Smith. 
34
120-121

None

A loving brother's faithful testimony. — Faith and prayers of the Saints effective.  
  
It is with peculiar feelings that I stand before you on this occasion. I have been very much pleased with all that has been said thus far in this conference. I had thought that, probably, I might be called to address you for a few moments, and I have tried to think of something to say, but that something did not come. I can bear testimony, however, that I know this is the work of God. I know that we are His people, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God, and that his successors in the presidency of the Church have been strictly in the line and discharge of their duty. They have all been servants of the living God. Their testimony has been borne to the people, and I bear testimony that what they have said and done is right and proper, and has been inspired by the true spirit of our Heavenly Father.  
  
I was interested in listening to the remarks of my brother, in the opening session of the conference. If the people had known him as I have known him, from early youth, even from his birth, they would not say that he said one thing and meant another. I think there is no man living who knows him better than I do. While he was a child, I carried him on my back. I watched over him as a babe, and as he grew up to manhood I have known every feature of his life. I know of his sincerity and the truth of what he has said. There are many things which I might say, if I could think of them here, and I trust that through your faith and prayers, my memory may have some strength, that I may say something.  
  
I have been pleased with the testimonies that have been borne here. As Elder Grant has just now borne his testimony, and related some incidents in his life, so I may say that I also have a testimony in this regard. Many times I have been on crutches through accident. Twice I have been broken down physically, through over-exertion and exposure. For two or three years, I was down, as you might say, with rheumatism. At the dedication of the temple, the boys had to lift me in a buggy and take me there, and lift me out. Through the faith and prayers of the saints, and my friends, with, also, the help I could give myself, for I have always tried to live in that way and manner that seemed prudent, I am now on my feet again.  
  
I know that there is a God in Israel. I know that He will hear and answer the prayers of the honest. I know that He has heard prayers in my behalf, and through these blessings I am here with you today. I trust that I may continue faithful and firm in the discharge of my duty. I ask the prayers and faith of the saints that I may so continue; that I may live long to fulfill the mission which Father has called me to perform, that I may be a blessing to the people. May God add His blessings and guide us all by His Spirit; may He fit and prepare us for the events of His providence, that when we have finished our course here, we may be worthy of the blessings which He has promised us; this is my prayer, and I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
