7
Afternoon
06 10 1910
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 
44
28-30

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We have listened to a number of very strong testimonies that have been given to us during this conference, of the divine mission of Mormonism, and the divine mission of those men whom the Lord raised up to establish this great work in the earth, and through whom the everlasting gospel has been restored to the children of men. I feel sure that the Latter-day Saints who have been favored with hearing these testimonies feel to rejoice, this day, in the knowledge that those who testified have spoken the truth. There are many thousands of Latter-day Saints who can bear witness to the same thing. There are many more connected with the Church who, probably, feel they have not yet received a sufficient personal testimony for themselves, and yet I believe that within them there is a spirit that bears witness to the truth of this great work. I do not remember when the first testimony of this truth came to me. It seems to me that I have always known Mormonism to be the truth. I can recall, when I was but a small boy, probably a short time after my baptism at about the age of eight when the Spirit almost lifted me from my feet I felt so happy and light of heart and I felt that God was with me that He lived, and gave joy to my soul. I have often thought of this little experience which happened upon the south bank of City Creek, as I was coming home from school. So vivid and so plain was this manifestation that I have never been able to forget it; it has always been a pleasant memory to me, and one might well think, what was it that gave me such extreme joy? As I have become familiar with the manifestations of the Spirit, in my subsequent life, I have recognized it was the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. I believe that the young men and young women of Zion have this testimony, and many of them do not even know it or recognize it as a testimony. Sometimes you will hear them say that they have not yet received a testimony. I believe that if they would consult their own hearts, look into their own souls, they would recognize that the witness of the spirit has been with them many times.  
  
How may we come to the knowledge of the truth? This is a question that has deeply interested me. How may men and women in the world come to a knowledge of the truth, and find out whether or not this is the work of God? How may the young people of Zion, who imagine sometimes that they have not yet received this testimony, how may they come to a knowledge of the truth? The Lord has marked out the path and the way by which we can receive this testimony, that we may obtain a witness for ourselves. Under the revelations that have been given to the children of men we can find many items that will lead us on, and cultivate faith. We may find a great many things recorded in the scriptures and in the modern revelations that have been given to this people, that will awaken faith in the hearts of the children of men. We may find by logic and by reason the excellency of those principles that have been revealed in the day and age in which we live. We may come, through our reasoning faculties, to a great degree of knowledge and understanding. We may find many things to corroborate the truth as it has come to us. We may have witnesses that the Lord has raised up — concerning whom Brother Hart gave us an account here this afternoon — to come and bear witness to that which the Lord has revealed to them. But, I wish to call attention to this fact, that no man or woman can know the truth until God shall reveal it to him or her. No man can know the things of God, but the Spirit of God can bear witness of their truth; and it is absolutely essential to every one who would know that this is indeed the work of God, beyond all question, that he shall obtain first the Spirit of God. As this Spirit will not and does not dwell in an unclean tabernacle, it follows that we must cleanse and purify our hearts by sincere faith in God, and repentance from sin. Every soul that will adopt this method and seek to obtain forgiveness of sin, from Him who alone can remit our sins, through the holy waters of baptism, he shall come to a knowledge of the truth. If, perchance, after these initial ordinances of the gospel have been complied with, you find yourself still lacking in knowledge and understanding, and in a testimony, do not blame in any degree the ordinances themselves or the truth of those principles, but look deep into your own souls, into your own hearts, and you will find the reason there and nowhere else.  
  
Latter-day Saints should be ambitious to grow in knowledge of the truth; and if we shall know, even better than we do today, all that we need do is to be better than we are today, to be purer in our thoughts, to be holier in our lives, and our knowledge will increase in proportion. The testimony of the truth is the witness of the Spirit, and as the power of the Spirit grows within us it bears witness to those things that belong to God and to His work. We will not come to this knowledge through the philosophy of men, through the testimony of others, no matter how much we may be aided and assisted in" this manner. Men can not come to the knowledge of the truth in any other way than through the cleansing process of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If I may quote the words of the Savior:  "This doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." If men and women could come to the knowledge of the truth, the knowledge of God — whom to know is eternal life — without repentance of sin, without turning away from evil, without this cleansing process, what would be the result? Why, men would obtain that eternal life in their sins, and the next world would be no better than this. Repentance from sin is the gospel that we have received. This is the gospel of repentance, and it needs daily practice in order that we may perfect ourselves, going on to that perfection which will bring us to the complete knowledge of God.  
  
I bear witness that this is the truth, that Mormonism, which has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, is only another name for the everlasting gospel, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the only plan that ever was devised, that ever was revealed to man, that has within it the power of God to save the souls of men. May we yield obedience to its principles, practice virtue daily, and grow in the knowledge of God. May we overcome the weaknesses of the flesh, resist evil in all of its forms, and stand for truth. That we may do so, and thereby grow in the knowledge of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
