Third Overflow
10 10 1920


ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD 

(President of the Alberta Stake of Zion) 

I am sure we all appreciate very much the splendid meetings we have enjoyed during this conference and the excellent words and music we have just heard. Singing is a fine accomplishment that our people greatly appreciate, and we have good music in all our communities. 

I am pleased to be at conference again, though not altogether with the position that I now occupy. I once heard a man ask another, what a vacuum was. The man was called upon to address a congregation, and answer the question. He said: "A vacuum, I have it in my head, but I can't explain it." 

I am wondering if we all believe the statement in the hymn, that "an angel from on high," has visited us, and revealed the gospel in its fulness, so that we might better understand it than we could have done by reading ancient scripture. I speak of this because I come from the far north, Canada. 

We have in course of erection a very beautiful temple. Over five thousand people have passed through that unfinished building, thus far this year, from all over the world. I think of that particularly, since I am in the presence of Brother Smoot, of the Council of the Twelve, and our respected senator from Utah. His house in Washington is visited by many strangers who speak of him, (often when he does not hear them) and the good he does by the courage he manifests in always standing before the people as a Latter-day Saint. Only recently some people coming through the country said they atGENERAL CONFERENCE.  meeting at his house in Washington. Brother Smoot did not know of this. They did not belong to the Church, but they admired the man who is always an apostle. I thought of that this morning, while reading in the paper that in Washington the members of the Church thought of renting a hall instead of holding meetings in the residence of Brother Smoot. We little know the good we do in entertaining strangers. 

Let me read just a little from the Doctrine and Covenants of our mission. I am pleased to see so many of our brethren and sisters here this afternoon. I notice, however, the absence of young people. I believe I address mostly this afternoon the parents, and without desiring to take up much of your time, I wish to draw your attention briefly to our mission here. I with you have spent many years in the mission field, aside from presiding with one of my brethren in one of the stakes in Canada. I believe on us rests very largely the responsibility of the carrying on the work of the Lord; and I believe our sentiments, our true feelings and beliefs are reflected largely in our children; and when we hear the fear expressed that young people are not quite as much interested as they should be, I turn critically to myself, and I hope we will all do the same to ourselves this afternoon. We have had very little trouble, however, in that great country, Canada, where we have some of the finest, most stalwart young men and women in all the land of Zion. I believe that as a child is trained', not necessarily taught, he will be, to a great degree, when he becomes mature. "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he grows old he will not depart from it." There is quite a difference between training a child and teaching it. Teaching is telling, training is not only to tell, but to get the child to do, and to know how to do. I read from the first paragraph of Section I of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Hearken, O ye people of my Church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

I think of this in connection with my missionary experiences in the islands of the sea. 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

I wish to tell you a short experience of my own. I was called on a third trip to one of the islands, in the days of President Joseph F. Smith. I think of this special prophecy as I remember the many obstacles placed in our way in going to the islands. I was called to take a special mission to Samoa and the South Seas. I am a British subject by naturalization. I could not leave Canada without a passport, but the President of the Church had called me to be in Salt Lake City by an appointed time, and asked if 1 could come. I should have obtained my passport before answering the letter, but I said, yes, I will be there. Then I set to work to make good my promise by applying through all the means available for my passport. The time approached for my departure, and I could not get across the line without the passport, but it did not come in time for me to leave. I presented the matter to the Lord in prayer. I told him my difficulties, and I felt that I must make good my word, and at least make the attempt to come. So I boarded the train bound for Salt Lake City without any passport. When I arrived at the boundary line, the emigration officers asked for my passport. I thought all the time, "They shall go forth and none shall stay them." I thought of that, and I wished that the emigration officer believed as much as I did of its truth; but he did not. However, I was somewhat acquainted with him. He said, "I will let you go provided you furnish the passport after." "All right," I said, "I shall be pleased to do it." When President Smith set me apart, he told me that I should go. Now he did not know anything about my not having a passport. I knew it would be more difficult to get out of the United States than to get in — leaving the port of San Francisco and getting to an American possession in Samoa. I knew, or thought I did, that I must have my passport. President Smith, laying his hands upon my head, said: "Brother Wood, you shall go upon your mission to perform the business to be attended to, and return in safety." He never mentioned any appointed time. All the time he was blessing me I was wondering about my passport. I did hope it would come. I was promised by our attorney that it should be registered to me in Salt Lake City to be here the day after my arrival. J waited, and the next day it did not come. The time came for us to leave. At the Oregon Short Line office I wired home, to learn if any news had been received from Ottawa, the Washington of Canada. I did not get any reply. But President Smith said I should go; here was the. prophecy and revelation that none should stay the disciples from preaching the gospel. As it mentions in the next verse : "Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth." "And they shall go forth, and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them." The Lord had commanded me, not the emigration officers at all. So, I set out on the train without my passport. But I received a wire at the station that my passport would be in San Francisco before the steamer left. I felt all right again. Well, we arrived in San Francisco, and went down to the emigration office the day before the steamer sailed. I was there without my passport. I expected it would be there that evening, but GENERAL CONFERENCE.  did not come. And the steamer was to sail, and I was there without my passport. When the time came to answer at the emigration office, I got in line, and felt fine, knowing it would be all right, but I did not know how. When I saw the official ask the passengers for their passports, and some were refused, some were asked a lot of questions, and I did not have my passport, I stood there just as if I had it, and he did not know anything different. When my time came, he said, "Sit down a little while, Mr. Wood; I will talk to you later." Well, I knew it would be all right. Did you ever feel that way, when you have just had the elders come in to administer to a sick child, and you knew positively that the child would be healed? I felt these promises running through my mind, but how should they be fulfilled? When it came to my turn, the emigration officer said, "Well, the time is up, you must come to the office tomorrow at 9. The steamer sails at 1, and you come up, Mt. Wood." The time arrived for me to meet again, in the morning, and I was in line. I felt all right, though I did not have any passport. The emigration officer finally said, "Let's see, Mr. Wood, you have got your passport, go right on board the steamer." I said, "Thanks," and I did not have any passport at all, though I had the commission from President Smith, which was worth more than all the passports from all the governments in the world. But I had yet a great many difficulties. I thought, "Now, I am on the steamier, how am I to get off?" The most important part of all is to present your documents or passports before you leave. I had three long weeks to wear away before I should land. The Purser takes a kind of genealogy of each of the people. When he came to me, he asked me to sit down; and said, "Of course, you understand you must present your passport, Mr. Wood." I said, "All right, I understand it." "Where did you come from?" I said, "From Canada." He said, "Sit down, Mr. Wood. I am delighted to see you people from Canada so willing to go down and preach the gospel to those natives." And I spoke of the gospel with him; and he asked for no passport at all. Well, I had other difficulties, too, but I felt all right. 

When I arrived at Honolulu, I escaped another very difficult situation by making a pleasant gospel conversation with the emigration officer at that port. Then we made two thousand more miles to the south. I knew the most difficult time was yet to come, that is, when we arrived at Tutuila. How in the world to work it there I did not know. But I prayed to the Lord, not only twice every day for those several weeks, but several times every day, that other avenues would be opened up so that no one could stay my passing. 

I remember when that steamer entered that most beautiful harbor which Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson named Pago Pago, I went up on land, and many of the natives that I had seen before met me, and made their characteristic salutation. They were glad that I had come. I saw one of our boys from Canada leading a splendid band, and they had come to welcome me. Then again I began to wonder 125  I would get off again, and yet whenever I would remember these promises, I would take courage again. The steamer only stayed there six hours, and we were lined up again. Now this was the final getting through without a passport, and I had to buoy up my spirit to meet the emergency. They came within one of me, when the emigration officer said, "Sit down, I want to ask you a question." And he said to me, "Mr. Wood, get your passport ready." "All right." I had the missionary appointment from President Smith, I had the promise, and the prophecy in this revelation, that "none shall stay them." When he had called me, and it was my turn to present my passport, he turned to the man next to me and said, "Why, you are a New Yorker." And this officer went over and had a conversation with this man he called the New Yorker. When he came back, he said, "Let me see, Mr. Wood, I have had your passport all right, you may go on." 

My fellow parents, we are all just like one large family, regardless of places of residence; we are all Latter-day Saints; we are all interested in one another. What is a success in Canada is courage to you, and what is your success here may make us feel well in Canada, because, not like other peoples of the world, we are all members of one large family. I say to you, that if, as parents, we can win our boys and girls to righteousness around our family hearths, it is far better than to place them in the hands of the Purity League, or even the ward teachers, or any one else. Let me, as the father of my children, and my wife as their mother, win the hearts of our boys and girls at home, win their confidence, and others will have very little trouble over them. I think of it when I see the mothers with their babies on their knees. Why they would not think of letting the little baby fall, not for all the world. They watch over its every movement, fearful that it might fall. Far easier it would be to heal the broken arm of the infant than the injured mentality, the perverted heart of the grown child who often leaves his home with very little concern of his parents. We are not concerned enough as parents over our children. When I think again of the Islands, of how those people there teach their children to respect their parents, it is marvelous in the extreme. You call those natives uncivilized. I have seen a young man wild, almost uncooth in his habits, taken into the council of chiefs, at the death of his father, and at once he becomes dignified, almost majestic, feeling the responsibilty of his father upon his shoulders in the council of chiefs. It is because the boy was taught when he was young, aye more, he was trained, how to act when he became a man, how to act the chief that his father was before he died. 

O the faith of those natives, if we only had it! If we simply knew, if we had the knowledge (more than faith) of the mission of our Church itself, in which we are taught that when I go into eternity with my wife to whom I am sealed, my joy, our joy, will not be comGENERAL CONFERENCE.  until we have in our circle some, yes, every one, of our children. Let us not wait until it is too late. 

I remember once a woman on the Islands — to show you how the Lord goes before and with us, his elders and servants, and after us, on those Islands — a lady had a very sick child, and when they are sick they have faith in the power of the Priesthood to restore. We had only been there a few weeks. Nobody knew us there, did not know that we had arrived. A man came up to the house where we were holding service. He did not understand us; he had to speak through an interpreter; and he said to me, "There is a lady on the other Island with a sick child. She wants you three men to go to her, and heal her child." It was right on the verge of the war there. The first edict made by the king under the German government was that a "Mormon" missionary who preached was to be find $100 for the first sermon, and for the second he was to be banished from the Island. They made that edict, and we thought we were in trouble till this man said, that that woman had asked that' we three men go unto her and lay our hands upon her child and the child should recover. We went out to a palm tree and talked to the Lord as I am talking to you, wanting the inspiration of his Spirit. Soon we decided we would go. After going across a strait some three miles in a little canoe, expecting almost every moment that the canoe would be overturned, we arrived. The woman was standing in front of her house. She had her handkerchief to her eyes, and said, "I am glad that you have come. It is all right. Here is my child." And under the sheet was the body of the child. We lifted that up and saw the child, and we said, "the child is already dead, and we covered it up again; and she hastily said, "No, it is not dead at all. You do what I saw you do last night in my dream, and he will be well." We asked 1 the Lord, "suppose we administer to this child, and it does not get well, and they will say you are all evil spirits. They are a superstitious people." We had no faith that the child would recover. But the unprecedented faith of this native woman inspired us to do it. And she said, "Have you authority to do what I saw you do? You anointed that child with oil; you laid your hands upon his head." Yes, we had that authority. And then I thought of that passage that "my servants must go forth, and my authority shall be with them, and none shall stay them." I said, "Yes, we have that authority." Said she, "have you the authority to refuse?" I said, "no." We anointed the child, laid our hands upon it, covered it up, and went away. The cyclone came on, the social condition of the natives was upset; we never heard of the woman and child for a long while. I didn't expect to hear from it, until about a year after when I saw a number of natives under trees, with long knives. I saw them running along beneath the trees in their half-clad condition. Then I thought again that none should stay the preaching of this gospel So I buoyed myself up as best I could, and marched on. I saw the natives surrounding me on all sides. and as I 127  ,to a house in that tropical forest, they commenced to get closer to me, when all at once a woman marched out, and! said, "How do you do, Brother Wood ?" I rather sank back, and said, "I don't know you." "O yes, you do," and she turned and called a child about nine years of age. She stood the child upon the trunk of a tree, and then she bore this testimony to the great crowd of natives : "This child is a living testimony of the great power of the gospel, and the power and authority held by Brother Wood and his associates. They administered to this child /over two years ago. I have never seen them since, but I know they have the power of God with them, and all of you must listen to their message. I am the daughter of the high chief of the island, and you can come to my house and have everything you want." 

I went, and the natives followed along, and I sat up nearly all night preaching to them. We had a good spirit. I mention this to you to prove that the divinity and. power of the Priesthood is with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today. But the evil one is ever present. 

One morning, on one occasion, when I was dressing, I felt something alive on my neck, and I hit it at once, and I was bitten? by a centipede, one of the most deadly of insects on the Islands. My arm commenced to swell. The natives came and said, "Give us your last message; you will die within an hour." I felt excruciating pain. Then up came the woman. The natives had told her that I was killed by the deadly insect, and I was there with them. The woman came up very leisurely. She shook my hand showing she expected consolation. She said, "That is all right, Brother Wood. Have you got any of that oil with you?" I said, "Yes, get my valise. "Now," she said, "Do what you did to my child, and you will be all right." I felt when she said that, that I positively knew it would be so. I anointed my hand, and the swelling left, just like taking a glove off my hand, and she turned to the natives who had gathered around, and said, "As I told you, the Lord is with this young man, and his Church, and his people." 

Brethren and sisters, let us inspire this faith, this confidence, in the hearts of our growing children, and never get away from the fact that we are responsible for them in their future life. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER WM. H. MENDENHALL 

(President of the Bannock Stake of Zion) 

My beloved brethren : It is an inspiration to me to stand before this congregation, to look into your faces, and to listen to the testimony and the teachings of the presiding authorities during this conference. And I have been made to feel that the hand of the Lord is GENERAL CONFERENCE. , and that he is leading and directing the brethren of the prieschood that preside over us in this Church. 

Permit me for a few moments to call your attention again to the revelation contained in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that part that has been read and referred to by President Wood. The Lord inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith in this revelation, given before the organization of the Church, when he declared that this gospel, the word of the Lord, shall be carried as a witness unto all nations by the men and women who may be called in the last day. 

When Brother Wood was relating his experience, showing that none should stay the hand of the Lord in carrying out his purposes, it reminded me of an incident in my missionary experience, when I labored on the Sandwich Islands. It was customary at that time, when the missionaries were going from one island to another, to present to the officials their missionary certificate, which we always carried in our pockets. I remember being sent out to one of the islands, when I first lived in that mission, and after I had taken my place on the boat the officer came around inquiring who we were, and asking for our missionary certificates. I presented my missionary certificate to him, but he did not want to accept it, and he told me I would have to go ashore. And I argued with him, that I had been called of the Lord as a missionary, that I had my missionary certificate signed by President Wilford Woodruff, and I was entitled to go where I had been sent by the president of that mission. While we were arguing, the steamer weighed anchor and began to leave the shore; and in our heated argument he saw that was his last chance to get back on to the wharf; so he jumped on to the wharf, and I remained on the boat. It was too far for me to jump, so I went on my mission, as I had been directed by the president of that mission. So I know, my brethren and sisters, that the hand of the Lord is in the ministry of this gospel in the nations of the earth. And the Lord has said in this revelation, that this gospel shall be preached in all the world by his disciples who shall be chosen in the last days. They are gone forth. The gospel has been preached in almost all the nations of the world. Men and women are accepting its principles. They are becoming members of the Church, full of the Spirit of the Lord and a desire to serve him and keep his commandments. 

There is a certain responsibility rests upon us, in respect to our attendance at these conferences. I very often wonder in my mind, in my visits to these conferences, why so many people from all over Zion, and from the missions in the world, can spend their time and their means attending these conferences, and I wonder what benefit we derive from the attendance at the conferences. The Lord commanded through the Prophet Joseph Smith that these conferences should be held, that the people might come up to the center place of Zion and hear the word of the Lord from the presiding authorities of his Church, that their faith in the work of the Lord might be strengthened, that our determination may increase to serve the Lord 129  keep his commandments. So we come up here, and listen to the presiding authorities of the Church, the presidents of missions and brethren who are called upon from time to time to teach us the word of the Lord. It becomes our duty, in order that the purposes of the Lord might be fulfilled in these conference gatherings, that when we shall go to our homes, when we go to the different stakes and wards of Zibn, that we shall reflect the spirit, the admonition, the teaching, that we receive at these conferences in our lives, that by so doing the brethren and sisters who are not able to attend these conferences might be benefited in a general way for our having come up to worship the Lord. Thus I understand why so many of us take advantage of this opportunity of gathering together. 

There is a great deal of work for us to do in the Church. We make every effort to send our boys into the mission fields to preach the gospel. We make every sacrifice necessary that they may be sustained while in the world preaching the gospel. We rejoice that they have been considered worthy by the presiding authorities of the Church to go out into the world to preach the gospel. Yet right here at home, in the stakes of Zion, in the wards, there is ample missionary work for us all. Among our neighbors, among our associates and friends, an opportunity presents itself for us to labor, to do missionary work. In this connection, I desire to read from the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Joseph Smith, Senior, early in the beginning of this work, in the year 1829, was full of a desire to promote the work of the Lord as in part it had been revealed to his son, Joseph the prophet. Joseph, Senior, accepted the testimony of his son. Desirous of helping in this great work, he went to his son, and he said: "My boy, what can I do to help this work along? What can I do that the same Spirit of the Lord that I possess, that has been manifest in your ministry, might be felt by all the people of the earth? What may I do to help you to accomplish this work?" And the Lord said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

Now, behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that you serve him with all your heart, might, mind, and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work, for behold, the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, goodness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen. (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 4.) 

This is the admonition, the instruction, of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to his father, and it applies to us in our mjinistry and service in this Church. If we have a desire to serve the Lord, we are called to the ministry, we are called to set examples that will be worthy of imitation. We are called to use our GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and the powers of our minds in the advancement of the work of the Lord among our associates and friends; and the Lord charges us with the responsibility of being kind, full of love, and full of his Spirit in our ministry among the people, that we shall be charitable towards each other, that we shall uphold the authorities of the Church, that we shall in no way find fault with them or tear down their character, but that we shall sustain them in our ministry and labors, with our faith, prayers and determination, to the end that the work of the Lord may grow and increase in the earth, and that it shall fulfil its destiny among the people. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel. I know that it is true  I have no doubt in my mind. I am in harmony with the presiding authorities of the Church. I uphold and sustain them in their work. And when I was called upon a mission, a number of years ago,! remember that President Heber J. Grant set me apart to labor as a missionary in the Sandwich Islands; and I remember in blessing me he placed his hands upon my head and said, "Brother Mendenhall, if you will but serve the Lord, do your duty, rely upon him, the Lord will give you a knowledge of his work. The Lord will enable you to do much good while you labor upon the Islands, and you shall come home in safety. The Lord will prosper you so long as you accomplish the duties of your mission, and keep his commandments." I want to testify to you that the words of the prophet upon my head have been fulfilled. The Lord gave me a knowledge of the Hawaiian language. He gave me power and influence among the people, and I believe I was able to do some good; and upon my return home, I have endeavored to devote my services to the work of the Lord, and I thank him for the blessings that I enjoy. This is my testimony in relation to this work that has been established on the earth for the salvation of the children of men. 

May the Lord help us to do our duty, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A violin duet was rendered by Sisters Shermer and Lindsay, of the choir. 

ELDER PETER M. HANSEN 

(President of the Bear River Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters: I have greatly rejoiced during this conference in the splendid music that we have heard, and in the admonitions and counsel that we have received from the servants of the Lord who have addressed us. The spirit of humility, peace, and love that has actuated the speakers has certainly made me rejoice that we live in. this day and age of the world when the gospel has been revealed, and that we have the privilege of living and enjoying the splendid privileges that are ours, as Latter-day Saints. We rejoice in these privileges, my brethren and sisters, and I feel to honor the 131 

Lord and to keep his commandments, and feel that our spirits are in tune with the inspiration that we have received from' the brethren in authority in the Church. I hope we all feel grateful for these blessings, and that these things will spur us on to live nearer to the Lord in the future than we have in the past. 

In our stake of Zion we have been doing some little missionary work the past year among the people. Special missionaries have been called; and in visiting among the Latter-day Saints, we found too many people in our stake of Zion who did not pray in their families, nor teach prayer in their homes, consequently their children were not becoming accustomed to pray. 1 fear this condition is too prevalent among us as Latter-day Saints, and consequently many of us have not the spirit of humility and love for the gospel of Jesus Christ that we ought to have burning in our souls. We also found too many who were not observing the Word of Wisdom, as we have heard in this conference. We found that too many of our acting teachers in the stake were not observing this commandment. When they went into the homes of the Latter-day Saints they could not teach this principle, because they were not observing it themselves. As a rule we found our young people living nearer up to this principle than many of our older brethren and sisters. Hence we have found it necessary to take up this labor among the people in our stake of Zion. I testify to you that we have met with splendid results. We have talked over the reports received from: different wards, two or three times now. We find a little improvement each time these reports come in, and the brethren and sisters will say, "you shall not have to report again that we are not observing this splendid law." 

As we have heard during this conference, this is a splendid law for the Latter-day Saints, and it has been preached to us now, as we have heard from Brother Lyman, for eighty years, and yet I fear that we are no nearer, perhaps, in observing this law than we were many years ago. To me it is a glorious principle. It is both our temporal salvation and financial. 

I attended the fair last Saturday, and saw a great many blessings that the Lord has showered upon us, in our crops and in our herds; we can almost produce everything that we need here in this state- — beautiful fruits and vegetables and everything else that we need. It seems to me that there should not be an excuse for not living well up to the Word of Wisdom. One can always single out a man who is addicted to tobacco. He is not particular about his person, as a general rule. Hence we ought to take heed to this counsel' so often received from the brethren and sisters who live in harmony with this law. 

I remember Brother Francis M. Lyman came to our stake on one occasion, and said : "Now, Latter-day Saints, come out this afternoon, and I will teach you how to get rich." Well, we had a pretty good turn-out of the people and he told them : "No matter what you make, what you produce, put away 25 cents every day, and you will GENERAL CONFERENCE.  how it will amount up, and you will prosper and the Lord will be with you and bless you." 

This has been a prosperous year for the Latter-day Saints. We have enjoyed prosperity, and we have enjoyed the blessings of the Lord generally, and the only way that I can feel satisfied is by remembering the Lord and giving unto him that which belongs to him in tithes and offerings. 

I feel grateful for the privilege we enjoy as Latter-day Saints. The spirit of peace, love and union, I pray may be increased among us, that we may have a desire to keep the commandments, and live in harmony with the knowledge we have received and the privileges thai we enjoy. I pray that the Lord will bless us and inspire our minds, that we may live according to these practical principles of the gospel, which is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The anthem "Hosannah" was rendered by the choir. 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of the Eastern States Mission) 

My dear brethren and sisters: I am glad indeed to be with you today, and partake of the wonderful spirit present. A little story comes to my mind. Once upon a time a splendid old couple lived in a community, and had won the respect of all their neighbors; and their neighbors were wont to show their love for this goodly couple on various occasions. And at one time they presented them with a nice jar of peaches, put up in brandy sauce. It seemed that this good couple did not like peaches, and when they acknowledged the token, they wrote a small note like this : "Dear friends, we regret to say that we did not like the peaches, but we did enjoy the spirit in which they were sent." 

I earnestly desire that I may speak to you a few minutes under the Spirit of the Lord which my brethren preceding me have enjoyed, so that you will enjoy the spirit with which I speak to you. 

I testify to you that the Spirit of God, like a fire, is burning; and if you have failed to enjoy it here this afternoon, it is not the fault of the brethren who have spoken to you, and it is not the fault of the music that has been rendered, for I do know that the Spirit of God is here,' and it is the sweetest thing in all the world. There is no place in all the world where I would rather be than here, today — or rather, just a few steps from here, where I expect soon to be. 

I bring you greetings from your sons and daughters who are laboring in the Eastern States mission. I am glad to report that they enjoy a wonderful spirit, that God is with them, that they are doing a wonderful work. I feel that we all need the gospel preached 133  us, and I know of no one in all the world' who can impress you more thoroughly with the need of a genuine repentance and a knowledge of the truth than those splendid sons and daughters whom you have sent out into the world, and I hope you will send back to them a message of good cheer. 

I was delighted in hearing President Wood relate some mani- . festations of God's power, for it is a fact that our Father in heaven has not changed, and he is pleased to bestow his power upon his servants who will serve him. He is the same yesterday, today and forever. We read of the wonderful blessings he poured out upon his people in ancient times, and I testify that he is willing to do the same to us, if we abide by his laws which called down the blessings of heaven upon them. I testify to you that we are enjoying the same gifts and blessings of God, for they do follow them' that believe. 

We enjoy many manifestations of God's glorious Spirit in the mission field, and we do at home, I realize. We recently had a little controversy — but I wish to stop here and state that we do not contend with the people of the world. We have no contention whatever with the people of the world, but we have a beautiful message of life and salvation to give to them, a message which gives no offense; it is a positive inspiration for all humanity. We do not contend for it, but give it to the world for their acceptance or rejection. 

Upon one occasion, lately, a learned gentleman saw fit to challenge our statements while speaking to a splendid congregation, and he got up and raved about the so-called "Mormons" being the richest people in all the world. He also said that we had come out there to get their women to take them back to Utah, but he seemed to feel very bad that the "Mormon" people were the richest people in all the world, and thought that was a terrible crime. I saw fit to answer him. I told him that we came not for their women, but I had to plead guilty to the second charge that our people were the richest people in all the world. He had made the statement that we owned many stocks and bonds, and one thing and another, but he did not state our original riches. I proceeded to tell him that over 85 per cent of our people own their own homes, and the land, not merely the furniture and fixtures in their homes, but the ground on which their homes were erected, and I pleaded guilty to that. They owned many good things of a worldly nature, and I called their attention to them, that their acquirements had been accomplished in the midst of drivings and persecutions, from the time the Church was organized until the time that we reached the valleys of the mountains, and even after that our Church property had been confiscated. And I called his attention to the fact that we had to meet the same taxation as other people, and we had also made the same contributions, fully up to the standard of any of them, in the recent war; and, in addition to these, our young men, to a very large number, had given at least two years of their time in preaching the gospel, and they had borne their GENERAL CONFERENCE.  while doing so, and that this necessitates taking them away from the various business interests of the community; and in addition to this we had paid one-tenth of all that God had given us, back to him; and in the face of all this we were the richest people in the world. 

I then told them how it had been accomplished. 1 told them that they were not the greatest riches we possessed, but our greatest riches consisted in having a testimony that God lives, that we know that God has spoken in these last days, that we are willing to accept his wonderful revelations; and through that means we had received and accepted the gospel which is the power of God unto salvation, not only a salvation in the far off eternities, but an immediate salvation, so far as we would live it, and we were being saved temporally. In the words of the speaker I was answering, we were the richest people in all the world. We had the power of God unto salvation, not only intellectually but morally. And I rejoiced exceedingly in being able to proclaim these things. 

I rejoice in being present here this afternoon. There has been a wonderful spirit present. I hope 1 have said nothing to detract from what has been said previously. I felt at the conclusion of the brethren's talk that the feeling was almost too sacred to disturb. It is a wonderful thing to be able to come together and partake of the Spirit of the Lord, as we have today, and I hope that we will strive earnestly to take the message that has been given to us, and live it, for I know it has been an inspiration to all of us. 

After listening to the key-note speech of President Grant, and the addresses of the other brethren, I was telling some of my folks, at luncheon, that I felt that they were speaking to me personally, and the others responded with the same thought, that they felt that the message was to them directly. I hope we will all go to our homes feeling earnestly the desire in our hearts that we will keep the commandments, that we will strive to manifest the spirit of love and charity in all our walks and talks in life. 

In the world, the greatest difficulty we meet is the sense of indifference, and after we have reasoned with people, and tried to explain the plan of salvation to them, they almost universally come back with the saying, "Well, we are all on the road to the same goal; you are taking one road, and we are taking another, but we are all destined to reach the same goal." What a mistake! The scriptures teach nothing of the kind, but the Master said, there is only one way, and he that entereth by another way is to be accounted as a thief and a robber. We have gone in through the narrow gate into the straight and narrow way, and we cannot afford to step to the right to take advantage of our brethren; we cannot step to the left to steal or to lie or to disobey the commandments of God. We must keep on in the straight and narrow way if we want to become partakers of the kingdom of God. I hope that we will strive earnestly; and these exhortations I want to direct to myself even more than to you. 135 

I rejoice exceedingly that I have been accounted worthy to go out and preach the gospel of my Redeemer. I realize that it is an opportunity. It is a blessed privilege to be given the opportunity to go out into the vineyard and work for the kingdom of God. I find that some are doing that at home. I was exceedingly gratified with the work that the father of one of our missionaries is doing in Ogden, and I had heard of it before. He is sending his friends the Liahona tracts, and other literature, as well as his own testimony, and I was glad to find that he has the same sweet joy and satisfaction in doing these things at home that we enjoy out in the world. And I exhort you, brethren and sisters, to live up to this opportunity so far as it is in your power, for it is a privelege and blessing, and we are all enlisted to it. 

I do not desire to take more of your time this afternoon. I feel that it would not be right, inasmuch as we have Brother Smoot and others that we would all like to listen to. As for me, I have heard a definition of a good speech that I like. The British premier says there are three fundamentals to a good speech, and I find much consolation in his definition, because it is the only one that I have hopes of applying to myself. He says, the first is to stand up, the second is to speak up, and the third is to shut up. The blessings of the Lord I earnestly pray for us all, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference greatly. I thank my heavenly Father for the privilege I have had of listening to the wonderful testimonies that have been borne, and the explanation of the sayings of the Savior, and the revelations of our heavenly Father. And I, like every one who has attended the conference, without a doubt in our minds, feel that the present conference is among the best conferences ever held by the Church. 

I have not the time to take up any special subject as the adjournment hour is nearly at hand. 

BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD 

Yesterday I asked Hon. Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana, to attend the afternoon session of our conference. We came into the temple block by the east gate, and as we walked down the path towards the tabernacle, he stopped and looked at the temple. He asked when the "Mormon" people began to build this magnificent structure. I told him the erection of the building was begun in the year 1853, long before there was a railroad in this country, and at a time when the people had very little of this world's goods. I called his attention to the fact that the building of the temple was an evidence of the faithfulness and loyalty of the people to the work established by God GENERAL CONFERENCE.  this dispensation. It did not take so much ready money, but it did take a spirit of determination and sacrifice that could only come through a knowledge that they were working in the service of God. Said he, "What do they use the temple for?" I told him of the sacred ordinance.-; of baptism for the dead; I told him of the eternal marriage covenant, and that our people believed in both, and -the vicarious work that was preached by the apostles of old was attended to in our temples. He said, "What do you mean bv baptism for the dead?" Said I, "Senator Beveridge, we mean this, that we are carrying out the same instructions in regard to this wonderful principle as taught in the days of the Savior and his ancient apostles. I referred him to Paul's letter to the Corinthians. And he said, "That is wonderful. Are there any other churches in all the world today that preach and practice it?" "No." "Well, tell me the operation." I said, "Suppose my great-grandfather had lived at a time (which he did) before the gospel, as revealed in this dispensation, had ever been preached, or a testimony of an elder of the Church had ever been heard; some relative can be baptized for him. And that is a great part of the work that is done in the temple." 

IMPRESSIVENESS OF THE LAIE TEMPLE AND GROUNDS 

My brethren and sisters, the world will yet understand the work in our temples in carrying out the revelations and teaching of the Master; and sometime in the near future it will be a potent power to bring the people not only to an investigation of the gospel, but it will bring them to a realization that it is of God. 

I had an experience upon the boat not long ago in coming from Honolulu. I have not the time to go into it, but it was with a minister of the gospel telling me that I could find nowhere in the Bible that he believed in or taught from a reference to the principle of baptism for the dead. This conversation was the result of his recent visit to the Hawaiian Islands, and in his drive around the Island of Oahu, he had visited the temple grounds at Laie. And, my brethren and sisters, there have been few visitors to that island since the completion of the temple, and I doubt ever will be, but who will stand in front of that magnificent building, that wonderful approach to the house of the Lord, and receive an impression of the sincerity at least, if not the knowledge, of this people, in temple work. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH'S DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE SITE 

Five years ago I had the privilege of going with President Smith and Bishop Nibley to the Hawaiian Islands. Somehow or other, my heart goes out to those people. They are of the blood of Israel, and the faith spoken of by Brother Wood as found in the people of Samoa is enjoyed' by the natives of the Hawaiian Islands, where the power and manifestation of God have been shown among that people. I attended a gathering of the people at Laie in honor of President 137 

Smith, in June, 1915. At the close of the exercises, President Smith came to me and said, "Reed, I want you to take a walk with me." And as we went out of the door, he said to Bishop Nibley, "I wish you would accompany us." I never saw a more beautiful night in all my life; the surroundings were perfect. You who have been at Laie know the surroundings; all nature smiles. We walked toward the meetinghouse. Nothing was said of what we were going for until we stood at the back of the meetinghouse, and President Smith then said : "Brethren, this is the birthday of President ISrigham Young, June 1, 1915. I feel impressed to dedicate this ground for the erection of a temple to God, for a place where the peoples of the Pacific Isles can come and do their temple work. I have not presented this to the Council of the Twelve or to my counselors; but if you think there would be no objection to it, I think now is the time to dedicate the ground." I have heard President Smith pray hundreds of times. He has thrilled my soul many times with his wonderful spirit of prayer and his supplications to our heavenly Father. But never in all my life did I hear such a prayer. The very ground seemed to be sacred, and he seemed as if he were talking face to face with the Father. I cannot and never will forget it if I lived a thousand years. Five years, and the temple was completed and dedicated, and it is a marvelous building of beauty and loveliness, as every one who will visit it will see. 

LOVE OF THE NATIVES FOR PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH 

It was on the Island of Maui that God spoke to President George Q. Cannon. Our heavenly Father told him where to go, the very house to enter, and there he would find a man who would receive him. And it was on those islands that he, as a young man, was given the language by the power of God. And it was on those islands that President Joseph F. Smith began his missionary work. 

Talk about people loving a man! I do not believe it is possible for human beings to love a man more than did the natives of the islands love President Joseph F. Smith. Five years ago when he landed at Honolulu, on his arrival at the mission house, there stood in the front door President Smith's native "mamma," blind, but oh, what a greeting there was. No mother and son ever met with greater manifestations of love for each other. 

Temple building, temple work, salvation for our dead and salvation for ourselves have just begun; the ninth temple is about to be erected in Arizona. I look to see the time when temples will be erected in all parts of the world, and the peoples of the world will understand that this wonderful principle revealed again to the Prophet Joseph is given for the world's salvation. 

WHO ARE THE NATIVE HAWAIIANS? 

I said these people were of the blood of Israel. I don't think there is any question about that. They are the direct descendants GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Lehi. When I was in Honolulu a little while ago, there was a great conference being held considering the question of where the natives of the islands came from and who they were. I have no doubt they drifted from America. We do know this., that not long ago the government of the United States, in order to determine how the trade winds affected navigation took a bottle and outside of the Golden Gate dropped it into the ocean; and inside of the bottle was a note asking the person finding the bottle to notify the government at Washington, the time and place. Twenty days after the dropping of the bottle into the ocean, outside of the Golden Gate, the bottle was picked up on the shores of Laie, the home of the "Mormon" people. Oh, I have heard President Smith tell those people that Laie should forever be a refuge for the natives of those islands. I have heard him dedicate the ground for that purpose, and I believe it was given by our Father to those people for that very purpose. 

Strange, folks say, that one hundred years or more ago, when each of those islands had a king, it was definitely understood by every king over the different islands, and it was lived up to strictly, that whenever a native of any of the islands reached Laie, the place of refuge, there was no power that could remove him from there. Laie was the natives' place of refuge in years past, and today it is the home of the natives belonging to our Church. 

May God bless us in our labors, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "The sunset glories of the west." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian. 


