Morning
08 10 1920


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice again to have the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in another general conference. I am very happy to see so many here at this, our opening session. I desire with all my heart that all that I may say during this conference, and all that is said by my associates who speak to you, shall be inspired of the Lord. I am grateful beyond expression for the rich outpourings of the Spirit of the Lord during our conferences that we have held since it fell to my lot to preside over the Church. I am free to confess that I approached our June conference, and the other conferences that have been held here since my presidency, with fear and trembling. When I thought of the wonderful blessings of the Lord in the past at our general conferences and the inspiration to Brigham Young and those who have succeeded him, I desired with all my heart that there should be no falling off in the inspiration of the Lord to those who might address us, and earnestly supplicated him to this effect. And I am indeed grateful for the blessings that we have enjoyed, and I pray that that same blessing, that same rich outpouring of his Spirit may be given to all who shall speak to us during the sessions of this conference. 

A MAGNIFICENT GIFT TO THE CHURCH 

I received a letter last night that was very gratifying to me, and before making any remarks, I will read it : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, October 7, 1920. President Heber J. Grant and Council: 

Dear brethren: We desire to give to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints our home on Miain and First North streets to be used preferably for the women's building, thus housing the three women's organizations, or for such other purpose as may be deemed best. 

Yours faithfully, 

(Signed) A. W. McCune, 

Elizabeth A. C. McCune. 

I remarked to one of the wealthy men of our Church, within the last forty-eight hours: "When you come to pass away don't leave all of your property to your family, but give a portion of it as an endowment for some good cause for the advancement of the work ol God." I have always regretted that those who have been abundantly blest of the Lord with the wealth of this world have failed to leave a part of it to some of our charitable institutions or our various organizations. I believe that where a man is worth a half million dollars or even less, if he were to give a tenth or even a quarter of his means for some charitable purpose in this Church, the remainder that he left to his family would do them more good and they would have greater wisdom in handling it and would accomplish more than though all the wealth had been left to the heirs of the departed man or woman, as the case may be. My heart has gone out in gratitude to the late Matilda M. Barratt for building us the splendid build known as the Barratt Hall, in the days of the adversity and financial hardships of our schools. And I pray God to bless Brother and Sister McCune'for this magnificent gift, and to multiply their substance. 

HISTORICAL EVENTS SINCE APRIL LAST 

Since our last conference the following bishops have passed away : Bishops Who Have Died Since April Conference 

Norman S. Anderson, Sugarville ward, Deseret stake; Otto J. Poulson, Timpanogos ward, Utah stake. 

New Stakes Organized Since April Conference 

Franklin stake, Samuel W. Parkinson, president; Logan stake, Oliver H. Budge, president; Roosevelt stake, William H. Smart, president; Garfield stake, Charles E. Rowan Jr., president. 

New Stake Clerks Since April Conference 

Oneida stake, Joseph W. Olson; Cache stake, John C. Peterson; Duchesne stake, LeRoy W. Rust; Franklin stake, Jessie P. Rich; Logan stake, John E. Olson; Roosevelt stake, William H. Gagon; Twin. Falls stake, Wilford Johanson. 

New Wards Organized Since April Conference 

Manavu ward, Utah stake, Nephi Anderson, bishop; Lost River ward, Lost River stake, Henry N. Mickelson, bishop; Logan Eleventh ward, Cache stake, Hans A. Pederson, bishop; Manassa Second ward, San Luis stake, Silas S. Weimer, bishop; Roosevelt Second ward, Roosevelt stake, David Bennion, bishop; Star ward, Burley stake, Alma C. Tilley, bishop; Payson Third ward, Nebo stake, Leonard A. Hill, bishop; Rupert Second ward, Blaine stake, Richard T. Astle, bishop. 

Mission Changes (Called But Not Yet in the Field) 

Australian mission, Don C. Rushton, president; New Zealand mission, George F. Taylor, president; Swiss mission, Serge F: Ballif, president. 

THE SPIRIT OF HELPFULNESS 

This morning, after coming to my office, I happened to see lying upon my desk the first volume of what is known as Heart Throbs. 1 had brought it from my home to have a couple of poems copied, several days ago, and as I looked at the book I remembered a poem in it that I decided to read here today : "I shall not pass again this way," is the title. Preceding the poem is the following note: 

(For several years before his death, Mr. Daniel S. Ford, the proprietor, editor and builder of the "Youth's Companion," because of delicate health, did his work and managed his mammoth business from a little room in his home in one of the beautiful parks of Boston. When loving hands cleared the plain, but convenient desk, there was found, in a conspicuous place, much worn with frequent handling, the following poem. If the poet had intended to describe Mr. Ford's daily words and actions, he could not have done so in more appropriate language.) The bread that bringeth strength I want to give, The water pure that bids the thirsty live; I want to help the fainting day by day; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I want to give the oil of joy for tears, 

The faith to conquer crowding doubts and fears. 

Beauty for ashes may I give alway; 

I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I want to give good measure running o'er, And into angry hearts I want to pour The answer soft that turneth wrath away; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I want to give to others hope and faith, I want to do all that the Master saith; I want to live aright from day to day; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I feel that every Latter-day Saint ought to have the same desire as Mr. Ford found expressed in this very beautiful poem. I am sure I have it in my heart this very day, as I stand before you. I feel, as expressed in the Psalms : 

Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts: 

And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.— 139:23, 24. 

The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever: the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. 

More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. — 19:9, 10. 

PAINED OVER POLITICAL AND FINANCIAL DIFFERENCES 

In speaking to a few friends the other day I made some remarks and as my secretary happened to be present to take notes, I decided to read what I said on that occasion: 

"I am anxious to see the Latter-day Saints devoted to the work of God above everything else in the world; and I have never been so pained in my life as I have been during the past few months over the conditions — political, financial, and otherwise — that we find among the people. The spirit of bitterness that seems to exist in the hearts of some true, faithful and honest Latter-day Saints, because of their difference of ideas and opinions on business matters and political matters is very painful to me. I do hope and pray, with all my heart, that the Spirit of the Lord may come to the Latter-day Saints in great abundance; that this spirit of almost hatred and animosity, that seems to be existing today among the people may disappear." 

THE LORD'S DEMAND 

In section 64:8-13, Doctrine and Covenants, we find the following: 

My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another, and forgave not one another in their hearts, and for this evil they were afflicted, and sorely chastened: 

Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, fo' he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin. 

I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men; 

And ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds. 

And he that repenteth not of his sins, and confesseth them not, then ye shall bring him before the Church, and do with him as the Scripture saith unto you, either by commandment or by revelation. 

And this ye shall do that God may be glorified, not because ye forgive not, having not compassion, but that ye may be justified in the eyes of the law, that ye may not offend him who is your Lawgiver. 

And in section 121 :45, 46, we read: 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever. 

ILLUSTRATION FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE 

I have a very wonderful respect and regard for this quotation from page 240 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Some years ago a prominent man was excommunicated from the Church. He, years later, pleaded for baptism. President John Taylor referred the question of his baptism to the apostles, stating that if they unanimously consented to his baptism, he could be baptized, but that if there was one dissenting vote, he should not be admitted into the Church. As I remember the vote, it was five for baptism and seven against. A vear or so later the question came up again and it was eight for baptism and four against. Later it came up again and it was ten for baptism and two against. Finally all of the Council of the Apostles, with the exception of your humble servant, consented that this man be baptized and I was then next to the junior member of the quorum. Later I was in the office of the president and he said : 

"Heber, I understand that eleven of the apostles have consented to the baptism of Brother So and So," naming the man, "and that you alone are standing out. How will you feel when you get on the other side and you find that this man has pleaded for baptism and you find that you have perhaps kept himi out from entering in with those who have repented of their sins and received some reward ?" 

I said, "President John Taylor, I can look the Lord squarely in the eye, if he asks me that question, and tell him that I did that which I thought was for the best good of the kingdom. When a man holding the holy Priesthood of God goes forth to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to call the wicked to repentance; goes to proclaim that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the gospel has been restored again to the earth, and that man in the mission home of the Church of Christ commits adultery, I can tell the Lord that he had disgraced this Church enough, and that I did not propose to let any such a man come back into the Church." 

"Well," said President Taylor, "my boy, that is all right, stay with your convictions, stay right with them." 

I said, "President Taylor, your letter said you wanted each one of the apostles to vote the convictions of his heart. If you desire me to surrender the convictions of my heart, I will gladly do it; I will gladly vote for this man to come back, but while I live I never expect to consent, if it is left to my judgment. That man, was accused before the apostles several years ago and he stood up and lied and claimed that he was innocent, and the Lord gave to me a testimony that he lied, but I could not condemn him because of that. I got down on my knees that night and prayed God to give me the strength not to expose that man, seeing that he had lied but that we had no evidence, except only the testimony of the girl that he had seduced. And I prayed the Lord that some day additional testimony might come, and it did come, and we then excommunicated him. And when a man can lie to the apostles, and when he can be guilty while proclaiming repentance of sin, I think this Church has been disgraced enough without ever letting him come back into the Church." 

"Well," repeated President Taylor, "my boy, don't you vote as long as you live, while you hold those ideas, stay right with them." 

A CHANGE OF HEART— THE SPIRIT OF FORGIVENESS 

I left the president's office. I went home. My lunch was not ready. I was reading the Doctrine and Covenants through for the third or fourth time systematically, and I had my bookmark in it. but as I picked it up, instead of opening where the bookmark was, it opened to : 

I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men; but he that forgiveth not his brother standeth condemned before the Lord. 

And I closed the book and said : "If the devil applies for baptism, and claims that he has repented, I will baptize him." After lunch I returned to the office of President Taylor and I said, "President Taylor, I have had a change of heart. One hour ago I said, never while I live, did I expect to ever consent that Brother So and So should be baptized, but I have come to tell you he can be baptized, so far as I am concerned." 

President Taylor had a habit, when he was particularly pleased, of sitting up and laughing and shaking his whole body, and he laughed and said, "My boy, the change is very sudden, very sudden. I want to ask you a question. How did you feel when you left here an hour ago? Did you feel like you wanted to hit that man right squarely between the eyes and knock him down?" 

I said, "That is just the way I felt." He said, "How do you feel now?" 

"Well, to tell you the truth, President Taylor, I hope the Lord will forgive the sinner." 

He said, "You feel happy, don't you, in comparison. You had the spirit of anger, you had the spirit of bitterness in your heart toward that man, because of his sin and because of the disgrace he had brought upon the Church. And now you have the spirit of forgiveness and you really feel happy, don't you?" 

And I said, "Yes I do; I felt mean and hateful and now I feel happy." 

And he said: "Do you know why I wrote that letter?" I said: "No, sir." 

"Well I wrote it, just so you and some of the younger members of the apostles would learn the lesson that forgiveness is in advance of justice, where there is repentance, and that to have in your heart the spirit of forgiveness and to eliminate from your hearts the spirit of hatred and bitterness, brings peace and joy; that the gospel of Jesus Christ brings joy, peace and happiness to every soul that lives it and follows its teachings." 

LOVE AND FORGIVENESS 

And so he went on. I cannot remember all of the teachings, but he continued in this way, telling me that he could never have given me that experience, that he could not give to me a testimony of the gospel; that I must receive that testimony for myself; that I must have the right spirit come into my heart and feel it — the spirit of forgiveness, the spirit of long-suffering and charity — before there would any good come to me as an individual; that by simply surrendering my will to his, and voting to baptize this man, I would never have learned the lesson that the spirit of joy and peace comes in the hour of forgiveness, and when our hearts are full of charity and long-suffering to those who have made mistakes. From that day to this I have remembered those teachings. 

The Prophet of the Lord said : 

My boy, never forget that when you are in the line of your duty your heart will be full of love and forgiveness, even for the repentant sinner, and that when you get out of that straight line of duty and have the determination that what you think is justice and what you think is equity and right should prevail, you ofttimes are anything but happy. You can know the difference between the Spirit of the Lord and the spirit of the adversary, when you find that you are happy and contented, that you love your fellows, that you are anxious for their welfare; and you can tell that you do not have that spirit when you are full of animosity and feel that you would like to knock somebody down. 

I am reminded of one of the finest chapters in all the Bible (1 Cor. 13) : 

Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. 

And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. 

Charity, suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, 

Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own. is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; 

Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth: 

Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. 

Charity never faileth; but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. 

For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. 

But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. 

When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish things. 

For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face; now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known. 

And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. 

Many people imagine that charity is giving a dollar to somebody; but real, genuine charity is giving love and sympathy, and that is the kind of charity that the apostle had reference to in this 13th chapter of First Corinthians. 

I remember that after that teaching given to me as a young man, as a boy, almost, by the President of the Church, I read this chapter about once a week for quite a while, then once a month for several months. I thought I needed it in my business, so to speak; that it was one of the things that were necessary for my advancement. 

I remember that a year ago, here at the conference, I read a very splendid and wonderful song, the half of the first verse of which reads as follows: 

Let each man learn to know himself, , To gain that knowledge let him labor, 

Improve those failings in himself 

That he condemns so in his neighbor. 

The whole poem was published in the conference pamphlet. I quoted it some weeks ago, and was asked where one could get a copy, and again last Sunday, when I told some people that they could read it in next Saturday night's News. So I shall not take up your time by quoting the whole poem. I also quoted the four short verses from our hymn on page 66, a part of which reads as follows : 

Should you feel inclined to censure 

Faults you may in others view, Ask your own heart, ere you venture, 

If that has not failings too. 

I had not the slightest idea when I quoted these poems, that I would desire to quote from them again today; but in view of the con and the spirit, almost, of animosity, and hate that seems to be manifested by some people among the Latter-day Saints, at the present time, regarding business and political affairs, I desire to emphasize, with all the power of my being, the last verse of that little hymn, on page 66: 

Do not form opinions blindly, 

Hastiness to trouble tends, Those of whom we thought unkindly 

Oft become our warmest friends. 

EVERY MAN INNOCENT UNTIL PROVED GUILTY 

There are a great many people who believe that if a person is indicted, he is undoubtedly a criminal. There are very few people who stop to reflect upon the fact that when a Grand Jury finds an indictment against any man, it is seldom, if ever, the case that he is permitted to appear before the Grand Jury, or to have a representative there to state his case. The law itself provides — as I understand it — although I am not a lawyer — that every man shall be considered innocent until such time as he is proved guilty; and no man is guilty, in the true sense of the word, of an offense, just because a Grand Jury finds an indictment against him. In criminal cases a man is to be considered innocent unless the evidence against him shall be so conclusive that there is not even a reasonable doubt as to his guilt. Certainly Latter-day Saints ought to be as liberal in their judgments, as the cold law of the land; and certainly every man ought to be considered innocent in the estimation of the Latter-day Saints — particularly if that man is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has devoted his life for the up-building of God's kingdom until such time as he has what is known as "his day in court." We can afford, I believe, to be as liberal as the cold law itself. 

I desire to repeat the last verse of that excellent hymn, which I learned thirty-five or forty years ago, when Francis M>. Lyman first sang it for me. I wrote it that very night, and learned it the next day. I would like every Latter-day Saint to apply the teachings of this splendid verse in his or her life, and if we do that I believe we will grow in love and charity; that the spirit of peace and happiness, that President Taylor promised me when I entertained the feeling of determination to keep a man out of the Church, and the spirit of joy and peace which came to me, after the change of heart, will come to Latter-day Saints: 

And in self-judgment, if you find 

Your deeds to others are superior, To you has Providence been kind, 

As you should be to those inferior. Example sheds a genial ray 

Of light, which men are apt to borrow, So first improve yourself today 

And then improve your friends tomorrow. REGRETS THAT THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS QUESTION IS IN POLITICS 

A year ago, at our conference, I expressed sincerely my regrets that bitterness was being engendered in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, because what was known as the League of Nations had been injected into politics. I expressed my sincere regrets that this great document should ever have been made a subject for political discussion. I felt that all people in these United States of America should approach the consideration of this great document, independent of party affiliation. I desire to express my regrets that, if anything, it is in politics more today than it was a year ago. 

I sincerely regret that what is known as the "sugar question" has been injected into politics, in this State of Utah. I feel in my heart of hearts that it has engendered bitterness, that it has created a great deal of animosity, and I think it is something that ought to have been eliminated from politics, and that all questions of that kind -:hould be settled by the interested people. I desire, beyond my power to tell, that there shall always be perfect harmony and perfect justice between the farmer and the sugar producer. I desire that all judgments by Latter-day Saints upon the course of men connected with any industry in this state, shall be withheld, at least, until there has been passed a final judgment by a court that has the right to pass upon it. 

T wish to say to all Latter-day Saints: 

Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. 

KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS OF GOD 

I beg every Latter-day Saint to cultivate the spirit of charity, of long-suffering, and brotherly love. I say to all Latter-day Saints : Keep the commandments of God. That is my keynote speech, just those few words: Keep the commandments of God. Read the psalm that tells you not to fret your soul about the sinner. It is a magnificent psalm to read. I thought some of reading it here to this congregation, but I have read so much that I am afraid you will get tired of the reading. Keep the commandments of the Lord. Be honest with God. Never fail to pay an honest tithing to the Lord, on every dollar that comes into your hands. "Oh but," says one, "the Church does not need it." You are right; you are correct. The Church does not need it, but the man who has made covenant with the living God to keep his commandments, and then does not keep them, he needs it. A man who is not honest with the Lord should repent and be honest with the Lord, and then the windows of heaven shall open and God will pour down upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints blessings, if they are financially honest with the Lord. Observe the Word of Wisdom. Never indulge in those things that the Lord God Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth, has told us are not good for man. 

CONCLUSION 

I rejoice that we have national prohibition. I rejoice that many, even in. our own community, who were wrecks financially, almost wrecks spiritually, because of prohibition and the taking away of temptation, are making men of themselves today. I rejoice that prohibition — to my mind the greatest financial and moral blessing that has ever come to humanity: — has come to the people of the United States, and I hope and pray that it may soon come to every nation under heaven. 

I rejoice that the women have the franchise. I rejoice in all of the great and wonderful advancements that are being made for the benefit of mankind; and I rejoice, above all things, in a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and living God; that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, has been restored to the earth. I rejoice that you and I have a knowledge of that gospel; and oh, may God help us to live it; may he fill our hearts with charity, with love, with forgiveness, with the desire to serve him, and may we in very deed be Latter-day Saints, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, "I know that my Redeemer lives," was sung by J. R. Boshard and Elizabeth Evans. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND 

I have listened with much attention to our President's remarks, and I hope that every heart will retain the good counsel he has given, and that all will remember it and make it the moving principle of their lives. 

KEY WORDS OF THE CONFERENCE 

Love and charity, forgiveness, and doing our duties that the Lord has laid upon us are the key words or the key 1 note to this conference. You who have had much experience in life know the truth of what the president has expressed. In our intercourse with one another it often happens that a word may displease us, or the act of our brother cause us to blame him, and, perhaps, enlarge upon what he has done until we make it almost a crime. We ought to be careful not to let anything like this cause bitterness and hatred in our hearts, for as the president read to us, the Lord will forgive whom he will forgive, but he commands us that we shall forgive one another. This is a beautiful principle. When we remember the relationship in which we stand to our heavenly Father and to his children we ought to practice the principle of charity toward one another. We generally love our own brothers and sisters, we are tender about what is said concerning them, we even feel anything said derogatory to their character to be almost the same as if it were said about our own. As we feel toward our own brothers and sisters, so we should likewise feel towards Dur brethren and sisters in the covenant and for all men. We should not let hatred enter our hearts. Let us forgive others their offenses 'n the hope that we can have forgiveness for our own. 

BLESSEDNESS OF CHARITY AND FORGIVENESS 

The scriptures give us many examples of the blessedness of charity and forgiveness. I recall the story of David and Saul. Saul had learned that David had been anointed to become king of Israel. Although at one time he loved David, and David had been able with his singing and his harp to drive out the evil spirit from the old king, yet when the king heard of the destiny of his own house, that his son was not to rule in Israel, that the kingdom was to be given to David, his heart was filled with hatred. He took three thousand men and went down into the southern part of Palestine, among the mountains, hunting for David and the few followers he had with him, determined to kill him. Saul entered a cave where David and his associates were hiding. David knew the king had come to make him a captive and to take his life; yet he would not hurt Saul, because he was the anointed of the Lord. He cut off the skirt of Saul's robe and left the cave. In the morning when the king left the cave David cried to him and showed him what he had done. The king felt repentant for a little while. He knew he had been in the power of the man whose life he sought, and he acknowledged that David was more just than himself. He saw that David had not exercised the power he had to kill the one who sought his life. David felt reverence for the man who had been anointed by a prophet of God. I am sorry to say that Saul's good mood did not last long, but still there was a moment when he felt the power of forgiveness working upon him. 

SCRIPTURAL EXAMPLES 

Jesus in one of his parables tells about the servant that owed his master a great sum of money, so much that he could never pay it, but because of his pleading his master forgave him and let him go. When going from his master's house he met a man who owed him a very small amount. The servant that had been forgiven so much was not willing to forgive this other man the small amount that he owed, and being unable to pay the wicked servant cast him into prison until he could pay the debt. When the master heard of this unforgiving man's act he called him back and measured out to him his punishment for being so hard-hearted and so ungrateful for the blessings he had received. 

Jesus taught his disciples how to pray, and one part of that prayer is, "Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." That is the principle. We all know how greatly we are indebted to our heavenly Father, and remembering this we ought to be willing to forgive all men their trespasses against us. 

CHRIST SET THE GREATEST EXAMPLE OF ALL 

Let us not entertain hatred against anyone, whether he is connected with the Church or not. That feeling ought not to be harbored in our breasts. Let us rather feel to imitate our great Master. He not only taught, as he did in the parable just related, the necessity and the importance of forgiving others as we want to be forgiven, but he showed forth this spirit in his life. When he was crucified at Golgotha — and it is said that the suffering of crucifixion is the keen-' est kind of torture — suffering intensely and knowing that he was innocent, and that those, for whom he had labored and desired greatly to save, had hung him on that accursed tree, he did not ask the Lord to take revenge upon them, but asked his Father in heaven, "Forgive them, for they know not what they do." Just think of his asking for their forgiveness when he was under such intense suffering on the cross! There is the example for us. We must exercise charity for one another and avoid letting ill-feelings rankle in our hearts against any person. 

LET CHARITY DRIVE OUT BITTERNESS 

We have not the right to hate any of the creatures of God, but we have been commanded to love them, and also to forgive them if they have offended us. I believe that you can put this down as a principle, that to start with there are very few offenders who wilfully intend to offend, not having given full thought to their acts. They do something that offends us, and we at once feel offended and angry and, perhaps, we let it grow to that greater amount of anger that we call hatred. This should not be. Perhaps if we had spoken to our brother at once we would have learned that he did not really mean what we thought he did, and that we have become offended too hastily. Let us have enough charity for one another that we will not allow anything to be an offense to cause us hardness of heart. 

FORGIVENESS AND CHARITY BRING HAPPINESS 

I remember once I went with President Grant and two others of the apostles to investigate complaints against a certain bishop. Among those opposed to the bishop was a man who had much influence with the people. He and the bishop almost hated each other. We brought them together, they freely expressed their feelings and what had caused them. We acted as peacemakers, and when they saw their error, with tears in their eyes they clasped hands and forgave each other. It was a touching scene and joy filled all our hearts. After that the bishop was reconciled to his opposers. Now, brethren and sisters, those men felt happy afterwards. They felt that they had suffered foi a long time from something that they ought not to have borne in their hearts. As President Grant has told us, anyone who forgives his enemy or his brother what he has done against him feels joy ir. his heart and the spirit whispers that he has done the right thing. Now, let us learn to have charity for one another, and carry it out in our every-day lives, and we will make life happy to ourselves and to our neig-hbors and our path will be much smoother. 

May the Lord help us to do our duties in all the different lines of work given us, and may we ever remember what we owe to our heavenly Father and try to show love to our brethren and sisters. I ask the Lord to help us in this matter, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I feel exceedingly thankful this morning for this great privilege of meeting with the Latter-day Saints, my brothers and sisters, once more in general conference. I have not fully known for a fact that T would be able to be here on this occasion. For several days past I have not been in my usual health and vigor, but thanks be to the Lord for this great blessing to me this morning. 

I have listened to words of life, eternal life, from the man who stands at the head of the Church to which we, most of us, if not all, belong. We have felt that the Lord has been with him in the instructions which have been imparted, and that the same spirit and power which always belong to the leader of the Church have been with him in talking to us today, as they were in years that are past, from the days of President Rrigham Yioung to his successors in office down to the present moment. T cannot speak personally of the influence and power that attended the Prophet Joseph, whom God raised up when a youth to open up the latter-day dispensation — but I am familiar with his words that have been recorded, that have been published, and that are contained in the history of the Church and in many manuscript documents which the Church possesses. But I know that the same spirit that burned in his soul, and with which he inspired the Saints of God who were placed under his direction, has been with us right down to the present time since, his martyrdom. 

THE SPIRIT OF LOVE AND CHARITY, THE SPIRIT OF THE GOSPEL 

This morning I feel that that spirit is here in great power, and the words that have been spoken to us have been given to us in great plainness. We can all understand them, and we can appreciate the spirit by which they have been delivered. The spirit of love and charity is the spirit of the gospel. This is what Christ breathed. That is what his apostles carried with them except on occasions when they became a little dissatisfied with each other, and spoke against each other. Even Paul, the great apostle, as we call him because he wrote so much, dissented with Peter and boasted that he had charged him to his face with doing something that he thought was wrong; and yet Paul himself comjmitted the same kind of error, if it was an error — of course it was not — in regard to Timothy and in re to other matters that came before his attention. Later he arrived at the position that "to a Jew he was a Jew; to the Greek he was a Greek;" and he became "all things unto all men, that he might win some unto Christ;" yet for one little act not in variance with that, he found fault with Peter. But that is only a side question. The apostles of old, as we have heard this morning from the revelation that President Grant has read, differed from each other sometimes; and they found fault with each other; but, as the Lord said, the great fault was that they did not forgive each other "in their hearts." They might do it with their lips and by the clasping of their hands, but they did not forgive each other in their hearts, and therefore "they were sorely afflicted." 

LET US FORGIVE IN OUR HEARTS 

Now, Latter-day Saints, let us take that lesson to our hearts. If we are offended with any one, if we feel that somebody has grieved us or oppressed us, done us some wrong, let us forgive them in our hearts, if we want to be called saints of the Most High and so regarded by the powers on high. It is in the soul of man where this feeling of charity should prevail, which is not merely the kind of charity that is shown forth in giving alms to the poor, or anything of that kind. That is only a very small manifestation. It is the spirit of brotherhood, the spirit of kindness, the spirit of forgiveness in our hearts, that we must entertain, towards one another, that counts. I have had considerable experience in high councils, in the course of my activities in the Church, and I have seen people who were required to forgive one another arise and shake hands, and then go forth with the same spirit of bitterness in their souls that they had in the beginning, so that their feelings of repentance and charity were not genuine and did not count. 

I remember one particular case that occurred, not a thousand miles from Salt Lake, when two brethren engaged the high council a whole week in settling a difficulty about sheep. We used to have a great many difficulties on the sheep question. After we had spent all that time in regard to it a certain division was made and a conclusion arrived at by the high council. Fifteen men, all desirous of doing right, having no personal interest in the matter except to do right, the Presidency and the High Council together, made a decision, and the brethren who had quarreled so much were required to shake hands in agreement over the decision, which they did. At the closing of the meeting one of them said to the other; "Well, I will shake hands with you; I will forgive you, but I will have them there sheep in the resurrection, with interest!" 

THE DOCTRINE DECLARED BY THE LORD 

I wish to read a little scripture contained in the same writings from which President Grant read this morning. Christ's remarks in regard to judging are to be found in the 7th chapter of Matthew. "Judge not, that ye be not judged," that is in the first verse. I advise my friends here to read the whole of the discourse, so far as it relates to that matter; and now I want to read just a verse or two from the eighteenth chapter of Matthew : 

Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone; if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. 

But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or twa more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. 

And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the Church: but if he neglect to hear the Church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. 

You know the publicans in those times were tax collectors, and they were not very popular, any more than they are now, most of them. 

This is the doctrine enunciated by the Lord Jesus Christ when on earth, and that is now established in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is another side to this question, perhaps, a little. The principle expressed to us this morning by President Grant and President Lund is what we need to carry away in our hearts from this conference. It is a key-note to our services, just as Brother Lund said. I have felt that, and I appreciate these things that have been said by the President more because of the opportunity that I have had for a few days past of thinking over matters when I was awake. I was asleep about half the time, but while I was awake the very passages that he has cited here, and some of the hymns that he has referred to, have passed over my mind and I have felt in my soul that this is the word to be carried to all Israel — the spirit of charity and brotherly love, which promotes real union. We must not become divided in our souls, in our spiritual natures, in our intercourse with each other. We may hold different views of certain matters that I will not even allude to here this morning, but that should not affect our brotherhood, our real sentiments of kindness and of charity towards each other, and it should not affect us when we attempt to pass judgment and have no right to do it. 

PASSING JUDGMENT ON OUR NEIGHBOR 

There is the point I want to draw your attention to. We Hot only want to entertain this spirit of kindness and charity, but even when we think certain persons have done something that is wrong, and that it affects us — "When thy brother trespasseth against thee," — as Jesus puts it, have we the right to pass judgment upon him., even in our minds? No we have not. The principle of justice and of mercy together will say : "Let that man stand uncondemned until he can defend himself." The stream of accusation is frequently very shallow, and underneath it sometimes He dark purposes, and they are  when the person is placed on his defense and has the opportunity of explaining. As I say in one of my little songs : 

School thy feelings; 

Condemnation never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation 

Like a flood of truth may flow. 

Hear defense before deciding, 

Aiid a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding, 

Underneath the shallow stream 

The Lord has provided in his Church that justice shall be done, but it does not exclude mercy, of course. We have a splendid illustration of the exercise of mercy in that case that Brother Grant has told us about, in regard to what President John Taylor taught him. But people say sometimes when aggrieved: "If that is 'Mbrmonism' I don't want to have anything to do with it." What a foolish thing. Does "Mormonism" in any respect condone iniquity? Does it approve of oppression? Does it approve of injustice? Does it approve of one man doing wrong to another in any way, without recompense and making it right? It does not. People sometimes say, "Well, if that is what the Church allows I am not going to church." Oh, what folly — not going to church? Are you going to hurt yourselves? You hurt yourself when you do not fulfil the requirement of God to go up to the house of prayer on the Lord's day, as he has commanded. You hart yourself if you hold the Priesthood of the living God and you do not attend your quorum meetings and observe the duties that belong to you, you are^ of fending yourself, you are doing harm to yourself. The Church has got so big now and so powerful, financially and otherwise — although it is pretty well up to the mark now in its finances' — yet it has advanced so far that it can do without you or me or anybody else. When we neglect a duty we neglect something that benefits ourselves, and we are the worse for it. So much for that. 

THE CHURCH PROVIDES FOR HEARING WHERE JUSTICE IS DONE 

But the Church supplies the means whereby everybody who is oppressed or trespassed against can receive a hearing, and get justice done. In what I have cited the Lord lays down the principle, and we have that embodied in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have a body of men who go from house to house to visit the Saints. We call them teachers. Well, they are, but this belongs to the duty of the priest, as you will read in the twentieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The priest's duty is to preach and teach and expound and baptize and to "visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret, and attend to all family duties," and so on. That is his duty. In addition to that the Lord says the teacher's duty is to watch over the Church and be with the Church always, and to see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither hardness of heart, nor evil speaking. Why is it a sin? Because the great body of the people have been into the house of the Lord, and they have made a covenant that they will not speak evil of the Lord's anointed, have they not ? Take it to hea'rt! Are we not under a covenant with the Lord that we will not speak evil of his anointed? Well, when we do that we break that covenant. We sin against that commandment of the Lord. So we should not do it .But some may say, "Well, I have a reason for it." Well, if you have a reason, do as Jesus says. Here are persons appointed in the Church who will go with you to the individual that has trespassed' against you, or if you will do your duty properly you will begin by going to that person alone. 

THP PLAN TO BE PURSUED 

I have heard some awful things said about mighty good men in this Church, men of influence and 'authority and power in the Church. I have heard shameful things about them, said unwittingly, perhaps, but very disgracefully. Have persons who used such language gone to the individual who, they think, has been oppressive to them, or has done them harm or trespassed against them, — and talked the matter over with him alone? No, oh, no, oh, no. They have said, "He ought to be in the penitentiary." Well, that is not the right kind of talk for a Latter-day Saint, and especially for an elder in Israel, a bishop's counselor, or a high councilor, very wrong indeed in its nature. Here is the plan: If any man has trespassed against you, go to him in the spirit of kindness because you want the thing put right, and explain to him where you think he has done you a wrong, and see whether he has done you a wrong or not , or whether you may not be mistaken. But if you will not do that, which is the great commandment, then get the teachers, or men that are acting as teachers, two of them, to go with you and see him, talk it over and find out what the ftfcts are in the matter, and see if you cannot be reconciled with your brother. If you can, then the Lord says you have "gained your brother." He may repent, if he has done wrong, or he will explain, or have the opportunity of explaining where he is right. Now, let us apply that to present conditions and circumstances, and do not go away and repeat these things again. Do not speak evil of your brother; become reconciled to him if you can, and if you cannot, why, get some wise man to go with you and talk it over. What then ? Well, if he does not see it as you do, but insists that he is in the right and you are in the wrong, what is the next step? Why, there is a court, we call it a bishop's court. The bishop, who is a common judge in Israel, by appointment, the bishop and his counselors can meet together as a court, and they can hear you and your witnesses,  you have any, and then they will hear the accused man or woman, as the case may be, and hear his or her witnesses, then judge the matter, and if satisfaction is not had, even in that court, Which is usually sufficient, or should be, because honest men, good men, are chosen to act in the bishopric, — the Lord bless them! Some of them do not know quite as much as they might know if they had had more experience, but they are honest men and wise men, and they are placed there by their brethren who have chosen them, and they have had the support by the lifting up of hands of the people. Now, if justice does not seem to be had by them, then what? Why, there is a High Council, composed of the presidency of the stake and twelve high priests, good mien, honorable men, men of experience men of character, all members of the Church, all men holding the priesthood of the Lord, and they have that appointment; they are established, they are high priests in Israel and they are set apart for that purpose. They meet together and they will see that justice is done. If it is necessary for the case to be brought before that body an opportunity is had for the accuser and for the accused; and that full justice may be done, the Lord has appointed that half of that council shall stand up for the accuser and half for the accused, not that they should be biased either on one side or the other, but so that right may prevail. 

I know from experience in these matters that the brethren who are organized in these councils are men of honor and integrity and influence in the Priesthood, ajul they will not judge a matter before they hear it. When the whole matter is heard, then the president of the council and his counselors together talk the matter over and make up the decision as they consider in justice and righteousness before the Lord, and present it to the council. If a majority of the council agree with them it stands. 

AN APPEAL MAY BE MADE 

An appeal can be made, if it is claimed that injustice is done, to the Presidency of the Church, who do not sit as a court, to hear witness, but go over all the evidence as presented and attested by the clerk, to see if there is any wrong and mistake made, any injustice done, and if so, that they can point out the means, as provided in Section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants, how the matter can be fully determined and heard again, if they so decide, and that the matter can be so looked into that every point, every part and every item of the decision can be questioned and examind, and a conclusion arrived at as to its justice and righteousness. 

UNSAFE TO FOLLOW A RUMOR 

But is anything of that kind being done in the cases which have been referred to here this morning? Not at all. What are you doing? Following a rumor, a most unsafe thing to do. A certain rumor gets out that certain things have been done, and people think they know they are true, because of circumstances that arise; but they do not get the other side, they do not pay any attention to it, and if anybody seeks to put forward the other side, it is said : "Oh, yes, you stand up for him of course." That is the spirit that is manifested. Now, we want to do away with that, and therein is the great lesson of this morning to me and to all of us, I hope. The Lord has given us the way and the means to settle our difficulties and differences in the Church, and so, as the old apostles taught us, the Latter-day apostles teach : "Don't go to law with your brother, if it can be avoided by taking the matter before the courts of the Church, or to a court of arbitration composed of persons chosen on either side, who can arbitrate the matter in the right spirit. There are certain kinds of cases, like cases for the settlement of titles to land, that cannot be settled that way; they are outside of this jurisdiction. But the whole of our gospel and our teachings and our influence is ecclesiastical. We may say it is temporal as well as spiritual. Certainly : our Church embraces the temporal and the spiritual together, as the Lord does, and the authorities of this Church, in their station, preside over the whole Church, in all of its ramifications — the nlost beautiful and splendid and perfect organization on the earth. 

LET US POSSESS OURSELVES IN PATIENCE 

Now, let us take to heart the lessons of this morning, brethren and sisters. Do not, during this coming campaign, — I allude to it just simply in that way; I do not want to talk politics, or to have it said I have been talking politics, — but in this coming campaign possess yourselves in patience, and do not abuse or misrepresent any other person or party. You have no right to do it. I do not care how strong a partisan you may be on your own side, you have no right to misrepresent the other. You have no right to lie about it or about them. You have no right to commit any kind of injustice. Tell the truth as you understand it before the Lord, but not the whole truth, if that truth includes abusing the other party. Do not misrepresent what other people believe, and say a certain party believes this. Do not do that. Tell them what you believe, if you want to tell them what you understand; make clear and plain the truth as it appears to you, and do not find fault with and abuse or misrepresent others, either parties or persons. Is that politics ? Call it what you like, it is the truth, it is the gospel. Jesus Christ, in the same discourse that we have heard about this morning, told his apostles to "seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness — not "its," as we quote it sometimes, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these temporalities that he was talking about shall be added unto you. How do we find out about the righteousness of God that we are to seek for in the gospel? The Apostle Paul, writing to the Romans, I believe, said : "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, unto every one that believeth; for therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith." 

SOME DUTIES OF THE SAINTS 

Study the gospel, live the gospel. Seek to God, that you may understand his word, his righteousness, and pattern after it as you go on from faith to faith, and put away from your souls everything of the kind that has been spoken against this morning, but be filled with the spirit that cometh from above; for God is love, and his tender mercies are over all his works. He loves us, and will lead us and will save us if we will keep his commandments and walk in his ways, and the time will come when we will meet together in his eternal presence, and all that belongs to us we shall get, everything. 

Now, let us forgive one another, in our hearts, if any offenses have been made, and proceed from this conference determined to carry that spirit wherever we go. And men who are in authority, presiding authorities, bishops, and all the brethren who hold the Priesthood, who labor among the Saints, carry that spirit with you whereever you go, and do not listen to evil things against your brethren, but speak of all the best you can. God bless you all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am grateful beyond expression that President Penrose has been able to speak to us. He has been at home, sick abed, most of the time during the last week. 

I will state that a general music committee has been selected, and will undoubtedly be sustained at our conference, with Elder Mc J. Ballard as the head of that committee. 

The congregation sang, "Come, come ye Saints." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Lewis Anderson, President of the South Sanpete stake of Zion. 


