Afternoon
08 10 1920


President Heber J. Grant presided and called the congregation to order at 2 o'clock. The house, both in the auditorium and galleries, was comfortably filled with representatives from all parts of the Church. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Edward C. Rich, President of the Montpelier Stake of Zion. 

The congregation sang, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, you will pardon me if I look straight ahead and do not turn to the right or to the left; it is the only way. 

I was profoundly impressed by the stirring exhortation and testimony of President Grant this morning, which was strongly emphasized and reinforced by remarks of the brethren who followed. Surely it was a keynote address. We have received the word and we would do well to give heed to it. 

NATURE OF FORGIVENESS 

Forgiveness is one of the most attractive and beautiful principles of the gospel of Christ. You know Moses said : "The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy." He is a God of mercy and of forgiveness and is long-suffering. We should be like him. Do you know that what some people call forgiveness is not always forgiveness. "Yes," says one who has been wronged, "I'll forgive but not forget." I am reminded of the story of the two darkies, Rastus and Sambo. These darkies were at enmity all their lives. There was a great feud between them until Sambo came to his death-bed, and a friend said to him : "Sambo, in this solemn moment, surely you will forgive Rastus." Sambo said, "Yes," and turning to Rastus remarked, "Rastus, if I dies you are forgiven, but if I lives, look out for me." Another illustration. One friend said to another: "Do you love your enemies ?" He answered : "No sir, but I sympathize with therm." "Well, I did not know they needed sympathy." "They don't," he said, "but they will when I get through with them." Remember, the admonition is, seek diligently faith, hope and charity, but the greatest of these is charity. 

THREE EVILS EXTANT IN THE WORLD 

I would like to speak for a few moments today upon the subject of three evils that are extant in the world at large and which have also crept into our community, in some places in a greater degree, in other places in a lesser degree; but they are here neverthelss, and oh, what a triumvirate of evils! I allude to profanity, the tobacco evil, and the bondage of debt. 

SACREDNESS OF THE NAME OF GOD 

You will remember that the Lord spoke to Moses upon one occasion and said to him that he was about to come down and manifest himself to his people.. Moses was instructed to sanctify the people that they might meet the Lord, to take two days for this important duty and on the third day the Lord would come down. This is what the record says of that manifestation of majesty and power: 

And ft came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there wers thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. 

And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount. 

And Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly. 

And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice. 

And so the Lord descended upon Mount Sinai and revealed himself in power to the children of Israel and spoke to them, but I would like to say to you, that this great demonstration of the power of God, which must have been exceedingly impressive, was nothing, in my judgment, compared with the words which the Lord spoke upon that occasion. Remember, the thunders passed away, the lightnings ceased to flash, the earth trembled no more, but the words that were spoken have come thundering down through the ages and are known to us as the Decalogue, and these words, mark you, are binding today upon the children of Israel, and upon the whole world. 

Now, the first of these commandments was exceedingly impressive. The Lord said : "Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 

"Thou shalt not bow thyself to them, nor serve them : for 1 the Lord thy God am a jealous god." 

In the commandments that followed, the Lord made reference to the sacredness of the Sabbath day. He spoke in regard to the attitude of parents to children, that children should honor their parents. He -poke against the evil of killing, of stealing, of adultery and of bearing false witness. He also said: 

Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. 

I remind you, brethren and sisters, that there are two great Priesthoods in the Church of Christ. One is the Aaronic Priesthood, the other is the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, but out of respect and reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the Church, in ancient days, called this Priesthood after Melchizedek. Melchizedek was a great high priest. He is spoken of as having been the king of Salem and the prince of peace. He must have been a great and good man, and surely he was highly honored in having the Priesthood named after him. But it was primarily for the purpose, mark you, of avoiding the too frequent use of the name of Deity. Jesus, during his ministry, emphasized this matter of profanity. It had his attention, he took notice of it, and thus he spake to his disciples and to his people : 

And again ye -.rave heard that it hath been said by them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths: but I say unto you, swear not at all; neither by heaven," for it is God's throne; nor by the earth, for it is his footstool; neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communictaions be yea, yea, and nay, nay, for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. 

Now brethren and sisters, we learn from these scriptures that the name of God is very sacred, and that it ought not to be used lightly. We have been told many times that even in our sermons it should not often be spoken, neither ought it to be used very much in our prayers. If that be the case, what shall we say of the man, and particularly if he be a man holding the Priesthood, if he takes the name of the Lord in vain ? The Lord has said he shall not be held guiltless, he must answer for it. You do not hear profanity everywhere, you do not hear it in all places, but now and then, in various sections of the Church, you will hear the name of the Lord profaned. It is a great sin. It is a serious evil and the man, (and I might say also the woman) who is guilty of this fault hath need of repentance. 

TOBACCO IS NOT GOOD FOR MAN 

I would like to say a word or two upon the subject of the tobacco evil. This matter is before us. You know the slogan of the Young Men's organization, in fact, of all the auxiliary organizations of the Church, is that we stand for the non-use of tobacco, because we regard it as detrimental to the health and welfare of the people of God, and also to the people of the world if they would but recognize the fact. It is an evil wherever you find it. Especially so among the Latter-day Saints, because, we have the word of the Lord upon the subject. 

How very kind and merciful the Lord is that at almost the beginning of the Church, he should give us to know as a people, what is good for us and good for our bodies, good to eat and good to drink. He mentions various articles. You are familiar with them. We verily know, that the things which the Lord has said are goodTor us are good. We have proved it in times past. Every man knows it, every woman knows it, and the children are going to know it as they get knowledge. Bread is the staff of life. Water is a pure beverage from heaven, you might say. It comes from the earth but it might just as well come down from heaven. It is so harmless and so fine for the human system. We should eat the things that are good for us in reason, sparingly, especially in the use of meat. We must not go to excess, in the use of that article and if we eat it largely, to any extent, it should be in times of cold weather. Now the Lord has declared in positive language that no one needs to err, no one needs to go astray in this matter. He has said it in plainness and simplicity. He does not say bread and water are not good for the body, but he does say tobacco is not good for the body. It is not good even for sick cattle except to be used outwardly for bruises and so on, and I feel sure that if , or tobacco juice was administered regularly, to an animal, say, a cow or a horse, if it had been healthy before it would be terribly sick thereafter. We are admonished to refrain from the use of this article and other things that are hurtful to the body. We should put them aside and pass them by. In this connection, it would be well to rememlber that a great and glorious blessing goes with the observance of the Word of Wisdom. The Lord has told us clearly and strongly what would follow. "All saints," he says, "who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures. They shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint." Yea, the Lord giveth a promise that the destroying angels shall pass them by as the children of Israel and not slay them. 

But aside from this promise, it ought to be the good pleasure of the Latter-day Saints to honor this commandment because it is from the Lord. He has spoken and we ought to listen and give heed to his word. Tobacco is particularly hurtful to young people, to the boys, many of whom fall into the habit of smoking cigarettes. They know not what they are doing. It may result in irreparable damage to them all through their lives. Listen to what Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, says upon this subject. He says: "The injurious agent in cigarettes comes principally from the burning paper wrapper. The substance thereby formed is called 'Acrobin.' It has a violent action on the nerve centers, producing degeneration of the cells of the brain which is quite rapid among boys. Unlike most narcotics, this degeneration is permanent and uncontrolable. I employ no person who smokes cigarettes." 

If any of your boys are using cigarettes, you ought to take instant notice of it, and exert every power and every influence within your means to get them to overcome the habit. 

Another word upon the subject. In the Unpopular Review, of January, 1914, Henry W. Farnham, Professor of Economics in Yale University, had an intensely and illuminating article on our tobacco bill, and which we have kindly been permitted to quote. Says Professor Farnham : 

The importance of tobacco in our National budget is shown by the latest census figure, according to which it ranks eleventh among the industries of the country with respect to the value of the product. Our manufactured tobacco was worth at the factory in 1909, four hundred and sixty million, six hundred ninety-five thousand dollars. It thus outranked bread and other bakery products, women's clothing, copper, malt liquors, automobiles, petroleum and distilled liquors. It was but about one-third less important than the manufactures of cotton. A careful statistician, Professor William B. Bailey of Yale, published nearly two years ago some figures showing that the people of the United States spent at that time in a single year about one billion, one hundred million dollars on tobacco. As the receipts from the Internal Revenue Tax on tobacco have increased by abput fourteen per cent in the last two years, it seems fai, to assume that the general consumption has increased by this amount. It seems, therefore, conservative to state that at the present time the people are spending at least one billion two hundred million dollars for the pleasure of smoking and chewing. The significance of these figures can best be appreciated if we compare them with other items in our national budget. To put the matter concretely "tobacco takers" spend in a single year twice the amount spent by the entire country on railroad travel, and about three times the amount which it spends on its common school system. They pay out annually about three times the entire cost of the Panama Canal, they destroy directly about three times as much property as was destroyed in the San Francisco earthquake. Their smokes and chews cost them just about twice what it costs to maintain the government of the United States, including the interest on the public debt. Our smokers could, in a year and a half, pay off the entire bonded debts of our states, cities and counties, as it was in 1902, and in an additional nine months the entire interest-bearing debt of the United States, if they were willing to exercise the self-denial which was exercised a few years ago by the Persian people. 

 These figures are impressive. I think I am safe in saying that vast sums are expended in our own state every year for tobacco and that thousands and tens of thousands of cigarettes are smoked by the young people in the State of Utah. It ought not to be. We must get together, we must be absolutely united, we must set our faces as flint against this evil, because it is breaking down the health and Weakening the constitution of our young people. It will never do. 

THE BONDAGE OF DEBT Just a closing word upon the subject of indebtedness. Any man who has been in debt, any man or woman who is in debt now, surely knows the evil of indebtedness. It is bondage. It is worse than imprisonment. It is time that our people, at least, should give this important matter consideration. We do not know what is ahead. There may be evil times, we do not know. Mioney seems to be plentiful just now. How it comes and where it comes from I don't know, but I see a great deal of it wrapped up in the thousands and tens of thousands of automobiles that are plying throughout the country, in every city and in every country place. Surely, it is all right for a man to have an automobile for the use of himself and his family, and especially to take his family out occasionally and particularly if his family lives upon a farm. I think it is a grand thought that a farmer may take his hard-working wife and his family out for a little fresh air and drive them over the country, in the country places, and in the city too. It is all right if he can afford it. If he has the money to invest in this luxury it is all right. But I would not think it is all right to put a large sum of money into an automobile, if he does not have it, and if he must needs mortgage the automobile or possibly mortgage his home in order to get it. To me that looks like a great evil, but  thought that is in my mind is that we ought to retrench in our expenditures. I am safe in saying that this is an extravagant age in which we are living and much money is spent recklessly and wildly. 

Keep this in mind. Let us fight these three gigantic evils. 

The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Lola Leonard sang a sacred solo : "Sweet story of old." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I am very grateful for the privilege I had of attending the conference session this morning, and I desire to express my approval of all that was said. Every admonition I approved of, and' it met a responsive answer in my heart. I enjoyed greatly that wonderful hymn that was sung so beautifully by Brother J. R. Boshard, and a member of the Provo choir, entitled "I know that my Redeemer Lives." I think that is my favorite song, and every time I hear it sung it builds me up in my faith and gives me confidence that there is a living God and that he has a watch-care, not only over his people, but over the whole world. 

NEED OF REFORMATION IN THE HOME LIFE OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE 

i am going to read an extract of a letter from a governor of one of the great states of our country. I believe that never in the history of the world has it been so necessary that there be a reformation in the home life of the American people, and to a certain extent, in our own homes in Zion, as exists today. This excerpt is as follows, in answer to a letter written the governor upon a question that I thought was very vital to the American people: 

The destiny, the greatness of America lies around the hearthstone. If thrift and industry are taught there and the example of self-sacrifice oft appears; if honor abide there, and high ideals; if there the building of fortune be subordinate to the building of character America will live in security, rejoicing in an abundant prosperity and good government at home, and in peace, respect and confidence abroad. If these virtues be absent there is no power that can supply these blessings. Look well, then, to the hearthstone. Therein all hope for America lies." 

I am delighted to know that from the very beginning of the Church, immediately after its organization, the "Mormon" people became home-builders and home-owners, and in the early days of this Church, at least as far back as I can remember, the admonitions to the people were to secure a home and keep it unencumbered. That admonition is good today. PEOPLE LIVING BEYOND THEIR MEANS 

I have been surprised to see in a few of the business concerns the amount of indebtedness owing by our people and in many cases it seems to me in amounts that it will be impossible for them to repay without some unforeseen relief. I want to echo the same idea expressed by Brother Clawson and ask our people, as well as other people who are deeply in debt, to get out as soon as possible. The obligations, of our government were never so great, brought on by the wicked world war, but it is not only the government, it is the people generally throughout all parts of the country. The people generally have been living beyond their income. And as long as money was so easily obtained, many who never were in debt before, find themselves in that condition today no one can tell, but we know that there are thousands and tens of thousands of them, and we do know that from now on there must be a retrenchment in the mode of living by the people of the United States. Extravagances upon all hands, and sometimes as I look around in the large cities it seems to me that that old principle that made America so strong and powerful, that homeowning tendency, that hearthstone spoken of by the governor, is fast disappearing in many parts of our country. Instead of homes we see great buildings erected as apartment houses. From my front door in Washington I look upon the hill but a few rods away, and there is built what is said to be the largest apartment house in all the world. People are applying for space faster than it is possible to furnish. 

PRAYER IN THE HOME 

I hope and trust that the homes of the "Mormon" people will be homes in which prayer is always practiced, for there is power in prayer and as long as the father and the mother and the children of a home believe in prayer, and believe that God will answer the prayers, and offer those prayers with an honest and pure heart, there is not very much outside danger that will come to such homes. The five years that I was a counselor in the Presidency of the Utah stake there never was a case of dispute or trouble between the husband and wife that came under my observation, but what, upon inquiry, we learned that in that home prayer had ceased to be the rule. And I am one who believes that where the inmates of a home pray for strength, pray with faith, pray with their children and for their children, that there is not going to be an estrangement between the father and the mother, or the children and the parents. I hope and trust that where our people, through circumstances perhaps over which they have no control, are forced into apartment houses, that they will try to make the rooms they occupy in such a building a place where prayer shall be exercised. 

In our meeting the other day some of the presidents of the mis reported some remarkable healings of the sick. As I listened to them I thought to myself, are there any more remarkable manifestations of the power of God recorded in Holy Writ than those that were reported to us at that meeting, the blind made to see, — the paralyzed made to walk! And I want to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I do know that there is that power in the Priesthood of the living God, that through faith and prayer and laying on of hands, the household of faith can be healed. I think we are making headway in the world. I think that the walls of prejudice against this people are crumbling day by day. I think that the character of the people is better understood as time passes on, and I haven't a doubt in my mind but what all the purposes of the Father will be fulfilled in his own due time. And it is with us, as members of his Church, to see that our homes are put in order and that we ourselves are willing to keep the commandments of God as was requested of us this morning by President Grant. . 

CONVERSIONS AT HOME AND ABROAD 

We have many missionaries in the field, some fifteen hundred, I think, and with all the expense attached to maintaining them in the missionary field, and with all of the baptisms that are performed by the missionaries, I want to say to the brethren and sisters here today that the number of such conversions in the world are not more than twenty-five per cent of the number of the children that are born of "Mormon" parentage. I may add that I was pleased with some of the reports that came to the Council of the Twelve in relation to the home missionary work in some of the stakes of Zion. I understand that the home missionaries in one stake of Zion have converted within the last year, or less, some thirty-eight persons, and I thought to myself, a soul saved in Zion, a baptism made at home, is just as precious in the sight of the Father as one that is made abroad. And if with our lives and through our energies we can convert the people who live among us, the people who see our every-day lives, the people who know what this work has accomplished in this part of God's vineyard, how blessed it would be, and I am quite sure it would be approved of the Father. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I ask God's choicest blessings upon you, and I want to say with all the fervor of my soul that I know that the Father is at the head of this work, he is directing it, and I know that his servants are in full accord with the wish of the Presidency of the Church. May his blessings ever attend all of the people, and may they remember him in their tithes and in their offerings, for it is from him that all good comes, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

IN TUNE WITH THE KEYNOTE. 

My spirit is in perfect tune with the keynote struck for this conference. I believe in charity and forgiveness. I fully agree with the one who said: "He that judgeth a matter before he heareth it is not wise." And we do not hear a matter by hearing one side of it. It is wrong to pass judgment before proof of guilt. The Prophet Joseph Smith was murdered while awaiting trial on a trumped up charge of which he had not been proved guilty, nor could he have been. He had surrendered for trial, but his plotting murderers declared : "The law cannot reach him, but powder and ball shall." And they forthwith carried out their wicked threat. This, however, is not the theme that was weighing upon my mind. 

TWO PHASES OF GOD'S WORK. 

I have been thinking of two great phases of the Lord's Latter-day work, one of them appealing more strongly, perhaps, to the travelingministry who are preaching the gospel in the world; the other to those who are laboring at home in the Stakes of Zion and particularly in the temples of God. 

TEMPLES IN THIS DISPENSATION 

Temples and temple work is a subject that lies very near and is very dear to the heart of every faithful, thoughtful Latter-day Saint. This Church since its organization, has built eight temples — the first one at Kirtland, Ohio, in the year 1836; the next one at Nauvoo, Illinois, in the early forties; and it projected others at Independence, Missouri, and at Far West and Adam-ondi-Ahman in that state. Then came the departure of the Saints into the wilderness. The first temple in Utah, the one at St. George, was dedicated in 1877, the year that President Brigham Young died. Next in order was the Logan Temple, completed in 1884; then the Manti Temple, in 1888. The great Salt Lake Temple, which occupied forty years in building and cost over three million dollars, was dedicated in April, 1893. Since that time, we have built a temple in the Hawaiian Islands, and another at Cardston, in the province of Alberta, Canada. And now the Church contemplates a temple at Mesa, Arizona, which will make the ninth, thus far, in this dispensation. 

THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE 

Among all these sacred structures there is one that stands out unique, with a character and history all its own. It is not the largest  our temples, nor the costliest; but things occurred within its walls of which there is no counterpart in the history of any other house of God. P refer to the temple at Kirtland, which it was my privilege to visit, first, in 1877, and subsequently in 1914. One peculiarity of that temple — which yet stands — is the absence of a baptismal font, the principle of baptism for the dead not having been revealed to the Church that early. But there is something connected with the Kirtland Temple of far greater consequence than a baptismal font, and without which there would have been no baptismal font in any of the temples since erected; and without which, moreover, the whole work of God in this dispensation would have come to a standstill. 

JOSEPH AND OLIVER 

You will understand me more clearly after I have read to you a selection from the book of Doctrine and Covenants — a portion of Section 110, the caption of which runs as follows : "Visions manifested to Joseph the Seer and Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland Temple, April 3rd, 1836." This was just one week after that house had been dedicated. Joseph and Oliver were the first and second Elders of the Church. They had been associated together in the translating of the Book of Mormon. They were together when John the Baptist restored the Aaronic Priesthood, and when the Melchizedek Priesthood was brought back to earth by Peter, James and John. They were together in organizing the Church; and now, six years after that event, they are together in the first temple erected by the Latter-day Saints, receiving from God one of the most wonderful manifestations ever vouchsafed to mortals. It came in order that what had gone before in the opening of this gospel dispensation, might not be in vain. The glorious appearing of the Father and the Son; the visitations of the Angel Moroni; the discovery of the Nephite plates; the restoration of the Priesthood, and the organization of the Church — all these events were preliminary to what was about to come. Here is the record of visions seen by Joseph and Oliver on that occasion : 

JEHOVAH APPEARS 

The vail was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. 

We saw the Lord standing upon the breast-work of the pulpit, before us, and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. 

His eyes were as a flame of fire, the hair of his- head was white like the pure snow, his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying — 

I am the first and the last, I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. 

A wonderful revelation in itself, this proclamation from the mouth of Jehovah, the God of Israel, that he is no other than Jesus Christ, the Savior of mankind. He accepts the house — the Temple built to his name — and the record thus continues : 

MOSES AND ELIJAH 

After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us, and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. . . . 

After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said — 

Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come, 

To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. 

Therefore the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors. 

THE GOSPEL TO THE NATIONS 

Up to this time the activities of the Elders who were preaching the gospel had been confined to various states of the Union and to the Dominion of Canada; but now the Ensign, previously lifted, was farther advanced. The keys of the gathering having been restored, preparations were made for sending the gospel from the Land of Zion into foreign lands, calling in from their long dispersion the children of Israel, scattered for generations through the various nations of the world. But if the keys committed by Moses, who held them at the time of Israel's exodus from Egypt, had not been conferred upon the Prophet presiding over this dispensation, the work of God would have halted then and there. There would have been no gathering of Israel, if the keys for the gathering had not been restored. 

FIRST FOREIGN MISSION 

In the summer of 1837, a little over a year after these keys were given to Joseph and Oliver, the Prophet, harassed and' tortured by conditions then prevailing at Kirtland, where everything seemed tottering to its fall — half the Quorum of the Twelve and many of the Seventies and Elders arraying themselves against the Lord's anointed — voiced the word of God to the effect that "something new must be done to save the Church." Yes, Satan saw what wlas coming; he knew the significance of the restoration of those sacred keys, and he did his utmost to destroy the Lord's work in its infancy. It was a period of apostasy; the things of the world were uppermost in the minds of the people, and many were neglecting their spiritual duties, and seeking to become rich at the sacrifice of principle. Such was the situation when, according to Heber C. Kimball, one of the Apostles,  Prophet, sitting beside him in the Kirtland Temple, Sunday, June 4, 1837, said: "Brother Heber, the Spirit of the Lord has whispered to me, 'Let my servant Heber go to England and proclaim my gospel and open the door of salvation to that nation.' " Heber C. Kimball and Orson Hyde, with Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, Isaac Russell, John Goodson and John Snyder, crossed the Atlantic, landed at Liverpool penniless, proceeded to Preston in Lancashire, and there preached the first "Mormon" sermons ever heard on European soil. Their success was marvelous. Whole villages were swept into the Church by these unlettered but divinely empowered apostles of the new dispensation. In eight months" they baptized two thousand souls, and Heber wrote back to Kirtland : "Glory to God, Joseph, the Lord is with us among the nations!" 

EARLIEST IMMIGRANTS 

Subsequently another apostolic mission, headed by Brigham Young and including a majority of the Twelve, crossed the ocean and carried the gospel to all parts of the British Isles. Five thousand converts were added to the Church; a new edition of the Book of Mormon was published; many thousands of tracts were distributed; the Millennial Star was founded; a permanent emigration agency established; and in the month of June, 1840, the first company of Latter-day Saints from a foreign land sailed from Liverpool to New York, bound for Nauvoo, Illinois, which had become the place of gathering. From that time on, Israel has been flocking from the nations, to meet the God of Israel when he comes, and to make the necessary preparation for his coming. All this by virtue of the keys restored by Moses, and conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple. 

JUDAH TO RETURN 

About two months before that little company of forty-one Saints crossed the Atlantic on the ship Britannia, a notable conference was held at Nauvoo, and two of the Apostles, Orson Hyde and John E. Page, were called to go to Palestine and bless that land, that its barrenness might depart and the way be opened for the restoration of the Jews. For be it remembered that the gathering of Israel includes the assembling of "the dispersed of Judah" — their return to their ancient homeland. America is the Land of Zion, and here the New Jerusalem will stand. But Christ's kingdom will have two capitals, one in the Old World; one in the New; "for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

ORSON HYDE IN PALESTINE 

John E. Page faltered and fell by the way; but Orson Hyde accomplished his mission, though beset and hindered by many hardships and difficulties. It took him a year and a half to reach the goal for which he had set out. Finally, on the 24th day of October, 1841, from the summit of the Mount of Olives, overlooking Jerusalem, he offered to Jehovah, the God of Israel, a most fervent and eloquent prayer in behalf of his covenant people. He blessed the sterile land by the power of the holy apostleship, that it might become fruitful once more, and that Judah might repossess his ancient heritage. Afterwards he predicted that the British nation would take an active part in the redemption of Palestine; a prophecy fulfilled at the close of the recent World War, when General Allenby, at the head of a British army, made his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. 

LATER MISSIONS TO THE HOLY LAND 

In the year 1872 a mission went from Salt Lake City to the Holy Land. President George A. Smith headed the party, which also included Lorenzo Snow, one of the Twelve Apostles, and his gifted sister, the poet, Eliza R. Snow. Upon reaching Palestine, President Smith duplicated the work done by Orson Hyde in 1841, dedicating the land for the return of the Jews and the rebuilding of Jerusalem. Other elders of the Church have since visited that once favored and yet to be glorified region. President Anthon H. Lund was there in 1898; and he likewise offered up an earnest prayer for the great consummation. All this because Moses restored the keys for the gathering of Israel in this dispensation. 

THE KEYS OF ELIJAH 

But what about the keys of Elijah? What is their significance? If you will read Sections 127 and 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and peruse pages 27 to 35 of "Joseph Smith's Teachings," you will learn what the founder of this Church had in mind relative to that important matter. In connection with the building of temples and the work done in them by the living for the dead, we have from his pen this glorious utterance : "It is necessary, in the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times, . . . that a whole and complete and perfect union and welding together of dispensations and keys and powers and glories should take place and be revealed from the days of Adam even to the present time; and not only this, but those things which never have been revealed from the foundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto babes and sucklings in this the dispensation of the fulness of times." 

A GREATER GATHERING 

In other words, there is to be another gathering, one still greater than the gathering of the dispersed house of Israel. It is the gath or bringing together of the gospel dispensations, and the binding of all into one. This is called the dispensation of the fulness of times, and its peculiar distinguishing characteristic is, that it folds to its mighty bosom all the dispensations preceding it; the angels holding the keys of the past conferring them upon the Prophet who presides over this period or division of God's work, to the end that oneness and unity may be established as a condition precedent to the Savior's Millennial reign. Therefore came Moses and Elijah, John the Baptist, Peter, James and John and others, bringing and bestowing their keys, so that their work might be blended with the work done in this dispensation, which is destined to gather together all things that are Christ's, both in heaven and on earth. Especially was it necessary that Elijah should restore the keys of his calling and ministry — keys comprising the revelation of "the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood," with all its "ordinances, oracles, powers and endowments," the seals of which must be placed upon the House of Israel, that all may be made ready for Messiah's advent. 

THE WELDING LINK 

The Prophet says that there must be "a welding link between the fathers and the children" — the fathers in heaven yearning over their children on earth; and therefore was Elijah sent. His keys empower the living to do saving work for the dead and seal them up to come forth in the first resurrection; "to seal those who dwell on earth to those who dwell in heaven." "For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect." "This is the power of Elijah and the keys of the kingdom of Jehovah." The welding link is baptism for the dead, with other vicarious work now going on in the temples that God's people have erected. You brethren and sisters who labor in these temples may cherish in your souls the sweet conviction that you are helping to bind together the gospel dispensations and assisting to advance the mighty purposes of God. 

THE EVERLASTING GOSPEL 

"Mormonism," as it is called, did not originate in the nineteenth century. It is not of any one time nor of any one place. It is the everlasting gospel, the same yesterday, today and forever. There never has been and never will be another gospel; but this one, framed in heaven, has been upon earth again and again, in a series of dispenstations reaching like a mighty chain from the morning of creation down to the end of time. And all these dispensations must be linked and bound together before the God of Israel appears; for unless a condition of unity and power, resulting from faith and righteous works, exists at that time, the whole earth will be smitten with a curse. Not that the Lord wishes to curse, but rather to bless mankind. But the blessing that he desires to bestow at his coming would change into a consuming curse, if the necessary preparation were not made. PERFECTION THE GOAL 

The gospel is the plan of eternal progression, and perfection is its goal. Apart from our ancestors who figured in the former dispensations, neither we nor they can attain perfection. But by unity, which brings power, and by faith, which makes all things possible, the glorious end can be achieved. The sacred ordinances of God's House — baptisms, endowments, sealings, adoptions, etc., — all point to a perfect state of righteous love and unity. Why, for instance, do we marry for eternity, and not merely for time? It is because we are children of eternity, building for eternity, and "the man is not without the woman nor the woman without the man, in the Lord." Together they represent completeness, perfection; separated, they symbolize incompleteness, imperfection; and nothing imperfect can enter into the Divine Presence. Let a man and a woman, single or married only for time, present themselves at the celestial gates, and it will be said to them, or of them, as it was said at the gates of Verdun : "They shall not pass." But they who are wedded for eternity, wedded according to God's law and by his sealing power and authority, shall pass by the angels and the gods and inherit a fulness of joy. The welding link must bind together husband and wife, parent and child, present and past, living and dead — "all things in Christ," to the end that there may be completeness, perfection, and that that condition of unity and love may prevail which is the required preparation for the coming of the Lord in his glory. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

Benediction was offered by Elder Daniel G. Miller, President of the Yellowstone Stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until Saturday morning at 10 a. m. 
