Overflow
08 10 1911

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, Oct. 8th, 1911. The services were presided over by Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

The Temple choir under direction of Prof. C. J. Thomas, rendered the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Sweetly may the blessed Spirit On each faithful bosom shine; 

May we every grace inherit; Lord, we seek a boon divine. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Ferdinand F. Hintze. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Ere long the vail will rend in twain, The King descend with all His train; The earth will shake with awful fright, And all creation feel His might. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(President Northern States Mission.) 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of attending this general conference of the Church. I have been delighted and instructed by the counsel, advice and admonition that we have received thus far. 

I sincerely pray that, while I occupy the time, the Spirit of the Lord will direct me, that I may clearly express the thoughts that come to me while standing before you. In the opening address, our  President, touched upon many of the glorious things that were revealed by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, for the education and preparation of His children upon the earth, to help them to come back and dwell with Him. Among the others, there was one thought which has been beautifully expressed by the poet that struck me forcibly. It is found in the hymn, "O My Father," wherein it says : 

"I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy Spirit from on high] 

But, until the key of knowledge Was restored, I knew not why." 

Most little children in the earth have been taught by parents and teachers to worship some kind of a Supreme Being, and for lack of power to explain their God they have taught them to worship our Father as a reality. Naturally, they have looked upon "Our Father in Heaven" as a personal being, the prototype of men, and in whose image we were created. It is only when the children have grown older that they worship the Lord (if they worship at all), in the abstract. They try to worship a being without body, without parts, and without passions. In this regard, we were like the rest of the world until the restoration of the Gospel. But, when the "key of knowledge was restored," we then understood really who God and Christ are. They visited the Prophet Joseph Smith, and revealed again Their true character to the world, which revelation enables us to know better than the rest of mankind who God and Christ are. As one, of the speakers quoted yesterday, "To know Thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent,  life eternal." True, we have the scriptures that have been an aid in bringing much light and information into the world, but in addition to the ancient scriptures, we have the glorious revelations and manifestations of our Heavenly Father to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which light and truth is causing thousands in the denominations and sects of the world to also believe in a personal God. As Latter-day Saints we ought to rejoice in these things. It has also been revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints that, associated with our Father in Heaven we have a Mother there. The poet, in the same verse partly quoted above, gave expression to this beautiful truth: 

"In the heavens are parents single? 

No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason; truth eternal 

Tells me I've a Mother there." 

The people of the world, in a large measure, after eighty years have elapsed, are growing in belief in the consistency of this idea; they are beginning to say if we had a Father in Heaven, we must have had a mother, and to sustain that thought they quote the scripture, "God created Adam and Eve in His own image, male and female created He them." 

During the late conference of the Northern States Mission, in Nauvoo, the fact was impressed upon my mind concerning the great liberty, rights and privileges that were asserted by the Prophet Joseph Smith should belong to women, in the organization of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Since that time many organizations have  up among the women in this and other lands. They have been given a chance to become in very deed the helpmeets of men, and their equal in many of the walks of life. Today we find numerous societies, clubs and organizations for the betterment, education and upbuilding of the women of the world. They have been given liberty, and opportunity for advancement far more since the Prophet Joseph Smith's day than in almost any other period in the history of the world. This is in keeping with what was promised concerning the last days, that knowledge should be multiplied, and that "truth should spring out of the earth and righteousness look down from heaven," not only for the blessing of men, but also for the women, for all of God's children, both male and female. I believe that the light of the Gospel is now rapidly permeating the whole world, and particularly the Christian world, along the lines revealed to our great Latter-day Prophet, and these truths are being recognized as coming from the Lord. Thousands now are heard to express a belief in God as being our Father, and having some kind of personality. Some sectarian ministers are now preaching that Christ was the revelation of God the Father to the children of men; and, while many may still believe that He is a spirit, or an essence, or some other substance, they are tending toward an absolute belief that Christ was a resurrected man, or a resurrected Redeemer, with a body of flesh and bones. 

I believe, too, that the Christian world are fast growing to comprehend the true mission of women in the earth. Particularly in the last few years is this manifest. The thinking- classes are now proclaiming to the world that the highest mission of women is to be mothers, and to seek to build up a better race — to sucessfully do their part in peopling the earth with a noble and intelligent class of citizens. In harmony with this idea, one of the present-day poets has expressed the same truth of motherhood in heaven as found in the "O My Father" hymn. I will read this to you, for it illustrates how the spirit of the Gospel is. taking hold of the children of our Father, and it is in harmony with the declaration of President Joseph F. Smith concerning light coming into the world through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The poem is entitled "Completion," by its author, Ella Wheeler Wilcox, but I have called it "Eternal Motherhood," and it is, as I have said, in harmony with the idea of our having a mother in heaven, and in harmony with the light that has been given to the world, in relation to this subject. 

When I shall meet God's generous dispensers Of all the riches in the heavenlystore, 

Those lesser gods, who act as recompensers 

For loneliness and loss upon this shore, 

Methinks, abashed, and somewhat hesitating, My soul its wish and longing will declare, 

Lest they reply: "Here are no bounties waiting: We gave on earth, your portion and your share." 

Then T shall answer: "Yea, T do remember 

The many blessings to my life allowed; 

My June was always longer than December, 

My sun was always stronger than my cloud, 

My joy was ever deeper than ray sorrow, 

My gain was ever greater than my loss, 

My yesterday seemed less than my tomorrow, The crown looked always larger than the cross. 

"I have known love in all its radiant splendor; It shone upon my pathway to the end. 

T trod no road that did not bloom with tender And fragrant blossoms planted by some friend. 

And those material things we call successes, 

In modest measure crowned my 

earthly lot, Yet was there one sweet happiness 

that blesses The life of woman which to me 

came not. 

"I knew the hope of motherhood; a season 

I felt a fluttering heart beat 'neath my own; 

A little cry — then silence. For thatreason 

I dare, to you, my only wish make known. 

The babe who grew to angelhood in heaven, 

I never watched unfold from child to man, 

And so I ask that unto me be given That motherhood which was God's primal plan. 

"All womankind He meant to share its glories. He meant us all to nurse our babes to rest, 

To croon them songs, to tell them sleepy stories, Else why the wonder of a woman's breast? 

He must provide for all earth's cheated mothers In His vast space of shining sphere on sphere, 

And with my son there must be many others — 

My spirit children who will claim me here. 

"Fair creatures by my loving thoughts created — 

Too finely fashioned for a mortal birth— 

Between the border of two worlds they waited Until they saw my spirit leave the earth. 

In God's great nursery they must be waiting 

To welcome me with many an infant wile. 

Now let me go and satisfy this longing 

To mother children for a little while." 

Now the light along this and every other line revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith is permeating the hearts of the children of men, and though they have not acknowledged the source; the time will soon come when they will be glad to give credit where credit is due, and even praise the Lord for that source by which light and information have been given to the world. The Latter-day Saints, above all people, have defended and upheld the high moral standard of woman, and her divine mission and work in the earth. The Lord has acknowledged their labors upon the earth; He has borne witness in the hearts of the women that they are placed upon the earth to be mothers of the children of God, and in rearing their sons and daughters have joy and satisfaction. The women of Zion can rejoice and take heart in the great calling given them, in being privileged to be the earthly mothers of the elect sons of our Heavenly Father. God loves them, and has manifested that they are blessed above all other women of the earth. They will be thrice welcome in His kingdom for their faithfulness and devotion to their high calling of motherhood. 

May the light and intelligence that God has so abundantly given to the Latter-day Saints eventually  the hearts of all the children of men, till God's kingdom is established and His will be done in earth as it is done in heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.,) 

Our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, in his opening address to this conference, made reference to some of the material things In which the Church has been interested. It has caused me to think, my brethren and sisters, that God is interested in the material condition of His children, as much, perhaps, as He is in their spiritual welfare, for, to Him, all things are spiritual. I have discovered this, as you who have been preaching the gospel have also, that it is exceeding difficult to interest in our message men or women who are hungry, or who are in dire necessity for the things of life, or whose lives are so depressed by long hours of service that they are too tired to become interested in the gospel. 

Looking over the past, we discover that God has always been interested in the material welfare of His children. How bounteously He has provided the things of' life that men are in need of, in the forming of the earth, in the organizing of the elements, in the soil and the water, the coal, iron and oil, the gold and the silver, and all things that are calculated to make life enjoyable upon the earth. And God designs that His bounties should be distributed in a just and right manner, that those who labor should enjoy the fruits of their labor, that the idler should "not eat the bread or wear the raiment of him who labors," and that there should be a just and honorable distribution among all His children. In the early ages of the world He gave, together with many spiritual laws, temporal laws also for the material interests of His people, the observance of which so perfected them in material as in spiritual things, that we are told of at least one great community who had "all things in common," and became perfect, so much so that God removed them from the knowledge of the world, or at least from that particular part of the earth, so that their place of habitation has not yet been discovered by men. I refer to Enoch and his people, whom the scriptures say were translated because of their perfection. Again, among the laws God gave to Moses He condescended to speak of material things. Many of these laws were intended as a "schoolmaster" to bring them to greater things that God had in mind for them, both spiritual and temporal. 

When Jesus ministered among men He announced advanced spiritual laws, and, in all probability, He gave information with respect to material things as well. I cannot think that the apostles, of their own initiative, began to establish that order of things that made them to have "all things in common," so that the people brought, the scriptures tell us, all their earthly things and put them down at the apostles' feet for a common store. So also in the establishment of this latter-day work, God has likewise been concerned for the material welfare of His people. Many of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, deal with temporal things, imparting information calculated to be an essential blessing to the peo. The Prophet, himself, was instructed to labor for the material welfare of the people, in the building of cities, and in assisting to establish mercantile and other institutions looking to the benefit of the people; he seemed to keep these material things in mind, so much so that many on the outside have found fault with the Prophet on this account. I believe that they who complain have not properly understood the object the Church had in these matters. 

I begin to realize the necessity of the Church taking interest in more than the spiritual welfare of the people, and I notice that this idea is growing in many of the leading churches of today. Recently a - certain congregation in the east, replying to questions sent to them by the minister as to why they did not attend church, expressed themselves as being dissatisfied with what they heard there. One of the delinquent's said : "The reason is, you are always telling me about the time that I am going to wear a white robe; why don't you tell me how to get a few white shirts now?" I believe that feeling will continue to grow. There is complaint against the ministers, who are referred to as "sky pilots," that they live above the things of the earth, and are soaring beyond the comprehension of mankind, who are in need of assistance in the settlement of problems that ought to be solved now. Not that we contend the church should usurp the functions of the state, but, wherein the state lacks in ministering to the wants of the people, the church should provide for those wants. 

We have discovered in the revelations of God to this Church, that He has provided, even in the mi detail, for the government of the life of each member, his physical conduct as well as his spiritual regulation. For example, we are told we should "retire early to rest, and arise early, that we might be invigorated and refreshed;" that we should abstain from the use of tea, ' coffee, tobacco, liquor and other things that are injurious. Attention has also been paid to regulating the amusements of the people, in the dance, the theatre, etc. Members of other churches have ignored these dangers,' and permit their children, in many instances, to mingle with men and women who have no character; nor do they seem to feel any responsibility for the moral welfare of their young men and women. We believe that the Church was justified in taking into consideration the needs of its boys and girls, and providing for them necessary and proper amusement. We believe that the Church has been justified in looking to the material welfare of the people in all directions. 

Not long ago, an editor in the city of Vancouver, B. C, made an attack upon us, sarcastically, saying that we ought to go to the backdoors of Europe and bring the poor out to our communities, and make them till the soil, and then extract one-tenth of their earnings from them, that being the method, he said, by which the Church has become wealthy. ' It is no reproach upon us for preaching to the poor; don't you remember it was the poor that had the gospel preached unto them in the days of the Savior? If a tenth of their earnings has made the Church "immensely rich," what has the nine-tenths done for those who were before always dependent, having to go to the poor house when old age came upon them, and never  the joy of owning' their own homes. It is true that in the days that are past the Church did, through the Perpetual Emigration Fund, aid many men and women to come from the land of their nativity to this glorious land, and assisted them in becoming located upon the soil, helped them to acquire homes,- and saw them become independent, ninety per cent, we are told, eventually owning their own homes. The Church influenced them to construct irrigation ditches; and lent them aid and assistance in many ways. It helped them in the disposal of their crops; it assisted in the construction of a railroad, that enabled the products of the country abroad to be brought in, and the shipping out of products grown or manufactured here. Before the days of the railroad, the Church interested itself in the beet sugar industry, bringing machinery across the plains with ox-teams; but owing to the people not understanding beet culture as they do today, that enterprise was a failure then. But today, that industry has been established very largely through the efforts of the Church, so that beet farmers are now the most independent farmers in the community, they are well to do, as a rule, and this industry has been a great blessing to them in many respects. 

The Church authorities saw the prices that were charged by transient merchants who brought their goods here to be sold, and, by their instigation, a commercial institution was organized, which purchased goods in large quantities, shipped them in cheaply, and, by selling to the people at reasonable figures, it became a great blessing to the men and women struggling here for a livelihood, and for means to rear and educate their children. This institution has since been a great price leveler. The Church sought to establish woolen mills, iron works, shoe factories, and other enterprises calculated to be a blessing to the people. It did not leave them in ignorance, but built school houses and meeting houses, and gave them opportunities to acquire information, until now our state ranks third among all the states in our Union in the matter of our education. No wonder the "Mormon" men and women pay their tithing; they have received abundant returns in the numerous blessings that have flowed to them in a material way and also in a spiritual way. They have never been robbed by the Church, and have no reason to complain, but many reasons to rejoice. 

I do not raise any objection to the Church interesting itself in enterprises for the blessing of the community. I expect to see the day when the Church will aid even more than it is doing now. The law of tithing was calculated to be only as a "school master" to bring us to greater and better things. The greater and better things are that we shall reach that condition when we shall practice and enjoy that system of Enoch, which was revealed to the Prophet Joseph, and the keys of which are held by the Latter-day Saints today. This will eventually bring us to enjoy on an equality the material wealth of the world, so that we shall have no rich and no poor, and have no oppression of one by another. Men shall love each other, otherwise there would be no reign of peace, no millennium. 

We have no quarrel with our Socialist friends. While we recognize they have some truth, yet what the world needs, more than socialistic  and methods, is a people so trained that they can keep themselves in line, and maintain high ideals and standards. Why was it that many of the communities that were founded and established to colonize and develop the west, outside of the Latter-day Saints, failed? A man in Portland recently told me there was something remarkable about our people, as he recounted the failures of others and our successes. I stated, it is the unity of our faith, constituting within us a strong binding force, so that we have been enabled to stand together for a long period without getting results, not becoming discouraged, but continuing mutually working for the common good. 

Let me tell you that the solution of the great problem that is confronting the world today, between capital and labor, shall be completely solved through the instrumentality that God has devised, and through the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints. An ensign, and a pattern to the world in these things, shall be raised and established through the men and women who have obeyed the "school-master." and are prepared to learn better and higher things. Let us fix our -eyes upon these things, for the Lord has decreed they shall be established. The men and women who do not obey the "schoolmaster," and keep themselves up to the standard of that law, will not keep the higher law. That man and that woman who pay their tithes, thereby witnessing that they are indebted to God, showing that they are but leasers of the portion of earth upon which they dwell, giving to Him grateful acknowledgment of His rightful ownership of it. and complying with the conditions upon  final ownership may be secured to them as an everlasting inheritance, unto them only will there be given the greater things. 

Every man and woman ought to feel thankful unto trie Lord for the glorious privileges that we have of being material assistance unto the Church. I know it is a splendid system that has been devised and given to the Latter-day Saints. God wants to make us unselfish : He wants to make us generous. -He loves a generous giver, and He provides such with what He designs they shall bestow. He wants, not our dollars, but our hearts. In giving, our hearts should go with the gifts, this makes us truly liberal, as He is liberal. 

The father and mother who are constantly giving to their children, providing them education and giving them social position, as well as the necessaries and comforts of life, and denying ^themselves; .personal comforts in order to bestow the means upon their children, should have respect, grateful acknowledgment, and honor from their boys and girls. I have looked with sorrow upon boys and girls who have been indulged by their parents and then -complained that they did not get more, that they were not given a better hat, or a better suit of clothes, and thus brought grief to their parents who were doing all they could for them, even with great sacrifice to themselves. I have looked with sorrow upon fathers and mothers under such conditions as these, when their children seemed to be ungrateful. What is the return that the father and mother want? They merely desire that their son or daughter acknowledge their obligation for the generous support and provision that is made  them. Such boys and girls ought to go to their fathers and mothers, put their arms around them and kiss them and say, God bless you father, God bless you mother, I appreciate your sacrifice, and I want to do something for you. What can I do? That pays and compensates the heart of that father and mother. 

God is like our fathers and mothers in His great, grand scheme of giving to and providing for His children, and He is grieved when He sees us receiving ungratefully the good things that He provides, coveting what He gives to others, and begrudging that which ' we should return as a tribute to Him. God loves to see a spirit of thankfulness manifested by His children. 

God bless us and help us to keep fixed in our hearts and minds these things that He has revealed to us. Let us labor through these years of preparation — for we are in a state of preparation — to accomplish what the Lord has laid out for us to do, not only for our own salvation but for that of our children and, as much as lies in our power, for the salvation of all our brethren and sisters in the earth. God help us to live up to these high ideals, and merit His promised blessings, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir rendered a selection, entitled, "Hushed was the evening hymn." 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

(President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

The Latter-day Saints are known as a peculiar people, and among their peculiarities is the fact that they are a plain and common-sense people, endeavoring to live in harmony as the sons and daughters of God. In listening to the remarks of those who have preceded me, I am strengthened in that thought, which I desire to dwell upon, that is, that we are looking forward to even a stronger degree of unity, not only unity in faith, but in material affairs as well. To attain to this position, I am inclined to advise, that those who are blessed today with the material things of life should restrain themselves a little, that they should hold back in the expenditure of funds upon their children, that there might, consequently, be a more equal condition. I regret to notice, without any disposition to criticize, however, the tendency towards classification. I have observed in our Church schools that parents who can afford to dress them well, are allowing their girls to attend school clad in silks and satins, with their heads adorned by expensive hats, and some of the boys also are dressed in the finest of fashionable clothing. The boys and girls that develop in this life to the best men and women, are usually children of poor parents. This habit I am speaking of to some extent humiliates' the feelings of those not well off. 

I notice that there has been improvement among the ladies in that they have acquired the habit of uncovering their heads in our meetings. There is a better condition in tliis respect, they are thus on an equality, not trying to outdo one an' other, or to distract the attention of the congregation. This is enough to make us feel better for the change. 

If you carefully observe the men and women who have made the best of this life, you will find that generally, they are those whose parents  not been able to squander means on their sons and daughters. At Berkley, California, one of the lecturers in the Summer School made this observation, that we must get back to first principles again. I submit, my brethren and sisters, that we ought to get back those sweet feelings that we enjoyed when the Saints would walk long distances to congregate, that they might have a good shake of the hands and meet on equality. I remember the early days in this valley, when our mothers wore the same kind of bonnets, and dressed in calico, they did not envy each other, they were all equal. But, I do not consider there is anything too good for the children of God, if we don't worship it. There is no fabric, too nice for the pure daughters of God. It is the flaunting of rich clothing in such a way as to annoy those who are less fortunate in life that creates inequality and hurts the feelings of the people. I do hope, my brethren and sisters, that we will endeavor to restrain ourselves in the follies and fashions of the world. In my experience I have learned that the men and women we love most are not those who dress the finest, but are those who make the best of the opportunities presented to them. The man and woman that we place in any position any time we need them, are they who will work cheerfully and do anything that is desired of them. We can depend upon such men. whether it be in the digging of a ditch or speaking in the. pulpit, whatever they may be called upon to do. 

Regarding our missionaries, some of our Elders spend too much money in the world. While traveling in the mission field, T traveled al absolutely without purse or scrip. It is to be regretted that some of our boys now find they have not enough faith to preach without purse or scrip in the world. We want our boys to go out among the people and win their way. "The laborer is worthy of his hire." I always thought it an unfair proposition that, when we go out and give our time, and make the sacrifice of the comforts of home, to carry the pearl of great price to the world, that the people are not willing to give us our food and a bed to sleep in. I think it is a mistake for us to spend so much money, we are not training the people of the world aright in that direction. I have experienced it, and know what I am talking about. In my own experience, and in association with other ciders, I have found we have succeeded best when we went without purse or scrip. 

In this great educational period every boy and girl must go to school, we want them to go and we desire that they should have educational privileges. But what is it doing for us at home? If we want to have a weak generation of boys and girls give them a fine education and all the money they want for fashionable clothes and amusements. The rank and file of this people, the substantial element upon whom God may rely, will go right along avoiding extremes, and can always be depended upon. If we are going to reach the splendid condition Brother Ballard has been telling us about, it will be by restraining ourselves, getting back into the ranks, and using the common sense God has given us, not following after the foolish fashions of the world. I submit it matters little what the position may be, as  rule the strongest, the happiest, the best, and the wisest of men are those who dress simply and live simply, who work for the good of humanity. May God grant that we shall all realize these things, and march in the ranks with the people of God, who are building up His kingdom and accomplishing His purposes upon the earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

The question asked by one of old was, "Canst thou by searching find out God?" It is interesting to me to observe man's efforts, without the aid of divine revelation, to find out God. I would not disparage the argument from creature to creator, from design to designer; and yet I appreciate the limitations that there are to that line of argument. We have in scripture some instances of this process of reasoning "from nature up to nature's God." For instance, the Psalmist David exclaims : "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard." There is also in the Book of Mormon a beautiful instance that occurs in connections with the controversy between Korihor, the antiChrist, and Alma, the great high priest. Korihor had been putting forth his agnostic arguments, and Alma meets him, in part, with this remark: "The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion; yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form, doth witness that there is a Supreme Creator." 

I noticed in the last number of the Improvement Era a beautiful selection along this line — 

There is a God. The herbs of the valley, the cedars of the mountains, bless Him; the insect sports in his beam; the bird sings Him in the foliage; the thunder proclaims Him in the heavens; the ocean declares His immensity; man alone has said, "There is no God." Unite in thought at the same instant the most beautiful objects in nature. Suppose that you see at once all the hours of the day, and all the seasons of the year — a morning of spring and a morning of autumn — a night bespangled with stars and a night darkened with clouds — meadows enameled with flowers — forests hoary with snow — fields gilded by the tints of autumn — then alone you will have a just conception of the universe! While you are gazing on that sun which is plunging into the vault of the west, another observer admires him emerging from the gilded gates of the east. By what inconceivable power does that aged star, which is sinking fatigued and burning in the shades of evening, reappear at the same instant fresh and humid with the rosy dew of the morning? At every hour of the day, the glorious orb is at once rising, resplendent as noon-day, and settling in the west; or rather, our senses deceive us, and there is properly speaking, no east or west, no north or south in the world. 

Proctor, the astronomer who once paid a just tribute to Orson Pratt whose memorial services are being celebrated today, Richard A. Proctor, in introducing his work entitled "Other Worlds than Ours," uses a scriptural quotation — "Lo, these are but a portion of His ways" — meaning the ways of the universe, the marvels of> the- universe — "Lo these are but a portion of His ways, they are but a whisper of His glory,  the thunder of His power who* can comprehend?" And yet, notwithstanding all the evidences that we have of the. existence of Deity — and the strong and legitimate argument that we have from design to designer, yet that is not of itself sufficient to reveal unto us all the attributes of God. Mr. Herbert Spencer, the great naturalist, after a life time in the study of nature, declared, 

But one truth must ever grow clearer, the truth that there is an Inscrutable Existence everywhere manifested to which we can neither find or conceive beginning or end. 

Again, 

Amid the mysteries which become the more mysterious the more they are thought about, there will remain this one absolute certainty, that we are ever in the presence of an Infinite Energy, from which all things proceed. 

Sir Oliver Lodge declared : 

To my mind a great world-soul intimately connected with our own, is the most reasonable explanation of the process by which things came to be. 

But notwithstanding this process of reason, we should not lose sight of the fact that without revelation we could not know all the attributes of God — could not. "find out the Almighty unto perfection." 

Peter tells us in holy writ that, "all flesh is as the grass and the glory of man as the flower of. grass. The grass withereth and the flower thereof falleth away; but the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you." Just as the statue of the Prophet Joseph and the statue of his brother the Patriarch stand upon granite foundations, so the gospel of salvation is grounded  the granite bedrock of everlasting truth. It is an interesting fact that philosopher, poet and statesman, have grasped something of the great gospel truths. For instance, Joseph Smith placed emphasis upon the doctrine of faith. We have Sir Oliver Lodge asserting: "Faith and trust in the love and goodness underlying the universe seems to me to be the most vital and helpful thing." 

Emerson exclaims : 

Belief and love, — a believing love will lift from your shoulders a vast load of care. O, my brothers, God exists. There is a soul at the center of nature and over the will of every man so that none of us can wrong the universe. * * The whole course of things goes to teach us faith. We need only obey. There is goodness for each of us and by lowly listening, we shall hear toe right word. 

Carlyle gives us to understand that skepticism means not intellectual doubt alone, but moral doubt; all sorts of infidelity, insincerity and spiritual paralysis. That our minds are not given us to doubt with and cavil with but to come to some sure understanding upon matters concerning which we are to act. 

Hugo tells us : 

We live by affirmation, quite as much as we do by bread. That faith is a necessity, and woe to the man who believes nothing. 

' Carlyle also reminds us that 

For man's well-being, faith is properly the one thing needful; how with it martyrs otherwise weak,, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross; and without it, weaklings puke up their sick existence by suicide in the midst of luxury. 

Tolstoi, in his book, "What I Believe." confesses — 

I only passed from Nihilism to the , because I felt the impossibility of living without faith— without a knowledge of what is good and evil, resting on something more than upon animal instincts. 

Take the words of the statesman in addition to that of the philosopher. We have Senator Beveridge in his work, "The Young Man and the World,", advising the youngman who is about to become a teacher to see first to this question of faith : — "Speaking as one of the men of the street, as one of the millions, I think the best thing for you to attend to is this question of faith, Faith is only another name for power." Look to your faith then you who seek to save the souls of men. The Prophet Joseph taught the true relation between faith and works. Likewise one of the poets approaches a statement of our own belief in these words : 

If faith produce not works, I see That faith is not a living tree. Thus faith and works together grow, No separate life they e'er may know. They're soul and body, hand and heart, What God hath joined, let no man part. 

So we might go on with the views of the philosopher, poet, and statesman, corroborating this principle upon which the Prophet Joseph gave us corrected information. 

There was published recently in Public Opinion a quotation from a speech or the writings of the great English premier, William E. Gladstone, in reference to the inconsistency of the skeptic. He said : 

I contend that the skeptic is of all men the most inconsistent and irrational. He uses a plea against religion which he never uses against anything he wants to do or any idea he wants to embrace, viz., demonstrative evidence. Every day and all day long he is acting on evidence not demonstrative. He then gives numerous illustrations, and goes on to say, 

But when he comes to religion, he is seized with a great religious scrupulosity and demands as a pre-condition of homage to God what every where else he 'dispenses with and then ends with thinking himself more rational than other people. 

This caused the editor of Public Opinion to remark : 

We who believe ought not to stand upon the defensive. We have a right to demand that unbelief offer us some explanation of the phenomena of life, and show us that it is more probable than our explanation. What is your explanation of an intelligible universe if there is no intelligible God who has made us and who made it? What is your explanation of the fact that whenever man has emerged from a purely animal condition that there are altars and priests and temples and worship, if, in all these centuries he has found that worship unmeaning and unreal? What is your explanation of the fact that after eighteen centuries of moral and intellectual development and criticism and controversy, the Bible is still the world's best seller? What is your explanation of the fact that wherever the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth have become known He is the most revered and loved of all the figures in human history? 

I think we have reached a stage in the history of "Mormonism" when we may properly assume the same attitude, and call upon the world to give its explanation of "Mormonism," of all the phenomena of "Mormonism." If individuals are not satisfied with the explanation that Joseph Smith gave of how he came by the Book of Mormon, and of the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, and of the translation of those ancient documents comprising the Pearl of Great Price, and of all the other numerous phenomena of "Mormonism" — if they are not satisfied, I , with his explanation of these things, then we may say to them, What is your explanation of how these marvelous books came into existence? Are you satisfied with the Spaulding theory, of how the Book of Mormon came to be? Are you satisfied with the thought that Sidney Rigdon wrote the Book of Mormon, while, as a matter of fact, he never saw it until after it was published and handed to him by Parley P. Pratt? So we may demand the world's explanation of other phenomena of "Mormonism." The teachings of these brethren who have spoken during this conference up to this time are a part of this system of "Mormonism and what is your explanation, — let me ask those who do not believe, — of these things? A testimony of these truths was deliberately sealed by the blood of the Prophet. What is your explanation of the marvels of "Mormonism ?" 

The responsibility rests upon the jury of the world who have access to the truth, to place a proper estimate upon the sincere testimony of the three witnesses, and of the eight witnesses, and the testimony of Joseph, and the testimony of the complete and perfect organization of the Church, and of the wonderful history of "Mormonism," and of all of its beautiful and divine doctrines. 

Time does not permit a development of this theme; I can only suggest this line of thought to you. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Come, all ye Saints who dwell on earth, 

Your cheerful voices raise, Our great Redeemer's love to sing, 

And celebrate His praise. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 


