Afternoon
04 04 1924


PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers that I may be led to say something that will be profitable to us this afternoon. We had a very choice meeting this morning. The Spirit of the Lord was with us, and will doubtless continue to be with us to the end of this great conference. 

HOW SHALL WE OBTAIN LIFE ETERNAL ? 

I take it, my brethren and sisters, that the great aim you have in view is to obtain life eternal. What is life eternal ? The Apostle Paul tells us: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." If we will analyze this passage of scripture we will see very clearly the reason for his statement. God is the author of eternal life, and this great gift is given untp men through his beloved Son. That being the case, it is very important that we should come to know these divine beings, that we should come close to them and know something of their attributes and of their characters. The question follows naturally, if we come to know them, how, then, shall we obtain life eternal? Undoubtedly, it will come to us through the knowledge of the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost expresses the will of God to the human mind, so that those who receive it shall know how to act and walk before him. John the Revelator tells us in chapter 14 of the Gospel of St. John: "But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you." 

THROUGH THE GIFT OF THE HOLY GHOST 

It is this great power and gift that puts men into close relationship to God on high and to his beloved Son, so that they may have his mind and will. And it is that very principle of power that draws the people of God together and unites them in the bonds of fellowship and love. If we look out into the world — the socalled Christian world — and take note of the confusion, of the spirit of strife, and contention, and division which prevail there, we are at once driven to the conclusion that they are without this great gift of God, the Holy Ghost, and surely we may well believe that it is so; because they have entirely neglected the ordinance of the Holy Ghost. 

This doctrine of the Holy Ghost was strongly emphasized by the Savior himself and by his apostles. Peter said : "Be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." 

NO BAPTISM COMPLETE WITHOUT THIS GIFT 

Now it is very apparent that any baptism that is given without the power and gift of the Holy Ghost is not a complete baptism. It is deficient. 

The Lord said upon one occasion: "And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand." And we may well add as a corollary : That church which is divided against itself cannot stand. 

FUNDAMENTALISM AND MODERNISM 

There is great division in the churches of the world today. The following word came over wire by the Associated Press sometime ago, from New York City: "Modernists and fundamentalists today pressed their ecclesiastical warfare, with New York the chief battleground. In all, five Christian denominations, Protestant Episcopal, Presbyterian, Baptists, Methodist, and Unitarian, have been drawn into doctrinal debate concerning chiefly the virgin birth of Jesus Christ, and physical resurrection." I mention this fact because it is of com knowledge and was published to the world in the daily papers, so I think it is appropriate to speak of it in a public way: 

"While debate has progressed furthest in the Protestant Episcopal church, where charges of heresy have been made, it became known that Presbyterian modernists, defeated in the general assembly last May, were planning vigorously to oppose adoption of five tenets held by fundamentalists. 

"In a great or less degree, clergymen associated with the Baptist, Methodist and Unitarian sects have taken sides in the question of modernism versus fundamentalism. Next Thursday evening, for example, the Rev. Dr. John Roach Stratton, pastor of the Calvary Baptist church and fundamentalist leader, debates the question with the Riev. Dr. Charles F. Potter, pastor of the West Side Unitarian church. 

"But with these rumblings in the other Protestant faiths distinctly audible, the chief engagement in progress today was between the Episcopalian factions." 

The question arises naturally : What is fundamentalism and what is meant by modernism? Here is the fundamental position. 

The five articles of faith, as outlined in resolutions adopted by the Presbyterian General Assembly at Indianapolis on May 23, last, affirm "That it is the essential doctrine of the church that the holy Spirit inspired the writers of the Bible to keep from error; that Jesus Christ was born of the Virgin Mary; that he offered himself as a sacrifice to atone for the sins of his followers; and that he arose from the dead with the same body in which he suffered; and he showed his divine power by working miracles." 

Here is the modernist position : 

"God is an intelligence and a personality, but not in human form and is bodyless. He reveals himself in all nature, but is spirit and apart from matter. 

"Heaven has no pearly gates, harps or hosannas. 

"Hell has no fire. The devil is an invention of the Zoroastrian. 

"Prayer will never put a loaf of bread in the starving man's box, unless some human being intervenes. 

"Immortality will not be in the flesh. Personal identity will endure, but there will be no resurrection of the body. 

"Belief in the Virgin birth is not essential. 

"The miracles of the Old Testament are myths. Those of the New Testament were interpolated. Magic is not becoming to the character of Christ. 

"The phrase 'ascension into heaven' was written in the creed by a man who thought heaven was upstairs of a flat earth." 

And then another minister declares that the Christian era is at an end: 

"The end of the Christian Era has come, and mankind has entered the scientific era, in the opinion of Dr. Algernon Sidney Crapsey, who was convicted of heresy by the Episcopal church seventeen years ago. 

"He is taking a keen interest in the present controversy between modernists and fundamentalists and the approaching trial of Dr. Lee W. Heaton of Fort Worth, who is accused of denying the Virgin birth of Christ. 

"One-third of the Episcopal clergymen do not believe the story of the Virgin birth, the story of the origin of man or that the world was created in six days," he said. 

" 'In my case,' he continued, 'the court was picked to convict, and did so. That will happen in this case if there is a trial, but I believe such a storm of protest will break upon the bishops that they will not dare have a trial.' 

" 'In my trial the church refused to enter into the truth of matters. It set intellectual belief above intellectual truth. 

" 'If Dr. Heaton is tried the trial will condemn a single man and leave one-third of the church believing what the condemned man believed. It will take from the church what little moral power it has left. 

" 'The Christian era is at an end, and the church is in the course of dissolution. We are in the scientific era. 

" 'Thinking men do not believe the story of the Virgin birth. They do not believe the literal story of the resurrection. They do not believe that Balaam's ass turned around and said to him: "What are you doing there?" Science proves the world was not created in six days. The healings of Christ may be accepted, for they were not miracles.' " 

THE SCRIPTURE PLAIN ON THE POINTS IN CONTROVERSY 

Now you see, brethren and sisters, how very far apart the Christian ministers are in the same church, and as between the churches. They are drawing apart, they are disunited, they fail to see the light. This is evidence to me that they have not the gift of the Holy Ghost with them to enlighten their minds and to direct their course. 

Now, the scriptures are exceedingly plain on some of these points that are being discussed and which may end in the rending of the Christian churches of today. Take for instance, the birth of Christ. This incident is given in the simplest language. You will find in Luke : 

THE BIRTH OF CHRIST 

"And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favor with God. 

"And, behold, thou shalt conceive in the womb, and bring forth a Son, and shalt call his name Jesus. 

"He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: 

"And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end. , 

"Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? 

"And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God." 

How direct, how beautiful, how forceful, is this language, to tell us of the birth of the Savior of the world. How is it possible, brothers and sisters, to misunderstand such language? You can only account for it by the absence of the Spirit, for the Spirit of God testifies that that is the truth. 

THE RESURRECTION OF THE CHRIST 

With respect to the resurrection, this great principle is quite as beautifully set forth, as clearly defined, as that concerning which I  read. These words occur in the Gospel of St. Matthew, 28th chapter. 

"And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. 

"He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. 

"And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead: and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. 

"And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. 

"And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him." 

And in chapter 27: "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, 

"And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many." 

Here is the testimony of the scriptures respecting this great doctrine of the resurrection. 

THE UNITED FAITH OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Now, brethren and sisters, I refer with some pride, but not in a boasting spirit, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. You will remember the testimony that was borne by President Grant this morning, when he .said that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was never in better condition, in that a greater degree of unity has never existed in the Church than at the present time; and this, after one hundred years. The Church is more united. I think without doubt the Latter-day Saints see more clearly, eye to eye, understand more fully and completely the principles of the holy gospel, than ever they did in their lives before. This is easily explained in what I have already said — the gift of the Holy Ghost is given with every baptism into our Church. We emphasize faith; we speak of the importance of repentance; we point to the necessity of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — the spirit of truth. It is that spirit which draws the Latter-day Saints together and unites and cements them, so to speak, in a solid body. I rejoice in this testimony. 

PERSONAL TESTIMONY 

After an experience in the ministry of thirty-six years, I testify to you my brethren and sisters, that I do know positively that Jesus is and was the Christ, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world, for you and for me; and it is through that great sacrifice and our own good works that we will be saved, and not otherwise. 

And I testify to you of the Virgin birth — that Jesus was the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh — and I have no doubt that this is the testimony of every Latter-day Saint in this building, that we see eye to eye upon this subject, that we agree perfectly in respect to this great doctrine of the resurrection. We go down into our graves, we expect to come up out of our graves, and take up these bodies purified, and go on to exaltation and glory. 

I testify to you that I do know that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, and a great prophet of God, a mighty man. He was the man who founded this Church and kingdom under the direction of the Holy Spirit, and by the power of the Holy Priesthood that was given to him. Great was that man. Now, I rejoice in these things beyond measure, and I pray God, the eternal Father, that he will continue to bless this people and strengthen them and unite them together by the power of his Spirit, that we may be able to accomplish the work which is required at our hands. This I testify to you, and this blessing I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A soprano solo, "My Redeemer," was sung by Miss Arline Ridges, a granddaughter of Brother Ridges, who was the original builder of the Tabernacle organ. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

I feel very keenly, my brethren and sisters, the responsibility, in addressing this large congregation. I believe that the prayers and faith of good men and women avail much with the Lord, and I therefore ask that you give to me your sympathy and your faith and prayers, that I may be able to bring forth something that will be worthy your consideration. 

CONDITIONS MADE KNOWN BY STATISTICS 

In the Presiding Bishop's Office of the Church, there are kept and compiled many important statistics, and these statistics give to the authorities of the Church, who choose to consider them, an understanding of conditions which it would be next to impossible to acquire through visiting in the Church, in the various stakes of Zion. We have had some of these statistics presented by our President, in the opening session of this conference, and I desire to call attention to some others, briefly, which indicate conditions which are in need of being improved or corrected; conditions with respect to which perhaps the great majority of the people are not informed. For example: 

LARGE NUMBER OF UNMARRIED IN THE CHURCH 

From the reports of 1923, we are informed that there are in the Church 27,104 members of the Church over 21 years of age who have never been married. When you think that this large tabernacle will seat about eight thousand people, multiply that number by three and one-half, or nearly so, to equal the number of unmarried people in the Church over twenty-one years of age, it is almost appalling! And then, if we were to add to that number the young women of the Church, between the ages of 18 and 21, who might be said to be of marriagable age. the number would be increased by some thousands. WHY IS THIS CONDITION? 

Why is this condition in the Church we may ask? And if it is in need of being remedied, how can it best be accomplished? We, as a people, believe in marriage. It is with us a religious principle. Indeed, we believe in marriages such as the Lord has revealed; that we should be sealed, for time and eternity, by those having the sealing power. We are informed that such marriages as are performed in our temples are necessary for men and women to obtain a fulness of glory and exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Father in Heaven; for those who attain to that glory are to have a continuation of the seeds, forever, an eternal increase. Why then should there be so many members of the Church of marriageable age who are not married? I am led to wonder if we are partaking of the spirit of the world in this thing; for if I am correctly informed there are religionists who believe that in the practice of celibacy they can get nearer to the Lord, that they can minister more satisfactorily to him in the unmarried state than in the married relation. I am sure that this is a great mistake, an untrue doctrine. 

FORBIDDING TO MARRY, A DOCTRINE OF DEVILS 

Indeed, I think I might say that it is a doctrine of devils, and I would quote to you from the Scriptures to sustain my understanding of this doctrine. The Apostle Paul, in his epistle to Timothy ( 1 Tim. 4:1-3), says : 

"Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils; Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron : Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth." 

Here the Apostle Paul characterizes this forbidding to marry as a doctrine of devils, as I understand it, along with lies in hypocrisy, and one of the great evils that should characterize the falling away from the truth in the last days. I hope as Latter-day Saints we are not imbibing those worldly ideas; for we have been called out of the world, as we read in Revelations 18 :45 : 

"And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. 

"For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities." 

EXEMPLARS TO THE WORLD 

We are expected to be exemplars unto the world of mankind, in all things that are good, right and righteous, and thus be preachers of the truth by example as well as by precept. There is no justification that I can find in the Scriptures for the non-belief in marriage as a principle and ordinance of salvation, but on the contrary we find the Apostle Paul teaching the Hebrews that marriage is honorable in all; and in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, known as the 49th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we find the Lord's own words : "Whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man." 

And in Genesis 2:18: "And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone." 

I would ask who knows better than the Lord what is good for man; and what is good for man is good for woman, and it is not good that woman should be alone. 

In Genesis, the 5th chapter, I read this : "Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam." 

That is a rather peculiar expression "called their name Adam." The author of the Compendium, commenting on that expression, says that man in his fulness is a two-fold organization, male and female; either being incapable of filling the measure of their creation, alone. It requires a union of the two to complete man in the image of God. 

TWO KINDS OF MARRIAGES AUTHORITY 

There are two kinds of marriages particularly taken note of in the statistics of the Church; one we call temple marriage, and the other civil marriage. Temple marriages, however, are civil marriages in that they comply with all the requirements of the civil law; but temple marriages have other important elements in them that the civil marriage, performed outside of the temples, have not. For instance, the individual solemnizing these temple marriages must have authority. He who holds the keys, the President of the Church, delegates this authority to man to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in heaven, for he has received this authority and has the right to delegate it to those who are worthy, as he may elect. 

We read in Matthew 18:18 the following: "Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

This is by the Savior unto his disciples; and they who held that sealing and loosing power visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in the spring of 1829, on the banks of the Susquehanna river, and there conferred that authority upon them, and they in turn nave conferred it upon others. So these marriages performed in the temples are by those who have been thus authorized to speak for the Lord, and the individuals contracting marriage under these circumstances covenant most solemnly with each other to be husband and wife for time and for all eternity, as contrasted with the civil marriage covenant "until death do them part." The ceremony is of that character making the man and the woman husband and wife for time and for all eternity, so that these civil marriages, after all, are, we might say, but trial marriages; and it would seem so from the fact that there are  many of our Church members who accept of a civil marriage ceremony before coming to the temple, and then later come to the temple to be sealed. 

MARRIAGE FOR ETERNITY 

I remember on one occasion when I was associated with the presidency of the Tooele stake, a prominent non-member of the Church requested me to perform the marriage ceremony for him. He was about to marry a beautiful woman, but before the ceremony was performed he called me to one side and said : "Now, Mr. Richards, don't make this thing too solid. We don't know whether we will be able to live together happily or not." That represents, I fear, the feeling ot too many men and women who enter into these solemn obligations of marriage outside of the Church, as compared with those who marry in the temple, for these marry with the thought of never separating, of making themselves congenial, yielding here and there where it is necessary, and fulfiling the law that they may be one in time and throughout all eternity. The statistics of the Church go to show that those marriages performed in the temple are more enduring. There are more divorcements following civil marriages, more than half as many more, than there are following temple marriages according to the statistics of the Church. 

TEMPLE AND CIVIL MARRIAGES IN THE CHURCH CONTRASTED 

I might give you in detail the average per year for the last five years, and I will say here that it is a deplorable thing that since 1919 the civil marriages have outnumbered the temple marriages in the Church each year. The average number of temple marriages in the Church per year for the last five years is two thousand nine hundred and forty-six. The average number of civil marriages is three thousand two hundred and thirty-four. The divorcements after temple marriages, eighty-four; and the divorcements after civil marriages, one hundred fifty; or, in other words, one divorcement to every twentyone civil marriages in the Church, and one divorcement to every thirtysix temple marriages. It is my belief that those very reasons, which might be assigned for members of the Church not going to the temple for marriage, are the causes of many unhappy marriages and the evil of divorce does not tell the whole story of sorrow which follows. Only those who in sorrow and disappointment have reached the climax and can endure the conditions no longer, receive divorcements. Many others suffer on and endure it for the sake of their children or others who are concerned. 

PEOPLE OF ONE RELIGIOUS FAITH SHOULD MARRY 

From the great number of men and women in the Church who have not been married, more than twenty-seven thousand, it would seem that those within the Church who do marry ought to be able to find companions without having to go outside of the Church. I want to tell you that while some of those marriages, where they are of different faiths, may result in happiness, the great majority of them, I believe, result in disappointment, and sorrow, if not in divorcements. We would, therefore, advise our Latter-day Saint girls and Latter-day Saint boys to marry those of their own faith, and we would also advise those who are not of us to marry those of their own faith. 

WE WANT OUR PEOPLE TO MARRY 

Then there is one other thought that I want to leave with you: brethren and sisters, we want our people to marry. It would be a serious thing in my family if I had a son or a daughter that should grow up without marrying. We want the parents to use their influence to have their children marry and let them marry young, when the spirit of courtship and marriage is upon them, and then we want them, of course, to marry in the Church, in the right way; and when they are married they should fulfil the law which God has given, to multiply and replenish the earth. That is the thing which many, I feel, are not doing today, to the full, and it is my firm conviction that the time will come when those who are not doing their full duty will know the loss which they are sustaining, and it will be hell and torment to many of them. Now, we know that some cannot bear children, and some because of weakness are not able to do as much as others. God knows. I believe in the doctrine of the Scripture, that children are an heritage from God, and happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. And I believe in the saying of the Prophet Joseph that when God offers a man a blessing and he refuses to accept or receive that blessing, that man is damned. I believe that our Father has these children to give to us, and I believe that if we do not accept them we will meet with this . disappointment. A little girl, eleven or twelve years of age, said to her mother one day: "Mother, why did you have so many children ? When I grow up and get married I will not have so many children." Then the mother said to her : "My daughter, let us see. You are number fourteen. Suppose I had quit having children when I had thirteen, where would you have been, and where would your little brother have been?" Of course the little girl had not thought of it in that way. We value our children above price. A million dollars would not purchase ojie of them. There will come a time just as sure as we live, brethren and sisters, when we will know what we might have had and what we have not received, where we have rejected the offer from a kind and loving Father, so that we may then say with the poet, "Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these : it might have been." 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May he help us to see and understand these principles, to have faith and courage to live them, that we may be saved, and be an example in these things to our children, worthy of their emulation, I pray, in the nar«e of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY "ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 



It is just three years since I last stood before a congregation in a General Conference of the Church. Perhaps some of you would like to know how I have been spending the time, Bill Nye, the American humorist, was asked by a correspondent about his habits of life and methods of work — how he employed his time, and so forth. He answered : "I do most of my writing in a sitting posture or in an autograph album. 1 belong to an athletic club and a pair of Indian clubs. When I am not engaged in thought, I am employed in recovering from its effects." My case is somewhat similar, or at least that is suggestive of my case. I have been absent three years. Half of that time I was filling a mission in a foreign land. During the other half I have been "recovering from its effects." Not the effects of my mission, either; but the effects of illness, which put an end to my mission and made necessary my return much earlier than I had anticipated. 

MISSION TO EUROPE 

I left Salt Lake City, bound for Europe, on the 24th of May, 1921, and landed at Liverpool in the early days of June. My wife went with me. also a party of missionaries, including' Elder William A. Morton, who was to assist me in the editorial department of the Millennial Star. I had been appointed to succeed Elder George Albert Smith as President of the European Mission, the affairs of which he turned over to me on the first day of July. Early that month, at a special convention of mission and conference presidents called for the purpose, I obtained further knowledge of the affairs of the Church in the British Islands and adjacent countries. 1 had previously visited, in company with President Smith, a few of the English conferences, and had been introduced by him to quite a number of prominent men, including journalists, police authorities, steamship magnates, a W r elsh member of Parliament, the Lord Mayor of Liverpool, and the American and German consuls; so that when he sailed for home I had matters fairly well in hand. 

PREACHING ON THE CONTINENT 

Soon after his departure I made a tour of some of the Continental mission fields, accompanied by my wife and two of the Elders — Thomas M. Wheeler and Arthur II. Taylor, both choice men, the former the mission secretary. We passed through France, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium and Holland, attending conferences and holding special meetings in many of the principal cities. The Elders and Saints welcomed us joyfully, and large numbers of strangers flocked lo hear what we had to say. Our largest gathering was in the Casino Music Hall, Berlin, where we addressed congregations, afternoon and evening, numbering twelve hundred and thirteen hundred people, about twothirds of them non-members of the Church. They paid strict attention, only one interruption occurring, and that of a perfectly respectful character. While I was speaking and my remarks were being interpreted "line upon line" by one of the German brethren, a young man arose in the body of the hall and politely requested the interpreter to speak less rapidly, as he wished to "get the points." Another auditor was the organist of the Kaiser's Church in Berlin; he attended our afternoon meeting, and volunteered an organ solo for the evening session. Everywhere we were treated with the greatest kindness and courtesy. Quite a change from the days when the Saints in Germany, in order to evade the police, had to meet secretly in small groups in private homes, with the blinds drawn; and when the Elders, if caught preaching anywhere in that country, were imprisoned or banished summarily. We found the work of the Lord prospering in that mission anri in the Netherlands, under the efficient labors of Elders Serge F. Ballif and John P. Lillywhite, the presiding brethren, and their faithful helpers. 

SCENES OF INTEREST 

While in Paris we took an excursion to Rheims, where we viewed the shattered Cathedral, bombarded by German guns during the Great War; and thence, for several miles, traversed the famous "Hindenburg Line," passing through the remains of French villages desolated by the fearful strife. The scenic wonders of Switzerland, "the castled crags" and terraced vineyards of the Rhine, the famous field of Waterloo, and other objects of familiar interest to the tourist, I have not time to dwell upon. At Liege, in Belgium, we lunched at the home of the American counsul, George M. Hanson of Ogden, Utah, and inspected, nine miles out, the ruins of Fort Loncin, whose heroic garrison made such a wonderful defense against the overwhelming Teutonic invasion of 1914. At Rotterdam, in Holland, I had the privilege of speaking from the pulpit of the little church where the Pilgrim Fathers held their farewell service, prior to embarking for America in 1620. 

AGAIN IN BRITAIN 

Having spent six weeks upon the Continent, we returned to England, landing at Harwich, and barely escaping the humiliation of being sent back to Holland to have our passports vised by the British consul, we having failed, through misinformation, to observe that formality. I had contracted a heavy cold in Holland, and for the next few days after my return to Liverpool, was disabled for active service. The fall and winter conferences of the British Mission — fourteen in number, held one week apart — were just beginning, the first one in Ireland, where things were in a turmoil, men being shot down every few minutes or so. I was kind-o'-glad I couldn't go, and Brother Morton was none too happy at being sent. But he went, and had a good time — there's always a good time where Brother Morton goes — and came back rejoicing; the return trip being particularly delightful. (Laughter.) The remainder of the conferences I was able to attend, and later I also visited the war-torn Emerald Isle. 

AN ANTI-"MORMON" ATTACK 

With the opening of the New Year, a fierce anti-"Mormon" onslaught began in many of the British newspapers; the "stunt press" they call it over there — the equivalent for "yellow journals" in America. Twenty-six of them were barking at us simultaneously all over the land. During the next three months our pens and tongues were kept busy refuting the slanders with which the country was flooded, and presenting the facts in relation to Utah and her people. The principal charge made against the Elders was that of inducing young women to go to Utah for polygamous purposes. The only "evidence" adduced in support of this charge was a quotation from one of our Articles of Faith — an adaptation of the well known words of St. Paul : "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." "These things," of course, were the British girls. The accusers of the brethren affected to regard this as a confession of guilt. Let me say here that the standing reward of two hundred pounds ($1,000) offered years ago by Mr. V. S. Peet, for one case of a British girl lured to Utah by "Mormon" influence, is still unclaimed. 

The intelligent classes were not deceived by the false reports spread abroad, many of which were so ridiculous as to carry with them their own refutation; but they were accepted as true by the ignorant inhabitants of the slums, stirred up in some instances by ministers of the churches. One of our most active assailants was a minister who had been a Texas cowboy, but having inherited an English baronetcy, had returned to his native land, and been made the pastor of a church in London. This reverend gentleman had the audacity and mendacity to say to his Sunday congregation: "I have seen with my own eyes the bloodstained boulder at the back of Smith's house, freshly stained with the blood of rebellious girl converts." Another of his lurid tales was to the effect that the "Mormon" men killed off their old wives by giving them a strong alkali drink which destroyed them gradually, thus making way for younger wives, recruited through the labors of the missionaries. Needless to say, alkali was not the only kind of lie used in his statement. The British Government's chief aliens inspector, by direction of the Home Secretary, applied to me for data regarding "Mormon" missionary and emigrational activities, and the same was promptly furnished. I then asked him : "Is the Home Office agitated over the present outcry against us ?" Smilingly he answered : "Not at all; we understand; but we must be prepared, when pressure comes, to present the facts in reply." As for the. papers and the "movies," they made money out of the agitation, which of course was their principal object. When requested to publish replies to the sensational canards, most of the editors or managers flatly refused. One of them said: "We are out to crush Mormonism at any cost." 

AH the Elders in the mission, and many of the Sisters, did splendid service in repelling- this foul and unprovoked attack. Among its unpleasant results were the tarring and feathering of three Elders in Scotland, the smashing of the plate-glass windows of the London Conference house, and the temporary cessation of open-air meetings in some parts. But on the whole we were benefited by the assault; it awakened interest in our cause, made friends for us, increased baptisms, and enhanced the attendance at our meetings. 

DUTIES OF MISSION PRESIDENT 

My time was fully occupied in editing the Star (ably assisted byBrother Morton), in writing and publishing pamphlets setting forth our tenets and views, assigning and instructing missionaries, visiting the conferences, preaching wherever opportunity offered, and doing whatever else devolved upon the Mission President. I presented a handsome copy of the Book of Mormon to the Home Secretary, Mr. Shortt, and sent pamphlets and other literature to every member of Parliament and to all the leading men of Great Britain. I worked early and late, and as hard as my strength would permit — much of the time at a great disadvantage, owing to a physical ailment which had troubled me a long while, and for which, I am now convinced, I should have had an operation before leaving home. President Grant, who knew of it, had given me my choice, whether to go or not until such an operation was performed. I went without it, but after that strenuous year in the mission field, found that I could not safely put it off any longer. 

IN THE HOSPITAL 

Accordingly, after completing the round of the spring conferences in England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland, deferring (as I then thought temporarily ) a visit to the Scandinavian countries, I went up to London, entered a private hospital or "nursing home," and underwent the operation contemplated. 1 had first-class surgical attendance, but for some reason the operation was not entirely successful, and had to be repeated; the result being that I was detained in the "Home" for a much longer period than I had counted upon. Thirty days was said to be the usual time, but I lay there for nearly fourteen weeks, physically helpless, yet with mental faculties equal to the task of furnishing editorial articles for the Star, and corresponding with the brethren here at home and with those whom I had left in charge at Liverpool. My faithful wife was with me through it all. lightening by her daily visits and tender ministrations my burden of affliction. Finally, I emerged from the hospital, and after a ten days' rest at the hospitable home of Brother Ralph J. Pugh, who with his amiable wife had been exceedingly kind and attentive, I w r ent back to my post and resumed work — too soon, T found to my cost before many days had passed. I suffered a relapse, and became more helpless than ever. 

RELEASE AND RETURN 

Some weeks of misery went by and I then decided to come home, President Grant having given me an honorable release, with advice to return as soon as I could safely travel. On the 10th of November I sailed from Liverpool for Montreal, my wife and two Elders — Clyde Romney and Claude W. Hinckley — coming with me and caring for me all along the way. Never was invalid waited upon more faithfully. I could not have done without their help, especially during our unfortunate and unlooked for detention in quarantine on a bleak island in the St. Lawrence River, within a day's distance of Montreal. Two hundred and forty first-class passengers, housed in immigrant barracks on that frozen, wind-swept rock, Gros Island — such was the situation. A case of smallpox on board was the cause, and fourteen days was the regular period of detention in such cases. But this was shortened for us to eight days, through the interest taken by leading brethren in Utah, and the influence exerted by Senator Smoot with the Canadian authorities. We were all vaccinated, and as fast as the vaccinations "took," were allowed to proceed on our way. A few other Elders and Saints, with us on the island, were released at about the same time. Every courtesy was extended by Government and railroad officials, both in Canada and the United States, and although the journey was a very trying one, we reached home in safety, December 7, 1922. 

GRADUAL CONVALESCENCE 

Since then I have been slowly convalescing back to health. I was told by a medical doctor soon after my return, that it would be eighteen months before I would "feel fit." The eighteen months are up this spring, and my condition is now almost normal. During the winter I have read a great deal, have done some writing, and in the past few weeks have spoken fourteen times in public. A year ago or more, I could neither read nor write, nor even think clearly. There was a weight upon my brain like an iron clamp, while in walking I felt as if I were lifting great chunks of lead. As for public speaking, that was entirely out of the question. Since walking has always been my favorite exercise, and reading, writing and speaking the occupations in which I have taken most delight, you can judge of the amount of privation that my long sickness entailed. I can never be grateful enough to President Grant and other kind friends who have ministered to my needs in various ways during the saddest and loneliest period of my life. I am thankful for the many prayers offered up in my behalf — prayers that have been answered in a manner truly wonderful. I can only say: "It is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in my eyes." 

THE SPEAKER'S TESTIMONY 

Brethren and sisters: I testify in all solemnity that I know this to be the work of the Lord. I never knew it so well as I do now. I have been just near enough to "the other side" to sense it most thoroughly, and my one desire is to live to bear testimony of the Truth. I do not testify that the Gospel is true; that would be superfluous — a mere truism. One might as well say that truth is true, or that white is white, as to say that the Gospel is true. Of course it's true, or it wouldn't be the Gospel, which is Truth itself. But I do testify that what is called "Mormonism" is the Gospel — the Everlasting Gospel; that Jesus Christ is the one and only Savior, and that Joseph Smith was and is his prophet, standing at the head of the last and greatest of the gospel dispensations, the mission of which is to gather together all things in Christ and prepare the way before His glorious second coming. I know that this work will go on conquering and to conquer — not with worldly but with spiritual weapons; that nothing can stand against it to impede its progress; and that it never will be smaller or weaker than it is today. Like the little snowball from the mountaintop, gathering as it goes, it will yet become a mighty avalanche, sweeping all evil before it, and fulfilling what the Prophet Daniel spoke concerning it. For it is "the stone cut out without hands" which is destined to grow into "a great mountain" and "fill the whole earth." God speed it on its way! Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

My brethren and sisters, I am sure that the people here assembled, and throughout the stakes of Zion, are rejoicing in the remarkable recovery that has come to Elder Orson F. Whitney. The hand of the Lord has been made manifest in his restoration to health. 

This afternoon I need your faith and prayers to assist me in the remarks that I shall make. 

WE STAND AS WITNESSES FOR CHRIST 

We are living in perilous times, in a day when the mission of the Church is perhaps more pronounced, and our message to the world more clearly defined, than ever before. As a people we stand as witnesses for Christ in a day when the world has turned from him, when they are teaching the doctrines of men and discarding the fundamental truths of the Christian faith. 

I have been reflecting, as I have listened to the remarks that were made this morning and this afternoon, and desire to present some of my thoughts, and some thoughts of others uttered by prophecy in ancient times, which are very important to us and which concern very seriously the world and the conditions therein. My thoughts dwelt upon this passage of scripture which was uttered by Nephi almost six hundred years before the birth of Christ, wherein he was speaking of the latter days: 

TESTIMONY OF AN ANCIENT PROPHET 

"O that cunning plan of the evil one! O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think they are wise, and  hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish. 

"But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God. 

"But wo unto the rich, who are rich as to the things of the world. For because they are rich they despise the poor, and they persecute the meek, and their hearts are upon their treasures; wherefore, their treasure is their god. And behold, their treasure shall perish with them also. 

"And wo unto the deaf that will not hear; for they shall perish. 

"Wo unto the blind that will not sec; for they shall perish also." 

And then again in one of his discourses in which he spoke by prophecy, he also referred to our day and the conditions that would prevail in the world preceding the corning of Christ. 

"For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other : Behold, I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say : I, I am the Lord's; and thus shall every one say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord —  

"And they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance. 

"And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the people : Hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto men." 

VIEWS OF THE SO-CALLED MODERNISTS 

President Clawson this afternoon read to us some views that are expressed today by certain ministers, religionists who call themselves modernists, and they appear to be in the ascendency; their doctrines are growing, and are finding place in the hearts of the people, and the true doctrines of Christ, and the testimony that Jesns is the Son of God, is diminishing, is dying out in the world. Tt may be true, as one divine stated, that the Christian Era is at an end, and the Church is in the course of dissolution, if he had reference to the so-called Christian churches of the day; because their doctrine is spurious, it is not the gospel of Jesus Christ, but a man-made system. But Christianity, pure and undefiled, is not in the course of dissolution; it is not dying out, it is becoming more firmly rooted in the earth, and must do so, and shall continue until it shall fill the earth, for so it has been predicted. 

TRUE CHRISTIANITY 

However, true Christianity, so far as the latter days are concerned, is very young, less than one hundred years of age, for it has only been since the year 1830 that the Church of Jesus Christ has been organized in the earth, and the gospel restored, containing the gifts and the blessings and the graces that existed in the Church in primitive days, and that Church with its doctrines of the gospel of Christ, shall grow. 

We are the people who have made covenant with the Lord to serve him and keep his commandments, and we have received through the testimony of the Holy Spirit, the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, that he is indeed the Only Begotten Son of the Father, and that through his Mood, which was shed, all men are redeemed from death, all men shall come forth in the resurrection from the dead and live again. In other words, immortality shall come to every soul, for, as Paul has stated it, "As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive." "And," said he, "the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death," and so long as there is still in the grave one soul who has tabernacled in the flesh, death has not been conquered. Death shall be conquered, Christ shall gain the victory, and immortality shall come to every soul that has lived upon the earth. And the reason for this is that we were not responsible for death; we did not bring death into the world, and so we are redeemed through the blood of Christ, from that condition, and immortality shall come to us, both the unrighteous as well as the righteous, and all men shall stand again in the flesh to be judged according to their works. But in addition to all this, through the blood of Christ, men are also redeemed from their own sins; but on condition of their repentance and their acceptance of the principles of the gospel. They must believe in him, they must accept him as the Son of God, they must set themselves in harmony with the truth which we call the gospel. They must accept these principles and walk in accordance with them in order that they may be redeemed from their own sins, and thus be prepared to receive something greater than immortality, even eternal life. Eternal life is that kind of life which our Father in heaven possesses. For he who has eternal life must have the kind of life that God has, for he is eternal. And so those who will repent, who will receive the gospel, walking righteously before the Father, shall receive this great reward, and shall have the privilege of entering into his presence and dwelling with him and with his Son, Jesus Christ, where they shall receive a fulness, if they are faithful and true in all things, even unto the end. 

OUR MESSAGE TO THE WORLD 

Now. I say we are witnesses of the truth. It is the mission of every man holding the priesthood in this Church to preach Christ and him crucified. That is our message to the world; and the message is sorely needed in the face of these false doctrines taught by the power of men. When men are turning from the Lord and seeking to find everlasting truth without his aid, our mission 'becomes all the more urgent in calling men to repentance and to a belief in the redemption brought to pass through the atonement of the Son of God, whose blood was shed for the sins of the world. 

WE BELIEVE IN A LITERAL RESURRECTION 

We believe in the literal resurrection of the children of men. President Rudger Clawson read to us the statement that was made by Matthew, an eye witness of the resurrection of Christ, and many of the Saints who lived lief ore that day, who came forth from the dead after the resurrection of the Son of God. Matthew stated that "the graves were opened; and many bodies of the Saints which slept, arose, and came out of the graves, after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many." This was as literal as Ezekiel said it would be. so far as the resurrection of the bodies from the graves was concerned, there can be no mistake about that. Christ was the first fruits, and afterwards those who believed on him, and eventually all men shall come forth. 

It is our message and our mission to the world, to preach this truth, and to establish faith in the hearts of the people, and endeavor to get them to believe in Jesus Christ as their Redeemer and as the Son of God. 

I would like to refer to one or two other passages of Scripture bearing upon this point of the resurrection. Ezekiel, one of the prophets of old, was commanded by the Lord in a vision to prophesy. In the vision he was taken out into a valley of dry bones, and they were very dry, and the Lord asked him the question: "Son of man, can these bones live?" And Ezekiel answered, "Thou knowest." So the Lord said to him : 

"Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. 

"Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones; Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live : 

"And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 

"So I prophesied as T was commanded : and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and beheld a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone, 

"And when T beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, ana the skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them. 

"Then said he unto mc, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man. and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord Clod; Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live." 

Now the world would tell you that this did not mean those who were dead literally, but those who were dead in sins, who, because of transgression, had been cut off from the Lord: but the Lord is very specific for we read further : 

"So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army. 

"Then he said unto mc, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel : behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost : we are cut off from our parts. 

"Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God; Beheld, O my people, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. 

"And ye shall knew that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves." 

So the Lord was very definite in regard to this matter. There is no mistake about the definiteness of the language at all. Isaiah, speaking of the resurrection, had this to say, in reference to Israel especially : 

"Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake .and sing, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead." 

Hosea has also testified as follows: 

"I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death: O death, I will be thy plague; O grave, I will be thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes." 

MODERN TESTIMONY OF THE RESURRECTION 

A nd so have prophesied others of the ancient prophets; and so have testified the witnesses of the New Testament; hut in addition to all these we have the witnesses who have lived in our own day. We are not in doubt, the Lord has not left us helpless to grope without the light. We have had in our midst, those who have beheld heavenly beings, messengers who have been sent to reveal the truth, who have passed through the resurrection; who have come forth from the dead, and are alive again. Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, Martin Harris, and others, have testified to the world that they have been in the presence of beings who have come forth from the dead, through the resurrection. These personages lived anciently, and came to the earth again to establish the truth of the everlasting gospel. And the witnesses unto whom they came have testified to all the world that these things are true — that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and the first fruits of the resurrection. This testimony is binding on all the world, for these men are reliable witnesses. Men may say they do not believe it; they may say there is no truth in it, but the fact remains that in bearing witness of these truths, the witnesses have complied with the law, and their testimony is now binding on all men. In the mouths of as many witnesses as seemeth good, God has established the truth of all things, and all who reject the testimony of these witnesses do so at the peril of losing their own salvation, for God will not be mocked. 

I testify that I know these things are true, and you who are assembled here know they are true. That is our mission and testimony, I repeat, unto all the world, to bear witness and cry repentance, that men may be brought to repentance and receive a remission of their sins through obedience to the principles of the gospel. May the truth spread and righteousness prevail, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. „, : |; | j , j 

The choir and congregation sang, "The time is far spent, there is little remaining." 

Elder Joseph B. White, President of the Hyrum stake of Zion, offered the closing prayer, and the conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Saturday morning. 

SECOND DAY 


