Afternoon
06 04 1924

The closing session of the conference was held in the Tablernacle on Sunday Afternoon, April 6, 1924, at 2 o'clock. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Invocation was offered by Elder Daniel G. Miller, President of the Yellowstone stake of Zion. 

The choir sang the song, "Have faith, ye Saints." 139 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I desire earnestly, while I stand before you this afternoon, to have the words I speak prompted by the spirit of our heavenly Father. 

APPEAL FOR GREATER INTEREST IN LEARNING HOW TO LEAD AND TEACH 

THE YOUNG. 

Like Brother Stephen L. Richards, I was greatly pleased to have the President in his opening adres.s make a special appeal to parents and to the members of the Church generally in the interest of proper training for our young people. I propose this afternoon to make an appeal, as strong as is in my power, to all the people of the Church to take advantage of the training that is being offered in practically every ward in the Church in the teacher-training classes. 

We are a community of teachers. Only by teaching effectively can our real mission be accomplished. By taking this work in teachertraining, certainly all who desire to do so can increase their teaching efficiency. If you have a son over whom you do not have satisfactory control, I believe the teacher-training course will help you to secure that control. If you have a daughter who does not seem to take kindly to your instructions, if she is not willing to go in that way which you indicate, your influence with her, I believe, will be greater if you study teacher-training. 

1 f you are presiding over a ward, or a stake, or any organization, if you are a teacher in a class. I believe you will be able to do your work more effectively if you take up this course of study. In the Church we want more men like George Goddard; more men like Karl G. Maeser, and George H. Brimhall. These are unusual teachers. By study, real struggle, and inspiration, they have acquired the information contained in the lessons that we are attempting to teach in our teacher-training classes. 

EXAMPLE OF A FARMER WHO, HAVING THE PRIESTHOOD, WAS A GREAT 

TEACHER. 

Long years ago in one of our "Mormon" villages, there was a great teacher. He had taken no college honors, nor was he a public school teacher. This man was a farmer. His hands were plainly marked with the indications of arduous toil. He wore common clothing. He was just an ordinary laborer, but he was a natural teacher, a great teacher — a teacher of the Bible, lie taught my Sunday school class. This man did not confine his teaching to the Sabbath day, nor to the hours of Sunday school. During the evenings of the week he used to have a group of us bare-footed, commonly-clad little youngsters in the country go to his home, and there he would teach us our Sunday school lessons. 

This man was a diligent student of the gospel, of the scriptures, and of human nature. He studied thoroughly both his subject and GENERAL CONFERENCE  class. Through hard work and inspiration he became an unusually inspirational and successful teacher. 

I shall refer somewhat fully to one lesson which he taught because it illustrates what teachers can do who by faithful effort acquire splendid teaching ability. 

This man magnified the Priesthood which he held. He was filled with a burning testimony, a love for studying the scriptures and an ardent desire to assist in teaching the gospel to all the world — for he believed the scripture which says that when this has been accomplished "then shall the end come"' (Matt. 24:14). In his life, his work and teaching, he certainly sought first the kingdom. The logic in the following Bible lesson on the apostasy and restoration, as he gave it, illustrates what can be accomplished by those who use the methods that are taught in our teacher-training classes. 

The teacher was preparing us for our Sunday school jubilee. He would instruct us something like this : 

THE GREAT APOSTASY PREDICTED 

"There is to come a time when the gospel will not be found anywhere in all the world. I learn this from the Bible. The scripture says: (II Tim. 4:3,4) 'For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap unto themselves teachers having itching ears; and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables'." 

"Now boys," he would continue, "that prediction is recorded in holy writ. Furthermore, the Bible says: (Isa. 24:5) 'the earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, broken the everlasting covenant;' that is the Bible, and here," he said, "recorded in holy writ, are the words of our heavenly Father himself. He said in a most positive fashion that sometime or other, the gospel shall not be found anywhere in all the world. These words are as follows: (Amos 8:11,12). 

THE APOSTASY TO BE UNIVERSAL. 

" 'Behold the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor of thirst for water, but of hearing the word of the Lord. And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, shall they run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and .shall not find it.' Thus there is predicted a time when the gospel of Jesus Christ cannot be found anywhere. 

GOOD CHEER FOR THOSE WHO ENDURE TO THE END. 

"But I want you boys to remember," continued this farmer teacher, "that the scripture also says: (Matt. 24:12), 'And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many will wax cold.' But you must be cheered up, all the time, by these words written in this splendid 141; (Matt. 24:13) 'But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved'." 

TEACHING FOR DOCTRINE THE COMMANDMENTS OF MEN 

This man with a group of country boys, bare-footed, sitting before him, was a real master. He said : "And the scripture describes a little more clearly the conditions that are to prevail in the world, for: 'This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me. But in vain they do worship me,' saith the Lord, 'teaching for doctrines the commandments of men'." (Matt. 15:8, 9). 

CONDITIONS IN THE LAST DAYS — THE BOASTING OF SOME WHO LEARN 

A LITTLE SCIENCE. 

A passage he used to emphasize was quoted yesterday by Dr. Taimage. It reads: (II Tim. 3:1-3) "This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphmers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. Without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good." 

"That is the condition, that is going to prevail in the world. Men will even be 'despisers of those that are good' (II Tim. 3:3, 4), 'traitors, heady, highminded. lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God.' I want you boys to remember," said this great farmer teacher, "that in the world there is to be a time when people will be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, traitors, heady, highminded lovers of pleasures, as I have said, more than lovers of God, (II Tim. 3:5) 'having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof.' These are they who rely upon themselves; these are they who are called scientific; these are they who rely upon their own judgment. These are they who think they have no need of the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. These are they who boast of their own intelligence, of their own knowledge, of their own studies, of their own conclusions, these are they who have no reliance in, and think they need no help from the God of Washington, the God of Franklin and the God of Lincoln. The scripture tells what their condition is. They are always studying, yes, in the language of the Bible, they are (II Tim. 3:7) 'Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth'." 

THE THRILLING DREAM 

Then he drew our attention to that splendid vision of Nebuchadnezzar, the King, and the result of Daniel's appeal to divine providence for information concerning the dream and its interpretation. The king had forgotten the dream. And Daniel prayed that he might be able to draw the dream to the remembrance of the king and give him the interpretation thereof. He told the king GENERAL CONFERENCE  in the dream he saw a great image with a head of gold, with shoulders and arms of silver, with body and thighs of brass, with legs of iron, with feet and toes of iron and clay, miry clay, mixed together. And that he saw a little stone cut out of a mountain without hands; and that it rolled forth and smote upon the great image and broke it into pieces, and the little stone grew into a mountain that filled the whole earth. 

Now for the interpretation: The head Daniel saw, represented the king himself. There are to be other kingdoms afterwards and these are to be divided — the arms, the legs, the feet, the toes — these represent many kingdoms. See with what clearness the Bible says: (Dan. 2:44). 

THE GOD OF HEAVEN TO SET UP A KINGDOM THAT SHALL NEVER BE DESTROYED — TO STAND FOREVER. 

" 'And in the days of these kings shall the god of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed.' That is a strong sentence. I put the emphasis on that word, never. 'A kingdom that shall never be destroyed,' nor will this kingdom be left to other people, 'but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand foreveS." 

" 'Forasmuch as thou sawest (Daniel 2:45) that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter; and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure,' said this splendid teacher, this farmer, this man of God, bearing and magnifying the holy Priesthood. "Let me read to you further," he would say: (Rev. 14:6, 7). 

ANGEL IN THE MIDST OF HEAVEN RESTORING THE GOSPEL. 

" ' And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice. Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come : and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.' That is the prophecy." 

Who in all the world should receive the angel? A philosopher, a statesman, a wise man, a scholar? No, a boy; place your trust in boys and they will not fail you. When the Father himself, the great Creator of the heavens and the earth, wanted to deliver an important message to the world, he called a boy. The angel flew through the midst of heaven; the angel delivered the message. Was it done by divine providence or by the wisdom of Joseph Smith, a boy — age fourteen? 

THE TEMPLE AN EXPRESSION OF THE FAITH OF THE PEOPLE IN THE MESSAGE OF THE ANGEL. 

Across the way, on this very block, stands that great temple of 143 , dedicated to the Lord. On the top of it is a statue of the Angel Moroni, placed there in commemoration of the fulfilment of this clear-cut prophetic .scripture. 

The country teacher said : "The angel is to fly through the midst of heaven; the kingdom is to be established over which Jesus, the Son of God, the King of kings and the Lord of lords, is to preside." 

WHERE IS THE KINGDOM TO BE BUILT THAT SHALL LAST FOREVER? — WAR 

TO CEASE. 

"Where is it to be established? We look to the Bible for that information." 

These are the words the teacher read. They were quoted yesterday by President Penrose: (Micah 4:1,2) 

"But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come, and say, "Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths : for the law .shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem;' and in these days, the last days, it continues : 'And he shall judge among many people, (Micah 4:3) and rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks : nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more'." 

THE GREAT TEACHER, A FARMER, BUT A MAN OF GOD. 

This is the sort of lesson that one plain man (Samuel Orfne), in a little "Mormon" village, (Tooele) long years ago, a farmer in ordinary farmer's clothing, taught to a group of bare-footed youngsters. God bless his memory. Let us remember that .scripture that he emphasized so positively: (Matt. 24:12,13) "'Because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold, but, he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved'." 

Thus by the use of teacher-training methods this plain country gentleman with scripture quotations made clear to us, his students, the whole plan of the apostasy and the modern gospel restoration. 

God bless our teachers. Bless the parents who by study and prayerful jef forts prepare themselves to teach their children. Bless the class teachers, the visiting teachers, and those who teach from the pulpit, that all may by resonable effort, and the inspiration to which they are entitled become effective teachers and leaders of men, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Within the last year a distinguished citizen of this country, prompted, undoubtedly, by his great love for humanity, offered one hundred thousand dollars as a prize to anyone who would submit a plan that would produce world peace. 

THE WORLD AND ITS PEACE PROBLEMS 

Since that offer was made, I have thought upon it many times, and have asked, What have we to do with a proposition of that character? What have we to do with the world and its peace problems? And there has come to me in the contemplation of this subject the burning conviction that we have much to do with the world and its affairs, not because of ambition which we have to become a world power, but because of the appointment of the Lord unto this people. We cannot separate ourselves from the world and its affairs. I read from the first section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants these words from the Lord himself, to the Church : 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets — 

"The weak things of the world shall come, forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh — 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

"Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." 

In this same connection, I wish to read a few verses from the 133rd section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the 57th verse : 

"And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to he revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity- —  

"To prepare the weak for those things which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord's errand in the day when the weak shall confound the wise, and the little one become a strong nation, and two shall put their tens of thousands to flight. 

"And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the pow«r of his Spirit. 145 

"And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh — 

"And this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh. 

"And unto him that repenteth and sanctifieth himself before the Lord shall be given eternal life. 

"And upon them that hearken not to the voice of the Lord shall be fulfilled that which was written by the prophet Moses, that they should be cut off from among the people. 

"And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For, behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 

"Wherefore, this shall be the answer of the Lord unto them: 

"In that day when I came unto mine own, no man among you received me, and you were driven out. 

"When I called again there was none of you to answer; yet my arm was not shortened at all that I could not redeem, neither my power to deliver. 

"Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea. I make the rivers a wilderness; their fish stink, and die for thirst. 

"I clothe the heavens with blackness, and make sackcloth their covering. 

"And this shall ye have of my hand — ye shall lie down in sorrow. 

"Behold, and lo, there are none to deliver you; for ye obey not my voice when I called to you out of the heavens; ye believed not my servants, and when they were sent unto you ye received them not. 

"Wherefore, they sealed up the testimony and bound up the law, and ye were delivered over unto darkness." 

THREE SPECIFIC PURPOSES OF THE CHURCH 

These scriptures leave upon the Church a binding obligation to the world. Ninety-four years ago today there came into existence the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, organized for three specific purposes. 

PROCLAIMING THE GOSPEL TO THE WORLD 

One to proclaim to the world the restoration of the everlasting gospel, in the hour of God's judgment, referred to in the Scriptures quoted by the brethren today, and that warning was also to be accompanied with the generous offer of our heavenly Father providing means of escape for all men. 

THE SALVATION OF THE DEAD 

Another great obligation that is upon the Church is to provide, in the way the Lord has given, through his holy temples, in the exercise of the authority of the holy Priesthood, the means, the way, whereby even those who are dead may be with us partakers in these glorious blessings vicariously performed for and in their behalf, by men in the flesh. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PERFECTING THE LIVES OF MEMBERS 

Then the other great task is purifying and perfecting the lives o,: the members of the Church, and building them up in preparation to be the people worthy of the King of kings when he shall come. 

AS TO PROCLAIMING THE GOSPEL 

I wish, with all earnestness, my brethren and sisters to direct vour attention to the first obligation, the obligation of carrying the Gospel to the world. I conceive our heavenly Father as deeply interested in all these, his children, but it was his way to commune with them through his chosen servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith. Knowing the calamity which was to come, and out of consideration for his children, he sent the warning voice, the message that was to be delivered by the angel whom John saw flying through the midst of heaven with the everlasting gospel for Earth's children crying: Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That is the message the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is under obligation to carry to all the world. And as I have observed, the Lord gave, in connection with this warning, the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel, as the means of saving the world from the perils that were to come. I rejoice that so far as this obligation is concerned, we have been performing our duty acceptably, I believe, before the Lord, and yet the task, is not completed. We have acted as if we were on serious business. We have not been indifferent towards the world, nor the delivery of this message. We believe that we have a vital message for all men. We know it, and we have acted as men who did believe it. From the time the first elders of the Church left their homes to begin this task, when their families and they were outcasts, when chills and fever were raging, the men themselves were sick and had to be lifted up into the wagon, and as they were about to leave their loved ones, who were sick and afflicted and sorrowing, abiding in poor little hovels, temporary quarters, these exiles, gave three cheers for Zion, to raise their drooping spirits, and left, making these sacrifices, to cross the water to carry this message to the peoples of the old world, which the Lord has required of the Church. There have followed in their wake thousands of men and hundreds of women, and never a dearth of missionaries. We have never seen a time when we could not supply, generously, those needed to discharge this obligation to the world. 

NOTHING EVER DETERRED THE ELDERS FROM THIS DUTY 

In the time when gold was discovered in California, and the whole world was interested and thousands were coming westward to seek their fortunes, I suppose it was a matter of great surprise to the gold seeker to meet companies of "Mormon" missionaries going away from the gold, pushing their little hand-carts, with their few 147  belongings, to preach the gospel to the peoples of the old world. There has never been anything that has deterred the men of this Church from performing this sacred obligation. When I think of it, however, and recognize the fact that there are yet nations that have not heard the Gospel, and the great war through which wc have passed seems to me to have prepared in many places the way for delivering the message, I am concerned that we shall fulfil our obligation before the Lord, within the times he would like to have us do it; and, therefore, we are calling for more help. Great as our sacrifices and service have been, the labor is not yet completed, and it must go forward; we cannot stop now. 

MORE EFFORT ASKED IN THIS LINE 

We are asking that there shall be more cooperation on the part of the Church members in helping to discharge this obligation. It is not the duty and task of the man who happens to have a son, to pay his way and to bear the whole burden. Of course he will have to make a sacrifice, the sacrifice of his son's time, and means to maintain him, but the burden of keeping these representatives in the field rests upon every members of the Church, and so there has been apportioned among the wards a certain number that each ward should have in the missionary field, and it is every man's duty, in the ward, to see that his representatives are in the field. It ought to be indeed a matter of regret, and I was going to say shame to any ward that would allow the representatives from that ward to come home because perchance their parents have exhausted their means and cannot go any further. The wards should rally to the help of their representatives and keep them in the missionary field, discharging the obligation that rests upon all of us. 

HOW FUNDS MAY BE OBTAINED FOR THIS PURPOSE 

Again, it is splendid to have missionary farewell parties. Sometimes, however, we have a very successful missionary party, a large sum is realized, but the missionary is to go to some nearby mission. 

Then the next missionary farewell party is for one who is going to South Africa, or to Germany or elsewhere at a distance, and if it happens to be an unfavorable night, a small amount of money is contributed, not nearly sufficient to take him to his field of labor. We feel that the practice adopted by some stakes would be splendid if carried out elsewhere. Have your missionary farewell parties contribute liberally. Let the means, however, go into a fund in the ward from which the fare of your missionary to his field of labor, be it long or be it short, shall be paid, as the Church does in returning them, and let that fund be built up by the contributions of those who have never performed missionary service. There are men who could not go because of their own business affairs, or because of physical disabilities. It would be a splendid thing for every such man to give five dollars, GENERAL CONFERENCE  dollars, fifteen dollars, or twenty-five dollars or more a month for two years to such a fund, from which these, our representatives, might be sent into the field and assist those in need to remain; for there are hundreds of young men in the Church today anxious to go, but their finances will not enable them to fully take care of themselves. 

THE GOSPEL THE WORLD'S HOPE 

By a united effort and cooperative spirit we may continue this work acceptably to the Church and before the Lord. I feci earnest about it because I recognize that it is the world's hope. I recognize that there is no salvation for this generation except through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I recognize that the Lord has required it at our hands, and that it has to be done and done speedily. The time may not be so definitely fixed that we know exactly how long it shall be, but it has to be done in the period of time known as the "times of the Gentiles." It will not last forever; the time will come when the Gentiles will close their doors and no longer wish the elders of this Church, when the wheat has been gathered. I expect to see that time, but when it does come I want our missionaries to be there in force, as a witness before God and all men that we have acquitted ourselves honorably and acceptably to the Lord, and that we are free from the responsibility that has been upon us, and that the obligation has been fully discharged. I believe that our heavenly Father is very much like an earthly father in some respects. 

HOW CAN THE CHILDREN OF GOD BE SAVED ? 

What can an earthly father do to save his disobedient boy or girl? He can plead with him, he can point out the way of danger and the path of safety, just as our heavenly Father, seeing the course and the tendency of this generation, leading towards sorrow and distress, wonted to save men, and he gave the warning and the way to save them. So an earthly father can plead with his son or daughter, point out the danger, and the way of safety. He can say : "My boy, the course you are taking is going to lead you to bonds and imprisonment, to sorrow and to distress. Turn away from it. But, here is the path that will lead you to happiness, to success, to virtue, to prosperity. Take this path, rny son." When a father has done that, he has nearly reached his limit. If his son takes the wrong course, wilfully disobeying his father and mother, that father cannot save his boy. The boy comes to bonds and imprisonment, as many are today doing, to pay the penalty of their transgressions, with their own lives, or a life sentence. There are those who would give their lives to save these boys, but they cannot veto the sentence, they cannot set it aside; the law must have its way. Our heavenly Father can plead with his sons and his daughters, to abandon the course they are taking. He can point out the dangers, and he has always done that, whether it was in the days of Noah or now, it has been the same, 149  has had the same attitude towards his children, pointing out the danger, pleading with them to turn away from that danger, and pointing the path of safety and of success. But if men disregard it, even God cannot save them, because he is limited. He must himself obey law. He cannot save his sons and his daughters, only inasmuch as they repent. We have spoken about the time when Satan shall be bound, and will have no more power over the hearts of the children of men. How will he be bound? When all men turn away from him and cease to follow after him, so far as they are concerned, he will be bound. But do you know that we can bind the Lord" also by our wickedness? By our own rebellion, we tie his hands, we make him helpless to save us, and he cannot do it except men will repent. That being true, recognizing that the children of men are in peril and are in danger, and the only hope — is in the hands of this people, and it is that which is known as the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Ought we not to be active, ought we not to be anxious to bring to them the glad news that has brought us peace and salvation? 

RESULTS OF THE REJECTION OF THE GOSPEL 

I bear witness to you that there will be, following the rejection of the testimony of the servants of the Lord, new f witnesses raised up by the Lord — he himself has spoken of it — they shall be the thunder, the lightning, the earthquake, the perils by land and by sea, famine, plagues, and distress that shall naturally come. As you sow, so shall you reap. We do not want to have the world reap that kind of harvest. I have no delight in it, for I love the souls of the children of men. 

OUR OFFERING TO PREVENT SUCH RESULTS 

How can I help it ? Thirteen years of my life have been .spent in the mission field. How could I give that time for men without loving them ? I do love them; yet I recognize that my love for them cannot save them. God's love for them cannot save them except they repent. Jesus himself, with all the love he had for the children of men, upon the Mount of Olives, wept over Jerusalem and said : "Oh, that thou wouldst have received the message. How I would have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens." But they would not. So, my brethren and sisters, I speak of our offering to the world with some degree of pride. If one hundred thousand dollars has been offered by one of our distinguished citizens in this country to produce a plan for world peace, we have offered the services of more than sixty thousand missionaries, and I have estimated, at a reasonable figure, the probable value of their time, and the money sent to them in the field and to take them there and bring them back, and this little handful of people have contributed, to bring peace to the world, more than two hundred millions of dollars in time, service and money. That is GENERAL CONFERENCE  offering, and we have not stopped offering yet. We are on serious business. We recognize that this is a stupendous task, for a little handful of people to perform, yet we have given our time and service freely, out of the love we have for the souls of the children of men. 

THE GOSPEL IS THE MESSAGE OF PEACE TO THE WORLD 

But we know as we know that we live, that this is the message of peace for this world. Measures, such as offered in the plans of men to bring peace to the world, may be good, they are undoubtedly steps toward the end, but I say to you, there is no plan to settle the world's troubles, only as it is found in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and when men receive it and repent and are baptized and come under the influence of the Holy Ghost, and he becomes the common teacher of all men, he will never teach them to go to war with one another, but he will soften their hearts, take hatred out of their souls, and the spirit of repentance shall come, and love for their fellowmen shall abide. All the plans of men cannot duplicate this system of our God. 

OUR MISSION TO WIN THE WORLD FOR CHRIST 

I have no fear for schism and division of this Church, over the questions on doctrine that are arising in other churches. Or whether modernism or fundamentalism shall ever be a question among us — fundamental things in this Church have clearly been established from the beginning. And we have continuous revelation that will settle all such questions. We are founded upon the truth, that God lives, a real being, our Father, that Jesus Christ is his Son, the Only Begotten in the flesh, the Firstborn in the spirit, the literal Son of God, and the only Savior of mankind. T know it as well as I know that I live; you know it; and we are to tell the world of it and try to win the world for Christ. Oh, that we could tell all men! Oh. that these amplifiers could carry today the message to the ears of all flesh, that God has spoken, and in an age of the world's dire peril, he has extended his helping hand to save them, and if they will but repent and receive the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, they shall find salvation here and hereafter. May that message be carried forward and reach all flesh, and blessing and honor shall be upon every man and every woman who thus contributes to this noble world cause. May it eventually prevail, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the general authorities and the general officers of the Church, all of whom were sustained in their positions and callings by the unanimous vote of the assembly, as follows: 151 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF TFIE COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophet, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF SEVENTY 

Seymour B. Young Rulon S. Wells 

Brigham H. Roberts Joseph W. McMurrin 

Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Levi Edgar Young 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust, for the Church of Jes'nChrist of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Penrose David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe Orson F. Whitney 

Arthur Winter, Sec. and Treas. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor Edward P. Kimball and B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor Tracy Y. Cannon, Asst. Organists John J. McClellan, Organist George C. Smith, Sec. and Treas. 

And all the members of the Choir. 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I will announce that the auditors have made the usual report, and reported that they found the books and accounts, and everything in the Bishop's Office and the Trustee-in-Trust's in perfect order. 

The Church Stenographer, Brother Frank W. Otterstrom, handed me the following, which appeared in last Sunday's issue of the New York Times, being a statement made in 1911 by Dr. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard University : 

"Hozv to live long — Go to Church. Keep a clean heart and a good conscience. Give your mind exercise as well as your body — really think. Exercise regularly, eat in moderation, take a full allowance of sleep. Avoid indulgence in luxuries and the habitual use of any drug whatsoever — not only of alcohol, but tobacco, tea and coffee." 

In 1833, the Lord told us, in a much more substantial way than President Eliot, to refrain from all those things. Among other things,, my brethren and sisters, keep the Word of Wisdom. 

I am very pleased to announce that Brother George Albert Smith is with us this afternoon oil the stand, but it is scarcely considered wisdom for him to attempt to address this vast congregation. 

FOR THE SUFFERERS IN EUROPE 

There was a special drive made during the past season for the suffering people in Europe; and in addition, there was a drive made for clothes, and we have been able to send four carloads of clothing to Europe. The railroad and steamship companies have furnished us transportation for these clothes, practically free of charge, for which we are grateful indeed. It has been estimated that the cash received, $12,500 of which went to the Near East organization, and the clothing, would amount, in round numbers, to fully $100,000. Sixty and odd thousand dollars was the estimate placed upon the clothing sent. We have received word from our European missions that this clothing was very good indeed, that they were surprised at the high quality of the 153  that was delivered. There were extensive repairs made on the shoes that were given, which made them very much more acceptable. This assistance has been rendered to the Netherlands and Germany, to the Armenians, and also the Near East, as stated, and some assistance also to Great Britain. 

PROGRESS AND INCREASE IN MANY CHURCH ACTIVITIES 

There has been a substantial increase in the attendance at our sacrament meetings during the past year. There has been better wardteaching and an increase in the number of families visited monthly; statistics show an increase in our tithes, a large increase in the number of tithe-payers, and a splendid record of the stake and ward officers in the payment of tithes, for which we are grateful. 

An extensive building program is being carried out in many of the stakes of Zion. New meeting-houses are being erected and the people are very liberal in their donations for the same. 

In the conservation of life, the records show a marked decrease in the deaths of children under five years of age, showing that better methods are being adopted all through the state to prevent our little ones from passing away in their infancy. 

For the first time, more people have removed to the missions of the Church from the stakes of Zion than have been received from the missions. A splendid work is being done, as I announced here at the opening of our conference, by the missionaries in every part of the world. 

It is estimated that there have been 1200 converts to the Church as a result of our home missionary work in the various stakes of Zion. 

The work of increasing the accomodations in the Salt Lake temple has been completed, and has proved a. great convenience to those attending this temple. The facilities have been very greately enlarged and are highly appreciated by those who are working in that temple. 

The Manti temple has been thoroughly overhauled and renovated. 

The frame-work of the Arizona temple is now completed and the terra-cotta is being delivered. The building is to be covered with terra-cotta — the same general style of covering as the Hotel Utah. The walls will be completed within a few months. 

CONDITION IN THE MISSIONS 

There is a marked improvement in the conditions for missionary work in Great Britain. The Netherlands mission is very prosperous, having very many investigators. A French mission has just been created, comprising the French people in the devastated regions of France, the French-speaking people of Belgium, and the French-speaking people of Switzerland. 

In the Scandinavian missions we are still having difficulty in getting people into Sweden. I regret that the present condition is GENERAL CONFERENCE  different from what it was in the clays of King Oscar. It fell to my happy lot, with Brother Alex Nibley, whom I see here, and some of my friends, to have the privilege of calling on KingOscar on the 4th day of July, many years ago. With characteristic American assurance, I presented myself at the king's palace and requested an interview and the man who came to the door looked at me as if he thought I was crazy, not to be properly presented through the minister plenipotentiary. I wrote a letter of introduction to his majesty and enclosed a letter from Governor Heber M. Wells of the state of Utah, told him that day, July 4th, was the day that we Americans celebrate, and asked for an audience; and added that I knew that I ought to be presented in proper order, that I had letters from the Utah senators to our minister; but, the day being the 4th of July, we hoped that he would waive all of the customary formalities necessary to ,see a king. And he very kindly consented, stepped out of the palace, and greeted us; and after learning that only two or three in our party understood the Swedish language, he immediately changed to faultless English, perfect English. He was a magnificent specimen of humanity, standing over six feet high. lie made this remark to me : "Mr. Grant, I have sent my personal representatives, unknown to the people, to nearly every state in the Union of the United States, to find out how my former subjects are getting along, how they are prospering; and in no other state in the Union are the former subjects of Sweden and Norway more contented, more prosperous and happier than in Utah; and, as long as I am king of Norway and Sweden, your people shall have religious liberty, notwithstanding all the priests and religious denominations are against you." I wish he was still alive. 

An extensive building program is now in operation in many of the missions of the United States. Meeting houses of a substantial character have been erected in some of the missions — in far off New Zealand, in Australia, and in some other places. We are grateful for the very excellent progress that we are making all over the world in our missionary work. 

WORK OF THE M. I. A. SCOUTS 

Some remarks have been made here, telling of the good opinion that people have of us today, in comparison with what it used to be. It fell to my lot to be at a Boy Scout gathering at the West-side High school, where representatives from this section of the country were present. President Moore, the head of the great World's Fair at San Francisco, was one of these men, Stewart French was another, and other influential national representatives were there. One of the men present upon that occasion was George J. Fisher, who is the second in command of the Boy Scouts of America. The man in charge, the head man, Mr. West, was with us in this building about a year ago. and he delivered a magnificent address and paid splendid com155  to our people. lie remarked to me that it was a great pleasure to him to have nominated Oscar A. Kirkham to have charge of the Boy Scouts who went to Europe — a great compliment, I feel to the American people. Oscar A. Kirkham has received a letter from Dr. George J. Fisher, which I think every Latter-day Saint would like to hear read. Every Latter-day Saint ought to have read it, because, in every Latter-day Saint home there ought to be the Improvement Era. But, for fear there is not one in every home of those who are here, I will read this from the March number of the Improvement Era : 

"Tt was my pleasure recently to meet the representatives of the Boy Scout movement in Utah and to observe Scouting in action. 

"I was deeply impressed not only with the extent to which the boys of Utah had been reached, but with the quality of the program of Scouting which was being conducted. 

"Utah excels in Scouting. Tn Salt Lake City and in Logan, the headquarters of two Councils of the State, I witnessed actual demonstrations by the boys themselves. 

"I was profoundly moved and greatly inspired by what T saw. Utah excels in the number of boys reached in proportion to the population. In many communities practically all of the boys available are scouts. There are more boys of advanced rank and a greater percentage of Eagle scouts than in any other section of America. 

"Scouting reaches the boys not only in the large centers of the state, but in the remotest villages. 

"So well is scouting administered that the boys themselves manage much of their activities under wise adult guidance. 

"I saw a great rally directed entirely by scouts in Salt Lake City. The dispatch, precision, efficiency and spirit with which they conducted the affair was worthv of high praise. I have never seen it excelled. 

"Scouting is raising up a fine breed of boys in Utah. Tt is giving them splendid executive training that will fit them for effective leadership in the affairs of state in the years immediately ahead. 

"Scouting is a course in the practice of patriotism. Tt is developing patriots in Utah, yes. boys who will be felt in the public and private life of the nation. 

"That state is a great state which gives to its youth its first attention. Utah excels in that regard. 

"The secret of it all is that splendid, high motived men are giving themselves unselfishly to the boys of the state. This is the way to success and real achievement. 

"These men are taking serious training for their tasks. I associated for part of two days with almost a hundred of them in training at the State Agricultural College at Logan. They came from the remotest parts of the state and of nearby states. Tt was an inspiration. 

"These men will determine the standards of boy life in the state. It is a noble enterprise, a worthy and commendable service. All praise to them. 

. "These scouts in the stat^ are catching and demonstrating the spirit of Scouting. It is a great spiritual crusade. They are living the Scout Oath and Laws. They are practicing the 'daily good turn.' 

"Scouting is reaching all boys: poor boys as well as those who are more favored. Utah is setting standards for the whole country. Utah is repeating historv. Just as she developed the early scouts, the great heroes of pioneer days, so now she is raising up boy scouts, caught by the same GENERAL CONFERENCE  of enterprise, by the same spirit of adv.enture. It is the pioneer spirit, the holy crusade of olden days applied in practical, yet romantic fashion to the youth of this later age. 

"The 'Mormon' Church is the large.st factor in this splendid achievement. She it is that is furnishing men and vision and ideals to the young men throughout the state, and they as scoutmasters in the great majority are inspiring the youth of the state to become good scouts. Splendid cooperation is given by other religious agencies in this work. 

"And for this good service we are deeply grateful. Scouting is marching on in Utah, an excellent example to all the nation." 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S ADMONITION SEVENTY-ONE YEARS AGO 

APPLIES TODAY 

October 6 to 9, 1853: Words of President Brigham Young: 

"We will now bring our conference to a close. I wish the Latterday Saints to hearken to the counsel they receive from time to time, and especially to the counsel I will now give to all Latter-day Saints in this house, in the valleys of the mountains, and to all who are scattered among the nations of the earth. I ask one thing at your hands, and that is, to live your religion day by day. 

"The religion we profess is the religion of the Lord J.esus Christ; a religion of revelation, ministering of angels, and tire power of God on the people through ithe ordinances of God. My counsel is, to live their religion. If they do, they will live watchfully, prayerfully, humbly; and their hearts will be filled with compassion one towards another, and they will seek to do good all the days of their lives; and when an evil is presented to them they will shun that evil, and will cleave to that which is right before the Lord; otherwise they will brinp- disgrace upon themselves, and dishonor their religion. This is my counsel to all Saints, and I wish you to carry it from this conference to your neighbors, and spread it. abroad, throughout all the churches of the Saints, upon the face of the whole earth; — Live the religion you profess!" 

Brother Junius F. Wells was indexing some of the Journals of Discourses and ran across the above and handed it to me; and I felt I would like to read it here. 

THE SUGAR INDUSTRY 

I am very happy to inform the Latter-day Saints that there has been a very wonderful and remarkable "come-back" in the sugar industry of this inter-mountain country. Instead of the various sugar factories being in debt many, many millions of dollars of money to the banks in New York and Chicago, with large stocks of .sugar on hand and no sale for it, there is now a demand for sugar throughout the entire country; and almost without exception, if not without exception, (I am not thoroughly posted) the companies are not in debt to bankers who were unwilling three years ago, without additional capital being invested, to renew obligations that they held. Today, most if not all of the companies are free from bank obligations in the East and the industry has come back in a splendid way; for which we are grateful. The farmers are giving loyal support and raising larger quantities of beets, which means an increased product, which means an increase of prosperity to this intermountain country. 157 

GIVE LOYAL SUPPORT TO HOME INSTITUTIONS 

From my earliest recollection, I have heard Brigham Young and all of his successors preach to the people and beg them to support and sustain all of the various industries that were established throughout this inter-mountain country; and I appeal to the Latter-day Saints today, to all who are here present, to carry the message to the people throughout the entire Church — to support the institutions of our state, to be loyal to those institutions through which employment can be given to the people, and from which you can secure articles that are manufactured here at home. Give them the preference; help to build up our country; sustain this inter-mountain country. We need support for everything that is started in the nature of a manufacturing institution in this country. We are so far away from the centers of consumption for many of our products that railroad freight charges prevent us exporting many goods which, but for the long distance to the markets, we could do. Therefore, let us be loyal to our institutions here at home. 

BUILDING OF THE ARIZONA TEMPLE PROGRESSING 

I am pleased to inform you that it has fallen to my lot, during the past six months, to visit Arizona and to see the progress that is jbeing made there upon our temple; and I am sure that when that building is completed we shall all be proud of it. I am sure that it will be one more monument testifying to the faith and the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints to the work of the Lord and to the message that has come to us in our day — to labor for the redemption of our dead. '1 am sure that it will be a credit to our people that will be recognized hy those not of our faith, in seeing one more splendid monument of the kind and this in the state of Arizona. 

INCREASED TESTIMONY AND FRESH INSPIRATION FROM READING THE 

BOOK OF MORMON 

I have rejoiced during the past six or seven weeks in reading carefully through, at the rate of about ten pages a day, with a prayerful heart, the Book of Mormon. I do not think that I have ever before enjoyed that book so much. I do not think the wonderful testimonies contained in it regarding the divine mission of the Savior, have ever made a more profound impression upon my heart and soul than they have made this last time that I have read the Book of Mormon. I remember, and have often spoken of the fact of reading it in my youthful days, and how there came into my heart an abiding testimony that that book was true, that it was in very deed exactly what it purports to be — the .sacred history of the forefathers of the American Indian. I could not as a child or as a young man, comprehend and understand as fully as today the splendid discourses regarding the divine mission of the Savior. His wonderful teachings to the people upon this continent, the wonderful inspired teachings 

158 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of Alma and Abinadi and many others, as contained in that book. But I am thankful beyond .expression that I did read the book in my boyhood days and that the assurance came into my heart that it was in very deed the truth, and that I fell in love with the character of Nephi. More than any other mortal man that we have any record of in the Bible, the Old, or the New Testaments, or in the Book of Mormon, more, I believe, than- the influence of my friends and associates with whom I have lived, Nephi has made an impression upon my heart and my soul and has been one of the guiding stars of my life — a man who endeavored upon all occasions never to become discouraged or disheartened, never to complain; but who endeavored to the full extent of his ability to carry out his own wonderful words spoken to his father — 

"I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commanded them." 

That remarkable declaration, exemplified through his entire life, has stayed with me, I am sure, now for fully fifty long years; and I rejoice in the fact of the impression that was made upon my heart and soul by that statement. I also rejoice in his immediately exemplifying the .statement that he would do what the Lord required. What had the Lord required? The Lord, through Lehi, his father, had received a dream to the effect that his sons were to return to Jerusalem and secure the brass plates upon which some of the ancient scriptures and the genealogy of tbe forefathers of Nephi were recorded. And his brethren were complaining, when he made that impressive announcement that he would go and do the thing which the Lord had required. 

They made a failure of their first attempt, and his brothers desired to return to their father in the wilderness, but Nephi said : 

"We will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us." 

And they went up again to Jerusalem, and they gathered their riches and they offered them to Laban for the record. Instead of making the exchange, Lallan sent his servants to kill them, and he stole their wealth. Nephi's brothers then commenced beating him, and an angel of the Lord appeared and told them to go up again unto Jerusalem and the Lord would deliver Laban into their hands, and they would obtain the plates. 

No sooner had the angel disappeared than these men, lacking in faith — and men that do not keep the commandments of the Lord are always lacking in faith and always will be lacking in faith, and always will find fault; and those who are perpetually .seeking for some great and wonderful manifestation will never amount to very much in the Church; while those who keep the commandments of God never find fault, they have faith, they believe — these brothers of Nephi said : 159 

"How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands? Behold he is a mighy man, and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?" And the answer of Nephi was: "Let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?" 

Many men say : "If I could only see an angel, if I could only hear an angel proclaim something, that would cause me to be faithful all the days of my life!" It had no effect upon these men that were not serving the Lord, and it would have no effect today. 

As I say, I rejoice in the increased testimony that has come into my heart and soul regarding the divinity of the Book of Mormon, in the reading that I have just completed while on my recent trip to the south. 

THE TERRIBLE CATASTROPHE AT CASTLE GATE 

We have had one of the most terrible caiastrophies in the history of the state of Utah, on which occasion one hundred seventy-three, as I remember it, lives were lost in the Castle Gate coal mine explosion. It fell to my lot, with Elder Richard R. Lyman and others, to visit Castle Gate and to see the effects of that terrible calamity there. The Governor of the state and others have inaugurated a drive for the benefit of the families that have been left destitute of a provider. I hope and pray that in every hamlet, and in every home there will be a disposition to contribute something toward this great drive for the benefit of the families of the men who were killed in that great disaster. There is nothing truer than the statement in ancient writ that "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and I say that the greater blessing will come to those who give than to those who are not willing to give in this case. Let us do our part, as we have ever done our part in all of the various calls that have been made by our nation in times of trouble and by those in distress. I am sure that the appeal will not be made in vain. The Church has been solicited to assist and we have contributed $2,500 of the tithing funds for this purpose, which was somewhat more than the request made by the chairman who called upon us. 

THE SAINTS LOVE THE GOSPEL, AS WITNESS THE CONFERENCE ATTENDANCE 

I have been very pleased indeed, my brethren and sisters, with the wonderful attendance at our conference. We have never had anything like it within my recollection, nothing to compare with the wonderful outpouring of the people at these conference meetings. To have our week-day meetings so crowded in this tabernacle that many have had to stand up is a new experience, and it shows to me that the Latter-day Saints are awake, that they are alive, that they have GENERAL CONFERENCE  love of the gospel, that they are anxious to come here to partake of the spirit of our conferences, that spirit which has been with the Latter-day Saints, in this building, from the very day it was first opened. It has fallen to my lot, from my childhood days until now, excepting when I have been absent from the state upon foreign missions, to attend conferences in this building twice a year, and I have never come into this building and been disappointed; I have never come here but what I have been benefited and fed with the bread of life and built up in the faith, and strengthened in my knowledge and testimony regarding the divinity of the work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged. 

PRAYER FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES 

I pray that the Lord will bless the President of the United States of America and his cabinet, and that he will vindicate the President and every honest member of his cabinet; and I believe that there are honest, upright, God-fearing, patriotic men in the cabinet of President Coolidge. I believe he is a man worthy of the blessings of Almighty God. That is my opinion of the President of the United States. I believe that he has the welfare of the people of this great country at heart. 

BLESSINGS ON ALL ISRAEL, AT HOME AND ABROAD 

I pray that the Lord will bless each and everyone of the Latterday Saints throughout all the stakes of Zion, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. I pray that he will bless the Saints all over the wide world, in all the different missions, that they may grow and increase in the light and the knowledge and the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I bear my witness to you here today that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of mankind, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that each man, woman and child who lives the gospel of Jesus Christ shall find life eternal in the presence of our heavenly Father. 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord to abide with all Israel, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Then shall your light shine." 

Elder Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve, offered the benediction, and the conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by Professor B. Cecil Gates. Edward P. Kimball played the accompaniments, interludes, etc. on the great organ, assisted by Tracy Y. Cannon. Professor J. J. McClellan was absent on account of illness. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made in the tabernacle by Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; and in the assembly hall by Frederick E. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, clerk of the conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities of the Church General 151 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 144 

The World and Its Peace Problems, 144 — Three Specific Purposes of the Church, 145 — Proclaiming the Gospel to the World, 14S — The Salvation of the Dead, 145 — Perfecting the Lives of Members, 146 — As to Proclaiming the Gospel, 146 — Nothing Ever Deterred the Elders from This Duty, 146 — More Effort Asked in This Line, 147— How Funds May Be Obtained For This Purpose, 147 — The Gospel the World's Hope, 148 — How Can the Children of God be Saved? 148 — Results of the Rejection of the Gospel, 149— Our Offering to Prevent Such Results, 149 — The Gospel Is the Message of Peace to the World, 150 — Our Mission to Win the World for Christ, 150. 

Beckstrand, Elder John A 123 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O .104 

Callis, Elder Charles A 19 

Clawson, President Rudger 25 

How Shall We Obtain Life Eternal? 25— Through the Gift of the Holy Ghost, 26— No Baptism Complete Without This Gift, 26 — Fundamentalism and Modernism, 26 — The Scripture Plain on the Points of Controversy, 28— The Birth of Christ, 28— The Resurrection of the Christ, 28 — The United Faith of the Latterday Saints, 29 — Personal Testimony, 29. 

Elison, Elder John A 120 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 151 

General Officers of the Church 1, 151 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

The Church in Excellent Condition, 2 — Good Work by the Auxiliary Organizations, 2 — Satisfactory Reports from the Missions, 

3 — Enlightening Statistics, 3 — Text for an Important Subject, 

4 — The Appearance of Elijah, 5 — Keys to Gathering of Israel Restored, 6 — Visitation of Elijah in Fulfilment of Malachi's Prediction, 6 — The Faith of the Saints Verified by Temples and Works Therein, 6 — An Awakening on This Subject in All the World, 7 — Interest in Work for the Dead Increasing, 7 — We Are Engaged in the Marvelous Work of the Lord, 7 — The Great Purpose of Our Labors Declared, 8 — The Responsibility of Parents, 9 — The Sacred Duty of Communion With God Through Prayer, 9 — Take to Heart the Duty of Teaching Faith in Jesus Christ, 10. 

Grant, President Heber J. 150 

General Authorities of the Church, 151 — General Officers of the Church, 151. 

Grant, President Heber J 152 

For the Sufferers in Europe, 152 — Progress and Increase in 

Many Church Activities, 153 — Condition in the Missions, 153 — Work of the M. I. A. Scouts, 154 — President Brigham Young's Admonition Seventy-One Years Ago Applies Today, 156 — The Sugar Industry, 156 — Give Loyal Support to Home Institutions, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

157— Building- of the Arizona Temple Progressing, 1.57— Increasted Testimony and Fresh Inspiration from Reading the Book of Mormon, 157— The Terrible Catastrophe at Castle Gate, 

159— The Saints Love the Gospel, as Witness the Conference Attendance, 159— Prayer for the President of the United States, 

160 — Blessings on All Israel, at Home and Abroad, 160. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 53 

Hyde, Elder George T 125 

Hyde, Elder William A 98 

Ivins, President Anthony W 81 

The Multitude Compared with an Ancient Gathering, 81 — Proceedings of a Character to Stimulate Faith, 82 — Authority Conferred upon the Apostles, 82— Like Authority Conferred upon the Twelve in Our Day, 82— The Ordinance of Baptism, 83— To Be in Possession of the Spirit of God We Must Pray, 83— Humility Should Characterize Our Conduct, 84 — Good Will and Forgiveness Fundamental, 84 — Exercise Charity Without Ostentation, 84 — Seek Wisdom and Not Wealth, 85 — Be Slow to Render Judgment and Criticism, 8,5 — Fast With Cheerful Countenance, 85 — Honor Marriage; Be Chaste and Virtuous, 86 — Why These Simple Doctrines Should be Implicitly Observed, 86 — Warning Against Becoming Like the Pharisees of Old, 86 — Remember These Simple, Fundamental Doctrines, 87. 

Jenson. Elder Andrew 129 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 69 

Knight, Elder John M 24 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 139 

Appeal for Greater Interest in Learning How to Lead and Teach the Young, 139 — Example of a Farmer Who, Having the Priesthood, Was a Great Teacher, 139 — The Great Apostasy Predicted. 140 — The Apostasy to be Universal, 140 — Good Cheer For Those Who Endure to the End, 140 — Conditions in the Last Days — The Boasting of Some Who Learn a Little Science, 141 — The Thrilling Dream, 141 — The God of Heaven to Set Up a Kingdom That Shall Never Be Destroyed — To Stand Forever, 142 — The Temple an Expression of the Faith of the People in the Message of the Angel, 142 — Where Is the Kingdom to be Built That Shall Last Forever?— War to Cease, 143— The Great Teacher, A Farmer, But a Man of God. 143. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 57 

Nibley, Elder Charles W 45 

Paul, Elder Joshua H 109 

Penrose, President Charles W 10 

The Preaching of the Gospel to the Nations, 10 — The Coming of the Prince of Peace, 11 — We are Plere to Serve the Lord, 11 — Blessings Predicated Upon Serving the Lord, 12 — The Length of a Generation, 13 — No Date Set for the Coming of the Lord, 14 — Let Us Perform Our Duty and the Blessings Are Sure, 14 — A Reminiscence and a Testimony, 15 — Hang On and Keep Fast Hold of the Truth, 16— God Be With You, 16— This Work Onward and Upward Forever, 17. 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 90 

Quinney, Elder Joseph Jr 71 

Richards, Elder George F 30 

Conditions Made Known by Statistics, 30 — Large Number of 163 

Unmarried in the Church, 30 — Why is This Condition? 31 — Forbidding to Marry, a Doctrine of Devils, 31 — Exemplars to the World, 31 — Two kinds of Marriages — Authority, 32 — Marriage for Eternity, 33 — -Temple and Civil Marri. pes in the Church Contrasted, 33 — People of One Religious Faith Should Marry, 33— We Want Our People to Marry, 34. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L, 92 

A Message to the Youth of Zion, 92 — The Great Obligation of Parents, 92 — -Unusual Educational Environment Influences the Youth, 92 — An Appeal to Parents in Behalf of the Young Folks, 93 — Visions of Wonderful Opportunity of the Home, 94 — The Gospel a Constructive Program, 94 — Oh, That Boys and Girls Might Know Jesus Christ, 95. 

Roberts, Elder B. H 76 

Smith, Elder David A 21 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 40 

We Stand As Witnesses for Christ, 40 — -Testimony of An Ancient Prophet, 40 — Views of the So-Called Modernists, 41 — True Christianity, 41 — Our Message to the World, 42 — We Believe in a Literal Resurrection, 42 — Modern Testimony of the Resurrection, 44. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 87 

Snow, Elder Edward H 118 

Talmage, Elder James E. 65 

Not Connected Up — A Comparison, 65 — Institutions of Men, 65 — Beware of Forms Without Power, 65 — The Gospel Given By Revelation of Jesus Christ, 66 — Preaching for Doctrine the Commandments of Men, 67 — The Sin of Preaching Without Authority, 67 — The Authority of Ancient Times Not Sufficient for Today, 68 — The Church of Christ Has Authority and is Connected Up, 69. 

Taylor, Elder John H 73 

Wells, Elder John 17 

Wells, Elder Junius F 112 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 60 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 35 

Mission to Europe, 35 — Preaching on the Continent, 35 — Scenes of Interest, 36 — Again in Britain, 36 — An Anti-"Mormon" Attack, 37 — Duties of Mission President, 38 — In the Hospital, 38 — Release and Return, 39 — Gradual Convalescence, 39 — The Speaker's Testimony, 39. 

Young, Elder Brigham S 74 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 50 

Young, Elder Seymour B 95 3iiiiiiuiinHiniiiiiiiiic^iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii[ii3iuiHiiiiiicjiiiiiiiiiui:3iiiiiiiiiiiiC3iiiiuMnunMi^ a — 

1 A New and Revised Edition of 1 

I H Articles of Faith I 

I BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

| Beautiful Blue Cloth Binding....$1.00 Postpaid 

Black Morocco 2.50 

| Mission Edition — Brown Cloth 50 " | 

= This book is so favorably known that merely the = 

u "8 announcement that this new edition is ready is suf= ficient comment. r. — 

Our service consists not only in selling books and if supplies, but it consists also of helping you to select jsj your home library. j| 

Tell us how many in the family, their ages and how much you want to spend each month for books, and we'll suggest a list for you. 

I DESERET BOOK I I COMPANY 1 

« n 5 44 E. So. Temple 

Salt Lake City | q I 

miicaiiimiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiimiiniiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiimiicaiHiiiiiiim SOMETHING NEW 

Science and Belief in God" 

1 BY DR. FREDERICK J. PACK 

An interesting treatment of an interesting subject. Every student of religion or science will want to read it. | Price $2.25. By Mail $2.35 

iiimiiiiHimuiiiimimiimiiimimmmmimmiiitii ijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiitinitiiiiiiiiiiriiiinnMiiiiiiiiiiimimnHiiiiiniMiiiii iimimit 

Doctrine and Covenants Commentary 

Thin paper — handy sized volume Cloth $3.50; Leather $5.50, postpaid If you want to study the Doctrine and Covenants, you'll want this book. 

iiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiTiiMiiitiititiiti*itiitiitiiriiiiiiii]iiiiiijiiiiiiiiiitiiiiijiiritiiiiiiiiiiiiiii[iiitiiiiii[iiiijiiitiiitiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHinn» 

S "The United Order Among the Mormons" 

(Missouri Phase) = BY JOSEPH A. GEDDES 

| Cloth— Price $1.75. By Mail $1.85 

H tUIIIIIMIIlHllfMltlMllllMitjllltllllMtlllllJIMIIII] [UlrlMIITttilllllHIItlUlIllKllMItlininiM]] UII 1 1 1 H II II I ft 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 E 1 i II 1 1 1 1 1 U II Mt 11 1 M I ril I IlllUtn 

The Founding of Utah 

BY LEVI EDGAR YOUNG S Just the history of our own state that you have been 

| waiting for. $1.75. By Mail $1.85. 

EE iiuiiiimuMiiiimmiHimMiHimMimiimiiiiiiiiimuiimumiM 

A NEW EDITION There is now ready a new edition of 

1 The GOSPEL 

| BY ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

This work has been so well known, and its value so much appreciated, that a lengthy description is not necessary. Nicely bound in cloth, postpaid, $1.25. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY 

^iic3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiHcaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicautiiiiiii! 







