16
Afternoon
04 04 1941 
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
41-43

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The Apostle Peter said: "Jesus went about doing good." In these five words is the epitome of a divine life, spent in the service of humanity.  
  
As I listened to the report which was read this morning, particularly that part of it which referred to the Church Welfare work, I said in my heart, "this great movement is applied religion."  
  
MIGHTY WORKS PERFORMED BY JESUS  
  
It is wonderful to contemplate the care and compassion that Jesus bestowed upon the unfortunate. He healed the sick, made the blind to see and the deaf to hear. He fed the hungry multitudes, "lest they faint." When He raised the little maid to life He commanded the astonished parents "that something should be given her to eat."  
  
When He performed those mighty works in His own country the people were astounded and said: "Is not this the carpenter?" They could not comprehend that Jesus was Deity embodied in human form.  
  
I haven't heard anyone explain the full significance of the profound truth that God Almighty trained His Only Begotten Son in a carpenter shop. The Savior was no weakling. He was a muscular workman; He stood and moved in the pride and strength of manhood when He drove the money changers from the Temple. He was also considerate and kind.  
  
THE YOKE OF CHRIST  
  
He said:  
  
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me: for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.  
  
Jesus in the carpenter shop doubtless made yokes for oxen. But the yokes He made left no sore spots. They made the burden light. The man who bears the yoke of Christ has no sore spots on him. In his heart and life there is real liberty and joy. Yes, Jesus was a carpenter and that Carpenter today is the Captain of the world's only hope.  
  
PRACTICAL ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN  
  
Our young men in Zion should learn handicraft trades; there are too many of them seeking white-collar jobs. If they want to "stand before kings" they should become skilful farmers, craftsmen, mechanics, and be diligent in their work.  
  
Mr. Babson said:  
  
W. J. Cameron, of the Ford Motor Company, told me the other day that the number of students preparing to be mechanics is only about one-seventh the number now employed as mechanics; while the number now studying for the professions is about thirteen times those engaged in the professions.  
  
This does not look good. We should not cease to teach our young men that the mechanic as well as the farmer is necessary for the progress of the community. The world is in need of mechanics, builders, plumbers, carpenters, bricklayers. I felt disappointed in reading in a newspaper, a few days ago, the following statement:  
  
The Ogden Air Depot at Hill Field will need 2,500 to 3,500 machinists and mechanics by the end of this year, it had been reported today by Major R. J. Minty, personnel officer.  
  
He explained that the army hopes to fill at least the lower grade skilled jobs with Utah men, but is certain that many of the more skilled workers must come from outside the state.  
  
I urge the young men to learn trades; to be craftsmen. Then they will be qualified to earn a comfortable living. The middle partition of the incompatibility between labor and culture should be pulled down. There should be no such partition. Labor is honorable. Let us pursue the splendid policy that will bring temporal independence to our young men and that will produce for us more builders, for our people are naturally builders. A new world is being built. Builders and mechanics are in demand. Every effort should be put forth to make our young men employable.  
  
Boys and girls stay in the country, on the farms; do not desert them, for the land is your heritage. When the bulk of the population shifts to the cities there is danger to the nation. For the real bulwark, and the strength of the nation is in the country. President Grant remarked to me the other day that cities would perish if they were not continually nourished with the good, pure blood that comes from the country.  
  
I know of four ranches in this State. The men who founded them were English, German, Swedish and Danish. They were solid men in the community and earned the bold independence that comes from labor. They made themselves well-to-do. But where are their descendants. Most of them wanted white-collar jobs. I have seen them punching time-clocks. They are living from hand to mouth. Strangers, not members of the Church, contented and prosperous, own and live on those ranches.  
  
"Sweet are the uses of adversity." I believe in this too often overlooked truth. Blessings ought not to be wasted: neither should troubles. Oh, if we had had the foresight to have prepared for the defense of this country when we were in the midst of the depression! Men could then have been trained as mechanics. They could have been employed in erecting our defenses. Instead of spending the billions of dollars in ways that probably have not brought the greatest good, work could have been provided for millions of workers who would have been glad to work. There might not have been any war in Europe if this had been done.  
  
THE LORD'S ADVICE TO RICH AND POOR  
  
The Lord gives some advice to the laboring men, and also to the rich men. This is the Carpenter speaking, the Carpenter who was exalted to a throne to sit down on the right hand of God. He it was who was rich and became poor for our sakes. Listen to His divine admonition:  
  
Woe unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved!  
  
I admire the great captains of industry. They have founded magnificent industries. They should be hailed as saviors of labor in the industrial world. But they should not honor and love mammon more than they love their humble brethren who are working for them.  
  
Now, to the laboring men:  
  
Woe unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands.  
  
No excuse there for sit-down strikes. No encouragement for strikes which are inspired by a spirit of violence. Labor cannot do without capital. God wants both to go together peaceably. Do not blame and envy men because they are rich; do not condemn or look down upon men because they are poor.  
  
The capitalists, the industrialists engaged in the manufacturing industry and the working men should put aside the agitators and the professional trouble-makers and meet around the conference table with their hearts permeated with the Spirit of Christ.  
  
Then in that state of mind, misunderstandings, questions and disputes would be settled in reason and justice. Results would spring from such conferences which would make an end of useless and costly strikes. They would make for practices, conciliation, satisfactory adjustments and happiness that flow from the spirit of the Savior. Thus these outbreaks of violence, the strikes which disfigure and disrupt our industrial life would cease. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord Jesus will rest upon and abide with employer and employed alike.  
  
GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR LEADERS  
  
We thank God for President Grant. As he was talking this morning the words of the Apostle Paul came to my mind. He said: "Nevertheless, I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me." We see the influence of the spirit of the Savior in the life of our beloved President. That is the reason why he is a blessing to his people.  
  
May I add just one more word. With all my heart I endorse the statesmanlike address delivered by President Clark in this Conference. Every word of it I accept. It is a warning to this nation, a word of light uttered by a prophet-statesman.  
  
I bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 