17
Afternoon
04 04 1941 
Elder Frank Evans 
229
44-46

None

None

Former President of the Eastern States Mission 

I do not know at this moment what I shall say. I have been in this congregation since the opening of the morning meeting, very much impressed and stimulated by the discourses of the brethren, but not expecting to be called upon myself.  
  
It is a singular privilege to occupy this pulpit. When one reflects upon the history of it, and looks back over the years, when he examines the discourses that have been delivered here, he finds the high points in all the activities of our lives, from the standpoint of religion, of social science or educational principles; in fact, in all that is of importance to us. The finest doctrines known to men have gone out from this pulpit. It is not surprising, therefore, that those who are to speak approach it in a spirit of diffidence, certainly of humility, of deep concern, and of profound respect.  
  
Going back to the records of 1869 and 70, and to the General Conference of April, 1872, I re-read oftentimes the doctrines proclaimed here by President Brigham Young. He urged the people to come together in unity and counsel in all their undertakings. He taught the doctrine of cooperation as we see it today, and even upon a broader scale, and yet it was probably from this pulpit alone that that doctrine was then being taught. He defined clearly the benefits of cooperation and the advantages that it would bring to all the people. Since that time, every State in the Union has declared in favor of the principles which he then advocated.  
  
Today we see also the most advanced step, I believe, that has been taken in the direction of cooperation, in our Church Welfare Program. I trust that no man and no woman who, having the opportunity to engage in this work, will fail to do so. Let not your sons and daughters grow up to a realization of what is now being done in the line of social justice, welfare and service, to discover that you have not taken part in it. The day will come when men will stand here and relate with justifiable pride, what will have been accomplished in the present undertaking and the people will view it with universal approval and with a sense of deep satisfaction.  
  
At the April Conference of 1880, President John Taylor delivered a discourse here which for fundamental righteousness cannot be excelled by any address that I have ever read. It was the Year of Jubilee. He advocated that "we do like the Ancients, and take off the yoke from those who are in debt and unable to pay, and release them from their bondage, and cause a feeling of joy and liberty to abound among the poor." The granaries were opened, and the thirty-five thousand bushels of grain that had been gathered by the women of the Relief Society were released for the benefit of the poor.  
  
In that sermon, President Taylor said:  
  
When the Lord is blessing us, let us bless one another. He will not let us suffer if we take care not to let one another suffer.  
  
It will be recalled that at that time one-half of the sums due to the Perpetual Emigration Fund, amounting to more than $800,000, was turned over for the benefit of the poor — that is, these obligations were forgiven those who were unable to pay. That was, in reality, a year of jubilation.  
  
However, the discourses of that day were not, of course, broadcast as they are today. They reached the ears of ten thousand gathered in this great auditorium and were preserved in written or printed form, but where one thousand were reached then, hundreds of thousands may hear what is being said now. The discourses of this morning, for example, were heard throughout the West and I believe it can be said that they take rank with the noblest utterances that have ever come from this pulpit.  
  
Another thing that has been constantly taught here is the doctrine of thrift; not a thrift that is mean or low or selfish, but a thrift that calls for intelligent saving, for judicious spending, and for wise giving; a thrift that makes one able to be generous. President Grant has constantly emphasized this doctrine and in connection with it the principle of self-discipline, self-control, and avoidance of those things which are injurious to the physical being. While in years gone by these things have not been taken so seriously, today from every college, every medical institution, from all those trained in medical science, from the councils of people generally come an acceptance of these doctrines, especially so since they may now be judged by their fruits. And, above all, lessons of courage have come from this pulpit, both by word and by example — the courage of one's convictions such as our leaders exhibited in years gone by, and such as they exemplify today.  
  
As I was recently leaving the Mission office in New York, for a trip into the field, I passed through an electric gateway at the railway station. As I approached the gate leading to the train, it opened mysteriously before me, and to my mind came the question, "What hand opened that gate for me?" The obvious answer seemed to be: "No hand at all. You simply intercepted the electric current and the power did the rest." But that was not the answer. Many hands and many minds, working over many years, opened that gate for me, and tens of thousands of men, women and children have availed themselves of that convenience which science had given unto us. I thought of the Faradays and of the Edisons and their kind and of how they had been taunted and even ridiculed, as they worked their way upward to bring a blessing to mankind. Courage kept them at their task. But more than all, I thought of the leaders of that Mission in the early days — of Wilford Woodruff, of John Taylor, of Parley P. Pratt and Orson Pratt, and such men as they. They also pointed out a gate which opened to tens of thousands of men and women and children, — a strait gate and a narrow way, one that leads to Life. That is the Way with which we are most concerned. These men, too, were taunted, were ridiculed and even persecuted, but they were never dismayed. They were men of fortitude and of unfailing courage. They were convinced of the rectitude of that for which they stood. They were converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and there was no compromise in their souls or in their minds.  
  
These are the lessons which have been taught from this pulpit during all the years of its history. May we appreciate its importance, its deep significance. May we not fail in our integrity, in our courage, in our devotion to the work of the Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 