22
Morning
05 04 1941 
Elder Rufus K. Hardy 
185
54-57

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

From "away down under" there is this that is said by that people: "A rain drop above and a chrysalis beneath," — their way of stating that God's beneficent kindness produces a beautiful race of human creatures. I think if that great race of lovely and intelligent people could have the privilege of seeing this gathering, they would know that what their forefathers and immediate ancestors declared to them is absolutely true.  
  
CONFERENCE GATHERINGS IN THE TABERNACLE  
  
We come here twice each year, in April and in October, and have been doing so since 1867, the year this Tabernacle was dedicated, and each Conference since has been fraught with the splendid advice, the wonderful counsel, and the lovely and beautiful testimonies which have been borne here in the past and given to us already in this great April gathering of 1941. We have had one hundred and forty-eight Conferences in this building since we started to hold Conferences here, and I think if there were gathered together that which has been expounded from this pulpit, the world would be greatly enriched as it never has been before, and we would know and understand better that which God desires us to understand, and feel assured of our future safety and of our daily and present actions.  
  
PREPARATIONS FOR WAR  
  
I am prompted somewhat along the line on which Brother Evans has just been speaking, for I have met with many mothers of boys who have been called away, and in my weak way I have tried to comfort them, and I fear all too hopelessly and inadequately.  
  
You know that in this old world and earth of ours today, mankind are running to and fro like ants whose hives have been disturbed, whose homes have been uprooted; and that over the great expanse of the oceans these monstrous steel vessels are zigzagging the lanes of travel, bearing their precious burdens, while underneath dives the submarine to lurk beneath the waves and wait to destroy the floating vessels. Over and above all come the hissing sound and the roar of the bombing planes, which spread destruction and bring to us such fear.  
  
There is, however, a thought which comes in connection with this, and that is this: that in China and Japan, in Italy, in England, in Germany, in Norway, in Rumania, in almost every spot of the earth men are preparing for that which Satan himself desires. He, if possible, would have his own way, and that is the death of mankind. Away down underneath us, in those beautiful jewel-like islands of the Pacific, even in them, men are dressing and robing themselves in the attire of the soldier, and the accouterments of war are being gathered by them. Their faces are stern; smiles have left their countenances, unless it is the smirk; and their hearts are as lead. The cries of their women-folk go up to heaven for the assuaging of their sorrows and the bringing of relief from that which they face.  
  
PROPHECIES OF WARNING AND OF COMFORT  
  
God has said some things in prophecies concerning this. All this evil is done in order that some may acquire that which they do not possess or rightfully claim. To each and every child born upon this earth God gave a portion of it. It has been bestowed upon him by right of heirship from Adam, and even before this earth was formed, the Lord said:  
 
We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.  
  
Now, out of all this greed and lust for power comes, as I say, this terrible confusion. I am impressed more each day with the fact that God is my refuge.  
  
We, the people of this Church — and I say this not in any way of arrogance, no, but from my youth and from my earliest recollections there has come ringing down to me, through the various voices of the Presidents of this Church whom I have known, this great cry — and I believe that you and I, we all of us have answered it; it is significant that from almost every nation of this earth there are people here assembled who have answered this cry:  
  
Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.  
  
So that, so far as we are concerned, unquestionably we have complied with and listened to the wisdom that is from above, for "the hearing ear and the seeing eye, God hath made them both."  
  
And then declares Isaiah this:  
  
He that walketh righteously and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil;  
  
He shall dwell on high; his place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks; bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.  
  
THE PROMISES OF THE LORD SURE OF FULFILMENT  
  
God is not unmindful of His children. God will do that which in His own way He has seen from the beginning, that which is today and that which has come before, that which He directs and continues to control, as surely as we live upon this earth.  
  
There is a promise, and that promise has been repeated and reiterated from this stand hundreds of times. I would like all the Saints to remember that promise. It is this:  
  
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.  
  
And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.  
  
So I say, let all of us draw in from our wanderings and distress of mind, and rely upon God and what He has promised. Surely there shall come to us comfort and there should come to us a greater knowledge than to any other people upon this earth, that if we do that which we profess, God is with us, His people, and all others that obey Him, and that all is right in the heavens above and on the earth beneath.  
  
THE STAKE MISSIONARY WORK  
  
We are doing not only all that we can do for our own beloved land, as a nation, but we are doing for those who dwell in our immediate vicinity that which God commanded us to do. Our missionaries are scattering abroad the truths which they have received. It was my pleasure to tell you, a year ago, that during the year 1939 the Stake missionaries had performed 2,220 baptisms; and again I say to you that last year, in 1940, the same missionary group of splendid men and women brought into this Church 2,203 converts.  
  
This work goes on apace, and God is calling more unto the fold each day and doing more for them and for our communities as a whole. With cheerful hearts these missionaries have gone out and performed this labor of love with the help and assistance of the splendid Stake presidencies which we have in the Church. So I say, with grateful hearts let us give unto God the honor and the glory and the praise.  
  
Above everything else may we have that sweet assurance which He has given through His servants to us, from this stand, and from His servant, Joseph Smith, and all the revelations of scripture which have been given to us, that we shall, through obedience to the laws and ordinances of this Gospel, not be destroyed but ultimately gain salvation and our reward. I ask that in Jesus' name, Amen. 