33
Afternoon
05 04 1941 
Elder David A. Broadbent 
240
89-91

None

None

Former President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I was notified before noon that I would be given five minutes in which to bear my testimony, and I have been worrying about it ever since.  
  
I had the privilege, with my family, under the good graces of our leadership and the blessings of the Lord to preside in the North Central States Mission for a little more than three years. We are very grateful for that opportunity. I think I shall leave the report of that mission to my worthy successor, who I believe is the best man in the Church to succeed me in that position, Elder George F. Richards, Jr., who for the past six months has been presiding in that field of labor. We were released from that glorious opportunity to come and take his position in the Temple, he having been Second Counselor to President Chipman there while we presided in the mission.  
  
While in the North Central States, I considered that to be the best position in the Church. Now I will say without hesitancy that I believe that any position in which we may have the privilege of serving in this Church is the best place that we can be appointed to labor, it matters not where, only let us remain active in the Church.  
  
We are just now in the midst of what our people are considering rather a tightening up on the question of recommendations to get into the Temple. I have no disposition to speak at length to that particular point, but to illustrate with an incident that occurred only a few weeks ago when a member from a very worthy family came and said: "Are you going to keep me out of the Temple for the sake of a cup of coffee?"  
  
The attendant who met that sister replied, "Are you going to let a cup of coffee keep you out of the Temple?" I think that is the position we must take in our testimony, as I find myself fully in accord with all that has been said at this Conference thus far.  
  
I find myself committed to the thought that my testimony is my life. I believe the day will never come when this Church can move forward without the divinity of the testimony of Jesus Christ, but I am sure that there is a practical side to that testimony. There is no virtue in a mere assent to a confession of belief in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We really have to do something about it. There are two purposes as I see it in the Gospel plan and in service of the Church. First, the great mission of seeing that this Gospel reaches mankind throughout the world. We must teach mankind in every nation, kindred, tongue and people; and the second mission of this message is that we shall perfect ourselves as individuals through activity in the Church, in applying its every teaching.  
  
There is no testimony in the heart of any man, as I understand a real testimony, who declares that he believes in the Word of Wisdom if he continues to desecrate it; to break that law in any way. I am very positive in my mind that no man can have a full testimony of the law of tithing who does not honestly pay a full tithing. I am very well committed to the thought that in the homes of the Latter-day Saints there are none who have a full and complete testimony of the Gospel, who neglect their daily prayers with the family. I cannot conceive as a fact that a Latter-day Saint with a testimony, will let his children grow up in idleness without having them understand that there is a great educational institution all around us, — I mean the entire educational system provided by the State from the grades through the university, — that they could be receiving the benefits of, instead of leaving them to grow up in ignorance. I am convinced that there is no real testimony in the homes of the Latter-day Saints where the parents do not lead their children into the organizations of the Church, to train and teach them the benefits and blessings of this great program. The plan of salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the greatest university that has ever been instituted in all the world.  
  
I am very sure that if we had a full and complete testimony of the Gospel of Christ in 100% of the homes of the 806,000 Latter-day Saints, and if we were living according to our teaching, that we would need no other missionary work in the world. The whole world would be at our feet and ask "How did you do it?" for it would produce such a superior race of men and women as has never been known in the earth up to the present time.  
  
If we had a full and complete testimony of the Gospel of Christ in our homes our young men and maidens would not be seeking either the Bishop or the President of the Stake, a constable or Judge, or any other officer of the land to consummate their marriage at the proper age in life; but they would come into the House of the Lord to be sealed for time and for all eternity, knowing that this is the only real type of marriage instituted by God and designed to be eternal.  
  
I am just as sure if we might detail all the other activities of the Church that my testimony, your testimony, is measured by my actions, by your actions, and in no other way. I may give assent, but that is not a testimony. The testimony as I see it is illustrated largely as a result of what is said of the two great Greek orators, Demosthenes and Cicero.  
  
When Cicero spoke everyone said: "He speaks well." But when Demosthenes spoke the audience declared, "Let us go against Philip." Philip to us is the sins of this hour; Philip to us is the desecration of the Sabbath Day and the breaking of any and all the other moral and religious laws of God. I may have this testimony in knowledge, but it is as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal unless my life responds to it in all the affairs that I am responsible for.  
  
God give me the power to move in the circles where I am appointed, to the end that I may show by my works that I do know the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, I pray earnestly in His name, even so. Amen. 