34
Afternoon
05 04 1941 
Elder Merrill D. Clayson 
241
91-93

None

None

Former President of the Southern States Mission 

It has been a great opportunity to have had the privilege of filling a mission in the Southern States, as well as a previous one in England.  
  
The introduction of the Gospel of Jesus Christ into the Southern States, like the beginning of most new movements, was accompanied by gross misunderstanding, hatred and bitter persecution. The history of this mission is filled with incidents of persecution that our missionaries went through in order to introduce the Gospel into that land. From 1875 to 1900 there is recorded over 135 mobbings experienced by the missionaries. More than ten churches were either torn down or burned by the mobs. Four Elders lost their lives while carrying the Gospel to their fellowmen and it took years to break down this great wall of persecution.  
  
History is replete with evidences which show that through all of this the Lord was back of this great work in prompting, inspiring and building the lives of men and women who stood for truth. Today the scene presents a completely different picture. Persecution has vanished and the missionaries are given the opportunity of preaching the Gospel in all cities of the Southern States Mission extending from the Mississippi River to the Atlantic Ocean, and from the South Tennessee line to Key West, Florida.  
  
As an example of this great change in the attitude of the people of the South toward our Church may I relate just one experience. Sometime ago the chairman of a council of religions made the request that the President of the Southern States Mission appear before the ministers and executives of more than twenty-five churches and tell them the philosophy and story of Mormonism. Naturally this request was granted, and when the day arrived the large Mormon Church in Jacksonville, Florida, was filled to overflowing. A few Latter-day Saints were on the side, but most of the people in that great hall were ministers and religious executives of Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish churches.  
  
It was a great opportunity. I never felt more keenly in my life the responsibility of representing my Church and my God than I did on that occasion. It was peculiarly interesting to be introduced to such a congregation as that by the wife of a Jewish Rabbi. After the meeting was over, Catholics, Protestants, and Jews came up to the speaker with as much enthusiasm and appreciation for the truths of Mormonism that had been presented, as if they had been members of the Church.  
  
There never has been a time in the Southern States Mission when conditions have been more ideal for the spread of the Gospel than today. The number of souls accepting the Gospel in that land is rising to greater heights continually. The future of this Mission presents a most promising outlook. The people of the South are naturally religious. They are great believers in the Bible, and the assertion that they are sincere and hospitable cannot be overestimated.  
  
I believe that the time is coming and not far off when this Mission is to be one of the strongest and most powerful units of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God has endowed this great southern country richly in natural beauty, with shrubs, with the oak and the sweet magnolia, wth the dogwood, and many, many other types of her creation. I am grateful for the opportunities I have had of filling this mission. I appreciate the opportunity that the First Presidency of the Church has given me and believe from the bottom of my heart that these men are called by God and are working in His behalf in this great kingdom.  
  
Whenever I have had an element of doubt in my life regarding their instructions I have lived to see the time when I was wrong and they were right. This has convinced me more than ever that their vision of this great Church of ours is unusual, that they are called of God, that they are inspired by God, and that men and women who follow their advice will be happier, more progressive, and reach greater heights than those who stoop to complain and find fault with God's servants.  
  
And so I bear you this testimony today. We may not always think as they think, but they are God's servants. If a time should come that any of them are not in line with their duty we shall not need to worry about removing them. The Lord will remove them from their positions as He did Saul and others in days of old.  
  
God bless us to stand back of them solidly as a unit for the progress of this great Church, and for our personal happiness in life, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 