36
Morning
06 04 1941 
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 
236
93-99

None

None

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The hour has come for the opening of this the fifth session of this Conference. President Heber J. Grant is present and presiding. He has asked President Clark to conduct the meeting.  
  
There are present on the stand this morning President Grant and his two Counselors, the eleven Apostles, all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and all of the Presiding Bishopric.  
  
The music for both of the sessions today will be by the Tabernacle Choir; Elder J. Spencer Cornwall is Director, and Elder Frank W. Asper is organist.  
  
The congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice" —William W. Phelps.  
  
Elder George Ariel Bean, President of the Union Stake, offered the opening prayer.  
  
GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH SUSTAINED  
  
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency, presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were sustained by the unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows:  
  
FIRST PRESIDENCY  
  
Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES  
  
Rudger Clawson  
  
COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES  
  
Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe  
  
George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill  
  
George F. Richards Charles A. Callis  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen  
  
Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon  
  
Richard R. Lyman Harold B. Lee  
  
ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH  
  
George F. Richards  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.  
  
President Clark then made the following statement for the First Presidency:  
  
In the past history of the Church, especially in President Brigham Young's time, it was found necessary for the First Presidency or the Twelve, or both, to call brethren, frequently designated as Counselors, to help carry on their assigned work in the Church.  
  
The rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new Wards and Stakes, the ever widening geographical area covered by Wards and Stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing our missions in numbers and efficiency that the Gospel may be brought to all men, the continual multiplying of Church interests and activities calling for more rigid and frequent observation, supervision, and direction — all have built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude.  
  
The First Presidency and Twelve feel that to meet adequately their great responsibilities and to carry on efficiently this service for the Lord, they should have some help.  
  
Accordingly it has been decided to appoint Assistants to the Twelve, who shall be High Priests, who shall be set apart to act under the direction of the Twelve in the performance of such work as the First Presidency and the Twelve may place upon them.  
  
There will be no fixed number of these Assistants. Their number will be increased or otherwise from time to time as the necessity of carrying on the Lord's work seems to dictate to be wise.  
  
It is proposed that we sustain as Assistants to the Twelve, the following named High Priests, who will labor under the supervision and direction of the First Presidency and of the Twelve:  
  
Marion G. Romney, President of Bonneville Stake.  
  
Thomas E. McKay, former President of Ogden Stake and Acting President of the European Mission.  
  
Clifford E. Young, President of the Alpine Stake.  
  
Alma Sonne, President of Cache Stake.  
  
Nicholas G. Smith, President of the Northwestern States Mission.  
  
TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST  
  
Heber J. Grant  
  
As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
THE FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY  
  
Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion  
  
Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor  
  
Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy  
  
Richard L. Evans  
  
PRESIDING BISHOPRIC  
  
LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop  
 
Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor  
 
Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor  
  
GENERAL OFFICERS IN THE CHURCH  
  
CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, and A. William Lund.  
  
CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION  
  
Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe  
  
J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion  
  
David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill  
  
Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West  
  
Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman  
  
Frank Evans, Secretary and Treasurer  
  
COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION  
  
Franklin L. West  
  
SEMINARY SUPERVISOR  
  
M. Lynn Bennion  
  
AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE  
  
Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer  
  
Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett  
  
TABERNACLE CHOIR  
  
Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor.  
  
ORGANISTS  
  
Alexander Schreiner  
  
Frank W. Asper  
  
Wade N. Stephens, Assistant  
  
CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE  
  
ADVISERS  
  
John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards  
  
Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton  
  
Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin  
  
John H. Taylor  
  
General Presidency of Relief Society  
  
GENERAL COMMITTEE  
  
Henry D. Moyle, Chairman  
 
Robert L. Judd, Vice Chairman  
 
Harold B. Lee, Managing Director  
 
Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson  
  
Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg  
  
Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens  
  
J. Frank Ward  
 
GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH  
  
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY  
  
Amy Brown Lyman, President  
 
Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor  
 
Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  
  
George D. Pyper, General Superintendent  
 
Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent  
 
George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION  
  
George Q. Morris, General Superintendent  
 
Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent  
 
Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION  
  
Lucy Grant Cannon, President  
 
Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor  
 
Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
PRIMARY ASSOCIATION  
  
May Green Hinckley, Superintendent  
 
Adele Cannon Howells, First Assistant Superintendent  
 
Janet Murdoch Thompson, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST  
  
During the period from 10:30 to 11:00 a. m., the regular weekly nation-wide broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken comment was presented as part of the General Conference proceedings. This program, which will have completed its twelfth year of continuous nationwide broadcasting in July of this year, was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting System's coast-to-coast network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short wave transmission to many foreign lands. This broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and, exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows:  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: As another week of life begins for all men, we pause again within these hallowed walls to welcome you once more to the Everlasting Hills of the West. This traditional Temple Square performance, now in its twelfth year of continuous nation-wide broadcasting, is brought to you each week at this hour through the facilities of the Columbia network and its affiliated stations.  
  
We begin with a song written upon one of the most beloved incidents of the New Testament: "I think when I read that sweet story of old, when Jesus was here among men, how He called little children as lambs to His fold, I should like to have been with Him then."  
 
"The Story of Old" — Parks Choir 
 
"Grand Choeur in D" — Spence Organ 
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: The hymn now to be sung by the Tabernacle Choir has come down to us from those whose courage and conviction conquered the western desert nearly a century ago: "Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear .... and should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well."  
  
"Come, Come Ye Saints" — Clayton Choir  
  
"Live by my Side" — Bach Organ  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: Ofttimes in the face of some eventuality that has overtaken us, we find ourselves saying regretfully: "If I had only known, I would have done differently." Sometimes this is true, but more often it is not the fact that we do not know that gets us into difficulties, but rather that we choose to ignore what we do know. We mix so little wisdom with our knowledge. We know the facts of history. We know what causes have produced what results in the past — but time has a way of making the past seem different from the present. We may believe that Babylon and Rome fell because of their moral and spiritual dissolution. It seems so easy to believe this because it is all far in the past. But it does not seem so easy to believe such probabilities of our own time and our own generation, however true they may be. From history and from scripture it seems quite easy to believe that men have always paid a price for disobedience; that the breaking of a law has always exacted its penalty; that the terrible luxury of over-indebtedness has always brought a day of disastrous reckoning. It seems easy to believe of the past that the Lord God has often permitted evil men to pursue their purposes for a short season before over-ruling their evil works. It seems easy to believe of the past that those who would rather mortgage the future than curtail their appetites, have always been brought low in remorse. But what is not so easy to believe, but is also solemnly true, is that these same causes will still lead to these same results even in our day. We have no charmed immunity from the consequences of our own doing. On this point the Father of the spirits of all men has said:  
  
I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. (D. and C. 82:10.)  
  
Knowledge of the past we have — both of scripture and of history. It would be well to transmit that knowledge into wisdom, by believing of our own generation what we so readily believe of other times. 
 
"Gloria" — Mozart Choir  
  
"How Great the Wisdom and the Love" — Mclntyre Organ  
  
"Abide With Me"— Monk Choir  
  
The singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall. Dr. Frank W. Asper was at the Tabernacle Organ. The spoken word was by Richard L. Evans.  
  
CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST  
  
Immediately after the conclusion of the traditional Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, an additional thirty minute period, regularly known as the Columbia Broadcasting System's Church of the Air program, was presented from 1 1 :00 to 11 :30 a. m. as a part of the proceedings of this session of the Conference, and was also released over nation-wide and international network facilities. The program was conducted by Elder Richard L. Evans; music was by the congregation of more than 10,000 voices and by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, with J. Spencer Cornwall directing and Dr. Frank W. Asper at the Organ, and Elder Stephen L Richards of the Council of the Twelve delivered the following address:  