46
Afternoon
06 04 1941
Elder Marion G. Romney
258
122-123

None

None

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
My beloved brethren and sisters, I know I have your sympathy and your interest, and I now earnestly beseech yo46u to give me your active faith that the few moments I stand here shall not be wasted.  
  
I have stood before a General Conference but once before in my life. That was at the opening session in October, 1938. I was called from the audience and had to find my way through the scenery which had been set up for the staging of the oratorio Elijah. It seemed as if it took me an eternity but as I came on to the stand, President Grant gave me an understanding smile and I was able to get through that opening prayer.  
  
RESPONSE REGARDING THE NEW CALL TO SERVICE  
  
I respond to this call as I have responded to all calls that have come to me in the Church, although I do not know just what I shall be asked to do. You who were here this morning had the same notice that I had and know just as much about what the call is as I do; but whatever it is, I know as well as did Nephi of old:  
  
.... that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save He shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which He commandeth them.  
  
I assume that this call will mean some closer association with the leaders of the Church; for that I am very grateful. One of the principal compensations that have come to me as a worker in the Church has been the opportunity to occasionally meet and shake hands with these leaders. I accept them and always have accepted them as prophets of the living God. I have never been very particular to determine when they were speaking as prophets of God and when they were speaking as men. It has never occurred to me that I had the ability to determine that. It has been the rule of my life to find out if I could, by listening closely to what they said and by asking the Lord to help me interpret it, what they had in mind for the Latter-day Saints to do and then do it. I am happy to say, not boastfully but gratefully, that I have never hesitated to follow the counsel of the Authorities of the Church even though it crossed my social, professional or political life. I am very grateful now that I may have some opportunity to associate more closely with them.  
  
SAFETY IN FOLLOWING THE COUNSEL OF OUR LEADERS  
  
Recently I have read biographies of all the past presidents of the Church except President Snow — his I have not had available — as well as biographies of Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. Pratt and other leaders of the Church. In all the experiences of my life, including this reading, I have never learned of a single instance where a person who has followed the advice and counsel of the leaders of the Church suffered therefrom. On the other hand the record of the past is full of instances where men have refused to follow such advice and counsel and as a result have lost the Spirit of the Lord and the companionship of His people. These observations have persuaded me that the Church leaders speak under the inspiration of the Lord regardless of the subject under consideration, and have strengthened my determination not to try too closely to discriminate between when they speak as prophets and when they speak as men. I should like very much to avoid the consequence of making a mistake for it is a terrible thing to lose the Spirit of the Lord. One of the reasons why I have always paid an honest tithing, and a little more, is because in one of the revelations the Lord has said that those who were not tithed should not have place with those who were tithed, and I have desired with all my heart to have a place with the faithful Saints of God. I can understand now why it was that my father could pay tithing in the days of his distress. After we were driven from Mexico I saw the time when he supported a family of seven or eight children — ten at the end — on an income of about $45.00 a month, and I saw him go to the Bishop every month and pay $4.50 tithing. I used to wonder why it was, but I know, now that I have the witness of the Gospel in my own heart.  
  
God grant that I may not fail in whatever my responsibilities may be, and that when I have finished this calling I may be worthy to be released honorably and still stand among the faithful of God's servants, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 