47
Afternoon
06 04 1941
Elder Thomas E. McKay
19
124-125

None

None

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in accepting this call to this new position. It is a great honor, but at the same time I realize that it is a tremendous responsibility.  
  
ADVICE OF PARENTS RECALLED  
  
A little over forty years ago I was at the station in Ogden with my parents and a few friends just before I boarded the train leaving for my first mission. My mother kissed the goodbye, and as she did so said, "My boy, come home clean." I have never forgotten that injunction and I hope when I am released from this earthly mission and return to that heavenly home where my angel mother now is I can say, as I can say today, "Mother, I have come home clean."  
  
At that same parting my father placed his hand upon my shoulder and said, "Remember, my son, it doesn't matter so much where you work, it is how you work. You go where the Lord wants you and try to say what the Lord wants you to say." I am thinking of those parents today, and I wish to express my appreciation for them and for my brothers and sisters and my friends. I wish to express my appreciation for the association of President Grant and his Counselors and the other General Authorities of the Church. I love these men and I am grateful for this position that will give me the opportunity of more intimate association with them.  
  
HAPPINESS IN THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST  
  
I am more grateful than I can express for the Gospel, for the testimony I have of its truthfulness. I wish to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that every principle of the Gospel has been given to us to make us better and happier here in this life. God is our Father. We are all His children, and He has given us the principles of the Gospel to make us happy here in this life. "Man is that he might have joy." We do not have to wait for the other life, the life beyond, to enjoy true happiness; if we live the principles of the Gospel, we can have heaven here on this earth.  
  
A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT GRANT  
  
I desire to testify to you also that I know that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of God and that those who have succeeded him have been called of God. I wish to express also that same testimony with reference to President Heber J. Grant. No one can estimate the good that he has accomplished during his Presidency. Think for a minute of the change in the attitude of the world today towards this Church compared to the time he was called and accepted the Presidency. I testify especially to his influence in Europe, which changed prejudice to admiration. How grateful I am today that he visited those good people in the European Mission and that so many of them heard his testimony. What a comfort it is to them in their present sufferings and trials that they have seen the President of the Church and spoken to him and heard his testimony. I am thankful to have the opportunity of laboring with them, still keeping in touch with them, trying to encourage them. But their letters are more of an encouragement to me because of their faith, I am sure, than what I can do or say to encourage them in their faith. God bless them. I am grateful that we have a Presidency and other General Authorities who appreciate them and are doing everything they can to help them.  
  
ARMY CHAPLAINS APPOINTED  
  
I am also grateful that we have men at the head who are taking an interest in our soldier boys. God bless these young soldiers. The First Presidency is very much concerned about the kind of Latter-day Saint chaplains that are sent among them, and have been very fortunate to date in having at least eight very fine men appointed; and through the kind cooperation of the Chief of Chaplains of the Army, Col. William R. Arnold, these chaplains have been placed where the majority of our Mormon boys are located. Remember those boys also in your prayers, my brethren and sisters, just as you remember the missionaries and our people abroad.  
  
God bless you, and God bless me that I may be faithful to this added responsibility. I appreciate it with all my heart as I appreciate the Gospel, and may I always be worthy of the Spirit of God to help me in all my work, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 