50
Afternoon
06 04 1941 
Elder Nicholas G. Smith 
197
126-128

None

None

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brothers and sisters, I come before you in humility this day. This Conference to me has been a thrilling one. Friday morning as I sat and wept as President Grant was giving us his testimony, I was so grateful to my Heavenly Father that my life had come so close to his, that from my infancy I had known him, that I had been permitted to travel with him, to sleep with him, to be in his home, to have him in my home. I love him, and above all other men on earth I owe him most. Each of the General Authorities of the Church I know intimately. I love every one of them, I have never seen one of them do a thing or heard one of them say a thing but what was of an uplifting nature. And I am so grateful for my association with them.  
  
MISSIONARY WORK IN THE NORTHWESTERN STATES  
  
I am grateful to have had the privilege to serve in the mission field, grateful for the opportunity that is mine now to be in the Northwest. I bring you the greetings of one hundred forty missionaries, lovely young men and women, and eleven thousand members of the Church, Latter-day Saints scattered all over the Northwest. It is reported that President Nibley said, "You can walk up to any old bush in the Northwest and give it a kick and out jumps a Jack Mormon." (Laughter.) It is strange how far our people have traveled. We find them everywhere, — way up in Alaska, in Fairbanks, 100 of them. In Anchorage, now that the soldiers are gathering there, there will be many of them. In Ft. Lewis and Camp Murray there are over a thousand of our boys that have come from Idaho points. We have been holding meetings with them, fine, clean, lovely young men, and it has been a joy to be with them. We have there too the careless ones, but there are the fine ones — true Latter-day Saints. Their example has been glorious and lovely.  
  
EXAMPLE OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  
  
I had an accident going up into the Northwest with my automobile, and had it fixed, and after the garage man had finished I handed him a check in payment of $60.00. He took the check and looked at it, on a Salt Lake City bank. He said, "You are a Mormon?" I said, "Yes." He said, "I will take your check." I could not have done that in Salt Lake City. (Laughter.) Why could I do that? Because of the nature of our people who are living in the Northwest — the true Latter-day Saints. They have lived a life that means so much, and this little poem by Whitney Montgomery exemplifies their lives:  
  
I knelt to pray when day was done,  
 
And prayed, "Oh Lord, bless everyone.  
 
Lift from each saddened heart the pain  
 
And let the sick be well again."  
  
And when I woke another day  
 
And carelessly went on my way,  
 
The whole day long I did not try  
 
To wipe a tear from any eye.  
 
I did not try to share the load  
 
Of any brother on my road.  
 
I didn't even go to see  
 
The sick man just next door to me.  
  
Yet once again when day was done,  
 
I prayed, "Oh Lord, bless everyone."  
 
But as I prayed, into my ear  
 
There came a voice that whispered clear.  
 
"Pause, hypocrite, before you pray,  
 
Whom have you tried to bless today?  
 
God's sweetest blessings always go  
 
By hands that serve Him here below."  
  
And then I hid my face and cried,  
 
"Forgive me, God, for I have lied.  
 
Let me but live another day  
 
And I will live the way I pray."  
  
Truly that has been the situation in the Northwest. This people love President Nibley and the brethren who have presided there. It is a lovely mission and people.  
  
THE CALL TO NEW DUTIES  
  
Now with respect to this call that has come to me here today — as the others have said, it was a complete surprise. I do not know what it means, but these Brethren have never touched my life but what it has turned into a blessing, and I am grateful to do anything that I can. I do not know just what it means to be an Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, but I am glad there are twelve men in that Quorum to give me a going over and help me out.  
  
God bless us all to really appreciate what this Church stands for and what it means, that we may be true to it, that we may sustain the General Authorities and each other in our lives, is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. 