51
Afternoon
06 04 1941 
President Heber J. Grant 
10
128-131

None

None

I understand that if my voice is weak, it can be arranged with this amplifying equipment so that it will be strong.  
  
HAPPINESS EXPRESSED IN ATTENDING CONFERENCE  
  
I am very happy indeed to be here to extend to you good people and to all the Latter-day Saints my prayers and love and blessings at the close of this Conference. It seems to me that all during my life since I first became an Apostle, way back when I was twenty-six years of age — so of course I have had almost sixty years of it — that every Conference is a little bit better than the previous one, but it seems to me that this has been the best that we have ever had up to date, and I am grateful for it. We certainly have never had anything to compare with the attendance Friday and Saturday at any other Friday or Saturday session of Conference that I have attended. The people filled this building at each of our sessions.  
  
I was very much disappointed not to have the privilege of attending the Priesthood meeting six months ago, but I was very happy to be here last night, and it was a wonderful sight, and a marvelous portion of the Spirit of the Lord was present with us. I rejoiced in having the opportunity of speaking to the people. I was a little bit afraid that perhaps I got a little bit too anxious when I pounded the stand, and maybe if my doctor were here I would get a scolding, but I want you to know that although my improvement is very slow, each and every day I believe I can say truthfully, when people ask me how I am : "A little better than yesterday."  
  
CONDITION OF HEALTH TRYING  
  
I am perfectly willing to go along as slowly as the Lord wants, but the quicker I get so that I can talk faster and get more accustomed to these false teeth, the better I will like it. (Laughter.)  
  
I am free to confess that I do not like the sound of my own voice worth a cent. (Laughter.)  
  
I am very sorry, after laboring more diligently, I believe, than anybody else ever did to try to learn to sing a song, that I cannot sing any more. But I have been practicing bass sitting next to Brother McKay here today, and I have concluded that I had better join the bass choir, (Laughter) and say goodbye to the lead.  
  
Of course it has been quite a trial to me, spending hours without sleeping every night, that when I am awake in the night I cannot sing to myself, which would help me out a good deal, but I have not been able to do so. I am inclined to think, knowing from my experience years ago when I suffered intensely from insomnia and was ordered to go to the Coast, or I might go crazy for lack of sleep, that I can always sleep in California and Arizona on the sea level. I think that I shall go away from home now for a short time in the hope of improving more rapidly than I have improved since I came from California.  
  
CAUSES FOR GRATITUDE  
  
I have not the language with which to express my gratitude to the people for their faith and their prayers. I know that some people thought I never would be able to use my arm again or my left leg, but I can use them pretty well. I feel well, and I am very happy in having a couple of Counselors who can do all the work that I ought to do, and all that I have to do is to sign my name and let it go at that. I have Brother Anderson tell me what is in the letter in just a word or two, and then I sign my name.  
  
I have been very, very grateful for the attendance at our meetings, and I wish to leave with the people my faith and my prayers for their welfare. I would like to say to you good people that the Lord never makes any promises but what He fulfills them, and He has promised that when we do His will He will bless us, that He will guide us, that He will help us, and I am anxious always to try to get the Latter-day Saints to do the will of the Lord.  
  
ANTHONY W. IVINS' CALL TO MEXICO  
  
I am going to tell you a little experience. I was one of the committee that recommended my cousin Anthony W. Ivins to go to Mexico, and it was a great shock to me to do so, because I was heavily involved. I was receiving 25 per cent per annum on an investment in a cattle ranch, that I had refused time and again to take $18,750 for my $12,500 interest; but you know that little $12,500 paid interest at 6 per cent on $50,000 of my debts, and gave me 1 per cent over. I was alarmed about having my cousin go to Mexico, and I had refused, as I say, $18,750 for my interest in this ranch. When he had to leave the ranch, we could not find anybody who wanted it, and we got 60 cents on the dollar. We made a very handsome sacrifice, but in the kind providences of the Lord, matters pertaining to my affairs changed immediately, and I soon made up the loss, and the Lord blessed him down in Mexico. He made a nice little sale there of a few million acres of land to Mr. McCornick, Mr. Wood, Mr. Hagenbarth and others, and got a nice little commission of $40,000, and he paid $2,000 tithing down there, and $2,000 to Bishop Empey here. He died thinking that I had supposed that all he had made was $20,000, because he told the Bishop: "You must not say anything about this, I just kind of thought I would like to pay some tithing up here." And so I did not give it away to my cousin. The Bishop had never dreamed of such a thing as that Tone would not tell me about it. Otherwise, I suppose that he would not have told me.  
  
But the Lord blessed him and magnified him, and I want you to know that as plain as any words that were ever spoken to me in my life I heard, when I was feeling very blue — blue as indigo, as the saying is —  about his going, I heard in the Salt Lake Temple: "He is going where the Lord wants him to go, and you shall have the pleasure of welcoming him back into this Temple as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ of this last dispensation." I turned my head so that my companions could not see me, and I shed tears of gratitude for the blessing that was coming to my cousin.  
  
He went there and he made a marvelous record, and that statement to me was fulfilled. Finally my associates, as near as I could judge, were all very anxious for him to be chosen as one of my counselors.  
  
The Lord always rewards us and blesses us.  
  
A PROPHECY FULFILLED  
  
Never but once in all my life have I stood up in a meeting and prophesied in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that once was many, many years ago up in Idaho, at Paris. I was preaching that we should judge things not by the exception but by the general average, and that the most prosperous, the most successful, the best financial men were those that were honest with God. And it seemed as though a voice said to me: "You lie, you lie. You will never live to pay your debts, although you have been an honest tithe-payer." If I had had a bucket of cold water poured over me, it could not have made a greater impression.  
  
I stopped a moment, then I said, "I prophesy in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ that what I have said to you people is true, and that the Lord rewards us when we do our duty, and I prophesy that although I am a ruined man in the estimation of many men, I will yet live to pay my debts." And I was just $91,000 worse off than nothing, had two wives to support and the children of a dead wife. But from that very day my prophecy was fulfilled. The Lord blessed everything I touched, and in only three short years I was even with the world, financially speaking.  
  
BLESSING AND TESTIMONY  
  
I leave my testimony with you that this is God's work, and that it is by men responding as these five men have done that the work progresses. They say they do not know what they have to do. I will tell them what they have to do: They will have to work right straight along for the Church the way the Apostles work, they will have to make some changes in their lives, and they will have to devote themselves more to the work of God than they have ever done before, and they will have joy in doing so.  
  
I pray God to bless you good people. I bless the honest the world over. I pray you to have no hard feelings in your hearts toward many of the people who are in the war, who are fighting against England, because many of them would give their lives, almost, if they could get out of that kind of fighting. I want you to know that from Holland and Germany some of the choicest and finest men that have ever been members of this Church, came. Karl G. Maeser's name will always live among us. He was a marvel of spirituality and he impressed and blessed the youth of Zion. I want you not to feel hard toward the Germans, even though they are fighting, because there are many of them that would be grateful and thank the Lord Almighty if they did not have to fight.  
  
Let us do our best to encourage our boys in the army to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ as perfectly as though they were in the mission field, and to seek God for the guidance of His Spirit and its protecting care. Encourage your loved ones. I regret beyond all my powers of expression that we have to send our boys to war, and I feel that we would not have needed to do it if we had been governed properly.  
  
I beg pardon, the doctor will get after me for sure. (Laughter.)  
  
I was going to say some more, but I had better keep still or it will be called politics. You know, I have contempt for politics, because, as I have said for many years, they are like the measles, if you will just take a little saffron tea and keep the measles on the surface, they will not hurt you, but if they set in on you they turn your hide yellow and make you cross-eyed. (Laughter.)  
  
Well now, I would like us to close on time. I want to bless the Latter-day Saints the world over and the honest the world over. I want to thank this choir from the bottom of my heart for what they are doing for us. I want to thank the choir and the orchestra that came from Provo, also the choir that came from Blackfoot. May the Lord bless them all. They are doing a great work, a great missionary work. I am grateful for all the blessings of the Lord to me. I have been blessed more than I could have hoped or expected. All that I have and all that I amount to I owe to my sainted mother.  
  
I pray the people to remember to honor their parents, follow that commandment. It is one of the greatest in all the world. Children, honor your parents.  
  
God bless you. Amen. 