8
Morning
04 04 1941
President Rudger Clawson 
7
22-23

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This is a very wonderful gathering. It looks very much like a Priesthood meeting, but it is a general meeting of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a very important gathering.  
 I was deeply impressed with the remarks made by President Grant. I am sure we are all very happy to have him with us, to take the lead and point out the way. The Lord bless him and heal him!  
  
A VERY SATISFACTORY REPORT  
  
The statement read this morning by President McKay was and is perhaps the most elaborate and comprehensive statement ever made to the Church, both financially and socially, from this stand. The budget is balanced and the Church is out of debt. What excellent good news that is! How we ought to rejoice and glorify the Lord for the prosperity and the faith and good works of the Latter-day Saints! We feel relieved, we feel strengthened and encouraged when we can have such reports as those that were also commented upon by President Clark, and his further remarks this morning were indeed impressive and encouraging to the Latter-day Saints. It is hoped they will have a good effect throughout our country.  
  
GOSPEL PREACHED BY WORD AND EXAMPLE  
  
Brethren and sisters, the Lord has said in a revelation to Joseph Smith the Prophet — said it in more than one place in the scriptures — that salvation is the greatest gift of God to man, and that salvation comes by the preaching of the Gospel. The miracles and blessings that follow the preaching do not come before but come after the preaching to confirm the faith of the Latter-day Saints and all who will receive the word of God. God does not give signs and miracles to make us believe, but rather to strengthen and help those who receive the message.  
  
I call your attention to an incident connected with the crucifixion of the Savior. It was his great mission to come to the earth, under the direction of His Father in Heaven, that His precious blood might be shed for the redemption of mankind. After His crucifixion, and just prior to His returning to Heaven, He delivered an important charge to His disciples in these words:  
  
Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.  
  
So I take is that that responsibility is upon those who are called to preach the Gospel. There is nothing greater than to preach the word of God, to acknowlege His hand, to walk uprightly before Him, to be humble and faithful, and not only by word of mouth but also to preach the Gospel by example. We are making history individually and collectively, and so it is highly essential that our lives and example should conform with our preaching, and then it will be effective.  
  
MESSAGE PREACHED AT HOME AND ABROAD  
  
A good work is now being accomplished. We are calling young men and young women and some that are older into the mission field. They are soldiers of the cross. They go not to kill and destroy as in war, but to save and build up, and if we are all faithful and true to the Cause and exemplify our words by our lives the effect will be tremendous, and the effect as it is is very fine. The influence of the testimonies and exhortations that go out from this Conference unto the world at large will have a most salutary effect I am sure.  
  
Notable people and tourists traveling over the country, stopping at Salt Lake City are usually headed the first thing for the Temple Block; they have heard about this wonderful Tabernacle which is like a testimony of the truth, where holy men have stood and taught the people. These visitors have been influenced and they marvel and wonder about it. Some of them investigate the Gospel; they have reflected about this matter of tithing; they have approved of it and they would like to know just how it is done. Of course we have to say that we regret that we cannot tell them just how to do it in their churches; we know how to do it in our Church because it is a law of God given to us. Every individual who earns means in the Mormon Church is under the responsibility of observing the law of tithing. It is not binding upon these other churches because they do not have the authority and the spirit to do it. The unity of this great congregation here — what it would mean if we were all perfectly united, sitting under the voice of revelation, the voice of the Priesthood and the power of God — it is a wonderful thing! We are a blessed people and have much to be thankful for.  
  
BEARS TESTIMONY  
  
I feel that it is a great privilege, brethren and sisters, to stand before you and to bear my testimony and to say to you I know absolutely, without mental reservation, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and He is with us and His power and influence will uphold us, and we will have an instructive and wonderful time before the Conference closes.  
  
Peace be unto you, my brethren and sisters; the Lord prosper you in every righteous undertaking, in every movement for the benefit and blessing of the people, I ask in the worthy name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 