Afternoon
04 04 1903


ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privileges and blessings of this conference. The presence of so many upon the opening day of confer j ence bespeaks the widespread interest that exists among the Latter-day Saints in the work of God. I take it that we are all interested in all the affairs of the Church, in all phases of the work, both the work within the stakes of Zion and the work abroad among the nations of the earth. But while we have this general interest in all departments of the great works of our Father, it is but natural that we should have a particular interest in that department of it in which more especially we are called to labor. I make this remark in order that you may understand why it is that I address a few words to the conference in relation to that body of Priesthood over which, in connection with the other presidents of the First Council of Seventy, I am called to preside. 

We have in the church 143 quorums of Seventy. There would be over 10,000 men in that body if all the quorums were full; but some of them are not full. Others, however.have members awaiting admission. So that the number of Seventies today in the Church is not far from 10,000. They are a body of men set apart and especially ordained to engage in the foreign ministry of the Church. When you take into account the very extended area of country in which these quorums are scattered, you can readily understand that it requires considerable labor to reach these organizations and keep them fully organized and the vacancies in the respective councils filled. 

Why I refer to this subject is for the purpose of making a suggestion or two to the Presidents of stakes and the Bishops of wards who are gathered on this occasion. I think a little careful attention to the great amount of work that is required at the hands of the First Council of Seventy in keeping these quorums completely and fully organized would make the presiding brethren a little cautions about takingour Seventies, and especially the presidents of quorums, for local positions. Of course, I understand that there are very important offices to fill in the Church, and when the right man is found among the Seventies it is proper that he should be ordained to the position; but if one equally fitted could be found among the Elders or the High Priests I think it would be wisdom on the part of presidents of stakes and Bishops to find men for local positions in these quorums and not disturb the presidencies of the quorums of Seventy. Of late, when thinking upon this subject, and the inconvenience that we are frequently put to, I have been much impressed with a principle that is named in the Book of Mormon. The passage gives a description of the manner in which the Apostles among the 

Nephites, upon this continent ordained men to office. It is as follows: 

"The manner which the disciples who were called the Elders of the church, ordained Priests and Teachers. 

"After they had prjayed unto the Father in the name of Christ, they laid their hands upon them, and said, 

"In the name of Jesus Christ I ordain you to be a Priest; (or, if he be a Teacher,) I ordain you to be a Teacher to preach repentance and remission of sins through Jesus Christ, by the endurance of faith on his name to the end. Amen." 

This is the point more especially, however, to which I direct your attention: 

"And after this manner did they ordain Priests and Teachers, according to the gifts and callings of God unto men. 

If those who in the first instance direct the footsteps of our youth into the quorums of the Priesthood, would take into account more the gifts and callings of God unto these young men, I think it would be possible to overcome some of our difficulties. The young men should be directed into those quorums that their natural gifts — "the gifts and callings of God" unto them — qualify them for. If it is observed in a young man as he develops under the eye of the Bishop, that he is possessed of executive abilities, then that fact should be remembered, and he should be directed into that quorum where his special training v ould develop the qualities he possesses for a career of usefulness in the Church. Or when a young man is found who is possessed of that combination of qualities that go to the making of the judicial mind; if he has the rare faculty of balancing one statement as against another; the ability to look at both sides of a question, and justly weigh the evidence; then he should be directed to the Elders' or High Priests' quorum, whose business it is to prepare men for presiding and judicial ceilings in the Church; and sometime in the future, when a High Councilor, or some presiding officer is required he might be remembered and found in that quorum where it would create no disturbance to take him, and place him in the presiding or judicial position. On the other hand, where men are observed to possess the ability to teach, ^nd the spirit of testimony is strong upon them, and they have in them the mitking of a good witness for the Lord Ji sus Christ, let such be directed into the quorums of the Seventy. Thus, if we stand down the line where we begin to divide men off in the direction of their life's labors in the Church, and consider "the gifts and callings of God unto them," I think we can help the conditions of which I am now speaking. In any event, while present conditions exist, local presiding officers, I am sure, would confer a great favor Uf.on the First Council of Seventy, if they took more into account the inconvenience and the increase of labor they make us when they choose men from among the presidencies of the quorums of seventy, when others could be found who would fill the positions equally well. 

While speaking on the subject of the Seventy. I wish to call attention to one of the great things laid before us  the opening remarks of President Smith. There is no body of men in the Church to whom his remarks on the matter of freeing themselves from debt, apply with so much force, as to the Seventy. The First Council is in constant communication with the Seventies in all parts of the Church territory. We are continually on the lookout for men who can go on missions. All the time we are corresponding with men who are recommended to us as worthy to go upon missions, but we find so many of them involved in debt that when this glorious opportunity is presented to them of going upon a mission, to discharge the high duties of their calling in the Priesthood, they art: barred from accepting that appointment by reason of being financially involved. If I could say a word th would emphasize the teachings of the president upon this subject, I most certainly would do it, and urge upon our Seventies, above all men in the world, to free themselves from financial obligations, that they may be at liberty to exercise the powers of tha Priesthood in preaching righteousness to the world, and in standing before it as witnesses of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

In the opening remarks of our presi dent texts were given to the Elders of Israel which they can expound and teach with very great profit to the people; and I believe that upon those various subjects in this conference there will be words spoken that will throw great light and intelligence upon those subjects. The matter of encouraging our young men to engage in mechanical arts and trades is a matter that calls for most earnest attention and wisest consideration on the part of the leading brethren in Israel, and from fathers and mothers everywhere. The fact that it becomes necessary to call attention to such a matter is an indication that circumstances are undergoing a great change with us. Heretofore, occupying as we do a new country, our young men when they came to manhood and found a place inconveniently narrow for them, had but to remove a few miles where lands could be obtained, and out of those lands make themselves homes and establish themselves in a community where they would furnish themselves with employment; and doubtless for some time to come there will be an outlet for our young people in that direction, although we may be required tc remove to greater distances than in the years that are past. But as our communities increase in number and our centers of population become more and more crowded, we shall find those among us — in fact, we do now— *who have no taste, no desire, to engage in the kind of life incident to opening new lands and establishing new communities; and of necessity they must turn their attention to the acquiring of skill in some kind of useful labor. It will be impossible for all to engage in the professions; for the cry already, is that the professions are overcrowded. But in connection with turning our attention to the acquirement of skill in mechanical arts and trades, there is a question which we must needs reflect upon and provide for. This is an age of organization, both of capital and labor. The hosts of men that are engaged in the several trades have found it necessary in some way or other to portect themselves, that they may command a reasonable price for that labor. In other words, they have combined to control wages, just as far as it is possible to control them. It is beyond question that these organizations in some cases become oppressive and work great mischief. They feel power, and they forget right. But something had to be done in order to make it possible for labor to hold its own against the growing force and greed and power of combined capital; and whatever the excesses may be, and however much we may regret them, nevertheless organization and union on the part of labor became an absolute necessity to the working masses. The labor unions today to a very great extent dictate the number that shall be permitted to enter into the various crafts and trades. They say ho*w many apprentices shall be allowed in the respective trades. They attempt to control the supply of labor in that way, because they do not desire that the supply shall be greater than the demand; because the greater the demand the better the price that may  asked for the labor. I do not in the few words that can be said on this occasion undertake to discuss this question at length. I merely call attention to its existence.. And it will become necessary for the Latter-day Saints in our centers of population to determine what shall be the relation of those entering into these trades to the unions that are controlling the trades. I merely bring it before you, that the wise men in Israel may take it into account; for it is one of the facts that we shall necessarily be brought in contact with when we undertake to encourage our youth, as perforce we must, to enter into mechanical arts and trades as the means of sustaining themselves by their labor. 

The work of the Lord, President Smith tells us, is growing; and further he says there never -was a period of time in its history when interest in it was greater than today. I rejoice in that growth. I sometimes wonder if we comprehend or even apprehend the facts that enter into that growth, and that enlargement of interest. If time would permit it, I should only be too glad to call attention, not only to the direct evidences of growth and of interest in the work of God, but also to the indirect means that God is employing in the matter of enlarging His work and preparing the >way for nations to be born within it in a day. It does seem to me that the whole world is fermenting with the leaven that God planted when He brought this work into the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. To the Church has been assigned the honor of the title role in God's great drama of the last days. But as in the drama the actor bearing the title role does not alone develop the thought of the poet's mind, so we as the Church of Latterday Saints, though bearing the honor of the position assigned to us, do not constitute the only force that God is using in bringing to pass His great and mighty purposes. In his day Paul said that some men preached Christ of envy and strife, and some of good will; but he gloried in this fact, that whether preached out of envy and strife or of good will, the Lord would so overrule their actions as to bring to pass His purposes. I sometimes feel amused when I reflect upon what the surprise of many of our enemies will be when they discover that the Lord has overruled their actions, made even of them instruments to accomplish His ends, and had so controlled their wrath as to make it praise Him. 

The theology of the world has changed since the introduction of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. You can find no minister today to voice from his pulpit the doctrine of infant damnation. Tou can get no minister today to deny the possibility of continued revelation from God. Tou can get no minister today to undertake to defend the position that God, by a mere caprice of His sovereign will, "sends one to heaven and ten to hell"— not for any good or ill they have done before Him, but just for His glory. The doctrine which the poet Burns satirizes in substantially that language is a thing of the past in the pulpits of men. These modifications in the Christian world's theology — and a hundred other modifications — have been due chiefly to the truths God revealed through Joseph Smith the prophet; and thousands of eloquent tongues and pens have been employed teaching these truths which have led to the correction of many errors in religion, without knowing the origin of their doctrine. 

The advancement made in all the arts and sciences is also very materially helping to bring to. pass God's mighty purposes. We overlook, it seems to me sometimes, the moral force that goes with some of our great inventions. It is now about three-quarters of a century since the electric telegraph flashed from Washington to Baltimore the first intelligible message by" that means of communication. Since then that all parts of the world have been brought into instant communication with one another. It seemed to dawn upon the minds of some that if a message could be transmitted over wires, by means of sounds in dots and dashes there was no reason why the tones of the human voice could not be so communicated; and now, though separated by hundreds and thousands of miles, a man may converse familiarly with his friend by means of this great invention. Recently another step has been taken in the progress of this means of communi, which gives us reason to believe that before long the wives may be dispensed with, the ocean cables may be abandoned, a n d out on the sensitive, trembling atmosphere, that touches all parts of the world, a message can be sent forth, and safely carried even across the great expanse of ocean, so that the whole round world can be through this means in constant communication. The moral force — the force that makes for faith— in these thfngs is this: The idea is dispelled that it is impossible for God, at His home, to be in immedate communication with the whole world. These mighty inventions, this progress in art and in science, are constantly developing the powers that are in man and the great things yiat he can accomplish, narrow as are his limitations at present. The result is that men reason after this fashion: If man with his limited knowledge and intellectual powers can accomplish so much, is it difficult to believe that God has accomplished all that is accredited to Him in the revelations of the prophets? So there is in the development of these arts and sciences that which makes for faith in the power of God; and these indirect means are accomplishing very much in preparing the minds of men for these great truths that are to be found in the revelations brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The leaven is working; and some of thesa days it will only be necessary to strike the keynote and there shall be a wide and broad acceptance of the things that God has revealed through the great latter-day prophet. 

I rejoice in these indirect means, a» well as in the direct means, that the Lord is using for the accomplishment of His purposes, in preparing the way for the coming of His kingdom, which I pray m a y come quickly, in the n ame of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH H. MERRILL. 

(Late President of the Samoan Mission) 

I am truly trankful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege thus accorded me to stand before you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon. I hope that the Spirit of God may dictate that which I may say, that we may all be  together. I have been greatly interested in the remarks that have been made thus far by the brethern, and I heartly endorse all that has been said. 

It has been my privilege for the past fifteen months to preside over the Samoan Mission, which consists of a few small islands in the Pacific ocean, about 5,000 miles from here. No doubt, there are in this congregation parents, brothers and sisters of the Elders who are laboring upon that group, and for their benefit as well as for the benefit of the Saints in general I will give a short report of our labors upon those islands. We have a band of faithful brethren and sisters at present laboring among the Lamanites there, and they are enjoying the Spirit of God even as we enjoy it here in conference. There is a spirit that is poured out upon the Elders in the nations of the earth which binds them so closely together in the bonds of brotherhood and love that they are one in very deed. The same spirit prevails here this afternoon, and it fills my heart with joy to meet with the Saints in general conference. The Samoan Mission, as you are more or less aware, has been opened nearly 15 years. During- that time a great deal of work has been done, both manual and spiritual. We have at present a faithful band of Saints, numbering over 1,400, upon those islands, out of a population of about 30,000. There is quite a number also who have been identified with the work, and, through temptation and sin, have fallen away and are scattered among the people. Strange to say, those wh:> are cut off from the Church there do not lose the testimony of the Gospel, but are always ready to bear a strong testimony to the truth as revealed through Joseph Smith and preached by the Elders. 

The report has gone out among the Saints at home, I believe, that the Samoan Mission is a hard mission; and when young people have been called to go to those islands I have heard some of the Saints remark that any place on earth would be preferable to the Samoan Mission. I wish to dispel that notion from your minds. I feel assured that in stating to you that the Samoan Mission is as healthy and as favorable  mission as an Elder can go to, I am only stating the truth. There has been some sickness among the Elders, and one of our number has lately passed away; but the same conditions exist in other missions. The power of God is felt just as strongly in the Samoan Mission as it is in the California Mission, or the Southern States Mission, or any place upon the face of the earth. God ha s a protecting hand over all His Elders, wherever they are sent. So that when your sons and daughters are called to take a mission to Samoa, you should rather feel to say, go and God bless you, than to desire the mission changed to some other part of the world. Your sons and daughters are safe there. God watches over and cares for them. His will is done concerning us, no matter a s to which part of the earth we are located upon. There is one thing- we can rest assured of— there is no accident with the Lord. Anything which happens to an Elder in the prosecution of his duty, that takes him from his field of labor, is not an accident. The purposes of the Lord are fulfilled concerning us, no matter where we are, if we only yield to the promptings of His Spirit. 

I have a testimony which I am proud to be able to bear. I know that this is the Church and kingdom of God, established upon the earth in these the latter days for the last time, never more to be taken away nor given to another people. Should we desire proofs to establish our belief in this matter. Brother Roberts has given us a few external evidences by which we may know the workings of our Heavenly Father with this people. When J contemplate the fact that nearly, if not all who sit before me this afternoon have the same testimony that has been given unto me — that the Gospel of Christ has been again revealed to the earth, and we have been made partakers of it — it makes my heart rejoice, and I am led to exclaim in my joy to my Father; how great is His goodness towards us, His children! Then the thought comes to my mind: Are we living up _ to the opportunities that the Gospel affords us? We come together In conference and the Spirit of God is poured out upon us in great measure, as the word of God is given unto us through His servants. We feel to rejoice and are willing to give all we have for the work of the Lord. We feel to consecrate and dedicate all our property and all that the Lord has giver, us for the upbuilding of His kingdom upon the earth. Often in our prayers we dedicate unto Him all that He has made us stewards over, and ask Him for wisdom to use it acceptably before Him. I wonder if we really mean it on all occasions. If the Bishop were to ccme in just as you got up from your pi ayer and asked you , for your best cow, or for $100, or for five acres of land, to help the work of the Lord, would you give it up? 

God has given us the light of the everlasting Gospel. He has bestowed great promises upon us — eternal life exaltation and glory in the celestial kingdom of our God. If we will only keep His commandments, loving Him with all our might, mind and strength, and our neighbors as ourselves, these things will be ours. He has also given us all our earthly possessions. They 'ire His. He can take them from us in a moment; He can take us in a moment; but we cannot take any of these worldly things with us. Then if we set our hearts upon them, and they become greater in our sight than our Father and His purposes; if we regard the gift greater than the giver, we shall forfeit the blessings that are promised unto us. 

Brother Roberts has been speaking a little about the Seventies. I am a Seventy myself — a president of Seventy. I have had some experience with Brother Roberts, Brother Kimball, and a few of the Seventies, and I just wish to say a word or two to the Seventies present. I believe Brother Roberts placed us all in the same box. Whether he did or not, we are all there. Th" word comes to us to select a certain number from our quorum to fill missions abroad. The presidents of the quorum meet together and consider the circumstances of the Seventies in that quorum. The names are selected and sent in. They are notified, and the word comes back, 'We are in debt; we cannot go; possibly we can go in six months from now." That is a long 

"minute" man, asking for six months' Then again, a man accepts the call. 1 ii notified to depart at a certain time. But his wife does not like to lose him. She whines, she cries a little, and she says, "Oh! what will I do when you are gone? What will the children do? You are our only support, and I don't see how you can go." Then the man has to write back and tell the First Council that he can't go, because his wife can't spare him. That is the condition of some of our "minute" men. I want to tell you that the woman who will lay a straw in the path of her husband against the fulfilling of his duty and calling will come under condemnation before the Lord. The man that will be involved in indebtedness so that he cannot accept a call and fulfil hi^ duty will come under condemnation. The kingdom of God has been established in these last days, and it must roll on God has selected from among His people those who are worthy to bear this Priesthood, whose duty it is to carry this Gospel to the nations of the earth; and it is our duty to fulfil our calling, to be "minute" men, not "six months" men, nor. "one year" men. That is the calling of a Seventy; and if the Seventies are not fulfilling their calling they come under condemnation, and those of the Lesser Priesthood receive these calls and obtain the blessing. 

I do not make these remarks with a desire to find fault; but these are conditions that have come to my notice as existing among the Latter-day Saints. I heard a remark made at one time that the faithful Latter-day Saints would go back and redeem Jackson county, while the indifferent would stay in the valleys of the mountains. These blessings and privileges that God has promised unto us through our faithfulness will b<s ours if we labor for them. There is no blessing, no reward promised except by obedience to the law upon which the blessing is predicted. This was made very plain to the ancient Saints, and has been made plain to us. It has been said here this morning that we should pay our tithes and offerings. This ds a commandment that God gave unto His people anciently, and coupled with this command is a blessing, even a temporal blessing. The Lord promised  who would obey this law that He Would pour out upon them such blessings that they would not have room to contain them. On one occasion, when the children of Israel were without the Spirit of God' and their Priests had lost their power, the Lord told them that it was not because His arm was shortened that He could not save, nor that He-was deaf that he could not hear, but it was because of their wickedness. In speaking to Israel through His prophet Malachi, the Lord says: 

"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." 

President Snow preached to the people to pay their tithes and the Lord, he said, would pour out great blessings upon them. We rounded up our shoulders and paid tithing as we have never done before. As a consequence, the blessings of God have been poured out upon us, until today we see prosperity on every hand. These commandments are with us continually, and should receive our attention every day. President "Woodruff laid stress upon these words: "Get the Spirit of God and keep it." I would say to the Saints this afternoon, if you would be in the right path, if you would be safe from the snares and temptations of this world, get the Spirit of God and keep it; be humble; keep in touch with those who are in authority over you; seek to have confidence in your Bishop and his counselors and in the Teachers of the Church. God gives unto us His mind and will through His servant the prophet, and it is our duty to lend a listening ear thereto. When President Smith tells us it is a good thing to get out of debt, we should do all we can to get out of debt. It means something, brethren and sisters. There are things in store for the Latter-day Saints that we cannot see today. There are things coming upon us which we may be prepared to meet, if we will only take the counsel of the prophet of God. 

I pray that the Spirit of God may be poured out upon us, that when we return to our homes the spirit of this con may attend us and always be with us, that we may have a burning testimony within us of the. truthfulness of this work, that we may always have a desire to keep the commandments 01 God, let come what may, and then salvation and eternal glory will be ours in the end. May the Spirit of God continue with us, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON, (Late President of the Netherlands Mission.) 

It is very unexpected to me, my brethren and sisters, to be called upon to address you this afternoon, as I realize that there are so many here who are much more competent to give instruction, and to whom I would rather listen, as no doubt you all would, who have had experience in the work of the Lord, and the Saints are gathered to receive instructions, to be profited in their future lives. At the same time I rejoice to be privileged to meet with the Saints in general conference. It is the first time in eight years that I have been able to meet with the Saints in this capacity. For over three years past I have been in the mission field, and previous to that I was absent studying. Therefore, I appreciate probably greater than I otherwise would what a grand opportunity it is to meet with the Saints, to partake of the spirit of conference, and to receive the instructions which are given. As I say, I rejoice to be with you. I rejoice in the instructions which have been already given during this day, and I feel certain that during the remainder of this conference there will be a great outpouring of the Holy Spirit, and that we will all be built up and benefited if we prepare our hearts to receive and carry out the instructions. 

It is some five months since I returned from my mission to the Netherlands, where I was absent for three years. I desire to say that the work in that field is prospering. The outlook is excellent, It was at the time I left, and from news that I have lately received I learn that the condition is just as good or better now. The Gospel is being preached in Holland and Belgium of that mission, and progress is being made. There are 30 Elders in the field. There are over 2,000 Saints and children in the entire mission, and during the past year over 200 "were baptized. There was a greater average per missionary baptized during the past year in that mission than in any other mission in Europe, it being eight persons per missionary. 

Holland is recognized as a land of religious liberty. For centuries the people of Holland struggled— in fact, at the time of the Reformation they were among the first to obtain religious liberty, and to be freed from that oppression and domination which was characteristic of the countries of Europe at that time. On this account they have given religious liberty to other sects, and we are as free to preach there as almost any other religious denomination. We are not allowed to preach upon the streets; but .as a matter' of fact, none of the religious denominations are allowed this privilege. In every respect we receive the same protection as the other sects. The people are plain and honest; they are readers of the Bible, and they appreciate the truths of the Bible when they are explained. When our missionaries go among them with doctrines which agree exactly with the doctrines presented by our Lord and Savior as contained in the holy scriptures, they are received with welcome, generally speaking, and the people give them a fair hearing. As a result of this, the missionaries are busily occupied in preaching the Gospel to that nation, and the results are apparent. The only lack is, there are not enough missionaries to carry the work on as they would like. New branches are being opened up, and the work is prospering. To a certain extent, the same is true of Belgium. However, that country has a different population — a people of different characteristics. They are almost entirely Catholic. I believe, however, that if we can get men who are intelligent and energetic, and who understand something of the French language, the work in that country will be a great help to the work there. It is developing slowly at present, and I believe there is a greater future for it. I also feel that there is a work to be done in France; for a  of those who have accepted the Gospel in Belgium were born in France, coming especially from northern France; and from persons with whom I have talked in regard to conditions in that country I gather that the people are somewhat of the same nature as those in Holland. They desire religious liberty, and they wish to learn the truth. During my mission I read an article in one of the papers in Holland, to the effect that there is a certain division of the Catholic church called "Old Catholics." They separated from the Catholic church several centuries ago; and the article stated that at least a part of that sect believe that Elijah the Prophet is toreturn and bring a message from the heavens, and they are waiting his return. It seemed to me that to a certain extent these people were prepared to receive the Gospel. If it should be testified to them that the Prophet Elijah had come, and that he had restored that which was his province to restore, it might be a message of glad tidings to them, in connection with the principles of the Gospel as they have been revealed in these latter days. 

I believe there is a great work to be done in those nations, and in other nations of Europe and of the world. It was my privilege, during my absence, to make a journey, in company with President. Francis M. Lyman, throughout several of the countries of Europe, Africa and Asia, visiting among others the Holy Land; and upon our return we passed through Italy. I was agreeably disappointed in the condition of that people. From the idea we obtain here at home, from seeing the Italians who are in our midst, we are apt to gain an entirely wrong view of the Italians as a people. They are a fine people, a people of intelligence, a people of hospitality and kindness in every respect, and a people many of whom, I believe, will accept the Gospel in the future. There are no missionaries in that field at the present time. As we know, Apostle Lorenzo Snow was sent there to open that field many years ago, but no great success was obtained at that time. 

I rejoice in the Gospel. I rejoice in the testimony I have received of the  of it. I trust that we may all go forward, faithfully performing our duty from time to time. There is a great responsibility resting upon the Latter-day Saints. There is a serious responsibility resting upon the young men to qualify themselves, spiritually, morally and physically, to preach the Gospel, to be pillars of strength in the Church of our God, and to perform every labor which they are called upon to perform. After being absent from this city preaching the Gospel, and returning home, one notices probably more than one who is at home continually the changes that have occurred, and the temptations which are constantly increasing in this city. It may be the same in other cities and towns. Trials and temptations surround our young people which tend to cause them to be thoughtless, to go after the pleasures of the . world, and to consider simply those things which will give them pleasure fcr the time being. For this reason I believe there is a slight tendency to devote ourselves more to these useless pleasures than to the serious things of life; to be considering always how we can obtain worldly enjoyment rather than how we can make progress in the Gospel and be of use to our fellowmen. I believe it is of great importance to the young people among the Latter-day Saints that they should endeavor to cultivate a spirit of earnestness and of seriousness in regard to the responsibilities which rest upon them. And we have heard many times, those who are now pillars of the Church, who have endured many years, and whose hair has grown white in the service of the Lord, will not always be with us; and those who are growing up will have to bear off the kingdom on their shoulders, and assuredly it is important that they should prepare themselves for these responsibilities. The kingdom is constantly growing, the responsibilities are becoming constantly greater, and the Lord requires more and more instruments to accomplish His purposes upon the earth. 

T rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be with you. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us continually, that perfect unity and harmony  prevail among us, that we may profit greatly by this conference, that we may take to heart the instructionswe receive, and that they may be as seed which when planted in our heartsshall grow and bring forth fruit that will be of great benefit to the Church, to one another, to our fellowmen, an 3" to the country in which we live, that we may be wise and prudent in fulfilling the responsibilities which rest upon us as citizens of this great country. May we be blessed in fulfilling: every duty which rests upon us, I desire to testify that I know that the Gospel is true; that the Latter-day Saints are in possession of the truth as it has been revealed from heaven; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; that his successors have been and are prophets of God, and that those upon this stand who have been called and sustained as leaders of this Church are in very deed men of God, who receive revelations from Him for the guidance of this people. May we support them fully. May we be united in nil things, and may we endeavor to improve ourselves and our opportunities from day to day, that we may be finally saved in the kingdom of heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SMITH. 

It gives me pleasure to say to the congregation that the last speaker is a son of our late lamented President George Q. Cannon. It always gives me pleasure to see the sons of men who have been faithful in the Church following in the footsteps of their fathers. 

ELDER CHARLES KELLY. 

(President of Boxelder Stake.) 

Beloved Saints, I trust that the Lord w ill give me utterance the few moments I may stand before you in response to the request made by our beloved president. I appear before you as a representative of the Boxelder Stake of Zion, one of the oldest Stakes of Zion, located in the extreme north of our state, bordering on to southern Idaho and eastern Nevada, bounded on the east by Hyrum and Cache Stakes, and on the south by Weber Stake. We number about 7,000 members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Spints. In our Stake we have a little over 1,500 who bear the holy Aaronic and Melchisedek Priesthoods — a strong army of workers; and we're all alive, active and energetic in the performance of the sacred duties required of that priesthood and authority which God has restored to the earth, we would certainly be a strong and a powerful Stake of Zion. I am pleased to report to this conference our condition as a stake. I am pleased to say that the presidency of the stake are united and love each other. We unite on every proposition before we go before the people. We have a High Council who are united with the presidency of the stake. We hold High Council meetings orrce a month, and at each of these meetings all matters of general interest to our wards and organizations are discussed and a thorough understanding arrived at. We are active in visiting the wards, of which there are 13 in the stake, together with three branches. I am pleased to tell you thr> the same spirit which prevails with the presidency and High Council can be found in every ward. The Boxelder Stake of Zion in the Last seven years has doubled its tithing, accepting the counsel of our former and beloved President of the Church, Lorenzo Snow, who counseled this whole people to more fully observe that law and get closer to the Lord and receive His blessings. Our stake has been endeavoring to carry out that advice, and I testify that we have got nearer to the Lord. 

There is a greater spirit of union and love for the truth among our people today than ever in my experience of between thirty and forty years among that people. That principle taught by President Snow years ago, by which we got together in our temporal interests and established what we called the United Order; that principle of co-operation by which all were employed in some industry or another — the spirit of that principle has not left our stake entirely. In those days we had no idle  and girls, no idle men and women, in our county. We had employments established there that took in everybody. We had a peculiar currency, by which we met our obligations. It was a scrip that was made suitable to our conditions, in which our brethren and sisters were paid from the shoeshop, the carpenters, the blacksmiths, the dressmakers, the dairy workers, and from the other departments, thirty in number, that were organized in that stake. For years, my brethren and sisters, there was love, union and industry in the midst of that people. But for some cause or other, misfortune came — shall I say through the providence of the Lord? We say that the Lord doeth all things well, and that nothing happens but what He knows about. At any rate, misfortune came to us. The enemy came upon us and assessed us between $10,000 and $11,000 for circulating our scrip, which was never intended for or passed as money, and we got but very little of it back from the government. Fire destroyed our woolen factory, which entailed a loss of between $30,000 and $40,000; but the unity of the people was sufficient for the occasion, and it was rebuilt. We are an industrious people now, but we have not got those institutions in our midst. You will remember that Boxelder Stake was noted throughout the Church for its cooperation, for its United Order. But while the institutions of that order have gone the principle by which they were created and governed so many years, under the administration of President Snow, has not left our people. We are a united people. In our stake we have not got a secret order or combination outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When a young man comes to our Priesthood meeting with a recommend from his Bishop to be ordained an Elder, the question is put to him, Are you a member of any secret order? So far, the answer has been "No" in every instance. We are trying to educate our brethren and sisters against the introduction of these evils. Many years ago we taught these principles to our people, and though many attempts have been made to introduce these orders into our stake they have been without effect. I am pleased to  that statement to you at this conference. 

I was very much pleased with the remarks of Elder Roberts touching these matters. A brother came to me the other day, and asked if a trades union was a secret order, and whether it was so considered by the authorities of the Church. I said I did not know how the authorities viewed trades unions, but I would consider them secret orders. It is a system by which one man is protected and another is turned adrift. His family may be suffering for the" necessaries of life; he m a y be a skilful mechanic and an honest laborer; but if he is not a member of a certain union he cannot get employment. I told the brother that in my opinion trades unions are secret orders and come under the orders described in the Book of Mormon. I feel that their effects will be felt by and by in the world, and also among us if we unite ourselves with them. I asked the question through one of the Apostles, whether this order was considered among the secret orders, and I received the word that to all intents and purposes it was, and they should be discouraged. I am thankful that in our stake thus far they have been discouraged. I am thankful that we are as good a people as we are; but I do not want you to think that we are ail perfect by any means. We have saloons in our midst; we have apostates; we have half-hearted "Mormons;" we have those who are opposed to God and His work; but the great majority of the people are on the Lord's side, and are desirous of serving Him and keeping His commandments. We have glorious prospects before us in the stake at present. We have a new sugar factory in course of erection; we have a new railroad being built through our valley; we have the prospect of an east side canal from the Bear river canyon, converting into farms, orchards, and beautiful homes some 23,000 acres on the east side of the river that are now barren and almost worthless. The canal is partly built, but whether it will be finished or not is an unsettled question at present. With these conditions before us we have splendid prospects in the Boxelder Stake of Zion. We will have plenty of work for idlers. If there  any families, good members of the Church, that will come along to the Boxelder stake and help raise beets, build the railroad and make a canal, and redeem the land that is yet open for purchase at a nominal figure, we will welcome them, and will not be under the necessity of going to Canada or to any far-off state to look for employment. 

A serious problem that confronts this people today is, What shall we do with our boys and girls? It is true, many of them are going to the colleges and being educated; but it is only the brain that is being educated, not the hand. They are not getting that intelligence which takes the crude material and makes it subservient to our use, to make our homes comfortable, and to furnish our own shoes, hats and bonnets and other things that we send our substance for to other places and thus build them up instead of ourselves. I feel that the day is not far' distant when the principles presented by President Brigham Young to this Church will be more fully carried out; for we have a man at our head today who is looking after the interests of Zion, whose pen is busy daily on some of the most timely articles that we have read for years. Read the Juvenile Instructor, the Improvement Era, and the Deseret News, and there you get the word of the Lord from His servants, who cannot reach us all by their voices. I thank God for these men. I thank God for the past prophets — for President Young, the mighty Moses of latter times, who led this people out of bondage, and planted their feet in these beautiful valleys of the mountains, and located our cities and towns. I am proud of the name of the city in which I live, for it is after that illustrious man — the city of Brigham. I rejoiced in sitting under the sound of his voice. I rejoiced in sitting under the sound of the voice of President John Taylor, his successor, upon whom fell his mantle. I rejoiced in the teachings of that meek and lowly Wilford, who, to a certain extent, made peace between us and this nation by disbanding the People's Party and by introducing, through the will and revelation of God, the manifesto, which stopped in a measure proceedings against this people. When he stood in that sacred edifice, the Temple, he made the statement that now the set time to favor Zion had come. Has hot that prediction been literally fulfilled? Just as literally as many other predictions that have been uttered. 

The remarks of Brother Roberts reminded me of that poetical man, Parley P. Pratt, who wrote The Key to Theology, and who prefaced one of his chapters with these lines: 

"Oh, Mystic Babel, long has been thy reign! 

What direful evils follow in thy train! The veil is rent— thy mystery revealed, Angels cry woe! and God thy doom 

has sealed. The nations, from thy long and dreary 

night, 

Are waking now to everlasting light." Those words rang in my ears as Elder Roberts called our attention to these modern improvements. Light has come into the world. The axe has been laid at the root of all false doctrine. That is why our friends the ministers are trembling. That is why the churches are fearful. Light and truth have come into the world, and they will prevail. God. ha s established this work; it is not ours. He has given us pastors after His own heart, to feed us with knowledge and understanding. I am thankful* to be associated with this people. This people are my people; their God is my God. I want to share with you, my brethren and sisters, in all the conditions that arise. I came here many years ago, and have grown up under the light and intelligence that has come from God through His servants. I have sat for over 35 years,  very few exceptions, under the droppings of this holy sanctuary while the Prophets of the Most High have fed us with knowledge and understanding, and I hope to enjoy that privilege many years yet. 

I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints, to fill us with His Spirit and with a desire to heed the counsels that are given to us from those that preside. Then Zion will prosper; every weapon that is formed against her will be broken to pieces; for this is our Father's work, and we are told that He and one man are a great majority. The power and influence of this people are being felt in the earth today as never before, and we are only commencing. It is only the dawn of a brighter day; it is but the commencement of the work our Father has established in the earth, and which will be inspired and sustained by Him from this time henceforth until the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our God and His Christ. Ma-' He give us His grace and Spirit sufficient to establish His righteousness in the earth, to sanctify our hearts in the truth, and to be guided unto His praise, that in the sequel of our days, like many who have addressed us here, we may be gathered home to our Father and rejoice in His salvation, is my prayer through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang: 

How are Thy servants blessed, O Lord, 

How sure is their defense! Eternal wisdom is their guide, 

Their help, Omnipotence. 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop Wm. B. Preston. 