Morning
06 04 1903


PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Important recent occurrences — Beneficent characl er oi Temple work— Suggestions about Marriage — Indebtedness should be avoided — Work of God pressing onwrd to Its destiny, 

I am very much gratified this morning to have another privilege of meeting  you in conference, and have been delighted with what I have seen and heard during the last two days. 

I am reminded this morning of an occurrence that took place just ten years ago — the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple by President Wilford Woodruff; and I have reflected a little upon some of the things that have happened since that time. Two presidents of the Church — President Woodruff and President Snow 1 — have passed away; one First Counselor — President George Q. Cannon; one President of the Twelve Apostles — President Franklin D. Richards; and one Apostle. But, my brethren and sisters, they have not lost interest in the work that we are now engaged in. Since the dedication, of the Salt Lake Temple there have been performed in that house about eight hundred thousand ordinances, or about eighty thousand per annum. While the world are ridiculing and scoffing at what we are doing in the temples, I wish to say to you all, and you can bear testimony of the same, that every ordinance, every ceremony that is performed therein is pf a sacred and holy character. Every ordinance performed there makes better fathers, better mothers, better children, better husbands and wives, better citizens of the state, and better citizens 'Of the United States. Nothing occurs in that house that we need be ashamed of; but everything that takes place there is for the betterment of all who attend. I presume that there are thousands now listening to my voice who could testify to the truth of that which I speak. 

There is one thing we regret sometimes, and that is with regard to our young people who, when they are about to enter matrimony, fail to come to the house of the Lord to have' the ceremony performed there; because we know that if they are prepared to enter that house they will receive ordinances that will be of great benefit to them while they live. We also regret sometimes to learn that some of our sisters contract alliances with those who are not of our faith. It has been said that we are too exclusive in this matter. I was reading an article in a paper yesterday, and I took a clipping from it to show that we are not the only ones that are exclusive in this respect. This article was headed "Mixed Marriages Barred in Future," and the clippings reads: 

"Chicago, April 4th. 

"The Record-Herald New York correspondent says: Owing to the reception of orders from the Propaganda at Rome, Archbishop Farley will not officiate at the wedding of Reginald Vanderbilt and Miss Catherine Neilson. Positive instructions have been received by the Roman Catholic hierarchy of the "United States forbidding them to officiate at any more weddings in which one of the contracting parties is not a Roman Catholic." 

So, brethren and sisters, you see that we do not stand alone on this question. "We know from past experience that where our sisters have entered Into matrimonial engagements with those not of our faith they have, as a rule, proved to be unhappy. Therefore, we want to urge upon the presidents of stakes, Bishops, and officers everywhere, to use your influence with our  people in regard to tnis matter, to the end that they may so order their lives as to be prepared to come to the house of the Lord when they desire to enter the sacred and holy state of wedlock, and be worthy of a recommendation from their Bishop, signed by the president of the stake. 

I want to sustain the remarks made by our president in the opening of this conference, with reference to going into debt. It is a matter of regret, but I am cognizant of the fact that many of our people even now are mortgaging their homes and farms to obtain money for the purpose of going into some speculation. It is all very well for us, if we have a little means aside from' our homes and farms, to go into some enterprise wherein we think we can make something for ourselves, if we wish to do so; but when it comes to borrowing money and mortgaging our homes, it ia liable to prove very disastrous. I could mention a number of our brethren who in the "boom" mortgaged their homes and entered into speculation and enterprises which proved disastrous failures, and today they are without homes to cover the heads of their wives and children. Let us take warning from this, my brethren and sisters. I know that what President Smith said yesterday ia timely and appropriate. It is said by some that we are going to have an era of prosperity. All right; let prosperity come, and if during that time we can get out of debt, we will rejoice that we are out of debt. But if, on the other hand, a time' of adversity should come, and we are in the bondage of debt, what will be the result? We will likely lose our homes and our farms. I hope, therefore, that we will take to heart what was said in relation to this matter. It is important that we should. 

I do not know how many more conferences the Lord will permit me to enjoy with you; but I know He has been very merciful to me, and has extended my days beyond what I could expect. I will soon be 82 years of age, and I rejoice to think that the Lord has so preserved me that I have this one more privilege of standing before you. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, when we go from this conference let us go with a determination, each one of us, that 

"as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." I have a very strong- impression that missionaries will not be withdrawn from the nations of the earth, and that the temples will not be closed, but that the work will progress and go on from this time henceforth with greater force and strength than it ever has done before. My the Lord help us all to be faithful and true, even to the end, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM A. HYDE, (President of Pocatello Stake.) My beloved brethren and sisters, I am deeply sensible of the honor that is conferred upon me and the consideration that is shown our stake by this privilege of standing before you to report. I have been greatly interested in the remarks that have fallen from the lips of other presidents of stakes who have had a like privilege. In a certain sense, - it has been to me a convention of brethren holding like responsibilities to myself, and for that reason I have listened wtih a great deal of interest. I have learned much from the older brethren who have occupied positions of responsibility for years, and who have had many experiences, some of them we are undergoing at present. Especially was I impressed with the patriotism of the remark uttered yesterday by one of the brethren, who said it did not matter to him 'where he lived, so long as he was doing the work of the Lord. That has been my feeling since my incumbency in this position. 

Our stake might be termed almost a composite of the other stakes of Zion; for we have within it many of the problems that confront them all. "We have our large areas of uncultivated and arid land; we have little communities that are flourishing, but have not the advantage of close proximity to the head of the Church; we have a large railroad town, in which problems of labor and the employment of our brethren are to be considered; we have the disadvantages that arise from living in cities of this character, and the other ills and evils that have been mentioned. But I am pleased to say that we have  people whose desire is to do the will of the Lord. Our stake has been organized about five years, of which time I have been at the head only two years. Since the stake was organized our tithing has increased 60 per cent; and taking into consideration the fact that our numbers have not been largely augmented, I take it is an evidence of the spiritual growth of our people. I believe their desire still is to serve the Lord and to increase in this particular requirement. The brethren are united in their work. We feel that we cannot do too much for the kingdom of God; and although there ar e many obstacles, which at times have seemed insurmountable, every temporary embarrassment and apparent defeat we have only considered as a stepping stone to our ultimate success. We believe that the time will come when we shall not be considered one of the smallest or least efficient of the stakes, but that in due time we shall do our part toward the glory of God. My faith is strong in the promises which have been made to the people of God. I believe in their ultimate success. All my life I have looked forward to the time when our people shall be vindicated, when the nations of the world shall look upon us as we really are, when our virtues shall be known, and we shall be indeed a light set upon a hill, by which they may get ideas of advancement. I have been galled all my life under the criticisms that have been uttered against those brethren that have stood at our head, whom we have known to be men of honor, honesty of purpose, and of integrity. I confidently expect to see the time come when they shall be vindicated in the eyes of the world. 

Brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony to the truth of the work of the Lord. I know it is of God. I feel in my heart that the day of our triumph is not far distant, that there is an undercurrent of success and of spiritual progress permeating the entire body of the Church, and, that the only result that can ensue from this will be our increase in things spiritual and things temporal, and the increase of the glory of God upon the earth; which I pray for in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER DAVID CAMERON, (President of Panguitch Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel highly honored in having this privilege, although very weak. I desire that the Spirit of the Lord may be with me in the few remarks I may make, that I may speak those things that will be for our mutual good. 

The Panguitch Stake of Zion is located in the southern part of this state. We are in a high altitude, ranging from 5,000 feet to 8,000 feet above sea level; consequently we have all kinds of climate. For the last four months the valley in which the town of Panguitch is situated has been covered with snow, and the only bare ground to be seen was where the streets had been worr by travel. Such a condition has not been known there before. Consequently we feel that we will be blessed of the Lord in the supply of water for the coming year. Some wards in our Stake have neglected putting in grain during the last year, on account of the scarcity of water, realizing that if they put it in it would perish for want of moisture. There are ten wards in our Stake, and upwards of 3,600 inhabitants. We have a good people in that Stake, who are trying to serve the Lord and keep His commandments, although we have those that do not take much interest in the work. The presidency of the Stake are in harmony; also the High Council of the Stake. The presidency meet together once a week, except on rare occasions when they are not at home, to talk over matters pertaining to the Stake; and they meet once a month with the High Council. The High Council are given to understand that the presidency of the Stake do not expect to carry the responsibilities of the Stake alone, but that they expect the High Council to help them. We have many children in our Stake. Last Fourth of July was celebrated in Panguitch, and there was a Washington official present. After it Was over, he asked me about the population of Panguitch. I told him it was somewhere between 800 and 1,000. Well, said he, about three-fourths of them I suppose are children, there was such a turnout of them. We have about 1,400 children  school age in the Stake. We have 1,100 in Garfield county. The Stake takes in Garfield county and a part of Piute county. Last year we had in the neighborhood of seventy going to the Beaver Branch of the Brigham Young Academy. Our organizations are in tolerably good condition. The religion class, however, is not worked up very well. It is running in some of our wards. We hops it will be better in the future. 

I know the Gospel is true. I know this is the Church of God; and inasmuch as we will observe the commandments of the Lord we will be blessed, and His Spirit will be with us to help ut in all our endeavors to do right. We have before us the Presidency of the Church. The Lord has said that He reveals His mind and will, for the people, to none save His servants the Prophets. This is one thing we should look to, that we should give heed to the counsels of the Prophets of the Lord, and to the things that President Smith has stated during this Conference. While he was speaking in regard to the law of Tithing and the obligations of debt, I thought that many of the brethren are not as careful in paying their tithing as they are in meeting their obligations to individuals. Many do not come to settle their tithing with the Bishop. They pay what they choose as tithing and they never go to the Bishop to find out whether they have paid their tithing or not. They do not know whether the Bishop has sent dn their names as full tithepayers or part tithepayers. Every individual should be as careful in settling his account with the Lord as he is with his brothers and sisters. 

I pray that the Lord may bless us, and let His Spirit be with us today as it has been in the past, that we may be instructed and built up in our faith, and be encouraged to go from this Conference to do better in the future than we have in the past. May the Lord bless us to this end, is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER ANGUS M. CANNON (President of Salt Lake Stake). 

It is twenty-seven years today since your humble servant was permitted by  grace of God to preside over the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and I believe I am as nervous today as I was at that time, when my name was called. The fact is, I am familiar with something of the responsibility that rests upon a man in this position. There have been four temples dedicated to the Lord in that time. There have been five different men presiding as the mouthpiece of God to this people in that time. In sitting here and contemplating the remarks which were made by brethren of the Twelve in Winter Quarters, before they started for this valley, I have been led to ask myself, Is it possible that the brethren comprehended this scene in the time that has elapsed since that day until now? How many of us are there that have kept our estate, maintained and preserved our inheritances, and given evidences in our conduct that we are here simply to possess the Priesthood of the Lord, to minister in His name, to His honor and glory, and to our own salvation? 

Twenty-seven years ago this stake consisted of the counties of Tooele, Davis, Morgan, Summit, Wasatch, and Salt Lake. Five stakes have been organized in these five adjoining counties, and since that time two other stakes — Jordan and Granite Stakes, within this county— have been organized out of this stake. Today this stake numbers upwards of twenty thousand members of the Church and between five and six thousand children under eight years of age. In the organization of the stake twenty- seven years ago, the late David O. Calder was the first counselor and Joseph E. Taylor the second counselor. Today Joseph E. Taylor and C. W. Penrose are the counselors to the president of the stake. In the twenty-seven years there has never been a disagreement between the presidncy of the stake, nor yet between the presidency of the stake and the High Council. The presidency of the stake and High Council, with the presidency of the High Priests' quorum, meet in the Temple once a week, and we also meet as occasion requires, for the transaction of business pertaining to the stake. The High Council take part in deliberating upon any changes that are effected. I am pleased to report  the High Council are efficient, united, and prompt in their attendance at meetings. We do not wait one minute to organize our councils. They are instructed that if there is no business they shall adjourn, if the presidency are not prompt to the minute. Today there are thirty-seven wards in the stake, all in a prosperous and united condition, excepting one, where we feel it will be necessary to effect a change in some form, to bring about greater union and more of the fellowship of the Lord Jesus. We have all the organizations of the Church and the Priesthood. We have sixteen quorums of Elders. We have a good attendance at our High Priests' meeting. President McKenzie, of the High Priests' quorum, has adopted the rule of calling a roll, which has proved to be of great good. It prompts men to be present, to respond to their names, and to show that they are worthy of that Priesthood. The Elders' quorums are improving in their condition. We find some few that neglect their duties, and have effected changes in the organization? that have been of great good to the quorums. We find the instructions that are imparted to the quorums through the rules that have been enacted for their government, tend to benefit the Elders of this stake. A great many have been called to take missions of late. It has not been deemed necessary to ordain all who go on missions to the office of Seventy, but many have gone clothed upon with the Melchisedek Priesthood, as helps unto the Seventies and to the Twelve. It is gratifying to witness the response that is made by the young men when they are called to engage in missionary work. The manner in which they lay aside their own personal matters and take the harness upon them is very encouraging. We have the Relief society, the Mutual Improvement associations, the Primary associations, the Sabbath schools, all in successful operation, efficient as helps in the government of the Church. 

We feel that a serious evil arises from multitudes coming to this city to reside and depending upon the offerings of the people and the funds of the Church for their maintenance. 

Over a year ago I was amused in receiving a letter from a president of a stake, in which he called upon me to forbear sending people into that stake who were poor. I smiled at the idea, because I never had been known to send a person to any other stake from this. On the other hand, they would come here in great numbers; and not content with coming themselves, many that are supported by the Church funds and the offerings of the people have their young relatives come and eat of their substance and live off them, because here they can find amusements and the like. They do not realize the cost it is in the aggregate. 

The people, as a rule, are prosperous. I believe, as President Smith has expressed himself, that today is one of the most prosperous times that is likely to dawn upon this people and this nation. I heartily endorse the remark that it is wise for us to refrain from contracting further debt, and use all our powers, by the help of God, to free ourselves from our present indebtedness. Many have been compelled to forfeit their homes, which have gone into the hands of outsiders, and the latter in turn have established saloons and disreputable places right in the neighborhood where the most faithful live. There is no way to counteract this evil when people will voluntarily dispose of their homes, and then excuse themselves by saying that they had to sell out because they could not redeem them, from mortgage. A fearful responsibility is sure to result to us is in these particulars. I think we will be held accountable for the society we introduce into the neighborhood to which people have honestly gathered from the nations, to be separate from the world and to partake not of their sins and their calamities. I believe the people of Salt Lake Stake are more zealous and more faithful than they have ever been. There are exceptions, of course. There are those that are falling away. It is as the Lord said it would be. 

God give us grace and strength, that we may be worthy to occupy the stations He has permitted us to fill.whether presiding in stakes, in wards, in quorums, in associations, or in our families; that when the day of account shall come, we may be able to render  faithful account of our stewardship and find justification at the hands of Jesus our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER LEWIS ANDERSON, (President of South Sanpete Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I can say 1hat I truly rejoice in having an opportunity of meeting with , you again in conference. It is like unto a fountain of living water, which the Saints come and partake of freely twice a year, and I believe we will go to our homes greatly strengthened and blessed, and with a renewed determination to press on in the work of Gcd. I have been greatly instructed and built up in what has been said by the servants of God during the conference, and in standing before you for a few moments I trust that I may be actuated by the same spirit that they have been in possession of, and that I may report the condition of the South Sanpete Stake of Zion in truthfulness. 

It is only a few months since I was appointed president of the stake, succeeding our beloved president, the late lamented Canute Peterson, who had for so many years ably presided in the midist of the people of Sanpete county, now North and South Sanpete stakes. May his memory be green in the hearts of the people, and I am sure it will be, for the great good he has done; and his name will live in the hearts of the people among whom he so diligently labored day and night. Also his counselors, President Beal and President Maiben, who have stood with him shoulder to shoulder in the great work that was given unto him. We shall remember them with gratitude unto our Heavenly Father. 

South Sanpete stake is located nearly due south from this city, about 120 miles to its northern boundary. It has nine wards, and a population of upwards of 6,000. The quorums of the Priesthood are all properly organized, the auxiliary associations are in good running order, and a great work has been done by them the past season, for which I ern very thankful. The presidency of the stake are united in their labor. That love which characterizes the most of such quorums exists with us. The same  be said of the High Council. The presidency of the stake meet once a week, the High Council once a month, and all matters that are for the work of the ministry in that stake of Zion are thoroughly canvassed a.nd passed upon by them before any action is taken. We are erecting in South Sanpete stake, together with the North Sanpete stake, a stake academy, upon which $20,000 has already been expended. The walls are up, and ready for the roof. It will be a magnificent building. The Saints of the two stakes are doing all the}' can in contributing towards its erection. Our stake the past year has paid $20,000 in tithing. This is not quite so large a tithing as has been paid in previous years; but it is a good one in view of our circumstances. For the last three years we have suffered considerably from drouth and grasshoppers, notwithstanding which the tithing has fallen off but little; in fact, I believe there has been a proportionate increase. We have a splendid prospect for an abundant harvest the present season The mountains are filled with snow; God has sent moisture upon the parched ground, and I believe, if the Saints will do their duty and heed the counsels of the servants of the Lord, they will be greatly blessed in their basket and in their store, according to the promises that God has given. Thousands of dollare have been expended the past two years in fighting the grasshopper pest. There has been a united effort on the part of the people to exterminate it. The civil authorities have lent their aid. and I believe that good results will come from the labor performed in this direction. We have a good people residing in that stake of Zion, and I am assured that they are desirous of serving the Lord and keeping his commandments. 

The keynote given us by President Smith at the opening of the conference, I feel is the word of the Lord unto this people; for I cannot conceive of anything so harmful and damaging to th» Latter-day Saints as debt. I have noticed that it not only brings trouble and affliction upon those who practise this, but upon others as well. It is written that the little foxes spoil the vine. Some of our people having gone  debt, and not having been strictly honest with their neighbor, have caused hard feelings, and some have become weak in the faith by reason of their brother not paying his just dues to them according to promise. I believe that if the Latter-day Saints will listen to this counsel they will be happier in their lives. They will be freed from slavery, which debt brings upon every man. They wil enjoy a greater degree of the Spirit of God when they are free. A number of eastern gentlemen once made a statement in my hearing that the "Mormons" were practically free from debt; that they were an honest people, and they paid their debts. I hope this is true; it ought to be. I remember well a conversation I had with some gentlemen in the city of Boston during our trying times of a few years ago. They were talking about the conditions that existed in "Mormondom," and they said that the "Mormon" people were the most independent of any that lived In the United States. Because they had hearkened to the counsel of their leader, President Brigham Young, in early days, they had their own farms, and they placed no mortgage upon them. Of course, statistics show that there is only a small proportion of the homes of the Saints mortgaged; but there are too many. It would bring greater happiness if there were none. 

I pray that God will bless us in our coming together, that we may hearken unto the counsels we have heard, and put them into practise, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS A. WADDOUPS. (President of the Iosepa Hawaiian Colony.) 

My brethren and sisters, in reporting the condition of the Hawaiian colony at Iosepa, I will first tell you where it is located. It is in Tooele county, in what is known as Skull valley, about 70 miles from this city. We have organized there a Sunday school, Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society, all presided over by brethren and sisters belonging to the Hawaiian colony. These organizations are in good r unning order, and the people generally feel like pressing on in the work of the Lord. The Hawaiians there are a Godfearing people, and are faithful. If I were sick, I would not go by them for anyone to administer to me, because I think they can get as near to our Heavenly Father by their childlike faith as can any of the white people. The temporal and spiritual interests of the Hawaiian colony are very closely connected. The people are hired to work on the place, and are paid wages for the same. We are getting along all right, and have nothing to complain of. By the help of the Lord we intend to do our duty. I pray God to bless us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

Comparative freedom from saloons— People known by their fruits— Progress of the Church means ^nod to all — Many leaders among the Saints — Fulfillment of Prophecy. 

I confess, my brethren and sisters, that I have had a little feeling of uneasiness in all of the meetings of this conference, that feeling having been produced by the announcement made in the opening remarks of President Joseph P. Smith, that among others who would probably Be called upon to address the people at this conference would be the members of the First Council of Seventy. Nevertheless, I have enjoyed the conference, and have been deeply impressed with the testimonies that have been borne by the various brethren who have occupied this position. 

I feel that, some remarkable things have been brought to the attention of the people who have been gathered together in the reports which have been given by the various presidents of the stakes of Zion. I believe one of the brethren reported that in the community over which he presided, in Arizona, there was not a saloon to be found in any of the settlements of the Saints within the borders of that stake. That was followed by the report of another president of stake from the southern part of this state, in which the same declaration was made, that there were no saloons in his stake, though one man had gone over the line into Arizona and there pitched a tent, where he dispensed intoxicating liquors. An stake president reported that in a very populous stake in this county there were but three wards in which there were saloons; and I believe he could have reported that one of those wards was organized in a mining camp, and that another ward was organized in a town where there ail smelters; Still another stake president reported that in one of the Cache Valley stakes, where there was a population of 7,500 people, and where there were ten towns, there were but two saloons. 

I regard these as remarkable statements. I do not know whether this can be duplicated in any part of the world or not;but so far as my own experiences go in traveling quite extensively among the peoples of the old world, I feel perfectly safe in saying that such a condition could not be found in any community of the old world. With the communities of the world the saloon seems to be almost as necessary, generally speaking, as do churches or business houses. I believe the conditions mentioned in the reports to which I have alluded are peculiar to this people, and cannot be found in any other communities. 

While listening to these reports there kept ringing in my ears the saying of the Savior: "Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. * * * Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them." And these are some of the fruits that have been produced by the preaching of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the gathering together of the people of the earth whose ears have been saluted with the glad message of the Gospel. They have been gathered according to the promises of the prophets of old, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south, and have come to these mountain valleys, where they have been given pastors after God's own heart, who have fed them with knowledge and with understanding. There need not be any concewi in the minds of men concerning the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We sometimes discover that men in high places become fearful  of the development of the work of the Lord and because of the fact that "Utah is becoming too small for the people of the Lord, and they have broken over the boundaries of our state and spread out on the north and on the south, on the east and on the west, and they are building towns and cities in many of the states of this American nation. I wonder what harm would come to the people of the United States; what harm would come to people In other lands, if there were populous communities of Latter-day Saints there, and if the chief men among them could stand up and say that in towns where hundreds and thousands of people reside such a thing as a saloon, or a house of ill fame, was unknown. What injury would come to the peoples of the earth by the introduction of the Gospel, and if by paying attention to the counsels that have been given by the chief men of Israel a condition of this character could be produced in all the states of the United States and in all the cities and towns that have been built by the children of men upon the face of the whole earth - ? And this would be the condition if the people were converted to the principles of the everlasting Gospel as they have been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith; for sobriety is one of the foundation principles of the Gospel as taught by the modern prophet. We do not require temperance societies; we do not require extraordinary pledges, to cause us to be temperate. If we have been converted to the Gospel of the Son of God, that makes us temperate. There is more power and force in the everlasting Gospel, there is a greater influence to persuade men to do right and to refrain from doing evil than can be found in any organization that has ever been effected in the midst of the children of men. The power of the Spirit of the Lord, the power that comes through obedience to the things of God, and that enables men to plant their feet in the right path to such an extent that they cannot be turned either to the right or to the left, is superior to all other forces or agencies. 

I rejoiced in listening to another testimony that was borne — that twenty  ago a few people went up into the state of Idaho and pitched their tents on a great sagebrush flat, and that now there are twenty thousand .people there who have good comfortable homes, who have conquered the desert, and who have made it to bud and bloom as the rose, according to the predictions of the prophets. This president, in reporting his stake, made the statement that there are homes for twenty thousand people, and that an area of country seventy miles square had been subdued by the faith, the labor and the energy of the colonizers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

From afar the Lord God of heaven has gathered His people, and as a result of obedience to the precious truths that have been revealed from our Father in heaven to men they have been brought unto this mountain country, and been made free men. They have been taught how to conquer the soil, how to subdue this arid country. They have been taught by good and wise men, who have been filled with the inspiration of the Lord, how to bring to pass and fulfils the sayings of the prophets, and to make the dry ground glorious, and to cause by their faith that springs of living water should burst forth in dry places, that the soil might produce in its strength for the sustenance and blessing of the people. And these things are the direct result of "Mormonism." They have been brought to pass among the children of men through obedience to the principles that were revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that were taught by President Brigham Young and by all the presidents and chief men of Israel, who have builded to the pattern that was given long years ago by the inspiration of the Lord through the great prophet, Joseph Smith. 

I wondered also, while listening to the testimonies of these presidents of stakes, many of whom have come from remote places and are perhaps scarcely known to the great majority of the people, what comfort the enemies of Israel could find in the spectacle that has been presented in the reports that have been made by these men. It is stated, you know, among our enemies, that a few men of intelligence preside over us, and the rest are in bondage and serfdom; that the people are under the hands of a few astute men, who have banded themselves together that they may keep the Mormon people under control and in a species of bondage. I could not help but ask myself the question, What can the people think who are not of us, and who have been led to believe this statement that has gone out, when they see standing up in this great congregation men who are as deeply impressed with the truth of the everlasting Gospel as are the Apostles who preside over them; men who comprehend the truth, who love the truth, and who have dedicated themselves and their talents to the upbuilding of the work of the Lord. I wondered if it was possible for the enemies of the Latter-day Saints to glean any comfort from these men, whom they have supposed were serfs in the midst of this people. Blind indeed are we if we are not able to discern the glorious fact that these men are free, that they have been converted to the Gospel, that they comprehend its truth, and that they are determined with the help of the Lord and the inspiration of His Holy Spirit to carry on this work in the stakes of Zion, to keep their hands to the plow and to carry out the purposes of the Lord, and that they are not men that can be easily turned aside. I think it has been made evident that they are men of character, of strong beliefs, and that they will not be turned either to the right hand or to the left, but that they will press steadily on in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord. 

Our condition today, my brethren and sisters, is but a fulfilment of the promise that has been made unto us by our Father in heaven through the mouth of the Prophet Joseph; for the Prophet declared a long time ago that these very things which we witness at the present time were to come to pass, and I desire to read to you a word or two concerning this promise that our Father made in the very inception of this work in reference to the future of the work and the men who were to be called from time to time to represent Him in the preaching of the Gospel among the Inhabitants of the earth. The Lord said: 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. ' 1 

'And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them." 

My heart swells within me with inexpressible joy when I think of the wonderful fulfilment of the promise of the Lord made almost before there was any Church; when the Prophet Joseph Smith, like his Master before him, stood alone in the world.despised and hated of men, laughed at by the people, yet with the promise given him of the Lord that the servants who were to be called in these last days should go forth and that none should stay them. The period of laughing at the statements of the Prophet of God is past forever. The mighty hosts of Israel who stand up in evidence of the truth and of the inspiration of His words are of such a power that they cannot be laughed out of existence. The Lord God has accomplished thus far the work that He promised He would accomplish by the mouth of His Prophet, and He has given a reason for the preaching of this Gospel and for the calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

"Wherefore I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jr., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets." 

In compassion for His sons and daughters He called upon His servant Joseph and others, that the threatened calamity might be averted, that the destruction which was coming upon the earth because of the transgression of law and the breaking of the ordinances might be turned away, and that the people might be saved through the everlasting Gospel. Because of His love for the children of men He called His servants and gave them commandments, clothed them with the authority of the holy Priesthood, and sent them forth with a message of glad tidings. The result has been that we have these communities — sober, industrious, Godfearing communities — communities that  attracted the attention of the world by their labors and success. The fruits of their labors bear witness that the source from 'which they have drawn their inspiration is a good source. 

God help us .to be true to this work, which has done so much for us. I heard a brother say not long ago that the Gospel had done more for him than he had ever done for the Gospel; and I think if we will look into our own hearts every man and woman in Israel will feel to say: The Gospel has done everything for me; God help me and my children after me, from generation to generation, to be true to It; for it is the power of God unto salvation. This is my testimojiy, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn which begins: 

Come, come ye Saints; 

No toil nor labor fear, But, with joy, wend your way. 

Benediction by Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 
