Afternoon
06 04 1903




ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL. 

Importance of Manual training for the Ynulh — How to gain freedom fmm debt. 

I am very thankful for the privilege of attending this conference, and to see the interest manifested by the Saints in their presence at the meetings. We have certainly had an excellent time, a grand conference so far; and the policy of hearing from the presidents of the stakes and the missions abroad is one that I believe meets with the hearty  of all the Saints. The Saints in the outlying districts feel that they are remembered, that they are recognized, and reported by those who have immediate charge of the various fields of labor. The results, I am sure, will be good, and the Saints will be satisfied. 

The opening remarks of our president gave us some texts to talk upon, not only here, but when we go home. I think they should not be lost sight of by the brethren from the various parts of the Church. The subject of training our sons and daughters in principles of usefulness deserves our attention. While some of the brethren were talking about it, especially Supt. Tanner, I thought it would be almost impossible to teach all our boys in technical schools, if they were established. But there is opportunity to teach them trades if they do not have the advantages of a technical school. When they are taught trades as they are in the old world they become very thoroughmore so, I think, than they would in a technical school, unless they followed it until graduation. To my mind, this is an important subject, because we have so many young men and young women that need to be taught. We find that if we want to employ a mechanic it is difficult to get one that has been raised in our midst. Of course, there are a few scattered up and down the country; but it is difficult to secure skilled labor from among our own people. Now, we are just beginning to build up this country. Look back on Salt Lake City fifty years, and you will see that a vast improvement has been made in that time; but look forward fifty years, and what will you see? We need artisans. Our boys should learn trades. The Bishops and presidents of stakes should take this matter in hand. I knew a Bishop once who ran across five young men that came from the old country. They went to the Bishop to know what to do, and he told them to each learn a trade, and he assigned them different trades. They did not feel very well satisfied about it; they thought they could do something else to more profit, that would bring them in something at once; but they were finally persuaded to learn * trade, and they stayed with their employers until they were skilled workmen. Every one of them today is in comfortable circumstances, having had employment from that time till now. There is no need of our boys going off to Montana, or out of the country, to fine employment; for there is plenty here. Teach our boys trades, is the thing to do. We must not forget this when we go home, because we have many young throughout the country who need some encouragement in this regard. It is the word of the Lord to the people, and we can all readily see the necessity for it. 

Another text given was in regard to not going in debt. Perhaps some of us are in debt, with our homes mortgaged. It is a bad thing, but it >s done. Now, do not do it any more. Lift your mortgages and obligations the very first opportunity, and be free. 

I want to bear testimony to another thing that was said, because I know it is true from experience, and that is, that the easiest and shortest way to get out of debt is to first pay our tithing, promptly and honestly, and then the promise of the Lord is that the way shall be opened up, and we will be able to liquidate our obligations. Be patient -in the matter. Remember the Lord first, and then turn our attention to our creditors. Pay them just as fast as we can; but do not go in debt any more. Let our families live within their income. If you get $3 or $5 a day, live on considerably less than that. I knew a young couple that started out in life, and the man worked for $20 a month and the wife worked for $2 a week. They were hired out when they were married, because they hadn't anything else to do. How much did they save out of that? I took pains to inquire into the matter and I learned that they saved $12 a month. When they quit that work and went to housekeeping they had considerable means on hand, with which they bought what they needed. People think that cannot be done. Why, I knew that two people can live on $10. a month, because I have watched this thing for many years. We have high ideas about everything now. The young people must have everything that their fathers and mothers have. The first thing, they must have a house, well furnished, before  can get married. I do not think that is a good idea. My experience has taught me otherwise. Get married, young people. It is the duty of all who are of marriageable age, to get married. And get married in the Temple. Then work together, put up with circumstances as they are, and improve them as fast as you can. But do not go in debt. Do not go beyond your means to buy fine furniture. Better live in a cabin. 

These are practical things, which should be of interest to our people. We do not want our young men and young women to float around; we want thera to stay with the Saints. We want them to build up Zion wherever they are located. When they are called, then is the time to go — not before. Do not run up and down the country to improve your condition, unless you can go by the counsel of the Priesthood. Use economy and live within your means. Teach the boys trades. Be a wise and a considerate people. Seek for the Spirit of the Lord to guide us. Seek for the counsel of the brethren who preside. There are men appointed of the Lord throughout the land to counsel and advise with the people. Go to them for counsel; advise with them, and you will go about right. But when we undertake to go on our own hook, we are pretty sure to get off wrong. 

May the Lord bless and inspire the Saints to carry out the counsel given. May we make our lives useful and honorable in the earth. I bear you my testimony that this work is true. It is from God. I testify that Joseph Smith was a great Prophet of God, raised up in our day and time to usher in the Gospel dispensation. Thousands of people have 'had this evidence and testimony, and we know the work is true. It is not our work; it is not the work of the Presidency of the Church; it is God's work, and He has placed these men to direct the affairs of the work, and let us give heed to their counsel. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT R. SMITH, (President of San Luis Stake.) 

I appreciate very much the instructions we have received so far during this Conference, and especially the spirit that has characterized the utterances of the brethren. 

Representing 1 the San Luis Stake of Zion, I feel to say that we are a long way from the headquarters of the Church, a small stake located in the central southern part of Colorado, and bordering on to New Mexico, two or three branches of the Stake being in New Mexico. This Stake has been organized about twenty years. Prior to that time a colony had been planted there under the direction of the leaders of the Church, a few people being called to go there from Utah. Many people from the Southern States emigrated to that land, and we should by this time have quite a populous Stake had all remained who gathered there; but many who came from the Southern States found the climate too rigorous for them, and they scattered into other Stakes or returned to their former homes. We have now four wards and three branches in the Stake, and they are so scattered that it requires traveling six hundred miles in order to reach them all. We have been very kindly treated by the people of the state of Colorado. The lands upon which we have located have been almost entirely state lands, which we have purchased from the state. We have been encouraged in that land by the officials, and we have no complaints to make. In fact, when there were perilous times for the Saints in this State and in other localities, the nucleus formed in the San Luis valley was like a house of refuge to many who were being persecuted, and who for the time being found peace and rest there. Our people have not made very great progress financially. Our country is perhaps not so much favored as some other localities. We live in a high altitude, and it is rather cold; yet we produce grains that bear equally to almost any other place. It is a well watered country usually. Last season was an exception, we being affected by the general drouth that prevailed; but we have splendid prospects now for the raising of grain and stock. Many of the people who have gathered there have been like children in the Gospel, and it has required a great deal of patient labor to get them to understand  live up to their duties. Our people have made rapid advancement in obeying the law of tithing, considering their lack of understanding in the beginning. Those who bear the holy Priesthood are united, and are laboring for the advancement of the cause of God. We are united with one another, and with the counsels and' instructions of the leaders of the Church. We And it difficult to disseminate the teachings of the Conference in that Stake. Very few representatives are able to come this long distance to Conference, on account of the comparative poverty of the people; but those who do come, when they return they try to spread the teachings and spirit of the Conference. At our next monthly gathering of the Priesthood there will be two meetings held, and the officers of every department in the Stake will be instructed by the representatives here. In this way we expect to disseminate the teachings of the Conference. 

I am grateful to be engaged in the work of God. I feel that it does not matter so much where we labor if we are willing to labor where God appoints us. He will see to it that we are provided for, and that we and our posterity are led in the ways of righteousness. Although we may not find such pleasant places as others in this life, we will obtain eternal life. I have an abiding faith and testimony in the work of God, and I feel in my heart to say, His name be praised that He has given you and me a knowledge that surpasseth understanding, a divine testimony that we are engaged in His work; and whatever may come to us, having this knowledge and this perfect assurance, we will indeed be happy. That God may bless the Saints everywhere, and bless us to accomplish the mission He has assigned unto us in preaching the Gospel and in building up the Stakes of Zion, and rearing our children in the fear of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang- the anthem: "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy." 

ELDER EDWARD H. SNOW (President of St. George Stake). I take pleasure and pride, my brethren and sisters, in reporting the St. George Stake of Zion, over which, with Thomas P. Cottam and George F. Whitehead as my counselors, I have the honor to preside. This stake of Zion includes Washington county, in "the southwestern part of this state, and all the settlements of the Church in the state of Nevada. There are twentytwo wards and nine branches, and a population of about 5,600, stretching over a large area of territory, and requiring a little over a thousand miles of travel for us to reach them all. The stake presidency visit all of the wards in Washington county once every quarter, and the settlements in Nevada twice a year. We are united as a Stake presidency, and hold our council meetings once a week. We are also united with our High Council, and with them hold council meeting on the first Saturday in the month, and a prayer circle the last Sunday in each month. We have the usual High Priests' quorum, three quorums of Seventy and five quorums of Elders in the stake. We have a most excellent people; in fact, I beilieve we have the best pople there are in the Church. It is an old stake. Many illustrious men have lived there — men who have been marked by reason of their integrity and service in the Church of God. Many presidents of stakes and of missions have been called from this stake.. At present I call to mind that there are fifteen brethren presiding over stakes in Zion and missions abroad who were born and reared in this stake. 

I want to endorse what has been said by President Smith in relation to debt and diversity of industry. We believe that in our stake. There are not perhaps more than half a dozen mortgages of any kind on record in our county. We are trying to get upon a cash basis, and pay as we go. I firmly believe that there ought to be a greater diversity of industries among us. State builders must have a diversity of industry; and if the word of President Smith needed any corroboration among us as a people, I might call your attention to the fact that all the great educators of our land, those who think and reflect and are above the strife and influence of the commercial spirit, unite today in defining the word 

"education" as the power and ability to do some useful thing. 

May God impress the teachings of this conference upon our hearts and minds, that they may bear fruit in our lives, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE OSMOND (President of Star Valley Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I feel it to be quite a privilege as well as a duty to stand before this large audience and report briefly the Star Valley Stake of Zion, in which I and my counselors have the responsibility of presiding. It is a small stake, comparatively speaking, in the western part of the state of Wyoming, and formerly formed part of the Bear Lake Stake. It was organized as a separate stake in August, 1892. Since that time there has been considerable of an increase in its population, although, being outside, as it were, of the Church generally, our population has been a floating one. It consists of two small valleys, containing an area of probably 150 square miles of habitable land. We have nine wards completely organized. Thus far I can speak with confidence as to the stake. I can also tell you that our population is about 2,300. But when you come to more minute particulars in relation to our condition, I feel to be truthful and represent us as we really are. I think, though, that we average pretty well with the other stakes of Zion, and I am led to believe this from the fact that when we are called upon to do anything, we come as near doing it as probably other stakes do. Hence I think we average up with other stakes in paying tithing and in other respects. Still, as. has been remarked of other stakes, there is great room for improvement. If there were not, there would be nothing for the Priesthood to do. We are not perfect, but we are headed in that direction. My brethren and I are laboring to set an example to the people, that we may say, Follow us as we follow those who preside over us. A great deal that has. been said in relation to other stakes would apply to ours. We have different classes of people, as you have. I think we will have candidates for every degree of . But I do believe that the great bulk of the people are trying earnestly and honestly to serve the Lord and to keep His commandments. As a rule, the people are aiming to do right; but sometimes they are poor marksmen and miss the mark. We have in course of erection a large tabernacle, so that it will be sufficient to hold all the people who may come to conference. This is a great need with us at the present time. My counselors are united with me. The Priesthood generally are united, and trying to set an example to the rest of the people, that we may not only say, "Do as we tell you," but "Do as we do." 

May the Lord help us all to improve, that our reports from year to year may show an improvement, not only in our particular stakes, but in all the Church. I ask this blessing upon us and upon our labors, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

My beloved brethren, sisters and friends. Eleven months ago I left this beautiful city to take a special mission to Europe. I spent about six months in the city of Copenhagen, Denmark, engaged in literary labors, helping to publish a new edition of the Book of Mormon in the Danish-Norwegian language, it being the fourth edition of that book to be published in that language. After completing that labor, it became my privilege and duty to travel somewhat extensively throughout the British Isles, Holland, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, in the interest of Church history, and also in visiting the different branches and conferences as they are organized in these different countries. 

I desire on this occasion, as I have just returned home, to bring a hearty greeting from the brethren and sisters over on the other side of the waters. We nave some very faithful Saints in Europe. We have preached the Gospel in the British Isles since 1837. We have preached the Gospel in Germany since 3S51, in Scandinavian countries since 1850. Thousands of Latter-day Saints have emigrated to these lands, and  are thousands of faithful Latterday Saints living there at the present  time, who, like us, are praying for the welfare of Zion, and who are listening to the voice of inspiration, though not altogether as we do.. They haVe to be content, to a certain extent, with the written word. It is true, once in awhile one of the Twelve Apostles and others visit those lands; but the most they get of the words of our leaders is through the written word. But they read this written word. The proceedings of this conference will be translated to some extent into the German, the Dutch, the Swedish and the Danish-Norwegian languages, and thus the people on that side of the ocean will derive some benefit from what is being done here. 

I rejoice to have the privilege to return to you just in time to attend this conference; and while I am on my feet I desire to bring you a hearty greeting from President Francis M. Lyman, one of the Twelve Apostles, who at the present time presides over the European mission. The brethren and sisters over there respect him as a man of God, as he really is. He is a father in every sense of that word to the brethren who are laboring under his direction, and to the Saints whom he visits from time to time. Last July we had the pleasure of having him with us in Copenhagen, Denmark, on the occasion of dedicating the most beautiful house that has ever been built by the Latter-day Saints in Europe. It has a hall with a seating capacity of 600. We are just erecting a beautiful building in the city of Christiania, Norway: and we are taking steps to erect another beauiful building in the city of Stockholm, Sweden. We repoice in the fact that the Lord is pouring out Hi.-? Spirit upon His people in those lands, and I am a living witness and want to bear testimony to the fact that I know God is no respector of persons. It does not make any difference where we are born, nor the language we speak. The Lord can be found upon the islands of the sea.upon the continent of Europe, and the continents of Africa and Asia, where I have had the privilege of visiting, as well as upon this land of America. If we seek God, His blessings will  follow us. If we obey the principles of the Gospel, it matters not where we do it, we will receive the same blessings. The Lord pours out His Spirit upon us, no matter where we are. Many are the wonderful testimonies that I have listened to during my late visit to Europe. When people have spoken even in foreign tongues, unknown to the majority of the people here, the Spirit of God has been poured out upon the speakers; and when they have defended the character of the Prophet Joseph Smith I have seen the power of God manifested in a manner that has made an impression upon me which I shall never forget. 

I am glad to come home to these mountains. I have been from here a number of times on missions. I do not know but I have been more blessed on this short special mission than I have on any of my former missions; at least, I have been blessed to as great an extent.I come homie to youfeeling thankful for the experience. I am thankful to God my Heavenly Father that He has indeed revealed himself in these the last clays and has restored the fullness of His Gospel. I thank God for my home in these mountains, and I do not know that I ever returned to Salt Lake City from a foreign mission when I rejoiced sc much in the fact of coming back home as I did on this occasion. There were reasons for this. We did not have a very pleasant journey home. We had sadness on the road. We lost two of our little company of Saints — something that has not happened for many years. Yet in this I see the hand of God. I know His will has been done in the matter, as it is continually being done wherever His sons and daughters put their trust in Him. 

I ask God to bless us as a people. This has indeed been a beautiful conference; at least, it has been so to me: and I hope that the spirit of this conference will go from here to all parts of the world, not only to the different stakes of Zion, but to the uttermost parts of the world where our brethren are laboring as dispensers of truth to a fallen world. God bless us all. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

bnanlmity of the Church Authorities— Relating to Capital and Labor Combinations— Preservation of Liberty— Duties within the family circle. 

I would have preferred, as a matter of fact, to have listened to a continuation of the testimonies and reports of the presidents of stakes and of missions. Nevertheless, I feel happy in the privilege of standing in your presence upon this occasion, and I desire to say to you that President Brigham Young sends greeting to the Latter-day Saints, and thanks you for your faith and prayers in his behalf. He is in a critical condition, but with good faith, and determined, if possible, to make a live of it and accomplish much work in the future. I desire to report that the Presidency of the Church are in the enjoyment of the spirit of their calling and in unison in their work; and to say of the Council of the Apostles that each one of them is anxious to perform his part and discharge the obligations resting upon him to the best of his ability. The good feelings and wishes of Elder Lyman have been given to you by our brother who has just returned from that field. Brother Grant also joins in greetings to the Latter-day Saints and rejoices in their growth and development and in the good spirit of union that is manifest among the people. He is anxious to extend the work in that land as fast and as far as it may be practicable. I desire to say further that the Patriarch of the Church is in unison with the Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Apostles. The presidents of the Seventies, as you have heard from them, are in like spirit and action with their brethren. I believe the same is true of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church. The general authorities of the Church are fully in attune with each other in connection with the work that is assigned them to do. I know of no time in my connection with the work of the Almighty when the general authorities of the Church were more in unison and with a higher regard and love for one another than they possess today. 

I trust that the words that have been spoken and the reports that have been made will write themselves upon the hearts of the Latterday Saints. It is necessary that we unite ourselves together in the accomplishment of every spiritual and temporal work that the Lord may set us to do. Every stake of Zion should be uniting its interests and seeking to provide, so far as within its power, a variety of employment essential to the development of that section. The people should be striving to thus unite their efforts and accomplish the purposes of the Almighty. I believe in combinations of capital, I believe in combinations of labor, so long as those combinations shall not presume to interfere with the rights and liberties of their fellowmen. But when they presume to exercise unrighteous dominion and their efforts are in the direction of harm to their fellows, I am opposed to them, one and all. I trust that the spirit of the instructions given during this conference has found lodgment in every one of your hearts, that you have determined to do the bidding of the Master, to guard your own liberties, to preserve the liberties of your fellowmen; that you propose to carry with you the spirit of the words that fell from the lips of President Winder this morning, that having been made partakers of the heavenly gift of entering the sacred precincts of the house of God, the covenants you have made there to honor your fathers, to honor the laws and institutions of -your country and to maintain the rights and liberties of your fellowmen, will be sustained by you in every place and in every station where Providence shall call you to act. I trust that the sentiments of your heart shall be to have your homes pervaded with the spirit of prayer; that as fathers and mothers you shall remember to have your children taught to pray, and that thoughtlessness and disregard of these obligations shall not come in among you. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that each sentiment expressed by our brethren will find place within you, and that you will be led to glorify the iiame of your Father in heaven; that the voice of of the truth, distilled upon your ears in your native land, shall continue to guard and guide every one of our lives in this land where we have our home,  the shades of these mountains, where should exist the spirit of liberty, the love of God, respect for right, and a determination to pvjrrorm our part to the best of our ability. 

When these brethren testify to you that they know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the priest, hood of the Son of God is among the children of men, they testify to you a truth that you know yourselves. I trust that you seek in your ministry to so labor that the results of your lives will demonstrate, in the character and ministry of your children and your neighbors, your absolute knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

My brothers and my sisters, it would be imprudent for me to take more time. Perform your part in righteousness. Impress upon the minds of your sons and daughters that no son or daughter of Zion need enter any other church to receive the ministration of the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick; that when God bestowed this Gospel and turned the key, He placed with it the power to heal the sick, to rebuke evil spirits, and to command evils to subside, and if we will live as we should live and instruct our children as we should, they will never hunt any other than the ministrations of the servants of God to be healed of their sickness or to have evil rebuked from their homes, but they will come to you for the aid and comfort necessavy for them in the midst of their distresses. This that has been given to us is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation. Its mission and ministry is the regeneration of the world, the establishment of righteousness, the cleansing and purifying of mankind; and if you will walk m the pathway of the Gospel, and fulfill the requirements thereof, no man can complain of your morality; no man can find fault with your temperance; no man can censure the spirit of justice, charity and mercy that shall guide you in your lives. God Himself introduced His word in this day and age of the world. He introduced His Son to the children of men. He pointed the way of life to all His sons and daughters, and has set you upon the road to aid in the regeneration of the world and in the establishment of righteousness. May He bless you forever. May you be obedient to the truth. May you do the bidding of the Master. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

Of the Church were presented by President Joseph P. Smith, to be voted upon by the Conference, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Brigham Young-, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

Ap members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teas dale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Claw son, Reed Smoot and Hyrum M. Smlih. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

Tho Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted. Brigham Henry Roberts, George Rtynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon b. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, and John R. Winder. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, O. F. Whitney, A. M. Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the Conference. 

THE TABERNACLE CHOIR, was also presented, as follows: 

Leader and Conductor — Evan Stephens. 

Secretary and First Counselor — Robert T. McEwan. 

Treasurer, Librarian and Second Counselor— George C. Smith. 

Organist — John J. McClellan; and all the members of the choir. 

BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY. 

In compliance with a requirement of law, the Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young Academy were presented to the Conference for approval, as follows : 

Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young Academy, Provo, Utah— Jos. F. Smith, president; David John, vice president; Wilson H. Dusenberry, Brigham Young, Susa Y. Gates, Reed Smoot, Stephen L. Chipman, John Henry Smith, Jesse Knight, Lafayette Holbrook, Oscar B. Young, Jonathan S. Page, Jr. 

All of the voting was unanimously in the affirmative. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Satisfactory character of reports— What is expected of the priesthood— Glorious destiny of American Nation - The Church its strong supporter , — Characters of those who misrepresent this community—Saloons and their Keepers— The honorable do not assail the people of GodBrethren and sisters; I have been delighted, beyond my power to express, with the spirit of this conference, with the spirit of those who have spoken to us, with the subjects that they have dwelt upon, and with the reports which they have made to us in general conference assembled. I believe that, in the policy we have pursued, we are carrying out, in a measure at least, the original design and purpose in the Lord of holding these annual and semi-annual conferences. The Lord made it obligatory in former days that conferences should be held frequently, and  representatives from all the various branches and organized bodies of the Church should he present, with power and authority to report their condition and standing and to speak of any matter that would affect the welfare and prosperity of the people thej r represented. There is another purpose, I think, subserved in the policy that we have pursued, which I consider a worthy one, and .that is this: We want the people to understand, and we would like the world to understand, the great fact that it is not the prominent leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that wield all the influence among the people of this Church. We want it understood that we have fewer layin embers in this Church, in proportion to the number of our membership, than you will find in any other church upon the globe. Nearly every man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints holds the Melchisedek or the Aaronic Priesthood, and may act in an official capacity by authority of that priesthood whenever called upon to do so. They are priests and kings, if you please, unto God in righteousness. Out of this vast body of priests we call and ordain or set apart our Presidents of Stakes, our counselors, our High Councilors, our Bishops and their counselors, our Seventies, our High Priests, and our Elders, upon whom rests the responsibility of proclaiming the Gospel of eternal truth to all the world, and upon whom also rests the great and glorious responsibility of maintaining the dignity, the honor and the sacredness of that calling and Priesthood. So that nearly every male person in the Church, who has reached the years of accountability, is supposed to be, in his sphere, a pillar in Zion, a defender of the faith, an exemplar, a man of righteous ness, truth and soberness, a man of virtue and of honor, a good citizen of the state in which he lives, and a staunch and loyal citizen of the great country that we are proud to call our home. 

This great American nation the Almighty raised up by the power of His omnipotent hand, that it might be possible in the latter days for the kingdom of God to be established in the earth. 

If the Lord had not prepared the way by laying the foundations of this glorious nation, it would have been impossible (under the stringent laws and bigotry of the monarchical governments of the world) to have laid the foundations for the coming of His great kingdom. The Lord has done this. His hand has been over this nation, and it is His purpose and design to enlarge it, make it glorious above all others, and to give it dominion and power over the earth, to the end that those who are kept in bondage and serfdom may be brought to the enjoyment of the fullest freedom and liberty of conscience possible for intelligent men to exercise in the earth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be a strong supporter of the nation of which we are a part, in the accomplishment of this grand purpose. There are no more loyal people to their country on God's earth today than are the Latter-day Saints to this country. There are no better, purer or more honorable citizens of the United States to be found than are found within the pale of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I testify to this, and I know whereof I speak. We never have been enemies to our nation. We have always been true to it. Though we have been persecuted, we have said, We will put our trust in thee. We have been driven and maligned, not by the nation, but by insidious, wicked, unprincipled, hypocritical, lying, deceitful goats in sheep's clothing, who are jealous and constantly raising a hue and cry against the covenant people of God. Our government would have befriended us, protected us, preserved our rights and liberties, and would have defended us in the enjoyment of our possessions, if it had not been for these infernal hounds who are enemies to morality and to the truth. If there is anything despicable, if there be anything that can never, no, never, enter into the kingdom of God, it is a wilfull liar; and if we have not been lied about, maligned and misrepresented of late, then I do not know what lying is. Well, let the falsifiers go on and lie. Some people are evidently doomed to lie. President Woodruff used to say there were some people in his day who were born to lie, and they were true to their missions. There are some of these born liars still with us and still true to their mission. They cannot, it would seem, tell the truth; they often do not when it would be for their best good. S let them go on and lie as much as they desire. But let us do right, keep the laws of God and the laws of man, honor our membership in the kingdom of God, our citizenship in the State of Utah and our broader citizenship in the nation of which we are a part, and then God will sustain and preserve us, and we will continue to grow as we havedone from the beginning, only our future growth will be accelerated and be far greater than it has been in the past. These slanders and falsehoods that are circulated abroad with the view of bringing the ire of the nation upon us will by and by be swept away, and because of these misrepresentations the truth will be brought out clearer and plainer to the world. Thus the word of the Lord will be verified, that they cannot do anything against but for the kingdom of God. This is the Lord's work; it it not man's; and He will make it triumphant. He is spreading it abroad, and giving it deep root in the earth, that its branches may grow and spread, and its fruit be seen throughout the length and breadth of the land. 

By their fruits ye shall know them. Men do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs .of thistles; neither does a bitter fountain send forth sweet water. We, as a people, deplore as much as anybody can the existence of evil amongst us. But when our brethren get up here and talk as some have done, "We have saloons; we have all the 'modern improvements' "—WE have them— I wish they would take the pains to distinguish as to who "we" is. If they mean that the Latter-day Saints have saloons, then they are mistaken. It is not the Latter-day Saints that sustain saloons. If they are fostered and sustained in the midst of Latter-day Saint communities, they are sustained by men that are either in bad standing or have no standing at all in the Church. The most of them are sustained by men who do not belong to the Church. I will venture to say that over here in Emery county, where we hear of saloons and "modern improvements," that there  not a saloon run by a Latter-day Saint. But, says one, hold on, Brother Smith, there is one, I believe. There was one, out of the many, that used to be run by a man who claimed to be a member of the Church; I don't know that it is now. I give it out to you, my brethren and sisters, that no man who is a Latter-day Saint, in full faith and fellowship in the Church,will ever keep a saloon anywhere. Therefore, if there is a man claiming to be a "Mormon" running a saloon anywhere, the best thing you can do is to cut him off the Church, and then you will know where he 1 is and who he is. He is not a Latter-day Saint, at all events. Now, when you say WE have this, and WE have that, I hope you will draw the distinction between Latter-day Saints and latter-day devils. 

I am not sorry I have made theset remarks, because it will give some of our "friends" a chance to say something, and there is nothing like having a little of the spice of life. I rejoice in the Gospel. I rejoice in the mission of the divine Savior, the Son of God. I know it is the power of God unto salvation. I rejoice in the name and in the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith; for I know his mission is divine. I rejoice in the gathering of Israel in the tops of these mountains in the latter days, because I see in it the hand of the Almighty, and not the hand of Brigham Young, nor of any mortal man. No man of himself could ever accomplish that which we see before us. The Lord is behind it, at the bottom and at the top of it, and in and through it, and He will consummate His purpose. The world cannot prevent it either, because it is for good, not for evil. If it were net. for good I would pity some of these poor devils that we have amongst us. But we will be patient, longsuffering, and forbearing. We will say, Let God judge between us and our enemies, and award them according to their deeds. We will not harm them. On the contrary, we will protect them. Though they seek to defile us and ridicule our religion, though they lie about us and say all manner of evil against us falsely, we will not hurt them. We will " them good, if they will let us. We  protect them, as we would protect good men in their rights. We will do all we con to protect the rig-hts of mankind, and nothing to break down the liberties of men. This is our mission, and I pray God to help us to be true to our mission, as these poor creatures who lie about us are true to theirs. 

Now, when I speak as I have done about the lying riff-raff that infests our land, I do not wish it understood for a moment that I refer to honorable men. We have honorable men amongst us, and in this nation. God bless and sustain all honorable men. We will sustain, not only the rights and liber of the honorable, but we will also defend and help to maintain to the uttermost the liberties and rights of dishonorable men. We have honorable men amongst us, and they are ever in the favor of the people of God. 

The choir sang: Do what is right; the day dawn is breaking, 

Hailing a future of freedom and light; Angels above us are silent notes taking 

Of every action; do what is right. 

Benediction was pronounced by Presiding Patriarch John Smith. 

Conference adjourned for six months. ITS ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 5, 1903, at 7:30 p. m. General Superintendent Jos. F. Smith presiding. 

Present: of the general superintendency, Joseph F. Smith, George Reyno'.ds and J. M. Tanner; most of the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union board, several of the Apostles, and the Tabernacle was packed with officers, teachers, and Sunday school workers and Saints. 

The tabernacle choir sang the hymn: "Earth with her ten thousand flowers." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Taylor. 

Messrs. Ashworth, Best, Christopherson and Squires then rendered the quartet, "God is love." 

Secretary George D. Pyper called the roll of stakes, all but two being represented, as also were the Northwestern states, California and Colorado missions. The secretary also presented the following items gleaned from the annual report of the Sunday schools: 

Total number of schools in the organized stakes, 749; in the missions, 291 — grand total, 1,040; showing a gain of 64 schools during the year — 33 in the organized stakes and 31 in the missions. 

Number of officers and teachers in the organized stakes, 14,333; in the missions, 1,647 — total officers and teachers, 15,980; a gain of 782. 

Number of pupils in organized stakes, 107,323, of whom 52,752 are male and 54,571 females; in the missions, 10,413, of whom 4,821 are males and 5,592 are females— grand total of pupils, 117,736;  increase of 3,811 — 2,818 in the stakes and 893 in the missions. This report shows there are 2,590 more girls than boys in the Sunday schools. 

Total officers, teachers, missionaries and pupils in the stakes, 121,971, in the missions, 12,060— grand total, 134,031; atotal increase of 4,399 over 1901. 

The average attendance for 1902 was 58 per cent, the same as for the previous year. 

Secretary George D. Pyper then presented the officers of the Deseret Sunday School Union, who were unanimously sustained as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent, George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; J. M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD. 

Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Abraham O. Woodruff. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer; Thomas C. Griggs, business manager. 

GEORGE REYNOLDS, 

First Assistant General Superintendent, said: 

Since we met here, at the October conference, six months ago, the General Board of the union has had a very busy , for since then the "Outlines" have been prepared and published. We have already printed 41,000 copies for the benefit of the Sunday schools, and it appears as though we *shall have to print many more. The "Outlines," as has been explained to you, are intended to bring unity in the subjects and in the lessons taught in our Sundayschools, that the wide world over, wherever there are schools, of the Latterday Saints, there shall the same lesson be taug-ht on the same Sunday, thus unifying our efforts and giving strength to our teachings. The preparation of these "Outlines" has required a great deal of study, of prayer, and of work, but we feel confident that where accepted, as we trust they will be, by our schools, that the teachers will fr them a great help, and one great reason is that they cannot be used successfully and advantageously without preparation, home preparation both by the teacher and the scholar, and it will consequently make the work more thorough and more progressive. 

The general report that has been read to you is, in the main, satisfactory; but there is one item that is somewhat disappointing, and that is, tho average of increase. You will notice that our increase of teachers, officers Mid pupils is only about 4,000 for the entire year. This is a smaller pro rata increase than I remember for many a year. There may be many causes for it. but individually I believe that one of the chief causes is a lack of understanding on the part of some superintendents who, because certain ages have been suggested for the pupils in each department, and, to make it evident that the item was only suggestive it is printed in the "Outlines" in italics, yet some superintendents have endeavored to reorganize their schools and to grade them simply on the basis of the age of the child. I believe this has resulted in scores, possibly hundreds of our children, leaving school, because when simply the age was taken into consideration the dullard and the bright child of the same age have been put into the same class, and it has caused a sense of annoyance and discomfort to those who felt that they were not being justly treated. Nc  — and I trust the brethren will listen to what I am sayingno superintendent, without he expects to injure his school, will grade simply on the basis of the age of the child. There are other considerations that are more important, and that are never to he forgotten. But then to just simply grade by the age is the easier way, and one that gives the least trouble, the least necessity for investigation. But the fact is, if we wish to do our children good, we must place them in the class or in the department where they will learn the most, where they will make the most progress, and for which they are best fitted. "We must take into consideration their aptness, their advancement, their desires, their judgment, as well as their age, when they are graded. 

I would say as the treasurer of the Union board, that I cannot make any definite report at this time with regard to the nickel donation, because as yet it has not all been paid to me; but I can say this much, that the nickel donation for last year is larger than it has ever been before. Nor can a complete report be made regarding th«= prizes offered in the Juvenile Instructor, for the reason that we have not yet been able to make the comparisons necessary before some of the prizes and premiums can be awarded. We have published those premiums that have been awarded to the stakes for the payment of the nickel donation within the time specified, but further than this we shall have to claim the indulgence of the Sunday school workers. Nor is the fault ours. But in a little while we expect to publish them, and when they are published the books awarded will be at the disposal of those to whom they are given. 

There is one thing to which I wish to allude for a few moments, and that is the tendency, in some of our schools, to abridge the period of. their sessions, instead of allowing the Sunday school to continue the full two hours, from 10 to 12 o'clock, or whatever hours it may be; that is, some of the superintendents shorten the session to an hour and a half, sometimes to an hour and a quarter. It is not desired by the board, as a general thing, that the kindergarten and the primary children be Kept in the full two hours, because we know well that they will become restless and tired, and that they will not be in a condition to give attention to that which is taught them during the latter part of the session. We are always willing that the teachers in these departments should permit the children to leave when an hour and a half from the time of opening has elapsed. But surely, my brethren and sisters, two hours once a week for the religious instruction of our children in the Sunday school is none too much. It is told us sometimes that it is difficult to keep up the interest of the children for that length of time. But we generally find that where that complaint is made, the lack of interest is less, or the restlessness is less in the children than the disinclination of the teachers and superintendents to teach the full two hours. We also find that where difficulties of this kind are expressed that some exercises suggested by the Union board are omitted or neglected. For instance, we will say that there is a certain school that asserts that it cannot keep the two hours' session going with profit. On investigation we shall probably find that they do not have a ten minute singing exercise, that they have no concert recitations, or that the lessons from the "Outlines" are not gone through with that thoroughness that is expected of them. These are the reasons, my brethren and sisters, why there is a difficulty. It is because things essential to the well being and the progress of the Sunday schools are neglected and omitted. Those who have the spirit of their calling and a love for their work and for the children will have no difficulty, under ordinary circumstances, in keeping the children interested for the full two hours by the variety of exercises planned and carried out. 

I will say that taking all together, we are doing well. The work committed to our charge is receiving good attention. We are blessed of the Lord therein, and the establishment of stake union boards and stake union meetings, together with the publication of the "Outlines" is accomplishing much to make the schools more thorough, better disciplined and altogether more progressive. 

In conclusion, let me say, my brethren and sisters, let it always be remembered that our object in the establishment of the Sunday schools, the reason for their existence is thaJt we may, as an auxiliary organization, strengthen the hands of the servants of God in making Latterday Saints of the children of God's people, Latter-day Saints in faith and in works, who will love the Father's work and seek to upbuild His kingdom. 

May God bless us in our endeavors to accomplish this, is my -rayer through Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

WILLIAM KIRKUP,  Superintendent of Sunday Schools in the Oneida Stake, said: 

The Oneida Stake of Zion is situated in the north end of what is known as Cache valley. We have in that stake twentv-four Sunday schools, fully organized. We also have a stake board of twelve members. This is not quite sufficient to accomplish the work that is designed by the General Board, but we have a limited supply of material, and if we were to draw fully from the various wards for the number of members required to make our monthly visits, it would materially cripple other organizations. The stake superintendency is fully organized and its members are in perfect harmony with each other. We meet every week, on the Monday night, after having made our visits on the Sunday, when we find it very convenient to make our reports, and in this way get to know and understand the conditions of the schools visited. 

Our stake board meets every month, and visits made by the other members of the board are then reported. We visit three Sundays in each month. We have also arranged to hold regular quarterly Stake Sunday school union meetings. We have been holding these meetings for three years, and we find them very beneficial to all the schools of our stake. The improvement that has been made since this organization was effected has been very marked. 

We have lately arranged to hold district Sunday school union meetings.because our stake is very widely divided, our settlements being in some cases very distant; and we thought it well  order to give our teachers better opportunity of hearing instructions from the members of the stake board, to take the union meetings to them occasionally; and we believe that by taking these meetings to five different districts, we shall be able to accomplish more good than we can by calling all of the Sunday school workers together in one place once a quarter. It would be rather difficult for us, undejr our circumstances, to come together every month, but at some future time we may be afjle to do better than we are now doing. 

We feel well in the cause, and the progress of the Sunday school work in our stake is very encouraging. We are very pleased to have the "Outlines." We have been preparing, in our stake, an outline of our own for the past three years, and we fully appreciate the labors of the board, because we know how much work it takes to prepare them. We are glad, however, that now we have outlines that are applicable to all the stakes of Zion. We are laboring to the end that we may get a proper understanding of them, that we may induce our teachers to thoroughly prepare themselves, for we are cognizant of the fact that without thorough preparation good results cannot be accomplished. May the Lord add His blessings to our labors is my earnest prayer. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS B. EVANS, Superintendent of Sunday schools of the Weber Stake, said: I am pleased to report, my brethren and sisters, that there are thirty-one Sunday schools in the Weber Stake of Zion, fully organized. Twenty-six members constitute the Weber Stake Sunday School Union board. We have organized a union meeting, which meets on the second Sunday in each month. We also have what we call a local board meeting ,or a meeting where the officers and teachers of the local schools meet together with the idea of preparation in mind. That is, each teacher brings an individual outline. At this meeting, after the devotional exercises are over, the teachers of the respective departments prepare what we term a -operative outline. This enables them to thoroughly prepare themselves upon the subject matter to be presented to the children on the Sunday following. We are in perfect harmony, I believe, with the Union Board, aiming to carry out their instructions, seeking with the help of the Lord to establish the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the hearts and minds of the children. May the Lord help us to this end, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Professor John J. McClellan then rendered on the organ "Andantino" (To My Wife), by Lemaire. 

ELDER JAMES H. TAGGART, 

Superintendent of Sunday schools of the Morgan Stake, said: 

My brethren and sisters, in reporting the Morgan Stake, I can say that we are and have been patterning after the Weber and other stakes. Besides the instructions we have received from the General Superintendemcy, we have received instructions from Superintendent Evans and his assistants. We have also had some members of our board visit Cache, Millard, Boxelder, Weber, Davis and Summit Stakes; and have been benefitted by the good points which we have found therein. Our Sunday schools in the Morgan Stake are a grand success, and though we are a small stake, we) feel that we shall be able to make a good mark. We are proud to say that we are all united as a band of brethren and sisters. Our worst difficulty is the trouble we have in getting the young metn in our Sunday school. We are all laboring to that end, and are succeeding very well. Our local board meetings are a success, but I am sorry to say that in some wards we have not as yet been successful in getting them started, but where they have been started they are working satisfactorily. I pray the Lord to bless us all and our labors in the Morgan Stake, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSIAH H. BURROWS, Superintendent of Sunday Schools of 

the Salt Lake Stake, said: There are forty-one Sunday schools in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, having a total membership of some 10,199. Our increase during the past year was 944. So the remarks of Assistant General Superintendent Reynolds certainly do not apply to the Salt Lake Stake in regard to the matter of increase. 

Our Stake Sunday School Union Board was organized last November. It consists of 19 members, four of whom are sisters. We are proud of our Stake board, and feel that its members are working together as nicely as possible for the advancement of the interests of the Sunday schools. The superintendency meet generally twice a month in council meeting. The Stake board also meets twice a month. We visit the schools, on an average, about once in six weeks, and enjoy our labors to a very marked degree. Two special points we have been concentrating upon during the last year — the importance of superintendents holding regular monthly council meetings, and also of holding the officers and teachers' 9:45 prayer meeting. I am pleased to state that all of the schools in the stake, with the exception of two or three, observe this prayer meeting, and the number of superintendents who have acted upon the suggestion to hold regular council meetings is increasing. 

We are impressed with the importance of missionary work in this Stake of Zion; and notwithstanding that five Sunday schools were organized last year and one this year, we still feel that there is opportunity in several wards for the organization of branch or cottage Sunday schools, whereby the children can b>e brought together, without being compelled to go such great distances. 

We have adopted the method of classifying the Stake work among several committees of the Stake board. We Tiave one committee known as the committee on appointments, conferences, branch schools and missionary work, another on lessons and school work, another on grade, discipline, special features, anniversaries, etc., another on Sunday school choristers and music.and still another on secretaries, libraries and janitors. Since the organization, four of them have gone to work, and we have been giving the subjects presented by these committees as careful con as our experience and judgment enable us to do. 

We feel that we are now entering upon a very important period of growth of the Sunday school work. With the adoption of the "Outlines" and of more systematic methods we feel that there is a promising period before us. We desire to be' united with the general Sunday school board and to carry out the instructions received from them. 

We labored last year to make our Sunday school conference a succe^, and while it required considerable drilling and labor, we think it repaid our efforts. We are now trying, in accordance with the recommendations of the Board, to have the Sunday schools hold annual Sunday school ward conferences.and we have already taken part in a number of these conferences. The preparation that is made enables the schools to make progress, it enables the officers to see what is being done, and it is beneficial in many ways. 

I appreciate very much the responsibility that rests upon me in connection with my associates. We are working in perfect harmony and are striving to cultivate the spirit of our calling. We feel that it is a field that is worthy of every sacrifice and effort that we can put forth. May the Lord bless one and all, from the General Superintendent to the least that may be engaged in the Sunday school work, to the glory of our Father in Heaven, and in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Lottie Owen then sang, "Calvary." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH, 

General Superintendent of Sunday Schools of the Church, said: 

I desire to say just a few words. The benefit of our Sunday school work to our children and the rising generation cannot, I think, be too highly regarded by the Latter-day Saints, and more especially by those who are rearing children, and who desire to have their children brought up and to grow up in the way they should go. 

One of our brethren, reporting his labors as stake superintendent of Sunday schools, made a remark something like this, that they had everything in 
