Morning
04 04 1903



PRESIDENT JOSEPH. F. SMITH. 

Otiening Address. Leading subjects for the Conference— Get out of debt while prosperity prevails— How to accomplish it— Saints should live their religion The young should be taught mechanism and industrial arts generally. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very grateful to the Lord, the Giver of all good, for the privilege that we enjoy this morning of assembling here, where we are wont to gather, at our annual and semi-annual conferences, for the purpose of attending to such business and matters of duty that may present themselves to us during this conference, and for the purpose of giving out, so far as the Spirit of the Lord may dictate to us, the word of the Lord, in counsel, admonition and instruction to the people. 

I am pleased to see the large number who have assembled on this opening day of the conference, and I sincerely hope that we may all enjoy our coming together as we have enjoyed this privilege in days past, and, if pleasing before the Lord, even more abundantly. 

We desire to have the privilege of listening to as many of the brethren as time will permit. We would like to hear from as many of the presidents of stakes as we can, and we shall endeavor to select those who did not have the privilege of speaking at the last conference, among whom were the First Presidents of Seventies. There is a vast field for remarks and for reflection by those who shall speak to the people, which will be interesting and instructive, and which will be beneficial to the cause we are engaged in. 

It is not my intention to prolong my remarks this morning, but I deshe to mention one or two subjects that I think worthy of the attention of the brethren, who may be led to enlarge upon them and to speak to the people as the Spirit may give them ut terance. 

One of these subjects is, that in the time of prosperity which we are now enjoying, it is highly proper for the Latter-day Saints to get out of debt. I have unceasingly urged this thought upon the brethren for the past year or more. Wherever I have had the opportunity of speaking I have scarcely ever forgotten to hold out to the people the necessity— that I feel, at least — of our settling our obligations and freeing ourselves from debt in the day of prosperity. Our experience in the years that have past must have led us to the conclusion that we have periods of prosperity, followed by periods of depression. We have now had a long period of success and prosperity, and we may expect, almost at any time, to see these conditions change and a time of depression spread over the land and over the people. I would say, in connection with this subject, that one of the best ways that I know of to pay my obligations to my brother, my neighbor or business associate, is for me first to pay my obligations to the Lcrd. I can pay more of my debts to my neighbors, if I have contracted them, after I have met my honest obligations with the Lord, than I can by neglecting the latter; and you can do the same. If you desire to prosper, and tn be free men and women and a free people, first meet your just obligations to God, and then meet vpur obligations to your fellowmen. Bishop Hunter used to put the matter in these words: "Brethren, pay your tithing and be blessed;" and that is just what I mean. 

It is not necessary, perhaps, for me to say that there never was a time since the organization of the Church  it was more necessary than it is at present for all the Latter-day Saints to live their religion and to keep the commandments of the Lord, to purge from their midst iniquity, folly and sin and the transgression of the commandments of the laws of God unto them. I may add to this that perhaps thers never was a time when the work of the Lord in the earth was in greater earnest or reality than it is today. As a proof of this, we need only to open our eyes and see the energy and activity of the enemies of this people at the present time. When the wicked rage and the heathen imagine a vain thing relative to this people, we may set it down as a fact that the devil is not dead, and that the work of the Lord is not dead, either. 

We are lacking in much that is good and necessary. One of the things that I think i3 very necessary is that we should teach our boys mechanism, teach them the arts of industry, and not allow our sons to grow up with the idea that there is nothing honorable in labor, except it be in the profession of law, or in some other light, practically unproductive and, I was going to say, unremunerative employment, but I know of scarcely any employment more remunerative than is the practise of law, to those, at least, who are proficient. But what do they do to build up the country? What do they produce to benefit the world? There may be a few of them who have farms; there may be a few of them who have manufactories; there may be a few of them who may be interested and engaged in ether productive labor, something that Mill build up the country and the peot le and establish permanence, stability and prosperity in the land; but the vast majority of them are leeches upon the body politic and are worthless as to the building up of any community. There are a good many of our boys who feel that they could not be farmers, and that the pursuit of farming and stockraising is beneath their dignity. There are some who think it is menial and low for them to engage in building en terprise's as masons, carpenters or builders in general. There are but a few of our boys who take to the hammer and the anvil and to those pursuits of labor that are essential to the per of any community in the Tiorld and that are necessary to build up the country. 

I say that we are remiss and slack In relation to these things, that we are not instilling them sufficiently in the minds of our children, and that we are not giving them the opportunity that they should enjoy of learning how to produce from the earth and the mateiials that are on the face of it or in the bowels of it, that which is necessary for the advancement and prosperity of mankind. Some of us have the idea that it is degrading for our daughters to learn how to cook, how to keep house, or to make a dress, apron or bonnet, if necessary. No. Daughters in families that are blessed with plenty of means are taught to play the piano, to sing, to go out in scciety and spend their time in idle, useless pleasure, instead of being taught how to be economical, industrious and frugal and how to become gocd housewives. That is degrading! I would like to say to this congregation, and to the world, that if I possessed millions of dollars I would not b» satisfied or content in my mind unless my boys knew how to do something that would bring them in a living, how to handle a pitchfork, or to run a mowing machine or reaper, or how to plow the ground and sow the seed; nor would I be satisfied if my daughters did not know how to keep a house. T would be ashamed of my children if they did not know something of these things. 

"We need manual training schools instead of so much book-learning and the stuffing of fairy tales and fables, which are contained in many of our school bcoks of today. If we would devote more money and time, more energy and attention to teaching our children manual labor in our schools than we do, it would be a better thing for the rising generation. 

There are many subjects of this character, in addition to the principles of the Gospel of eternal truth and the plan of life and salvation, that can be dwelt upon with profit by those who may speak to us. 

Now, I do not desire to prolong my remarks this morning. I pray God to  those who may speak to us and inspire them to say those things that will be instructive and beneficial, and that we may all enjoy that measure of the spirit of intelligence that we may divide rightly the word of truth, and that we all may receive meat in due season. That God may grant us these privileges and blessings is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. Manual training should he embodied in educational system. Devotion and progress in Sabbath Schools-Material and spiritual progress among the people— Missionary success paralleled by opposition— Joseph Smitn a genuine Prophet. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I desire very much that you will grant me your faith and prayers and earnest attention. I feel highly honored this morning in being called to address this large congreation. We have another privilege of assembling together in our annual conference, and I feel, for one, very thankful for this privilege. My heart goes out in gratitude to mv heavenly Father for the conditions of prosperity that surround His people today. I have a testimony to bear, and it is the same testimony that I have been able to bear for many years. It is the truth, as I have heard it from the lips of my father before me, and from the lips of my brethren. 

When I observe, as I do, the conditions of the Latter-day Saints in the different Stakes of Zion where I have the privilege of visiting occasionally; when I see the chances that our young people have to advance along the lines of mind and spirit culture, I rejoice exceedingly to find so many of our young men and young ladies taking the opportunity offered them, and preparing themselves fairly well on the lines of culture for the great work that is before them. But, with the feelings expressed by President Joseph F. Smith, I have sometimes regretted, and do regret today, the lack of physical or manual training in our general system of education. President Young used to say that the education of the youth was incomplete without this manual training and the cultivation of those attributes of the human mind which would lead to the development of strength and ability to produce from the earth and from the elements surrounding- us. This, I realize, is the case with us today to a certain extent. 

I do not feel to find any fault whatever with our institutions of learning', or with those men and women who devote themselves so faithfully to the training of our young people in the Church schools and in the different auxiliary organizations of the Church. Let me say here in relation to our Sunday schools, that they have become a very excellent part of the training- of our young people. They begin at the very beginning, as it were. Our Sunday school teachers commence with the little children and work with them until they reach the advanced grades, devoting their time to this labor of love to a degree that does not exist perhaps among other people. This devotion, is manifest by all, from the Sunday school Union Board down to the last and least teacher in the organization. They not only devote their time every Sabbath, but on week days they spend hours and hours in the development of their own minds along the line of the educational welfare of the children. I say, they ought to be praised for this devotion, and they certainly are blessed in their labors. 

In regard to this manual training, I feel that our schools and colleg-es are incomplete, and will remain so until we have in every one of them a system of training that will develop the pupil along- the lines of manual culture in the most useful trades. Today, as has been truly remarked, we are in a condition of great prosperity. Go where I may throughout the length and breadth of the Stakes of Zion, I find the people in a condition of worldly comfort. There are very few who are actually in want among- the Latter-day Saints. Especially is this the case in the outside Stakes of Zion. Away from these populous cities like Salt Lake City, it is the exception to find an indigent person. The fact that we have some of them here is accounted for by the tendency of the poor and those who are more or less financially helpless to flock to these centers of population. But, speaking g-enerally, there exists today a condition of prosperity among the Latter-day Saints. And I  I can truthfully say, too, that I have seen decided marks of improvement and evidences of advancement among the Latter-day Saints along the lines of faith and the cultivation of the princples of the Gospel. There has been, spiritual advancement as well as advancement in other directions. I am glad to be able to say this. I testify to you who are assembled here that the Latter-day Saints are a very choice people, and that they are working very diligently and faithfully in almost every Stake of Zion. Most of them, in all the Stakes, seem to be impressed with the spirit of their religion. I am glad this is so. In it I see the results of the teachings of our leaders. The brethren and sisters have awakened to a sense of their condition, and have renewed their diligence in paying their tithes and offerings. I see the blessings of heaven showered down upon the people, and I know it is the result of their obedience to the principle that has been so sacredly observed by them, especially in the last few years. Since they have obeyed that law more faithfully the blessings of the Lord have been more abundantly poured out upon them from one end of the land to the other. The quotation of Bishop Hunter's has been truly verified; "Pay your tithing and be blessed." We do feel we are blessed when we obey this law. 

Commensurate with our present condition of happiness and advancement, as a result of the blessings of the Lord upon us, we may expect to find opposition in the minds of the people of the world. It has been the history of this people from the first that as they advanced in faith and power through their obedience to the principles of the Gospel our enemies have increased in their endeavors to put down the truth and stay the progress of this work. I speak of this as a matter of history, not to throw any blame upon any individual. "We know, my brethren and sisters, that the powers of evil are upon the face of the land today, as they have been ever since the organization of the Church; and they have been more manifest as the people have grown in faith and power. I saw not long ago a play represented, and in it was the character of Satan. He said, "I rule the earth; my power is everywhere." I  within my own heart, how true that is, in a sense; but on further reflection I was led to exclaim in my heart, "And the power of God is everywhere als,o." The same thought brought to my remembrance the sentence that "God and one good man are a majority." 

The work of the Lord is progressing. The Elders are laboring faithfully in the different missions, and success has crowned their efforts in most places. Occasionally we hear of some violent opposition, as for instance the misfortune that recently befell one of our Elders in the South, who was severely beaten and maltreated. This, however, is no new thing. The powers of evii have been all the time arrayed against the power of the Lord and against His servants, in every land where they ministered. We may expect opposition. I remember hearing of a remark that Sidney Rigdon made soon after he was mobbed with the Prophet Joseph Smith and dragged to insensibility through the woods. He asked the Prophet Joseph how long that was going to continue. How long, said" he, must we submit to these outrages and abuses from the enemies of all righteousness? The Prophet's reply was something like this: "Just so long, Brother Sidney, as the power of evil is upon the earth; and until the power of God overcomes the power of evil, so long will there be evidences of the power of that evil one existing upon the earth, to the hurt and injury of the servants of the Lord." The answer made by Elder Sidney Rigdon was not the most hopeful. Said he, "Brother Joseph, I can't stand it; it is more than I can bear." I have sometimes reflected upon that statement, and wondered whether he was wanting in faith through a lack of diligence or of purity of life, or whether it was his misfortune to be so organized that he could not grasp the situation and comprehend the responsibility that was placed upon him. Some men are naturally weak, and soon succumb to opposition; while others are made of sterner stuff and meet all opposition with unswerving integrity, especially i£ they know for themselves that they art engaged in the cause of right and truth; for this knowledge to any man brings a power and a reliance that is not easily . When I look back upon the great characters that have been the pioneers of this work, I realize that they have been men of strength and courage. The Prophet Joseph Smith, the very head and front of this Latter-day dispensation, was a man who was never known to flinch or falter, though through all the years of his ministry he was hardly for a moment free from the bitterness of hate exhibited by his fellowmen, and for no other reason that I could ever see than that he had been chosen by the Almighty Himself to be His Prophet in 'this the great dispensation of the fulness of times. The men who have followed him in the leadership of the Church have been equally tried and true. No man has ever seen the time when such as Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and other noted ones that I could mention, have failed or faltered in their allegiance to the Prophet Joseph or to the Lord Almighty. Though these men, like Brother Sidney Rigdon, received more than their share of persecution and opposition, looking at it from a natural standpoint, yet they were never overcome. They had the courage of their convic-i tions, like their great leader, the Prophet Joseph, and they stayed by them under all circumstances. The reason for it is that they received in their own hearts a testimony of the divinity of this work, and that testimony was burning bright in their hearts all the days of their lives. 

We hear about children being born in the Church. Yes, every Latter-day Saint is born in the Church, and there is only one birth that admits them into the Church, and that is the birth of baptism — the birth of the water and of the Spirit. That admits them into the Church of Christ, and marks them as the children of God. In no other way can they receive this birth. The great warrior, Napoleon, said that although the Savior had been dead eighteen hundred years the impress of His ministry and power had been so developed in the hearts of the human family that, not-> withstanding men had not beheld Him for centuries, His divine mission still moved the world. So it is with the Latter-day Saints today. Thousands upon thousands have gathered here from all parts of the earth. Very few are living who saw the Prophet Joseph Smith; but the power of God manifested through him has been so impressed upon the people that although we may never have seen him we testify that he was divinely inspired. Why? Because we have the same testimony of Jesus in our hearts that Peter had when the Master asked him, "But whom say ye that I am?" "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God," said Peter. Jesus answered him, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Peter had the revelation from the Father that Jesus was the Christ. By the same power we testify that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. As a people we have not seen our Savior and talked with Him face to face; our prophets have that high honor and privilege, as far as the Lord designs they should have; but the Saints generally have received the impress and the power of the Holy Spirit; and although most of them have not seen the Lord face to face yet they testify that Jesus is the Christ. How? By the power of the living God, and by the witness of that Holy Spirit which He gives to every earnest and faithful believer. So the Saints, who have yielded obedience to the Gospel, know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God, the President of this great dispensation of the fulness of times. 

My brethren and sisters, let us take heed to the admonition of our prophet and leader today. While we are in a condition of prosperity, let us not forget the obligations that we owe to our Heavenly Father, and see to it that we tithe ourselves honestly before the Lord all the time. Let us make good every obligation that is laid upon us, so living before the Father and before each other that we can claim a continuation of the great blessings that we are in possession of today. I testify to you that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, and that he went to his fate knowing that he was to be martyred for the truth that God had given to him; yet, like his great leader, the Savior of the world, he did not flinch or  aside from the course that the Lord had marked out for him to pursue. In like manner the brethren who have been his successors have been unswerving in their integrity, true to their faith, true to their covenants with God and with each other. As the Lord blessed them, so He is blessing His servants and people today; and He will continue His blessings upon us if we will continue to serve Him faithfully. Although we may have the evidence ot the hatred of wicked men, that need not discourage us at all, but rather give us more determination, that through the grace of our Father and through the blessings of the Gospel we will remain true and faithful to Him who has thus blessed us. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be upon the speakers during the remainder of this conference, and that the spirit of our leader may fill every heart and encourage every one of you, my brethren and sisters, and lead us all on in the paths of life eternal. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir and congregation sang: 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning. The latter-day glory begins to come forth. 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

The angels are coming to visit the earth. 

ELDER JESSE N. SMITH, (President of Snowflake Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters, I suppose I am a stranger to the most of you. I came here, however, in the pioneer year of 1847. I remained in Utah till about 23 years ago, when I was sent out to Arizona, where I have been ever since, simply for the reason, I suppose, that 1 have never been sent anywhere else. I have enjoyed my labors there very much, and have felt a great deal of happiness, believing as I do that one is always happier in trying to do his duty 

than under any other circumstances. We have built up some small communities there, and I believe that they compare very favorably with the other communities of that territory. If you will come out and see us, we well show you a people where spades grow bright and idle words grow dull, where jails are empty and barns are full. You will  that the paths which lead to the houses of worship are well worn, our Sunday schools are popular, and in all respects the people are in good condition. They are an intelligent, upright people. We have fairly good schools, and a good academy. We have had some difficulties to contend with of a physical nature. The most crying trouble has been the scarcity of water 1 — a very essential element. It is related that a newspaper correspondent came out to Arizona anxious for something to fill his paper, perhaps, and asked a native about affairs there. This man felt a pride in his country, and he said: We have an excellent country; we only lack two things — we are short of water and we lack good society. Oh! said the newspaper man, it is just so in hell; all they lack there is water and good society. But we have been trying to remedy these conditions. In the place where I live we have tried reservoiring. There is an abundance of water in the winter season, but in the summer season it disappears. So we have tried to solve the problem of holding the water until the time of scarcity. Of course, it has been in rather a small way; for our capital consisted mainly of our labor. When we had planned our first reservoir, there came along two gentlemen in a buggy. I never saw them before, and I never saw them after. They enquired what was the object of our labor there, and I explained to them as well as I could briefly. They seemed much interested, and as they went on they took me by the hand and said, "God bless you; you are in the right of it." Well, we have proved that it was a profitable investment. 

We met with another difficulty when we went to that country. Although so long ago, we found all the facilities of the country were taken up. We were compelled to buy ranchmen out, and we did so at very high figures — the best we could do. Soon afterwards it was discovered that we were upon a railroad grant. The authorities of the railroad notified us that we were on their land, and that we would be required to go away from it or pay up. They had assured us earlier that no advantage would be taken of us, and that  could make our improvements freely. They even distributed among us blanks, which we filled out signed and executed, setting forth that we had rights. But these papers were ignored after our improvements were made, after our ditches had been dug and several crops had been produced. We felt that we had made everything secure, but this great corporation was not above taking advantage in that way of a handful of people who were struggling for an existence. At this juncture the authorities of the Church came to our assistance. President Woodruff advanced some means to' help us in making the purchase. Those who could, afterwards refunded the money that had been paid on their land; the balance the authorities of the Church gave to our stake for the benefit of reservoirs and academies, for which we have felt very thankful. 

If Mrs. Nation should give us a call, her occupation would be gone, so far as smashing saloons is concerned; for we have none. You may remain with us for days and you will never hear profanity on our streets. I say this advisedly. Surrounded by a cowboy element, in a wild land, I think this speaks well for our communities. I believe they have the faith and the hope of the Gospel in them. Drunkenness is entirely unknown, almost unheard-of in our communities. We are able by our industry to secure a livelihood, and, I believe, are reasonably contented. For my part, I can say that I am contented. 

May the Lord add His blessings. May we be enabled to be faithful to the trust reposed in us. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. I may be pardoned perhaps if I announce to the young portion of the congregation that the last speaker is one of the two living cousins of the Prophet Joseph Smith left among us. 

ELDER E. D. WOOLLEY. 

(President of Kanab Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I do not know whether I will be able to make you all hear, as this is more of a congregation than we have in two or three of our stakes; but I rejoice in being present at this conference. I realize that it is the duty of the presidents of stakes to visit the general conference of the Church, wherever it may be called, for the reason that there they can receive the instructions that are needed, and be able to impart the same to the people they represent. There is a responsibility upon every presidency of a stake similar in proportion to that upon the Presidency of the Church, and I realize that it is necessary for me as an individual to be humble and to seek unto the Lord for His Spirit, that I may be useful to my brethren and sisters, and guard and protect the interests of the people. It requires a great deal of labor, thought, patience and perseverance to be able to detect and to ward off the adversary, the enemy of righteousness in the earth. 

The physical conditions of our country are very similar to that which you have heard described by Brother Smith, of Arizona. We are only about three miles from the Arizona line; and when he was speaking of Mrs. Nation I thought that if she made a visit to our country she would have to go just over the line into Arizona to get occupation. There is a man established there in a tent, and he dispenses liquor, and entices some of our young people down to play cards. But we have no saloons or places of that kind in our county. 

The spiritual condition of our people is fairly good. We have good Latterday Saints, who are conscientiously trying to keep the commandments of the Lord, and they have an abiding testimony of the Gospel, which they are trying to maintain by living uprightly before the Lord. I have felt that of all the gifts of the Gospel which follow the believer, we should seek for the gift of discernment of spirits. I have asked the Lord to give me this gift; for I can see that the adversary will work upon the minds of tjie people, and one of the great safeguards against 1his is for the Latter-day Saints to possess this gift, that they may ward off the adversary and his temptations, or any influence that is calculated to bring up doubts in their minds and cause them to complain and find fault and to think that perhaps the work of God is not grow. I can testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the work of the Lord is growing, and it will continue to grow, whether we keep pace with it or not as individuals. One of the evidences of the truth, to my mind, is that as we grow and advance the heavier the opposition becomes against us. You take the opposition that has been against the Latter-day Saints from the time that the Father and the Son appeared to Prophet Joseph Smith down to the present. Considering that, it is marvelous in my eyes that this people have made the progress that they have. They never could have done it if it had not been for the individual testimony that the Saints receive. And they must receive that testimony from the Lord. It cannot come from our brother or our sister. We may encourage, »we may strengthen, we may build one another up in faith; but the testimony of the Spirit and the genius of this work must come from our heavenly Father. This is what I tell my children. When my boys went to school at Provo, I said to them: Now, you will study theology. The mechanical part you can receive; but the spirit, the testimony of the work, you must receive from our Heavenly Father, and it must be through your humility, your faith and your prayers to Him. 

My experience thus far in life has been with the Latter-day Saints. I was born in the Church; I have been reared in the Church, and I am pretty familiar with the history of the Latterday Saints by passing through it from the early settling of this valley. I came here as a child in 1848, and have been in Utah ever since. I have seen many trials that this people have passed through, and I have heard many prophecies delivered from this stand, and in the old Tabernacle, which I have lived to see fulfilled. I have heard the warning voice of the Prophet of the Lord from time to time all my life. 

Speaking in relation to the suggestions given this morning by President Smith concerning our financial condition, I remember that for years before the financial distress of 1893 the Apostles warned the Latter-day Saints — they did in our stake — to prepare for a financial crisis. Many of the people  the advice and profited by it. Before I left home, I had been reading the editorials of President Smith, and his remarks in different stakes, and I remarked to some of the brethren, there is going to be a financial depression, and that very soon, because the President is beginning to warn the people. From the early settlement here up to the present time there has never been an approaching evil but this people have been warned of in ample time to avoid it if they would listen to the voice of inspiration. It has been so in all the history of the world. When the Lord has had a people upon the earth He has always forewarned them of any calamity that was approaching, and I firmly believe that He always will. "We should appreciate these privileges that we have over and above other people, because of the testimony and assurance we have that when we receive this advice or instruction it comes through the inspiration of our heavenly Father. He is fulfilling His promises to us. He will guide us, if we 'will listen. He will give us every opportunity to grow and expand, and to become a noted people in the earth. He is magnifying this people in the eyes of the people of the world today, and He will continue to do this. I have no fear of the growth and prosperity of this work. I have no fear of the leaders of this work not receiving the necessary inspiration for the guidance of this people. I believe that the majority of the Latter-day Saints have a testimony of this, and will have understanding hearts and listening ears to receive these instructions and to profit thereby. In our stake we have a good people. We are similar to other stakes; sve have good Latter-day Saints, we have good "Mormons," we have lukewarm "Mormons" and we have a very few that are not of our faith, at all. 

.May the Lord bless us at this conference, that we may receive those things that are calculated to build up and strengthen us in our faith, that we may magnify the Lord in the earth and establish His kingdom, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BYRON SESSIONS. (President of Big Horn Stake.) My dear brothers and sisters, I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father for this  that is bestowed upon me this morning in being called to address you and to represent the Big Horn Stake of Zion. I feel proud of the people that you have sent into that stake. I presume that there are before me many of the fathers and mothers, the sisters and the brothers of that body of people that compose the Saints in the Big Horn Stake of Zion. I wish to say to you that I feel proud of them. They have honored me -in my position. I never have had yet an unpleasant word from one of the colony in the Big Horn stake in the last three years. It is three years the 22nd of this month since I left my home in Rich county, in the Woodruff Stake of Zion, to go to that land, according to a call; and I feel to thank the brethren for that call. I thank my Heavenly Father that 1 was taken up root and branch and moved into that land. I feel satisfied now with my labors, which I never have been before. As has been said by Brother Woolley, I was born and raised in the Church, and I was born in your beautiful city, and immediately after my birth was taken to what is known as Bountiful. I thank my Heavenly Father that my parents have obeyed every law that God has revealed for them to obey; and I thank my Heavenly Father that a great portion of the people in our land have obeyed those laws, and are the issue from some of the highest laws that God has ever revealed. Do not worry about your sons and your daughters. Do not think that they are going to starve to death in that land. We have a goodly land, and we are prospering. Our canal is finished. The brethren are fencing their farms, and were plowing their land long before I left home, and I left there two weeks ago last Wednesday. I can truthfully say that none of them have mortgaged their farms, for the simple reason that they have not the title to them yet, and I thank the Lord for it. We propose to keep them out of the title just as long as possible; we do not want them to have it till we have complied with the laws of our state. We love the laws of our state. I believe that there is no better laws in any state of the Union than they have in the state of Wyoming. We love the executive; we love the officials of that state. I have been fortunate enough to live for 30 years on the borders of the state of Wyoming-, and all the business that I transacted has been transacted in that state. I have known two of the supreme judges for over 26 years, and I have known the governor for 26 years, and I have known nearly every state official. I have had the honor of being in that legislative body in connection with President Osmond of the Star Valley stake, during the winter; and I have gone to the governor of that state just as I would go to my father whenever any doubt or dubiety pertaining to any measure that was for the welfare of the common people has arisen. I have gone to him and got his advice. The first thing he told me before he let loose of my hand when I went there was, "Now, then, I want you, Byron, to use my office just as if it was your own, and my secretary; I want you to come to my home and visit me and stop all night with me and eat with me." The same with the supreme judges. They want our people in that land. They invite us there. They know that when the authorities of our Church take hold of a propost- 1 tion, whether it be in building canals or anything else, there is no doubt in their minds in regard to the success. They have learned that we have the only successful colonization people that there is in that land. They have tried it repeatedly, and they have made failures. In a great many instances men have come to me and wanted information. "How can we handle a people like this people are handled by Mr. Woodruff and yourself?" Apostle Woodruff, you know, we look upon as our father, as our common instructor and guide in that land, in temporal matters as wey as in spiritual matters; and I thank my Father in Heaven for him. I thank my Father that I have become so thoroughly acquainted with him, although sometimes it has been quite a trial for me to fojlow him, I followed him about 15 days before coming down here, holding one end of a surveyor's chain and he holding the other, and I thought he would walk me to death. There was no lie , no stop. He has that same desire and anxiety in his heart regarding the work up there. He has remarked to me that he would rather die than see it fail. I have made that remark, and I make it again. Send men there, if you are going to send men, that are not afraid to labor. I endorse every word, and thank God for the words that we have heard here this morning from our Prophet. Let us keep out Of debt, brethren. Let us be true; let us not be traitors to our brethren and to one another. Preach the Gospel by honoring ourselves and honoring the Gospel of Jesus Christ and those who have in charge His work here in the earth. Preach it by being honorable to our fellow-man. I teach the people in our country to put up the fences of their neighbors, Jew or Gentile; drive the cattle out of their fields; lift the poor cattle out of the mire, and show unto them that we do believe the teachings of our Lord and Savior. That is the way I propose to preach the Gospel to the people, until I am directed otherwise, as well as sitting down by their firesides and preaching it to them. I tell you that example has more effect; it has been my observation through life, in preaching the Gospel to men who do not believe as we do. We have a desire to bring them into the fold. They are my brothers and my sisters, and it is my business to show unto them by example that I do believe that which I preach. 

Brothers and sisters, I pray that God may bless this conference, bless our Prophet and these Apostles, and help us to be true to them, to honor them in their positions, and not to be traitors. It would not be a healthy thing for a traitor, if ever I sat on a jury to try him. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. 

The choir sang: "Hark listen to the trumpeters." 

Benediction by Elder Charles W. Penrose. 
