Morning
06 04 1939


PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Read for the consideration and information of the Conference the Financial and Statistical Report of the Church, as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1938 : 

Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake meeting 

houses : $ 926,863.15 

For ward maintenance expenses 835,486.65 

For stake maintenance expenses 253,950.24 

Total $2,016,300.04 

Missionary Work : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $1,116,006.02 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system $ 862,633.98 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of temples $ 404,582.26 

PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY 3 

Hospitals : 

Expended for the erection and improvement of hospital 

buildings (included in Church Welfare Program) $ 67,987.67 

Relief Assistance: 

For direct aid in the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment. (From tithing funds only. Included in Church Welfare Program) $ 572,898.61 

Total $5,040,408.58 

Which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, mission activities, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools, and temples, for hospital buildings and relief assistance. 

FAST OFFERING INFORMATION 

1938 1937 Increase Percent 

Fast offerings paid in 

wards $395,200.59 $296,443.67 $ 98,756.92 33.3 

Fast offerings paid in 

missions 35,971.52 34,441.48 1,530.04 4.4 

Total fast offerings $431,172.11 $330,885.15 $100,286.96 30.3 Number who paid fast 

offerings in wards.. 162,582 151,056 11,526 7.6 Number who paid fast 

offerings in missions 22,173 21,654 519 2.4 

Total who paid fast offerings.. 184,755 172,710 12,045 7.0 

Average fast offerings 

per capita in wards.. 72.9c 55.4c 17.5c 

Stakes with highest per capita fast offering : 

Maricopa $1.74 

Bonneville 1.56 

Kanab 1.39 

San Francisco 1.31 

New York 1.30 

South Davis 1.24 

Shelley 1.19 

Curlew 1.18 

St. George 1.12 

Wells 1.12 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 _ First Day 

Twenty-one stakes and 

239 wards paid 

$1.00 or more per 

capita. Missions with highest 

per capita fast 

offerings : 

Membership under 1,500 

Japanese $2.06 

Czechoslovakia 1.19 

Palestine-Syrian 62 

Argentine 46 

Membership over 1,500 

Swiss 84 

West German .60 

East German 53 

Eastern States 52 

SUMMARY— ERECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF CHURCH BUILDINGS 

Appropriated for ward and stake buildings, seminaries  institutes $1,238,972.99 

Amount raised locally 790,422.60 

Appropriated for hospital buildings 56,549.00 

Improvements in temples 197,908.54 

Expended for mission buildings and real estate 217,486.43 (Some of above expenditures included in Church Welfare Program.) 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE YEAR 1938 

There were on December 31, 1938: 126 stakes of Zion, (at the present time 127), 1.036 wards; 101 independent branches, or a total of 1,137 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion; also 35 missions; 957 mission branches, and 243 districts. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes 632,994 

Missions 151,770 

Total 784,764 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in 

stakes and missions 22,122 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 15,613 

Converts baptized in the stakes and missions! 8,259 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1938- 2,151 Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1938.. 28 Number of local missionaries 78 

Total number of missionaries in the missions of the Church 2,257 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 2,067 

Total missionaries 4.324 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 1,152 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 85,313 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate 30.9 per thousand. Marriage rate, 17.0 per thousand. Death rate 6.8 per thousand. Families owning their own homes, 59.9 % . 

EXPENDED FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF MISSIONARIES 

Collected by wards and paid to missionaries $ 94,001.27 

Average cost per missionary, 1938, $31.00 per month or a total of $372.00 per year per missionary. Average number of misisonaries, 2,089, making a total average 

expense for the year of 777,108.00 

Estimated possible earnings per missionary $900.00 per year multiplied by 2,089, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of 1,880,100.00 

Total estimated contribution of missionaries and their 

families for the preaching of the Gospel $2,751,209.27 

CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 

(Including all Church Welfare Work) 

Total Church membership in stakes and missions, men, women, 

and children : 784,764 

Number of Church members who paid voluntary fast offerings to help the needy : 

In wards 162,582 

In missions - 22,173 

Total 184,755 

Amount of voluntary fast offerings In wards 

Cash $305,719.27 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Dag 

Produce 89,481.32 

In missions 

Cash $ 35,971.52 

Total (all expended for relief) $431,172.11 

Other donations to the Church Welfare Program 58,460.66 

Assistance rendered by Relief Society: 

In actual disbursements to needy 92,501.62 

In carrying on general work of this society 345,581.33 

Additional assistance extended to Church Building Program (wards, stakes, and missions) by increasing from 50 to 

60% the Church's contribution to the program 184,875.06 

Expended from the tithes, mostly by local officers 329,666.45 

Expended directly by the Church Welfare Committee 243,232.16 

Expended for the erection, extension, and improvement of 

hospitals and caring for the sick therein 141,881.68 

Total $1,827,371.07 

Increase over 1937 324,916.90 

In addition to the foregoing, the following supplies had been assembled and were on hand December 31, 1938, and are available for the needy during the year 1939. 

CLOTHING AND BEDDING 

Estimated Value 

Men's clothing, pieces 5,884 $ 2,331.65 

Women's clothing, pieces 6.057 1,526.57 

Children's clothing, pieces 4,979 1,075.72 

Quilts and miscellaneous items 4,464.56 9,398.50 

CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fruits and vegetables, cans 1,002,888 96,583.58 

Fruits and vegetables, bottles 21.445 2,393.77 

Dried fruits and vegetables, lbs 82,599 4,562.94 103,540-29 

OTHER PRODUCE 

Flour, pounds 201,381 3,084.80 

Potatoes, pounds 646,779 4,615.31 

Grain, pounds 224,879 1,912.50 

Other vegetables, pounds 77,317 579.87 

Meat, pounds 4,446 533.52 10,726.00 

FUEL AND LUMBER 

Coal, pounds 761,303 1,429.27 

Wood, cords 435 2,176.00 

Lumber 180.00 3,785.27 $127,450.06 

PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY 7 

THE CHURCH UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1938, IS AS FOLLOWS 

Employable needing employment, Jan. 1, 1938 7.760 

Employable needing employment, Dec. 31, 1938 6,817 

Skilled workmen unemployed, Dec. 31, 1938 1.030 

Unskilled workmen unemployed, Dec. 31, 1938 5,787 

Heads of families needing employment 6,406 

Number employed during year '. 3,322 

Number of persons used on Church Work Projects during year 4,340 

Number of persons assisted by Bishops, Relief Society, and the 

General Committee agencies 56,472 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

New Stakes Organized : 

Nampa Stake was organized November 27, 1938 by a division of Boise Stake. It consists of Caldwell and Homedale Independent Branches and Kuna, Melba, Nampa First and Nampa Second Wards. 

Weiser Stake was organized November 27, 1938 by a division of Boise Stake. It consists of Emmett, Letha, Nyssa, Ontario and Weiser Wards and Vale Independent Branch. 

Boise First, Boise Second, Boise Third, Glenns Ferry Wards and Meridian Branch retained in the Boise Stake. 

Provo Stake created February 19, 1939 by a division of the Utah Stake. This new stake consists of Provo First, Provo Fifth, Manavu and Bonneville Wards. 

Provo Second, Third, Fourth, and Sixth and Pioneer Wards retained in the Utah Stake. 

New Stake Presidents appointed : 

Silas L. Wright appointed president of the Montpelier Stake to succeed President Edward C. Rich. 

Ezra T. Benson appointed president of the Boise Stake to succeed President Scott B. Brown. 

Peter E. Johnson appointed president of the newly organized Nampa Stake. 

Scott B. Brown appointed president of the newly organized Weiser Stake. 

Charles W. Dunn appointed president of the Logan Stake to succeed President Anthon E. Anderson. 

Charles E. Rowan, Jr. appointed president of the newly organized Provo Stake. 

Royal J. Murdock appointed president of the Utah Stake to succeed President Thomas N. Taylor. 

Z. Reed Millar appointed president of the Boise Stake to succeed President Ezra T. Benson. 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

Carl Daniel Greenhalgh appointed president of the Santaquin-Tintic Stake to succeed President E. Frank Birch. 

New Wards Organized: 

Phoenix Fourth Ward, Phoenix Stake, created by a division of the Phoenix First Ward. 

Boise Fourth Ward, Boise Stake, created by a division of the Boise Second Ward. 

Independent Branches Made Wards : 

Meridian Ward, Boise Stake, formerly independent branch of the same stake. 

Vale Ward, Weiser Stake, formerly independent branch of the same stake. 

Wards Transferred: 

Santaquin First, Santaquin Second and Genola Wards of the Nebo Stake transferred to the Santaquin-Tintic Stake. 

Stake Name Changed: 

Tintic Stake changed to Santaquin-Tintic Stake. 

Ward Name Changed : 

Hanna Ward, Duchesne Stake, was formerly known as Redcliff Ward. 

Garden Park Ward, Bonneville Stake, was formerly known as Gilmer Park Ward. 

New Independent Branches Organized : 

Coolidge Branch, Maricopa Stake, and Superior Branch, Maricopa Stake were transferred from California Mission. 

Redwood City Branch, San Francisco Stake, created by making a division of Burlingame and Palo Alto Wards of that stake. 

Pershing Branch, Alberta Stake, was formerly a dependent branch of Woolford Ward. 

Clifton-Morenci Branch, Mount Graham Stake, created by a division of the Duncan Ward of that stake. 

Warner Branch, Taylor Stake, organized from members of former Coutts Branch, Milk River district and members living west and south of Tyrells Lake. 

Ward Made Independent Branch : 

Lebanon Branch, Mount Graham Stake, was formerly a ward of same stake. 

Wards Disorganized: 

Blackpine Ward, Curlew Stake, and Juniper Ward, Curlew Stake discontinued. Members moved away. 

Independent Branch Disorganized : 

Mohrland Branch, Emery Stake, discontinued; members moved to other wards of the Church. 

Those Who Have Passed Away: 

Julia S. Budge Nibley, widow of President Charles W. Nibley. 

Dr. Frederick J. Pack, Deseret Professor of Geology at the University of Utah and member of General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union. 

Alice Louise Reynolds, former member of the General Board of the Relief Society and former editor of the Relief Society Magazine; Professor of Literature at the Brigham Young University. 

Dr. George W. Middleton, founder and director of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association and a member of the executive committee of the Oregon Trail and Landmarks Association; a member of the executive committee and chairman of the historical committee of the Sons of Utah Pioneers; member of Church Old Folks Committee and Chairman of Finance Committee. 

Julia Murdock Farnsworth, former member of Relief Society General Board, a charter member and founder of Daughters of the American Revolution, Daughters of Pioneers, and Daughters of the Mormon Battalion. 

Adella Woolley Eardley, one of the first members of the Retrenchment Society and former member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board. 

Wilma Jeppson, member of Primary General Board and associate professor of physical education f or women at Brigham Young University. 

Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp, one of the first woman doctors in the West and teacher in first nurses home in Utah. 

Joseph Don Carlos Young, son of Brigham Young and Church Architect for fifty years. 

George N. Finch, First Counselor in Tintic Stake Presidency. 

Adelbert Bigler, Second Counselor in Sharon Stake Presidency. 

Edward H. Holt, Stake Clerk of the Utah Stake. 

Bishop George Edwin Coxe, bishop of Mt. Olympus Ward, Cottonwood Stake. 

Bishop Edward H. Chambers, Ogden Thirteenth Ward, Ogden Stake. 

Bishop Osmond Buchanan of the Blackf oot Second Ward, Blackf oot Stake. 

Bishop David P. Howells, Wilshire Ward, Hollywood Stake. Bishop Leonard C. Healy, Pleasant Green Ward, Oquirrh Stake. 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

REPORT OF AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Salt Lake City, Utah April 5, 1939 

President Heber J. Grant and Counselors Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Brethren : 

We have examined the financial report of the Church for the year 1938, which covers also the Presiding Bishop's department. 

We heartily commend the accounting system, which is modern and complete. 

The financial condition of the Church is sound. None of its properties are encumbered, by mortgage or otherwise. It has no indebtedness. 

Respectfully submitted, (Signed) Orval W. Adams, 

Harold H. Bennett, George S. Spencer, Albert E. Bowen, 

Auditing Committee. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were unanimously sustained, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator; and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Sylvester Q. Cannon, associate to the Council of the Twelve. 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Richard L. Evans 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISOR 

M. Lynn Bennon 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CHURCH WELFARE. COMMITTEE Melvin J. Ballard John H. Taylor 

John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

General Presidency of the Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman Harold B. Lee, Managing Director 

Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown Wm. E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, 1st Asst. Superintendent George R. Hill, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, 1st Asst. Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

"He Died, the Great Redeemer Died," was sung by the Singing Mothers, Bessie Morley, soloist. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

MARVELOUS RECORD OF ATTENDANCE AT CONFERENCES 

I hold in my hand a letter from Brother Walter Cox of Provo. He has attended 121 annual and semi-annual Conferences. He is 82 years of age, is a full tithepayer, and pays a full Fast donation. He has not spent five dollars on doctor bills, and has traveled 25,000 miles to attend these conferences. That is a very remarkable record. I am perhaps safe in saying that he holds the record, never having missed a Conference in sixty years. 

I am very happy to be here; very happy to see this marvelous audience. I have thoroughly enjoyed — although statistics are a little tedious — the remarkable and wonderful report of the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints during the past year. I am convinced that no other people in all the world can compare with the Latter-day Saints in giving actual, practical demonstration of faith in the Gospel, of their willingness to labor for it, and of their willingness to contribute of their time and their means for the advancement and spread of the Gospel at home and abroad. It is almost unbelievable that we could do as much as has been reported here today, running up into the millions of dollars. We had a very severe and bad year because of the low price of our products, and yet, 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

lo and behold, the actual tithes and Fast-day donations paid are the greatest we have had, better than last year. 

INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIES OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

My heart goes out in gratitude to all those who are working at home and abroad for the spread of the Gospel. 

I am very thankful indeed that we have the truth. I am very grateful that the Latter-day Saints all over the world have a personal, individual and abiding testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. But for that testimony men would not think, or women either, of making the marvelous sacrifices that they do make at home and abroad, for the advancement of the work of the Lord. 

I have mentioned it time and time again, but I never tire of referring to it, that we have been preaching the Gospel now for over a hundred years, and I have yet to know of any individual who has gone out to proclaim the Gospel who has been converted to some other faith. What a marvelous thing that is! Unless we had the truth this could not have been accomplished. We have had men of great intelligence, of great knowledge, men who have been connected with other churches, who, when they heard the Gospel have received it, and in answer to their prayers and supplications they have obtained individual testimonies of the divinity of the work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged. 

A TRIBUTE TO ORSON PRATT AND OTHER LEADERS 

Orson Pratt was one of the great astronomers of the world, one of the great mathematicians, one of the greatest students of languages, a man with a better knowledge of the Bible, I believe, than almost any other man in his day and generation, and when we think of this Gospel capturing men of that kind, it is a source of gratitude to us. I am grateful when I think of the men who have stood at the head of this Church and the leading officials of the same, giving their time and their talents, making sacrifices (that is, sacrifices so far as the things of this world are concerned), and having a perfect and abiding knowledge that God lives, that he hears and answers our prayers; having a knowledge, beyond a shadow of doubt that God did appear to Joseph Smith and did introduce his Son to him; having a perfect knowledge that the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored to the earth by the men who held the keys in the Meridian of Time. I am grateful that the Savior appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, and for the wonderful manifestations as recorded in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SMITH AND OLIVER COWDERY 

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— 

That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. 

And this is the Gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us —  

That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness. 

That through him all might be saved whom the Father hath put into his power and made by him; 

Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the work of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him. 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

Nothing short of this perfect and absolute knowledge that we possess as a people would enable us to accomplish anywhere near the things that we are accomplishing. To think that in these days of depression and trouble we are able to spend milliqns of dollars of money to build meeting houses. Nearly every Sunday, for weeks at a stretch, I have had to dedicate meeting houses and every time the buildings have been full to overflowing with those who have attended these meetings. People have labored in some cases for ten long years in raising their share of the money to build their meeting house. 

We are growing splendidly. There is a feeling of absolute confidence; there is no fear on our part of the final triumph of the work of God. This is very gratifying indeed. I can think of nothing more remarkable than that when the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum and others were sentenced to be shot by a court martial, a man was raised up of the Lord to defy the commanding officer and who said it was coldblooded murder. Then the Prophet was imprisoned, with others, where he received what to my mind is one of the most remarkable and wonderful revelations, one of the greatest of all the revelations ever received by man. 

A REVELATION GIVEN IN LIBERTY JAIL 

I am going to read to you from that revelation received by the Prophet Joseph Smith, while he was imprisoned in jail. I am reading from the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, starting with the thirty-third verse : 

How long can rolling waters remain impure ? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri River in its decreed course, or to turn it upstream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson: 

That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in First Day  degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. 

We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

Hence, many are called, but few are chosen. 

May God help you and me and every soul in this Church to be chosen, and to stay chosen, in that straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal! 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile — 

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of fajth, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. 

I repeat this is one of the most marvelous revelations that we have, a blessing from God given to the Prophet Joseph while in a jail! I think there is nothing finer in the Doctrine and Covenants. There can be nothing of greater importance than to exercise the Priesthood exactly as it is explained here. 

I am very thankful indeed for the remarkable success of our Welfare work thus far; I am thankful for the devotion so many are giving to that work. I am grateful to realize and know that our Heavenly Father is directing us; that he is inspiring us; that he is leading us by his Spirit; that we as a people are growing in those things that are pleasing and acceptable to our Heavenly Father. To be able in these hard times to make such a report as we have listened to here today, is certainly an inspiration to every Latter-day Saint. 

We are the architects — -not only the architects but we are also the builders of our own lives. If a man knows the mind and will of the Lord and fails to do it, he is drifting away from that straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal. COLONEL HAWES' COMPLIMENT PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

 than a statement that I received from my nearest and dearest friend, not a member of the Church, when he wrote a letter to me all the way from London, asking about Brother Anthony W. Ivins — what had become of him? This man came to my mother's home when I was a little boy. He afterwards came and boarded with us, and later came with his wife. His first child was born in our home. He was the best friend without any exception that I ever had outside of the Church, and he was a loyal true friend to our people. 

He said : "I have often said to my wife 'the day will come when these two boys, Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant, will be at the head of the Mormon Church; it is in them.' You are an Apostle and the president of several companies, but I have never heard of your cousin, and really I expected him to outshine you." 

I wrote back and said: "Colonel, your judgment is good. When I was made an Apostle I told my wife and mother that I could not understand why my cousin was not chosen, that he had forgotten more than I knew. 

NOMINATION AS GOVERNOR REFUSED 

"When we secured Statehood I received a telegram from the Democratic State convention, asking, 'Where can we find Anthony Ivins? We will give him his choice to be nominated for the first congressman, now that we have Statehood, or the first governor.' I answered : 'He is on the Kaibab Mountain selling the cattle, horses and property of his company, he has accepted a call of the Church to go to Mexico.' And if there is any one place more than another that he does not want to go to, that place is Mexico. He has burned his bridges, has sold his ranch and his home, and nothing in the world would tempt him to stay here until he is called back again. Afterwards, to show that your judgment is good, Colonel, they offered the governorship to me. I told the gentleman, Heber M. Wells, who was nominated by the Republican party : 'Here is a telegram that may interest you,' and showed the telegram to him. He said : 'All right, Heber, if you want that job I shall resign and campaign for you. What little I have in the world you helped me to obtain. I feel under obligations to you.' I said: 'I will let you know later'." 

PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S ANSWER 

I showed the telegram to President Woodruff. Those of you who knew Brother Woodruff know that he did not speak very slowly. He said to me : "Why do you bother me with your telegram ? Haven't you enough sense as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ to answer your own telegram, without bothering the President of the Church?" 

I said : "Thanks. Thanks. If you wanted me to run for this position you would have said so. Good day." 

I sent a telegram saying : "It will be a personal favor to me if my name is not brought before the convention." And it never was. 

I wanted that position awfully bad, but I have never seen the day 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

since I became the president of the Tooele Stake of Zion, at the time I was not yet twenty-four years of age, when I did not want to know what the President of the Church wanted, and what the leading officials of the Church wanted me to do, and that I did not want to do whatever they would have me do, no matter what my personal likes or dislikes might be. I have sacrificed my own financial prospects to a great extent, among the prospects being the one this dear friend of mine offered me, a little job of $40,000 a year when the Church was making me an allowance in tithing office orders of $3,600.00. 

EVERYTHING IN A BELIEF INVOLVING FUTURE EXISTENCE 

My friend answered back and said : "My dear Heber : Your nice long letter of the 10th came duly to hand. Of course you know, aside from the long and intimate personal friendship we have had together, how much I have always been impressed with the fineness and the sincerity of the men and women who hold your faith. Many times and oft I have said in conversation that the only religious people I know who live up to their professions are the Mormons of Utah. This is true. This it is that inspires respect even where there is a total absence of belief in the doctrines of the Church. Your people carry their beliefs into daily life and act as if they think there is something in them. I cannot see how, as a sensible person, if I had the faith to start with, I could do otherwise. For if there is anything in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence, there is everything." And he drew a big black line under the words "anything" and "everything." 

"If there is anything in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence there is everything." 

If you remember nothing that I have said here today excepting that one sentence you will not have come here in vain this morning. That statement is an absolute fact. 

I wrote the Colonel : "It is a fact, it is not a mere belief. The promise of the Savior was, that if any man would do the will of the Father he should know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or of man, and we Latter-day Saints know of the doctrine." 

KNOWLEDGE MUST BE PUT INTO PRACTICE 

But faith and knowledge without practice are of no value. All the knowledge in the world would not amount to anything unless we put that knowledge into actual practice. We are the architects and builders of our lives, and if we fail to put our knowledge into actual practice and do the duties that devolve upon us we are making a failure of life. 

It has fallen to my lot to be in bed for two days under the orders of the doctor. I am instructed to stay with you this morning, but to go to bed this afternoon, and I think this short speech that I have made (and I have tried to make it a little faster than usual so as to get in a little more than I otherwise would do) is about all I need to say, because I do not want to be criticized when I meet the doctor later. I want you to know  I am not sick and if it were not contrary to the doctor's instructions I would stay right here, but he has told me not to come back this afternoon, and what is the use of having a doctor if you do not obey him ? 

INVOKES BLESSING 

May the Lord bless you one and all, is my prayer for you. I thank God that I know we have the truth. I thank God that I know that he lives, that he hears and answers my prayers, that he guides me by his Spirit, that he gives me the inspiration of his Spirit to know what to do and how to do it for the benefit of his people here on the earth. I thank God for the remark made to me by President Joseph F. Smith — the last remark that he made before he passed on — "The Lord knows who he wants to stand at the head of his Church, and the Lord never makes any mistakes. The Lord bless you; the Lord bless you." 

God bless you one and all. May we never lose the knowledge that he lives, that he hears and answers our prayers. May we grow in knowledge of Jesus Christ our Redeemer and Savior. May we grow in a knowledge that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet; that the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, given even before the Church was organized, have been fulfilled time and time again; that his name should be known for good and evil all over the world, and that he should suffer persecutions. Finally he was martyred for the cause. May we be loyal and true to that prophet and to the Gospel of Jesus Christ is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters : Today, after hearing the splendid report of the condition of the Church and the thrilling testimony of President Grant, we are all doubly grateful for our membership in this great Church. 

Those of us who are fairly certain to be called upon at 'these conferences are torn between two desires : To bear testimony under the influence and inspiration of these vast gatherings to the truth of the restored Gospel; or to speak to some subject that seems of importance, perhaps of vital importance, to the Latter-day Cause. For this occasion I have chosen the latter course, and should like to discuss with you during the time allotted me, the reading habit, and especially the practice of the regular reading of the scriptures. It may not be directly a spiritual theme; but I have been impressed from my visits among the Stakes of Zion that it is one that needs to be called to the attention of the Latterday Saints. 

BOOKS AN AID TO CIVILIZATION 

Our present civilization, whether for good or ill, really began when, about four hundred and fifty years ago, the use of movable type in the First Dag  press was invented. By means of this invention the thoughts of men and the knowledge of the world were distributed in inexpensive form among all classes of men. Thereby the prince and the peasant were brought to a more common level; a new freedom was sensed; the minds of men were liberalized; science and its associations came into being. We may safely date our present civilization, with its abundant knowledge and its freedom and richness of life, from the coming of modern printing. 

Latter : day Saints see even more in the coming of this great invention. To us it is part of the divine program to prepare the world for the restoration of the Gospel. Throughout the centuries, the Bible had been available only to a few. The cost of producing hand-made copies was too great for the common man to meet. The rank and file of the people learned of the hand-dealings of God with his chosen people from the lips of others, who often changed both words and meaning of the scriptural passage. 

The new art of printing soon made the Bible available to all. Learned men, lovers of the Lord, were inspired to render the holy scriptures into the languages of the common people. The Bible became a household possession. The word of God was read around the family fireside of the lowly as well as the parlors of the great. Humanity became widely acquainted with the eternal law of the Lord. 

Had it not been for the invention of printing with its gift of more perfect knowledge of the holy scriptures, and the equally new freedom of thought that followed, the coming of the Gospel might have been long delayed. In that sense, we may date even the preparatory Gospel period from the coming of modern printing. 

When at length the Gospel was restored, the press became one of its main allies. The first active work of the Restoration was the translation and printing of the Book of Mormon. Soon thereafter, other publications were issued, and since that time to the present, printed matter has flowed steadily from the presses of the Church, to its members and to the people of the world. From its inception in 1830 to this year of 1939, the Church has made prolific use of printed materials. 

This vast printed Gospel literature has been of untold value in presenting the restored Gospel to the world. Many have come into the Church from the reading of the Book of Mormon. Time and again, a tract, brought by chance to a person's attention, has led to conversion and membership in the Church. A tract in a shoe returned from the shoemaker was the first real teacher of the Gospel to my family. Today, as the Church spreads over the land, the printed page, in book or periodical, is becoming increasingly important in keeping Church members, everywhere, informed of Church progress, and in maintaining uniformity VALUE OF LITERATURE IN THE CHURCH  Church doctrine and practice. The printed page has been and is a powerful means to accomplish the labors that the Lord has laid upon his Church. 

FAITH INCREASES BY STUDY OF GOSPEL PRINCIPLES 

Faith itself, the foundation principle of the Gospel, may be developed and maintained by use of printed words. Faith is a living thing, subject to all the laws of life. It may be begotten; it may grow; it may weaken; it may die. Therefore it must be cherished, fostered and fed. Regular, continuous Gospel study, through the printed page, is of prime importance in the maintaining and growth of certain belief. 

Moreover, faith must be intelligent. Ignorance breeds superstition, the opposite of faith. Knowledge is a vital ingredient of the foundation of faith. The gaining of knowledge has ever been enjoined upon the Latter-day Saints. "Man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge" declared Joseph Smith. That means, of course, knowledge of truth, the highest expression of which is the Gospel. The position of knowledge is high in the Kingdom of God. Reading is a main avenue to knowledge. 

The man who does not add knowledge to knowledge, throughout his life, may endanger his very faith. Latter-day Saints should be readers; they should cultivate the reading habit. 

With all this before us, the available evidence indicates that we are not a reading people. Our reading seems to be occasional, unsystematic and fragmentary. The motion picture, the radio, and the automobile, all welcomed by Latter-day Saints, have unduly invaded our reading time. These great gifts to man should be enjoyed by all, but they should be used wisely and moderately, if our zest for them is to be keen. The best of things may be overdone. 

DAILY READING HABIT URGED 

The reading habit is most valuable in life. I mean by that the practice of using a little time, say half an hour a day, in the systematic reading of worthwhile literature. The mind is opened to precious fields of thought; the achievements of the ages become ours; even the future takes form. As the mind and spirit are fed by well chosen reading, comfort, peace and understanding come to the soul. Those who have not tried it, have missed a keen and easily accessible joy. 

Moreover, a person who engages in such regular daily reading, if only a few minutes a day, in the course of a few years becomes a learned man. But it must be a regular, daily habit. It is a common experience in the foreign mission field that the less educated man who studies the new language without missing a day becomes a more perfect master, and that sooner, of the language, than the more highly trained elder, who studies the language by fits and starts. Some of the best educated men that I have met have never been in college but have acquired the habit of daily reading of good books for a few minutes a day. And, may I add, this applies to leaders as to the people. 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

WARNING AGAINST DEMORALIZING LITERATURE 

Of course, reading, as everything else, may be misused. There is on our American market a mass of worthless literature, books and magazines, often sexy, unsound and demoralizing. The land is flooded with them; they are available in every village. They are poisonous offerings which too often make up the reading of young and old. It is a type of intellectual and spiritual suicide. The effects of such reading are much like those of habit-forming drugs, creating unnatural, unhealthy desires, and weakening both body and mind. Such time as we do give to reading should be devoted to carefully selected literature, high grade magazines and books, which cost no more, but build up the mind, and feed the spirit of man. 

THE GOSPEL TO BE STUDIED IN THE PRINTED WORD 

However, let it be remembered that no practice surpasses that of reading daily from the sacred scriptures of the Church, and from the expositions of Church history and doctrine by competent writers on Gospel subjects, found in the books, pamphlets and periodicals issued by the Church. The Gospel is a vast system of truth, of such eternal meaning that it is never exhausted. The more it is studied, the more interesting and appealing it becomes. And, the opened vistas of truth that come to the earnest student of the scriptures, increase and maintain faith in the truth and reality of the Gospel. Knowledge of the Gospel is food for faith in the Gospel. Only by careful and continued study can a vision of the majesty of the Gospel be won. Many a spiritual failure may be traced to Gospel starvation. 

I fear that too many Latter-day Saints know the Gospel only superficially, and take most of it for granted, without making the effort of inquiry. This is in direct contradiction to the Gospel principle that every member of the Church must, as it were, stand upon his own feet, and know for himself that the Gospel is true. The words of the Lord are clear : "And the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures are given of me for your instruction, and the power of my spirit quickeneth all things." 

I urge upon all Latter-day Saints to read the scriptures, thoughtfully, every day. In some households it may even be possible to read a chapter from the scriptures before the evening meal begins, when the family are seated around the table. The practice is helpful to young people. 

SCRIPTURES A GUIDE TO RIGHT LIVING 

Whoever has failed to read the scriptures has missed much in life. The beauty and eloquence of language, and the sublimity of ideas, found in the Bible, are not even approached in any man-made literature. The simple faith, and clear exposition of eternal truth, in the Book of Mormon, are as a light on the path of life. The solemnity of thought, and the echo of the voice of the Lord, in the Doctrine and Covenants, guide men in the actions of their lives. And the picture of the eternal love of 

God for his children as set forth in the Pearl of Great Price makes the human heart swell with joy. We may well pity the man who does not know the scriptures of the Lord. 

If mankind would turn daily to the word of God as found in the scriptures there would be less of warfare and misery, and the dawn of peace would be seen. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE CHURCH 

Much of our reading may be supplied, in addition to the standard Church works, by the splendid publications of the Church. The Deseret News is a most excellent source of live news, none better, for all who live within the radius of its operations. Every Latter-day Saint family so located which seeks a daily newspaper should subscribe to the Deseret News. Several magazines appeal to special groups within the Church : The Improvement Era, the organ of the Priesthood quorums, Mutual Improvement Associations, Department of Education, Music Committee, Ward Teachers, and others; the Relief Society Magazine representing the great body of mature women in the Church, represented here today by these 1300 melodious Singing Mothers; The Instructor, for all Sunday School workers; The Children's Friend for children under the direction of the Primary Association; and The Genealogical and Historical Magazine, organ of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Besides, there is a somewhat steady flow from Church headquarters of books and pamphlets dealing with the Gospel and related subjects. 

While it may not be expected that every family shall possess and read all this material, yet I have a feeling that those who complain most about our wealth of Church literature, are those who read that literature least. Those who do give some time regularly to our Church literature keep up with the progress of the Lord's mighty work, and also increase in Gospel knowledge and Gospel power. 

ADVICE GIVEN TO HYRUM SMITH 

Before the Church was organized, Hyrum Smith became convinced of the truth of his brother's message, and with the fiery zeal of the new convert, desired to go out to preach the Gospel. But, the Lord restrained him and asked him to wait a while. "Seek not to declare my word," said the Lord, "but first seek to obtain my word. . . . Study my word . . . until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto." This divine counsel given to Hyrum Smith may well be taken to heart by us of this day. By the study of God's word, we shall not only have the visions of the Gospel opened before us, but our faith will increase and we shall be better able to do our part in carrying forward the latter-day cause of the Lord, for our own welfare and that of our fellow men. 

GRATITUDE FOR THE GOSPEL 

I am grateful for the Gospel, and its advancement among the children 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday, April 6 First Day 

of men; for its truth which throws light into the dark corners of life; and for the faith which every man may win who but seeks it, which declares the reality of the Gospel and all its claims; for the written word to guide and comfort us. As a people we must cherish the gift of the Gospel, increase our faith by adding knowledge to knowledge and good works to better works. 

May the Lord help us so to do, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. BROADBENT 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters : If we are to "work out our own salvation with fear and trembling," I made considerable progress six months ago when I sat here through six long meetings fearing and waiting for this opportunity and then did not get it. 

I value above all else in the world my membership in this Church. I take it that it is not expected, nor is it my privilege to preach the Gospel to the Saints at home; my appointment is to those abroad in the world. 

We have a fine group of men and women, your sons and daughters — eighty-two in number at present — laboring in the North Central States Mission. They are all well, they are all happy in their labors and rejoicing in the privilege that is theirs to be representatives of this great Church. 

As Pasteur seems to have proven definitely that "only life can produce life," I am becoming quite convinced during a period of less than two years of presiding in our mission that only effective Church training can produce effective missionaries. We have missionaries of all grades of scholastic training, but neither scholarship nor technical theological knowledge makes successful missionaries; but almost without exception, he or she who has come up through the training of the organizations of our Church, and from homes wherein is found a testimony of the Gospel in which our youths and maidens have imbibed the spirit of the Gospel, these are ready to enter immediately into active service when they arrive in the mission field, regardless of their intellectual training. In saying this I am not unmindful of the fact that "the glory of God is intelligence" and that "a man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge," yet learning has to be made over into wisdom and we have to make ourselves sensitive to the power of the Lord. As the humble fishermen in the days of Christ proved superior to the trained Rabbi, so our missionaries, male and female, who are "born again," in spite of their lack of worldly knowledge prove to be strong expounders of the restored Gospel. These touch the hearts of men great and small as measured by the world. These touch the heart and demonstrate the scriptural truth that "No one can say that Jesus is the Christ except by the Holy Ghost." 

I find definite and constant evidence in the mission field that those who have not been trained in our homes and in our organizations, that it takes these almost as long as though they were in a foreign field having to master a foreign language, to become real ambassadors of the truth. Unless we are "born again," and I take it that when Christ said this to Nicodemus he meant just what we find with our young men and women in the mission field, not a mere immersion in water, but a real new birth of the Spirit of this great cause of which he is the founder. Until our men and maidens are born again they are almost worthless as missionaries. And yet, the greatest miracle in the Church, as I view it, is to be seen in the growth and development of each one when he finds himself under the inspiration of his divine calling and appointment. Nothing now seems to hinder him from becoming a great and worthy representative of the Church. 

There is no question in my mind but that any of our youths can make good in the mission field if they have come from homes of Latterday Saints who are keeping the commandments of God and have had the proper training in the Church organizations. Solomon did not say, "Teach a child in the way he should go," but he said "Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it." The training is by far greater than is the intellectual attainment that we get from mere teaching. The fishermen of old, those whom Christ selected from the shores of Galilee, were not scholarly men, but under the spirit and power of the inspiration of Almighty God they were unequaled in solving the problems of life in their day, and it is similar today. Knowledge, a great fund of information, is valuable, the more we have the better, provided we have that inspiration which comes only from a divine source; for "knowledge is power" when applied, but it cannot be applied in the mission field effectively except when used under the spirit of a testimony of the Gospel of Christ. 

We are often responsible for the non-conversion of those among whom we labor because we have not learned "that the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness." 

I rejoice in the privilege that is given me and my family and to those who are laboring joyously with us in speaking for this Church. I know it to be the Church of God as I know that I live. I will go to the ends of the earth any time, anywhere under this inspired leadership which is ours, no matter where the call may be. I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, I know that Joseph Smith is his prophet and that he was the medium in the hands of God in restoring the everlasting Gospel. I know full well that every man who has succeeded him as President of the Church to the present time is a prophet of God. Only those who are not in tune with the spirit of this Gospel stand in criticism of the leadership that is ours today. 

God bless us. God give us power that we may fill our responsibilities to his name's honor and glory and for our own blessing and 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

benefit. I have learned that every commandment of God, every injunction is for my benefit and blessing. I see even in the commandment to Adam and Eve when cast from the garden of Eden and the "earth was cursed for man's sake," that this "cursing" was in reality a great blessing. It was a privilege to work. If we do not sweat with work we shall sweat with disease. This was not a cursing of the earth for the cursing's sake, but that man should be compelled to work that he might be permitted to develop in service, that we might grow through achievement. 

God grant that we may see our opportunities in this great Church and lend our entire support to it, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORLANDO C. WILLIAMS 

President of the Spanish- American Mission 

My brethren and sisters : Following in Brother Broadbent's steps, I can say amen to his opening remarks. I wish to say that I am happy to be with you and I have thrilled to the testimonies we have heard this morning, and particularly was I thrilled again by the voice of our prophet leader and by his testimony. I feel that his vigor, his clear-cut testimony, and his quoting of the scriptures to us are a challenge to every member of this Church, and particularly to the missionaries and those who hope to be missionaries. I feel also that his life is an example to all of us, which we can well follow, and we know that he has reaped the benefit of the scripture in the statement that "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." 

And if we in a small measure would enjoy the blessings of our Heavenly Father while we are here upon this earth we should also follow that injunction, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." 

I wish to report that the missionaries — sixty-three of them, your sons and daughters — in the Spanish-American Mission are well and happy in their work. We have enjoyed better health so far this year in the mission than at any other time since I have presided over it, and for this we are grateful. Their testimonies are growing, they are becoming more useful day by day, and by the blessings of our Heavenly Father the work is going forward among those with whom we are laboring. The Branches and Sunday Schools of the mission are being strengthened, they are being better organized, the people feel a new strength, a new desire to go forward in the work of the Lord, and they are happy in the work. It is a pleasure above all else that I have enjoyed to represent the Church in a mission in the world, and it is a pleasure for your sons and daughters to preach the Gospel of the Lord and Master, that others may be brought to a knowledge of the same. 

We depend on your faith and prayers at home, and the report we have received this morning of the growth and the strength of this Church will be an added inspiration and stimulus to us to carry on in the work  is before us. We have often heard it preached that after this life we would sit on a golden throne and play a golden harp or sing songs, and while we know that this is not so, I do hope that there will be "Singing Mothers" in heaven, because I have been inspired this morning by their songs and by the spirit of the same. In some of the missions we have a lack of choirs that are properly trained. Ofttimes the missionaries are unable to sing the songs of Zion as we would love to have them do, to carry the spirit that comes through singing, but we are trying to develop the talents that are natural to our people, and where there is a large enough congregation in our Branches we are developing that part of the work. 

The Lord has poured out his Spirit upon us, and recently in a tour of the mission we reached over three thousand people who are not members of the Church, and were able to preach the Gospel to them. The work of the mission quartet was outstanding, and it has opened the doors of many hundreds of people to our missionaries. The missionaries report that in nearly every instance the doors are open to them, and all we need is more missionaries to help take care of the work, to preach the Gospel to those who are anxiously awaiting it. I feel with you that the motto of this people is, onward and forward, in a progressive movement that is natural and normal, although I believe it will be more phenomenal in the future than it has been in the past. 

I wish to leave with you my testimony that I know that God lives, that his Only Begotten Son was the Christ, sent to the earth to redeem mankind, and that only by living the commandments that he gave us will we be saved. I also bear you my testimony that our leaders are inspired men, that they are placed here in authority over us, that they are doing the work that God intended that they should do, and that if we will only follow their counsel and advice we will be in the way of salvation. This I leave with you humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy The Savior said, as recorded in the Gospel of St. Matthew : 

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. 

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven. (Matt. 5: 14-16). 

PROPER LEADERSHIP NEEDED 

In these troubled times the Latter-day Saints have a great opportunity to bring to mankind a necessary type of leadership. Serious problems confront young and old alike. Many are sorely tried through economic difficulties. Others are being lured away by the wicked who conspire 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

to get gain through merchandising the souls of the people. Yet the majority of the people desire that which is good. Generally they are willing to do right, if they are properly directed. 

In every neighborhood and community there is a demand for leadership and faith to dispel perplexity and implant a firmness of purpose which all men need in these troublesome times. An outstanding figure in every circle has the power to influence his associates, and if that individual has a true conception of leadership, he may become a blessing — not only to his immediate circle, but to his community, his Church, his state and nation. 

THE POWER TO DEVELOP LEADERSHIP 

Frequently we hear men and women lamenting the lack of persons upon whom they may depend to step out and take a directing position in their organizations. We hear this from many of our own people who seem to forget that we have the power within the Church to develop the finest kind of leadership known upon earth; not only individual leadership, but collective leadership, which in turn can make of this people a mighty power for good in the world. It has already done so to the extent that now in many places, the Latter-day Saints are recognized for what they really have accomplished. We can and must carry this progress still further, until we truly become as a city on a hill, a beacon light in the dark of night, setting an example in the art of living which will attract the gaze of thinking people everywhere. 

To do this will require the united effort of the members of the Church and the perpetuation of the high standards and high ideals fostered by the Church. We must provide the leadership in our wards and branches to achieve this purpose. 

FIRST ELEMENT OF TRUE LEADERSHIP 

If we are to do so we must learn that the first element of true leadership is faith in God and obedience to his principles. This truth has been recognized all down the ages. We are all familiar with the example of Saul who lost his position as a leader and king of Israel because of his failure to obey the command of the Lord as given through Samuel the prophet. The essence of the rebuke uttered then is pertinent today. 

Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. (1 Sam. 15 :22). 

We are equally familiar with the blessings and strength of leadership which came to Nephi as a result of his willingness to obey the teachings of his father Lehi. 

If we would succeed in developing true leadership within our own groups, then let us remember that the first essential is to follow willingly the advice and counsel of those who preside over the Church. 

LEADERSHIP THROUGH CHURCH ACTIVITY 

The next step is activity. Experience has shown us that the great developer of leadership among the Latter-day Saints is activity in the Church — participation in the programs of the various quorums and auxiliary organizations. How many times have you seen men or women weak and trembling from inexperience, when placed in positions of responsibility grow into stalwarts in the Church, as they have assumed the mantle of their calling and diligently endeavored to build up the kingdom of God here upon the earth ? 

You have also seen young men called on missions who have seemed weak and timid, but when they have returned after two years or more of active service in the mission field, you have seen a transformation you could hardly have believed possible. Why ? Because they have developed the qualities of leadership through their persistent activity in the Church. 

There is no better evidence of the fact that activity in the Church develops the quality of leadership in the lives of the Latter-day Saints than in the careers of the men who have presided over the Church. 

The humble beginning of the Prophet Joseph Smith is well known. His education was limited. He was obliged to start work early in his life to contribute to the support of himself and other members of the family. Yet from that humble beginning he became one of the greatest prophets of all time. He not only became the dynamic leader of a fast-growing modern Church, but he set forth principles of government worthy of study by our greatest statesmen and in the latter part of his life became a candidate for president of the United States. 

He was a great colonizer in the central west, and envisioned the eventual movement of the Pioneers to the Rocky Mountains. He became one of the great leaders of all time, and all this through his activity and faith and obedience to God and the Church of Christ. 

Brigham Young likewise had a humble beginning. He was a tradesman in very ordinary circumstances. When he joined the Church and entered heartily into its activities he began the development of traits of leadership which today are being heralded in motion pictures, over radio broadcasts and among men trained to measure greatness in the perspective in the passing of time. He successfully directed the emigration of the Latter-day Saints to Utah and later the colonization of a large section of western America. All of this grew out of his activities in the Church, out of giving his time and talents unselfishly to the development of the Kingdom of God. 

President Taylor, President Woodruff, and President Snow also had humble beginnings. They, too, rose from the ranks and achieved greatness through their untiring service in the Church. 

Many of those within the sound of my voice remember President Joseph F. Smith. Few boys had a more humble beginning than he. Deprived of both of his parents early in life, he was obliged to work hard for a living, but he gave himself freely to the work of the Lord. Through active service in the Church he developed rare qualities of 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Thursday. April 6 First Day 

leadership. As he served, he grew in power, until the time came when he stood at the head of the Church, giving it an inspired administration. 

President Grant on various occasions has told us of the humble beginning he had; and of his weakness in going to preside over the Tooele Stake as a young man. But when we regard the President as he is today, we are inspired by the greatness of his leadership, and his faith in the work of the Lord. 

Few men have received the high tributes of love and esteem that have come to him. Yet every tribute has been earned by continuous unselfish service in behalf of his fellowmen. Through his inspired leadership he today directs the religious affairs of nearly a million members of the Church in all parts of the world. 

And how did he achieve this power of leadership ? We answer : Through service in the Church of Christ our Lord. 

Every one of us wields some influence among those with whom we associate. No matter in what capacity we may serve, we can develop qualities of leadership through unselfish service in the Church. We then shall grow in power and influence and thus shall we learn the truth of these words : 

Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. (Matt. 20:26,27). 

BETTER QUALIFIED TO PREACH GOSPEL 

If we collectively grow in our obedience to God's commands and increase our activity in his Church, we shall be in better position to teach the Gospel to all the world, and to teach more impressively because of the kind of lives we live. 

The world today is sorely in need of the principles of the Gospel. In America we have an abundance of gold and silver and foodstuffs, and much intellectual power, but we lack the desire to worship God. All must be brought to a knowledge of this condition and learn to repent of their transgressions. 

The Latter-day Saints hold the key to this situation — the inspired words of God that have come to the children of men from the time of the beginning of this Church, inspiring those great leaders even until now, must be taken into consideration by the doubter and by those who do not know. 

We pray for the children of men in all the world, in this city where we live, the country round about us, and in all nations of the earth. We pray God to give us the power to do our part, and we do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very grateful myself, and I am sure that you all are, to the Singing Mothers for the lovely music to which we have listened; we appreciate it very much indeed. 

AVOID AUTO ACCIDENTS 

Our City Fathers have requested us one and all to be careful of automobile accidents. I want to ask as a personal favor that people quit breaking the speed limit in this city. If they happen to see a green light you would think that someone was dying, the way they try to get there before it changes to a red light; you would think that life and death were at stake. I have had automobiles pass me time and time again when I was going just the speed limit, and then they generally get to the light too late and the red light comes on. If the city would pass an ordinance to the effect that every one should send in the name of every man who passes him breaking the speed limit, trying to get through the green light, and if they would take the testimony of that one person, provided there was no other person to testify to it, I think they would collect in fines about a thousand dollars a day in this city. There is no necessity to break the speed limit, none whatever, and of course there is no necessity of always trying to get your right-of-way when it is your turn. 

Here lies the body of William Gray, Who died maintaining his right of way. Now William was right as he sped along, But he's just as dead as if he'd been wrong. 

Let the other fellow have the right-of-way. 

An anthem, "O Bread of Life," was sung by the Singing Mothers. Elder Hyrum B. Calder, President of the Uintah Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


