Afternoon
07 04 1939

Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., Friday, April 7. 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted this, the fourth session of the Conference, and announced that the music for this session would be furnished by the Nebo Stake Choir, J. D. Christensen, Director. 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Do What Is Right." 

Elder John C. Todd, President of the Gridley Stake offered the opening prayer. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

President Grant was advised to conserve his strength this afternoon, and so he is following the advice of his physician. There is nothing serious, however, nothing about which to be alarmed. He is listening in to the services and is with us in spirit. 

The Nebo Stake Choir sang "Recessional" (DieKoven), Irene Provostgaurd, soloist. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers during the moment or two that I shall stand before you this day. 

AN EXPRESSION OF GRATITUDE 

I am gratified to know that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as it has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is true. I am grateful for my membership in this Church. I am particularly grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity that has been afforded me in visiting some of the stakes of Zion this past year, and in becoming acquainted with you. 

I have nothing in my heart but gratitude and appreciation for the association that is mine with the leadership of this Church. I have found these men to be inspired leaders of the Lord, with but one desire in their hearts, and that to diligently labor for the benefit and the welfare of the membership of this great Church. 

To me, the Church has two objectives. The first one is to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. That has been and is being accomplished through the efforts of the young men and women who are representing the Church in the world today, under the inspired leadership of the mission presidents. 

THE VALUE OF COUNSEL 

The next objective, as I understand it, is that one which has to do with the entire membership of the Church, to see that they are counseled, advised, exhorted, and stimulated to the utmost to observe all that the Lord requires of his people. 

A statement of one of the' ancients impresses upon us the value of counsel, "Where no counsel is, the people fall; but in the multitude of counselors there is safety." In the restoration of the Church organization the Lord placed in it offices and officers for the purpose of counseling the people, that they might live and be in safety. The first great counselor to the people is the President of the Church, a prophet, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, with the right to counsel and advise the people in all things, be they temporal or spiritual. 

We accept the President of the Church as a prophet of the Lord. The Lord reveals to him his mind and will, as it pertains to' us. Amos of old said, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." And we have a prophet in our midst, through whom the Lord makes known his mind and will. 

The President of the Church and the prophet of the Lord holds another prerogative, another right, by virtue of his calling, which none of us should ever question, the right to raise a voice of warning when any issue arises that endangers the moral, temporal, or spiritual welfare of the people. 

The two counselors of the President have the right to counsel, advise, and exhort us. The Council of the Twelve are sent to the stakes periodically to advise and counsel the people, and to build up the Kingdom. We have the First Council of the Seventy, Stake Presidents, and Bishops, sharing the responsibility of teaching the people. There is also another great group of counselors to the people. This group of counselors is found in every ward. They may number from forty to probably one hundred and twenty-five. We call them Teachers, men endowed with the Priesthood sent out to counsel and teach the people at least once a month. 

In the twentieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the fiftieth to fifty-fifth verses, we read : 

But when there is an elder present, he is only to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, 

And visit the house of each member, exhorting them to pray vocally 

and in secret and attend to all family duties. 

***** 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

The teacher's duty is to watch over the Church always, and be with them and strengthen them; 

And see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking. 

And see that the Church meet together often, and also see that all members do their duty. 

THE DUTY OF TEACHERS 

These are the Teachers that have the direct contact with each and every family in the Church. These Teachers have definite responsibilities, and I should like to point out several of them. First, a Teacher should lead an exemplary life. Secondly, he should be prepared and understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He should approach his work with a prayerful attitude. He should visit regularly, and preclude all material and conversation that does not pertain to the monthly message. And finally, to follow the admonition as given to us in the revelation, to watch over the Church always, to be with and strengthen them, not only in times of prosperity, but in times of death, sickness, economic stress, and particularly where there are cases of inactivity in the ward. 

There is no greater assignment to the Priesthood than watching over the Church. The missionary objective of the Church is a great one. It brings members into the Church. But this assignment of watching over the Church is just as important. It has its place, for with this assignment we keep those who come into the Church, active, interested and stimulated. 

Those of us who are taught by these Teachers have some responsibilities. When these Teachers visit our homes they should be received as representatives either of the Presidency of the Church, the stake presidency, or the bishop of the ward. They should be regarded as servants of the Lord, receiving every courtesy. The evening paper should be laid aside, the radio turned off, the family called together, and the leading of the discussion turned over to the Teachers. 

The Teachers have another obligation. It is their duty not only to call upon these families once a month, but to visit them often. They should think of them in terms of being shepherds of the flock. The greatest example of a real shepherd is found in the case of the Lord Jesus, when he instructed Peter to "feed my sheep and feed my lambs," and then told the beautiful story of the shepherd who had lost one of the fold, and leaving the other ninety-nine who were secure in the fold, hastened into the desert to rescue the lost one. The duty of the Teachers of the Church should always be to rescue the lost ones, bringing them back into the fold. 

There isn't a parent who does not have the heartfelt desire of having his son or daughter understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Complaints are often heard about our young people attending institutions of learning, and coming in contact with the theories of men, which have disrupted their faith in and attitude toward religion. If we take advantage, brethren and sisters, of these 'visits, permitting our boys and girls to  in the discussion, thus receiving an understanding of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, they will be fortified, when attending other institutions, against the doctrines of men. 

There isn't an individual in this Church, who has the interest of the youth at heart, but who would be thrilled to have his boy or his girl stand up and say, as Ruth of old said to her companion: "Your people shall be my people, and your God my God." In teaching the people, it should be one of our objectives to touch the hearts of the youth. 

This teaching and counseling is in full accord with the first organization of the Church. We find that the Apostle Paul, in speaking to the Ephesian Saints, said : 

And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors, and teachers; 

For the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ; 

Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ. 

In this day of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, he has again set some apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers for the purpose of counseling the people, perfecting the Saints, until we all come to a knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ and his purposes, and a unity of the faith. 

If we fulfil the obligation that rests upon us, we will consider this matter of teaching the people as the highest and the most important calling that can come to us in the stakes and the wards of Zion. 

THE CHURCH TO BE A STANDARD TO THE WORLD 

The Lord has given us a definite mission to fulfil to the world. This Church and people are to become a light unto the world, a beacon on a hill, for he said to us, in the 115 Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verse 5 : 

Verily I say unto you all : Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations. 

The light of this Church will be a standard to the world, insofar as we strengthen its membership, individually and collectively. 

I sincerely pray that the Lord will bless us that we may have in our hearts always a burning testimony of the divine origin of this great organization and its purposes, that when the day comes to stand before the nations we shall be prepared to stand as a source of truth, inspiration, and good works, which I pray will be the achievement of all of us, in the name of Jesus Christ- Amen, GENERAL CONFERENCE ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Notwithstanding, my brothers and sisters, the timid feeling that is in my soul, I am very happy to be called upon to speak this afternoon. 

OPPORTUNITIES GIVEN THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

When I see the large congregation of men and women that we have today, and the large congregation of women that we had the other day when this Tabernacle was filled with Relief Society workers, and when I see the great number of members of the Priesthood who gather in this building, and know of the large attendance of members of the Church that we have in our ward and stake conferences and our auxiliary meetings, it impresses me with the fact we, as a people, are surely blessed in the opportunities that are given to us for religious training and development. This opportunity that we have of being members of the Church, and participating in the activities of the Church, surely trains us in leadership, and trains us to be intelligent followers. 

We are a church of office holders. The majority of us have been leaders in the Church, are leaders, or some day will be. Paradoxically, we are all followers, and none of us is exempt from the directing influence of other men and women who may have been appointed to preside over us. The privilege of presiding gives us training in leadership and executive ability. To be a follower trains us in humility and appreciation of our brothers and sisters in the Church, and helps us to be sympathetic, kind and tolerant towards each other. 

Perhaps these blessings have come to us because of the type of organization which we have in the Church. We are divided into stakes and wards and missions and branches. Being in small units we are able to know each other personally and to be helpful to each other in time of need. This type of organization gives us the same advantages in the Church units as the family gives the father and mother and the boys and girls in the family unit. 

Then, again, we have the auxiliaries, in which we have another opportunity to teach or to be taught, to be a leader or to be a follower. The objectives of these auxiliary organizations are to train us in the things of God, to help us to have faith in the revealed word of our Heavenly Father, to acquaint us with the cultural things of life, and to give us an opportunity of participating in different types of activity that mean development and progress. 

PRIESTHOOD INTENDED FOR SERVICE 

Perhaps our greatest blessing is the Priesthood. Most of the male members of the Church have the opportunity of holding the Priesthood of the Lord, functioning in the activities of the Priesthood, and performing duties and obligations that bring happiness and comfort and consola to the members of the Church. All of these things are an advantage to us in our progress and development, but they are of no value unless we use them as they should be used. We are given the Priesthood so that we might act in the name of the Lord, and perform services for him to benefit and help our brothers and sisters in the Church. If we are only going to hold the Priesthood because it is offered to us, or because we have arrived at a certain age, I am sure that it is not very valuable to us. 

I am convinced that the Lord did not intend that we should have the Priesthood just to hold, but that he expects us to function honorably and progressively in this Priesthood. There seems to be no justice in ordaining a boy who is a Priest, to the office of an Elder if he hasn't functioned as a Priest, or shown any desire to do the things that might have been assigned to him. 

There is no particular use of having our auxiliary organizations unless we go to them, unless they are carried on in the best possible way, and unless in them we are taught correct doctrine. It seems to me that the Church shouldn't have to be worrying about the correctness of doctrines being taught in our auxiliary organizations. The type of men and women selected for teachers and the care given the preparation of study courses should prove ample safeguard. 

"harmonizers" 

Recently I have been talking to some individuals about science and religion. Some of them are teachers in our auxiliaries and other Church institutions. Because of their attitude and their frequent reference to the word "harmonize" I have, for my own convenience, called them "harmonizers." As near as I can find out, a harmonizer in the Church is one who can take the doctrines and revealed word of the Lord and adroitly, by some whittling or some minor operation, if necessary, fit them into the scientific and intellectual puzzles of the day, without any apparent harm, (from his point of view) to the doctrine of the Church, or to the puzzle, or to the student. 

MANY BLESSINGS 

It seems to me, brethren and sisters, that when we have all of these advantages in the way of small units where we are kept closely together in the auxiliaries that perform a certain important and vital part of the Lord's work, and when we have the Priesthood which brings happiness and comfort, that we are indeed a blessed people and we should be, as undoubtedly we are, very grateful unto our Heavenly Father for all these blessings. 

I trust, brethren and sisters, that as Latter-day Saints we will take advantage of the opportunities that are available to us so that the Lord will be more pleased with us than he may be at the present time, and that because of the righteousness of our lives we may receive greater blessings and be more worthy of a place in his kingdom. This I humbly pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 % Second Day 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Associate to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I deem it a privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this great conference, and partake of the spirit that has been manifest in all the meetings thus far. I rejoice in the wonderful spirit of testimony and instruction that have been given to us. I have been delighted with the beautiful music that has been rendered. I have been greatly impressed with the song that was sung this afternoon, that we should still appreciate the sacrifice established of the Lord, that we should have a broken heart and a contrite spirit, love him and serve him, and not forget the covenants we have made with him. 

It is a pleasure to hear our President bear the splendid testimony he has given, and to receive the fine report that was made at the beginning of the conference with regard to the splendid condition of the Church, and the work that has been done in the past year. 

There is a great responsibility that rests upon every one who stands up to speak to this people. It is a fact that this is the people of the Lord, that this is the work of the Lord and that every one who is engaged therein has a responsibility to do his part in the advancement of this work. My desire is to help in the very best way I can to accomplish the designs of the Lord, in the advancement of his purposes and the welfare of the people. 

MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE 

I was interested this morning in what Elder Smoot was saying about the subject of divorce and the degenerative effects of divorce upon civilization today. Honorable marriage is of fundamental importance to the progress of civilization, and divorce is one of the most serious problems in the state of our civilization. In examining the records of marriage and divorce in the United States and in the Church, it appears that the average marriage rate for the nation — the latest year in which I have complete information — was 10.28 per 1000 population as compared with 17.3 per 1000 population for the Church, or about 70% more for the Church. In the matter of divorce, the national rate averaged 1.61 as compared with 0.76 per 1000 population for the Church, or about 53% less for the. Church. In the instance of divorces after Temple marriages, the rate was 0.30 per 1000 population, or about 82% less than for the nation. Comparison of marriage and divorce rates in each case shows that in the nation the divorce rate was 15.6% of the marriage rate, in the Church generally the average divorce rate was 4.4%, and . after Temple marriages, the divorce rate was about 1.7% of the marriage rate, 

TEMPLE MARRIAGES 

A study of this information reveals the fact that of those married in the temples there are relatively very few divorces. It is to be exELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 83 

pected that such should be the case, and that those married under such impressive conditions and under a covenant with such sacredness and holiness, would not break the contract. When it is realized that such a covenant involves the unity of man and wife for all eternity, it is natural that each of the parties should not be hasty in taking this important step, but should seek to be fully prepared through love and faith to continue this sacred relation throughout this life. To fulfil most fully the requirements for a happy marriage the two must be filled with true love, charity, forgiveness, mutual consideration and patience. They must have love for children, and be willing to bear children, and train them in faith and righteousness. It is evident that there are some cases where those who have entered into this covenant were not prepared through longsuffering, forgiveness and love to be united forever in harmony and happiness. The young people everywhere throughout the Church should be impressed with the great advantage that will come to them throughout their lives through being prepared to go to the Temple and enter into this covenant of marriage. From the information submitted above, it will be evident that temple marriage covenants are most helpful in maintaining happy homes, and love, peace, unity, patience and forgiveness between parents and children, all of which are most effective in developing the finest civilization. 

PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 

One of the greatest obligations resting upon the parents is that of parental responsibility. The duty of the parents to bring up their children in the faith and knowledge of the Gospel is co-equal with the duty of the Church to preach the Gospel in all the world. I desire to read to you a few words of scripture revealed by the Lord in the restoration of the Gospel in the 19th century, as contained in the 68th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. 

And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

May I also quote from Proverbs, the saying of the wise man : 

Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it. 

One of our speakers yesterday commented on the fact that to train a child comprehends much more than teaching, because the training involves not only the instruction but the application thereof also in the life 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

of the child, and the observance of those principles and habits that will enalble him to establish himself in the right way. In the Book of Mormon, King Benjamin declared (Mos. 4:14, 15): 

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, * * * 

But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another. 

HOME THE FOUNDATION OF SOCIETY 

The home is the foundation of society, and to the extent that there is a proper spiritual influence in the homes of this people, depends the right living of the families of the Church. Someone has said that "Home is the weakest link in the armor of the American nation," and a rather prominent educator from the East, who spoke at the commencemenl exercises of the University of Utah some years ago, declared that "the greatest contributing factor to vice and evil in America today is the average father and mother." Such serious indictments of the average family bring home to us, particularly, how important it is that no Latterday Saint home should be included in such a category. 

PREPARATION FOR CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

I desire to appeal to every Latter-day Saint parent — father and mother, — to be united with each other and their children in observing the principles of the Gospel, in the training of their children to take active part in Church service, and in seeking the Lord often in prayer. Can we not, all as parents, teach our children faith in the Lord and repentance from the follies of youth, and prepare them to be baptized when they are eight years of age ? Can we then not continue to encourage them in the performance of their Church duties? Can we not maintain the spirit of the Gospel in all our homes, and imbue the hearts of our children with a love of divine truth? The Church is greatly blessed in the splendid service being rendered by the various auxiliary associations for the benefit of the children and older members. These organizations are and can be of great advantage to all Church members. But, at the same time, it must be realized that parents cannot escape the responsibility that is theirs — the prime obligation — to teach and train their children to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and in devotion to the Gospel truths, in order to maintain thereby happy, peaceful, united homes. 

AN ARMY OF YOUNG PEOPLE 

It would appear that the number of young people in the stakes of Zion under the age of twenty-one years approximates one-third of a million souls. What an army of splendid young men and women this is, and what a challenge to all the parents in all the stakes of Zion to exemplify the high standards of the Church, and to train their children in faith and righteousness! 

TRAINING OF CHILDREN 

The correct training of children is of fundamental importance to the child and to the happiness and peace of the parents. From its infancy up every child is entitled to the love and spiritual care which it deserves and which will establish it in faith and confidence in the Lord and in his purposes. As every boy and girl approaches eight years of age, they should be taught clearly and lovingly the atonement of the Savior for us all, and the first principles of the Gospel. This spiritual development should be carefully and wisely continued. Every young person should be encouraged to take part in the various Church activities. They should learn the value of prayer and of faith and the blessings which follow. It is a splendid practice for families to discuss Gospel principles and the application of the same in the lives of family members. They should be encouraged to read the Standard Church Works and to discuss incidents in ancient scripture and in Church history. They should learn the importance of gaining a spiritual testimony of the divinity of the Gospel restoration, and realize that such testimonies come through living the Gospel principles and observing the commandments of the Lord. 

HEALTH TRAINING 

In like manner, everyone of the family in childhood and in their growth to man or womanhood should be taught principles of health, and learn to observe health habits. They should be shown how much better and finer they will be through resisting the use of narcotics and stimulants. They must learn to differentiate between false, misleading advertising of stimulants and narcotics, and true statements. No one needs to be misled by such alluring advertisements of cigarettes, for example, which are pictured as soothing and upbuilding the body, whereas in fact they are destructive to health and cause weakening of the vital forces of the body. Yet, because of the very extensive advertising campaigns carried on during the seven years from 1930 to 1937, the sale of cigarettes in this nation increased 18^ times. Young people should be encouraged to read and study the word of the Lord as given in the Word of Wisdom. They should learn that the control of the physical appetites is one of the greatest lessons to be learned and practiced in order to maintain for their welfare the high standards of the Church. 

MORAL STANDARDS AND MENTAL DEVELOPMENT 

It is just as vital, also, that every member of the family should be shown, by precept and example, the obligation, for his welfare, to observe high moral standards by cultivating clean thoughts and virtuous living. Parents have wonderful opportunities in the home to fortify their children against unclean thoughts, and to train them to occupy their minds with noble thoughts and good habits, to keep their minds and bodies occupied with positive ideas and activities and to put them on the way to a life of righteousness. 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

The training of the mind of every child can well justify the attention of every father and mother, even though the education of the child is the responsibility of the State. It is a matter of excellent mental exercise to converse frequently with our children on the various courses of study in which they are engaged. It is well to get the viewpoint of the child on all matters taught in the schools, and to advise and assist the the child to differentiate between theory and fact, and between prejudice and sound instruction on the part of any teacher. Every young person needs specific training in all the virtues — honesty, dependability, confidence, kindliness, patience, self-mastery, etc. 

DEVELOP LOCAL INDUSTRIES 

There is another phase of preparation for life of all young people that justifies careful attention on the part of parents, and indirectly of cooperation on the part of our families in the various communities. That is the matter of the economic welfare and progress of every young person in all our communities. It is just as important that every young man and woman shall receive specialized preparation for life in the trades or the professions as it is that all should be taught subjects for their general education. It has been said that "the primary and important aim of education is not character building, nor learning, nor culture, but the development of the power to understand, and of the knowledge that understanding must precede wise action." It is unfortunate when young people are not given standard specialized training in some particular direction that will, in general, permit them to secure employment requiring some particular skill and knowledge, instead of having to depend upon common labor or untrained employment. 

In that connection, and in order to provide greater opportunities for such employment, there should be a concerted effort on the part of all men and women in the various communities, particularly in the intermountain territory, to unite in efforts to develop possible local industries that will employ local raw products in the manufacture of commodities that will serve the immediate needs of the communities, and permit the sale of surpluses elsewhere. 

PATRONIZE LOCAL PRODUCTS 

Associated with such undertakings, and of immediate concern to the progress of these communities in providing more local employment, is the importance of patronizing to the full the local industries already in operation. Many purchases now being made by the housewives in these states are those from outside localities, whereas, in many instances, the same products are produced in our midst. If every mother could realize that every article locally produced will provide more employment for local young people and will probably be as wholesome and pure as, or more so, than outside products, and available at no greater cost, she would doubtless be more greatly interested in learning of all the industries now in operation locally. Leaders in the various communities  carefully consider every feasible means of developing our resources in every direction, in order to promote employment of local people and avoid, as far as possible, the exodus of young people to other localities for lack of work at home. 

The challenge, then, is to all parents in the Church to lead their children into right thinking, clean living, specialized training, and in the faith and testimony of the restored Gospel; and then to sustain all worthy efforts put forth to build up local undertakings for the economic welfare of our people. 

May we sense and improve our opportunities and may we strive constantly for better temporal and spiritual progress is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A vocal solo, "Holy City," was sung by Byron Openshaw. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

REASONS FOR CHURCH-WIDE CAMPAIGN 

All over the Church it is known that there is in progress a Churchwide Campaign for the Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco. No thinking person will question the need of this campaign. Perhaps never in our history did "evils and designs — exist in the hearts of conspiring men" to induce the consumption of these narcotics to as great an extent as today. Subtle propaganda was never more widespread, deceptive, or costly. In our country alone cigarette advertising during 1937 cost more than 30 million dollars. The result is that cigarette smoking was never so general, particularly among women and girls. And sad to say, the debauchery of youth by deceptive marijuana appears to be growing. 

The situation with respect to alcoholic beverages is no better. 

NEWSPAPERS VOICE WARNING AGAINST LIQUOR 

A recent dispatch from Chicago carried by the public press, stated "more time and effort must be devoted to combatting the liquor problem among youth, according to recommendations made to the International Council of Religious Education by a committee on social issues, thoroughly aroused over the lethargic attitude of the people as to prevailing conditions among our young people." 

This statement recalls other news items that appeared a few weeks ago. An investigation conducted by Allied Youth, Incorporated, found that 49 per cent of 4,000 high school seniors in eleven different states were drinkers. Further, the American Youth Commission of the American Council on Education found that 52.9 per cent of 13,528 young people questioned in Maryland, used liquor in various forms. 

The Christian Science Monitor recently published an informative article on the liquor situation from which the following are extracts : 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

Recapitulation of the evidence for and against the liquor industry in the last five years leads inevitably to the question: "Was repeal worth it?" "He who runs may read." 

One argument for repeal of prohibition was : "Legal control of liquor selling will result in moderation." Beer consumption rose from 32,000,000 barrels in 1934 to 56,000,000 in 1937; wine consumption from 45,000,000 gallons in 1935 to 66,000,000 in 1937, and tax-paid withdrawals of distilled spirits from 58,000,000 gallons in 1935 to 87,000,000 gallons in 1937. 

The saloon, it was said, would not return. But drinking places, however designated, have quadrupled in number. 

Has respect for law been restored by repeal ? J. Edgar Hoover, head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reports prison populations at an all-time high and crime on the increase. Was bootlegging wiped out? In 1938 Federal Agents arrested 26,000 on bootlegging charges and destroyed 11,400 illegal stills. In the "wettest city of the United States" huge bootleg rings have been uncovered. 

Recently-retired United States Attorney General, Homer S. Cum-' mings, in his report to Congress last spring stated "that there were more liquor law violations in America last year than ever before in our history." 

From press news we learn that last May, 19 people were indicted in what was called the biggest bootleg ring ever uncovered in the State of New Jersey. Last June reports stated a bootleg ring was operating in Chicago greater than the Al Capone syndicate of prohibition days and doing a two-hundred-million-dollar-a-year business. The first of last August, 106 people were indicted by a federal grand jury in New York for operating what was called the biggest bootleg ring in the history of the nation. 

This story of law violation and debauchery by liquor gangs could be long continued, but enough said about it except to note the claim that there is but little of it in this state. However, during 1938 the federal office sold 194 permits to handle distilled liquors, of which the state bought only 94. And the state is the only legal dispenser of distilled liquors in this state. Why did the other one hundred persons buy permits except to avoid running afoul of the federal government in their illegal traffic in liquor ? 

The United States Daily News stated that persons killed or injured on the highways by drinking drivers doubled between 1933 and 1937. Convictions for drunken driving have now become matters of almost daily announcement in the public press. 

The January, 1939 issue of the Journal of American Insurance carried a leading article under the title "Alcohol Held Major Accident Cause," in which the results of some capful researches were published. 

DANGER FROM INTOXICATED DRIVERS 

Would not one of the most effective means of securing highway safety be the elimination of the drinking driver ? We hear much these days about personal liberty, especially when measures to control the liquor traffic are being considered. But I maintain no drinking driver should be allowed on the public highways. The danger to life, limb and property is too great for this. I make two quotations from an address in the United States Senate delivered by Hon. Morris Sheppard January 16, 1939. The first is this : 

As we observe the gathering concern over conditions now surrounding the consumption of alcoholic liquors it becomes apparent that the so-called laws following repeal have failed either to control the traffic or to promote temperance. 

The second is as follows : 

It will never be possible to drink alcohol with physical safety. Alcohol is not by nature intended for beverage use. Its chemical properties and attributes are destructive of living tissue; and you cannot change human tissue to give it immunity from such destruction. * * * In the interest of a higher and more efficient civilization beverage alcohol * * * must be destroyed. 

This we are now attempting to do in the Church by education. Abstinence is the simplest and most effective way of banishing all the evils of alcoholic beverages. But we certainly favor the strict enforcement of all laws and regulations for the sale and consumption of these beverages. 

Many times from this stand President Grant has urged the full observance of the Word of Wisdom, basing his sermons on moral, spiritual and economic grounds. A few figures may be impressive. From official sources it was learned that there was paid in Utah during 1938 : 

If to this large sum we would add the amounts paid for cigars and tobacco in other forms than package cigarettes, for bootleg liquor and for tea and coffee, we would undoubtedly obtain a sum in excess of thirteen million dollars, or an average of about $24 for every man, woman and child in the state. 

Of course, members of the Church in Utah did not pay all of this money. Travelers and non-Mormons paid much of it. flow much, no one knows. But it is a fact that however little our people paid the amount was larger than it should have been. 

Now, it is only fair to say that though the per capita consumption of liquor in Utah is entirely too large it is less than that in any other state west of the Missouri river. Surely this is due to abstinence among the Mormon people. Iowa, New Hampshire and Vermont drink less per capita than Utah, but they are not tourist states. for legally sold distilled liquors 

for legally sold beer 

and for package cigarettes .... 

$ 3,938,565.75 3,959,922.30 2,673,656.65 $10,572,144.70 Second Day There is a phase of liquor and cigarette propaganda that is especially dangerous because its objective is to popularize these poisons among the socially ambitious. To this end apparently no expense is spared, no deception too false to be used. Young people are inviegled into believing that social success depends on the adroit use of the cigarette or the liveliness flowing from cocktails. If indulgence in cigarettes and cocktails can be made popular in any elite group or situation, temptation will be particularly strong for non-users in the group. For this reason L. D. S. parents should be especially solicitous about the character of the social groups with which their young people desire to become affiliated on school campuses and elsewhere. No amount of so-called social popularity can ever be weighed against moral and spiritual integrity. The former has fleeting, the latter enduring value. No success secured at the expense of honor and integrity can ever be permanent. These facts should be burned into the consciousness of all our young people. Who among us is gifted enough to make it "smart" to say "no" in the hour of temptation ? Let him step forth. His services are needed. 

The waves of cigarette and cocktail indulgences flowing in upon us are as a call to energetic and persistent action of all friends of the moral purity and the physical, intellectual and spiritual vigor of our young people. I am happy to announce that one means to this end was the unanimous passage by the recent Utah legislature of two bills, one directing the public schools of this state to teach the truth about the evil and harmful effects of liquor, tobacco and other narcotics; and the other directing the schools to become positive factors in character education. We suggest that all school patrons maintain a constant interest in helping the schools to the full observance of these two excellent laws, said by competent authority to be the best of their kind in the United States. But their value will be in their fruits rather than in their enactment only. The enactment of a national prohibition law in 1920 did not make the country dry. Prohibitionists largely went to sleep, forgetting that law does not enforce itself. 

Excellent as these laws are, until enacted in other states, they will apply to Utah only. But our campaign is Church-wide. While it will be our purpose to encourage the schools in anti-narcotic and character education, we have a program of our own that we earnestly solicit all Mormon people to help make effective. 

We have issued three little booklets that tell the truth in a plain interesting way why liquor and tobacco "are not good for man." The Lord did not say why when he revealed the Word of Wisdom 106 years ago, but he gave man the intelligence to find out. And man has done BOOKLETS ISSUED BY CHURCH COMMITTEE . Two of the booklets give the facts upon which authorities agree. The other booklet is a powerful and convincing testimony of the value of abstinence. 

The objective of the first phase of the campaign is to get these booklets read and discussed by all over ten years of age in every Mormon home. And we are asking that this be done during this spring. This done, we shall enter upon the next phase of the campaign which will be confined largely to youth. Zion will be free of narcotic evils when all its youth shall be so instructed and motivated that they will never touch narcotics. 

ASSISTANCE NEEDED 

To secure this end we must have the help of all mature people in the Church. This is why all need to read the booklets in order that they may be informed and able to answer the quest of youth for reasons why. This is a questioning age, made so by the teaching of all the schools. But we do not object to questions. The Prophet taught that we cannot be saved in ignorance. The glory of God is intelligence. We are spirit children of the Father and possess in embryo his attributes. It is our duty to grow in intelligence, knowledge, understanding, power and wisdom. There is no excuse in this day for any normal adult being ignorant of why liquor and tobacco are not good for man. Our campaign for their non-use rests upon an adequate knowledge of their harmful effects. 

And this knowledge will certainly increase our faith in the divinity of the Lord's great law of health. As a matter of fact, is it not a lack of faith that makes this campaign necessary? No Latter-day Saint whose faith reaches perfect assurance will ever partake of things prohibited by the Word of Wisdom. 

And this leads me to utter a word of caution. There are some of our people who use liquor and tobacco, one or both. Do not think of them or treat them as bad. Most of them at least are good neighbors and upright citizens, our relatives, people of our own blood. They have become ifidulgents for one or more of many reasons, largely due to circumstances and environments. And all of us are influenced more or less by these factors. 

In the main this campaign will reach them only outside of meetinghouses and the congregations of the Saints. But to be complete it must reach them. But in all cases let this be done in a spirit of love and helpfulness, never in criticism or condemnation. Contacts can succeed in their purpose only if tactfully made. Hence workers going to these people should be sympathetic, discreet and wise, never offensive. But let us make sure that all of them are contacted and induced to read the booklets. 

OBLIGATION RESTS UPON CHURCH 

But why worry ? some among us ask. Are not drinking and smoking personal matters, and do we not live in a free country? The Church 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

has always had its critics both within and without its membership. Now the Church has a major obligation that it can never escape — that of preaching the Gospel of Christ, of doing missionary work. Whether we will or not, we are our brother's keeper. We must be active in the work of saving human souls, the most precious entities in the universe. 

The use of liquor and tobacco handicaps human beings, physically, mentally and spiritually. Knowing this we cannot escape the obligation, divinely given, of working for the non-use of these poisons. But I repeat, let us be careful of our methods, else our labors may do more harm than good. Let love permeate all our acts and wisdom characterize all our efforts. 

I have asked before and I ask again — is not the cigarette the greatest faith-killer in the Church today ? When we are free of its use we shall be free of other evils also. Faith will then be more abundant and its fruits much more plentiful. 

Let us unite in prayer, and good works to make ourselves more worthy of a greater amount of God's help in overcoming evil and building up his kingdom, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I want to talk to you today about a very old subject. It is about there 1 eing inherent in religion, principles, through the general adoption of which, men could live together in the world in peace and order. 

BELIEF IN GOD THE BASIS OF RELIGION 

Among them I must give first place to belief in a higher power for that is the basis upon which all religion rests. At any rate that is true of our own. 

The first statement in our declaration of principles is, "We believe in God the Eternal Father." That belief is the root from which all our other tenets spring and draw their nourishment. It is the life-giving element of our religion. In it all the precepts of the Church, which give to man the assurance of a high destiny and help to steady his faltering steps as he journeys over life's troubled way, find their sanction. 

From it all Christian faith must draw its sustenance, for it is at the heart of all that Jesus taught. In plain words he declared that he came from the Father and would go again to the Father; that the only purpose of his coming was to do the Father's will. It was to those who believe in the Father who had sent him that he promised everlasting life. His disciples were commissioned to baptize believers in the name of the Father, whose will he declared it to be that he should lose nothing of all that was given him but that all should be raised up at the last day. He said that he was come in the Father's name, and because he told the rulers that he was the Son of God, they sought to take his life. He  to do only that which he had seen his Father do. In the supreme undertakings of his life he sought the Father as the source of power, and when he succeeded he "lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me." He specifically taught men to pray to the Father, and the last words to issue from his lips as he expired upon the cross were : "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." There can be no doubt that he made the reality and the directive authority of God the Father the central theme of his teaching. For Christians, purporting as they do to be disciples of Christ, there is no escape; they must believe in God who is the Eternal Father, for to deny him is to cast out Jesus whom they profess to follow. 

ANOTHER BASIC PRINCIPLE 

We come then to our second basic principle, namely, belief in Jesus as the Son of God, which flows of necessity out of belief in his teachings about the Father. There are, to be sure, many who recognize a great value in his moral teachings, the acceptance of which as ideals of conduct, they say, constitutes them believers in and followers of him and therefore Christians, without accepting his claims to Messiahship or ascribing to him the attributes of divinity. I presume most such would also exclude his teachings about God from their system of faith. For them the life and teachings of Jesus exemplify the finest qualities and the highest ideals of conduct yet discovered to man. These they do not want to give up but would preserve as affording the safest guides to that kind of individual and collective conduct upon which the future wellbeing of the race depends. 

Civilized beings, for instance, do not want to relinquish the distinctly Christian concept of the brotherhood of man for they know that in the development and expansion of that ideal lies the hope of humanity for an ordered world. But this at once involves difficulty again, for the brotherhood of man implies the fatherhood of God. Thus his very doctrine which by universal consent has in it the power to save our human society derives out of his teachings about God as the Eternal Father. 

After that the great theme of his message to man is immortality and the coming of the Kingdom of God, which are the next basic tenets to which I refer. All the rest consists in laying out the body of principles by the adoption of which man may fit himself to live eternally in that Kingdom. The record says that he "went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the Kingdom * * *." And when they would have detained him in Capernaum, he reminded them that he "must preach the Kingdom of God in other cities also." He commissioned his disciples "and sent them to preach the Kingdom of God," of which he declared "there shall be no end." 

Strip his words of all declarations and assumptions about the Father and his own Sonship, and about immortality and the Kingdom of God, and you have robbed them of their vitalizing force; they lose at once most of their influence over the lives of men. It becomes apparent 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 7 Second Day 

that it is not easy to deny God and at the same time to cling to Jesus for any purpose, for it is the majesty of divine authority with which he invested them that imparts to his moral teachings their singular power. There is no other explanation of his so good as the one he gives of himself. 

The present day test of the validity of any claim is, "does it work?" That is but the modern equivalent of the test to which Jesus submitted his teaching. "If any man," said he, "will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

There is much testimonial evidence that the teaching stands the test. 

Christ's teachings a stabilizing force 

I name these great foundation principles of religious faith as among the forces that could bring order and tranquility into the collective life of mankind, because they are the greatest stabilizing forces known to human experience. And stability, enduring steadfastness, assurance that the foundation will always be there, are indispensable to the orderly existence of the human family in its manifold relations. 

From man's belief in God and in his own immortal life and in the Kingdom of God has come his greatest hope. Out of it has sprung his highest aspirations. Above all else it has sustained him in his often times disheartening struggle to give righteousness supremacy over evil in the world. Its widespread decline has ever been the precursor of spiritual decay and moral degeneracy — the sure heralds of national disaster. Acceptance, on the other hand, of the teachings of Jesus about divinity, his Sonship with God and his brotherhood with man gives to human life its largest value, clothes man with his highest dignity and provides him his most powerful stimulus to noble living. 

JESUS AS A TEACHER 

It was about these beliefs as a framework that Jesus wove the whole fabric of his moral teachings. He unfolded them in the form of lessons, here a little and there a little, as called forth during the years of his ministry among men. They are rules of behavior. He called them commandments and he said that they came from God. 

While he dealt with an unseen spiritual world, where he said his kingdom is, yet his teachings are for men in this world. According to them life here is not and cannot be separated by any wide or deep chasm from eternal life, for the life of the individual is only one life —  a unit — in which mortality and immortality are but stages in a continuous course of progress. The experiences, the masteries, the attainments, the manner of dealing with the hard facts of existence as they are met on the way accompany life from stage to stage, make it what it is, give it its quality and tone, determine at every stage the degree of its perfection, and its capacity for entering finally into the life of the Kingdom. 

A GUIDE TO UFE 

Certain things man has to do. Not much stress is laid upon knowl but much upon understanding and habits of virtue and the cultivation of a brotherly good will towards all mankind. He is taught that as in dealing with his f ellowmen he extends kindness, shows mercy, observes justice, practices self-denial, curbs ambition, denies greed, bestows love, banishes hate, gives succor, lives humbly, reveres right and respects the sacredness of human beings, he is contributing to the establishment of peace and good order and happiness in the world and is cultivating in himself those qualities of virtue which will raise him toward the level of his high destiny. 

These conceptions have tremendous power to stabilize a life that is guided by them. They also are among the principles of religion which I referred to as laying down the conditions of living, the adoption of which would bring order out of the chaos which now threatens to engulf the nations. I venture the assertion that harmony among men will not come, except as, and to the degree in which, they individually and collectively exemplify these principles in their lives. 

The qualities named, it is to be observed, are not physical in the sense that they admit of capture and dissection. They may not be segregated and looked at or weighed or measured. They are, however, none the less realities, as much so as the solidest objects of the physical world. Their existence may be as unerringly discerned. They shine forth in the deeds of those who possess them. They and others akin to them are the emanations of the spirit and are the most powerful forces in the universe. 

SPIRITUAL REGENERATION WILL COME THROUGH FAITH 

This mankind is beginning to sense. Now as never before in our time comes the call for spiritual regeneration. The very existence of our most cherished institutions is dependent upon it. In default of it the world is like to lose the gains of centuries of painful struggle upward out of the mist and to sink down again into the dark night of barbarism. The call is for those principles of religion enunciated by Jesus as the means of bringing back sanity to a world gone mad. No thoughtful man can be deaf to the cry of despair that is heard in the land. Let me cite you one from among many available illustrations. 

On Armistice Day of last year a group from among the most eminent statesmen of England issued an address to the people of the realm in which, among other things they said : 

Moral rearmament must be the foundation of national life as it must be of any world settlement. The miracle of God's living spirit can break the power of pride and selfishness; of lust, fear and hatred, for spiritual power is the greatest force in the world. 

There are among all peoples today hidden resources of heart, mind and spirit waiting to be called out by common obedience to the supreme plan. Only in the fulfilment of this supreme plan can the true interests of all classes, races and states be secured. 

Throughout her long history this country never failed, and has not failed now to meet recurrent crises with the courage which each demanded , but a spiritual crisis remains and calls for action. The nation and the 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 7 Second Day 

empire must stand or fall by our response to that call. The choice is moral rearmament or national decay. That choice will decide whether ours is ultimately to go the way of the other dead kingdoms or whether our commonwealth led by God may become a leader of the world towards sanity and peace. 

THE TRIUMPH OF RIGHT 

Cloudy as the skies may be, I am not one of those who despair for I believe in the triumph of right. In its consummation a leading role must be played by the Church, one of whose prime functions it is to transmute religious truths into living practices. The teachings of those truths and habits of practice becomes then the highest and most solemn duty of every person in the Church, and above all, of all those to whom the responsibility of leadership, in whatever capacity, has come, for therein lies not only the hope for eternity, but the hope of the world for stability and safety, here and now. 

This pronouncement comes from men of high intelligence and wide learning and deep penetration and ripe experience in the affairs of men and of nations. They have read the lesson of history and know that the decline of great nations has generally followed and been primarily due to moral disintegration. 

As Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg called upon his countrymen to resolve that this nation under God should have a new birth of freedom, so these spokesmen of the British Empire have sounded a clarion call for spiritual and moral regeneration as the only means by which under God it can be saved from the limbo of dead kingdoms. That call is not for Britain alone but is for all nations and all people who love justice and desire to see her enthroned. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I don't think ever before have I envied the presidents of the missions until this Conference. If you have noticed, yesterday and today, most of them had ten minutes notice before they were called on. This suspense sometimes is terrible. 

I heard of a good old lady once who was waiting for some news, either good or bad, she didn't know which, and when it finally came she said : "I do hate to be held in suspension." I want you to know that this good old lady had. no monopoly on the feelings that come from one being held in "suspension." 

If ever I feel the sacredness of an opening prayer, praying for those who would be called upon to speak, it is on these occasions, and I certainly trust that the prayer offered today may reach the realms on high and be effective in my behalf. 

AN EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION 

I, for one, right here, lest I forget, want to follow the suggestion of Bishop Wirthlin — I do want to express my appreciation for my affilia, not only with the First Presidency of the Church, the Apostles, the Seventies, and others of the Authorities of the Church, but I desire to express the appreciation I hold for you fine bishops, you fine presidents of stakes, and not forgetting the members in general, that we contact as we go about. I do appreciate them, and I appreciate the sustaining power and influence that they give us as we travel around. 

As far as I am individually concerned, many things influence me and my testimony of the truthfulness of this Gospel, but there is nothing that stands higher, or that I consider more important than the lives of you fine people, because, after all, "the test of the pudding is in the eating." If the Gospel hasn't made such characters, good-by to the Gospel. I do want to take this opportunity to express my appreciation. More every day do I appreciate these things. 

WHAT OF OUR REAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS? 

I am not unmindful of the things that we are accomplishing in this Church. I would not want to be understood to think otherwise. I believe we have taken a stride, a rapid stride. Before we get through, the eyes of the world will be consistently upon us, to the extent that they will see that we really have accomplished something, and in a big way, too. 

What does concern me sometimes is : Are we going just as fast as we ought to, and are we accomplishing just what we ought to ? Are we really, if you please, getting our toes in the ground as we ought, in every way we can, to accomplish what is ahead of us ? 

There is an expression they call "ancestral pride." I wonder if it hurts you, I wonder if it hurts me. I know what it did to the ancient Hebrews. Just what is it doing to you ? Do you stop still because you stand by to see what those before you accomplished ? One man has said that, "Ancestral pride is backing up to go forward." The other day, in Los Angeles station, I was waiting for the train to start. I couldn't see the trees overhead. I couldn't see the tracks below. All I could see was the train at the side, and all at once I thought we were starting, and soon I thought we were going at a pretty good gait. But in about two minutes I changed my mind, because I found that I wasn't moving at all, or the train I was in wasn't moving at all; just that train at the side. Do we sometimes think we are going somewhere, because we see the activity of something at our side ? I often think of that. 

I am wondering sometimes if I am too serious about what my grandfathers accomplished — and by the way, one of them helped to bring that machinery across the plains, with one hundred yoke of oxen, to try to attempt the manufacture of sugar. I am not unmindful of him. I am' not unmindful at all of what my father could do. My father didn't have much of an education, but he could build a city. I am wondering just how seriously we take this thing, and how much initiative, really, we have in and of ourselves. I am sure it is something to think about. 

If I have one prayer in my heart more than another it is that I may stand on my own feet, and look at this thing seriously and ask myself the question: Well, just what am I doing about it? Or- do I sit in a Second Day  and see movement going on, and kid myself that I am moving? And I think it is the worst disease in the world. 

As has been brought out this afternoon, we have some problems ahead of us that ought to make us serious. When we are consuming four dollars per capita for liquor in the State anually, and in some of those villages or towns ninety-eight per cent of the people are members of the Church, it gives us something to think ahout. When we see returned missionaries wearing out the bottoms of their shoes in trying to get work, it is something to think about. I met a fellow yesterday, a good member of the Church. I hadn't seen him for thirty years, and the strange part was, I recognized him. Before we got through talking he said this : "The reason that so many people leave the Church, fine people sometimes, is because of the lives of our missionaries; the way they fall aside." , I often think of the expression of Shakespeare, speaking of Cassius, "When much enforced they give a hasty spark and straightway cold again." Whose fault is it? It is theirs, a lot of it, and some of it is ours. 

When we see, all over this state, tumble-down houses, broken down fences, and things that are in a terrible shape, we have something to think about. When we see houses that were built by the early pioneers, and people still in them, and they have hardly put a shingle on the top of the roof since they were originally built, we have something to think about. And when we see the unemployment, it presents another problem for us to think about. 

I sometimes wonder if we are more interested in being well groomed around a mahogany table to pass on motions, than we are interested in our apparel being covered with the dust of real American initiative. I don't think we read enough, but I do wonder if we don't read more than we think, — we would rather read more than we would attempt to think. 

I sometimes think we would rather go around with a can-opener in our pocket to split the tin, going into the canned thoughts of somebody else, than we would do some honest-to-goodness real home cooking in the way of thinking for ourselves. 

I think these are challenges to us. I think we should get down to some real, honest-to-goodness, homespun initiative, that we should analyze conditions and see what is the matter. Whether it be grammatically correct or not, we should plunge into it, knowing we are right, and pull the trigger. I think that we ought to put more steel in the backbone of our young people. A PLEA FOR MORE THINKING I am not forgetting the experience of that little German back in the Middle West, who decided that he could raise a better grade of corn. He  paper sacks over the tassels so that he could control the pollenization of that corn. He got along fairly well. He almost wore himself out. First the grasshoppers came; then the drought. His neighbor said : "Now, look out. You had better water it, better protect it." He said: "It stands just as it is, and we will see if it can take it." By the time he let that corn "take it" from the grasshoppers and from the drought, he had a kind of corn, in 1937, that just netted him about five hundred thousand dollars. 

I pray that the Lord will help us to really see situations as they are, and to give us the backbone to do things as we see they should be done. May he strengthen our testimony, and may we appreciate the leadership of this Church more every day of our lives, I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

The Nebo Stake Choir, which has furnished the music for this session of the Conference, is made up of the choirs of the various wards in the Nebo Stake. 

We thank you, brethren and sisters, for the excellent service you have rendered this inspiring Conference throughout the day. 

SERVICE OF PEACE OFFICERS COMMENDED 

You have undoubtedly noticed the care that the peace officers of our city are taking to direct automobile traffic and to protect pedestrians. The City Commission and the peace officers will appreciate our cooperation in their efforts to avoid accidents. In behalf of the Conference we wish to commend those officers who are in and around this block, who are rendering such excellent service for our comfort and safety. 

The Nebo Stake Choir sang the "Hosanna" anthem, after which Elder Peter J. Ricks, President of the Rexburg Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday morning, April 9, at 10 o'clock. GENERAL CONFERENCE 


