Afternoon
04 04 1908 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The people of Utah prosperous. — Temperance a fundamental principle of the Church. — Time has arrived for general observance of the Word of Wisdom. — Reformation necessary to prepare for the Lord's coming. — America the land of Zion, its inhabitants should be righteous.' — Evidences of divinity of latter-day work. 

I am sure that we all rejoiced, this morning, in listening to the opening remarks of President Smith and his counselors. We are favored with splendid weather, and a generous attendance of the people. 

1 have no doubt that the Lord is pleased to see His Saints come together to worship, to receive instructions, to renew their faith, and to listen to the word and will of the Lord through His servants. I trust that the same good spirit may abide  the brethren who speak this afternoon. Throughout our conference I anticipate a feast, for the Saints have been wonderfully blessed during the past year. They have manifested by their works that they are thoroughly established in the faith. Improvement is discovered, I believe, on every hand. Although we have passed through financial stringency, during the last six months, I believe that the people of this state have weathered the storm as well as the people of any state in the Union. The institutions of our state have stood the pressure. We have been well prepared to meet the shock, and I believe that the situation of the people of this state is such that they will continue to prosper and grow stronger from this time. As a result our state will become remarkable among the states of the Union in many ways. 

The key-note was given this morning by the President. Our attention was drawn to the fact that the Latter-day Saints are a temperate peoole. The principle of temperance is a strong point in the faith of the Latter-day Saints. We have not always lived up to it as perfectly as we should have done, but that doctrine, with many other doctrines that have been made known by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, seems to have taken hold of the people of our nation. There is a wave in favor of temperance, passing over the nation, growing and increasing steadily. No people in the Union should be as well prepared and as ready to take part in this movement as the Latter-day Saints ought to be, for it is quite in harmony with the fundamental principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe the time is  for Latter-day Saints, particularly, to place themselves in accord with this revelation, the Word of Wisdom, which was given in the beginning by the Prophet Joseph as a Word of Wisdom with promises which are very precious. In the beginning, it was not laid down as a strict commandment. I do not know whether or not the Lord took into account the fact that our forefathers, and our fathers, had been so used to many things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom that it might be difficult for them to order their lives in harmony with those requirements : so we were given perhaps thirty or forty years of training and experience before the Lord announced, through His servant the Prophet Brigham Young, that the Word of Wisdom has now become a commandment of the Lord. President Young laid it down very strictly and exactly from this stand that from that time henceforth the Word of Wisdom is a commandment from the Lord, and all Latter-day Saints are required to observe it. My acquaintance with the Latter-day Saints in Zion, as well as abroad gives me to understand that presiding brethren throughout the Church and our leading brethren and sisters in the associations and organizations are taking a stand strongly in favor of temperance, not only in regard to strong drinks but in regard to the use of tea, coffee, and tobacco. This will be a very remarkable people when visitors can come to us from the world and discover that throughout Zion, the home of the Latterday Saint*, there are none who indulge in the use of strong drinks, nor in the use of tea, coffee and tobacco. However, I want to draw your attention to the fact  there are people in the world who are not only abstaining from the use of strong drinks, but they are just as abstemious in regard to the use of tobacco, tea and coffee as are the Latter-day Saints. They have come to understand that those things are injurious, and they are refraining from their use. I have met quite a number of people who are just as careful .in regard to these matters as Latter-day Saints can be. It was not on account of the Word of Wisdom that these people in the world have been avoiding thetee things, for they knew nothing of that revelation that has been given to the Latterday Saints. It appears that this spirit is not only moving upon the Latter-day Saints but it is among the peoples of the world as well. 

I believe that the time has now come when not only the leading brethren in the Church, the presiding brethren in the stakes of Zion. in the wards, and in the quorums should be very careful and faithful in the observance of this law, but I believe the time has come when all Latter-day Saints should be held to a little stricter account. I believe that every man who bears the Priesthood, every man who has entered into covenant with the Lord as we have done at the waters of baptism, to keep the commandments of the Lord, to observe them faithfully so far as we know them, and as fast as they shall be revealed unto us, I say I believe the time has come when they should observe the Word of Wisdom, as well as to pay their tithing, as well as to attend to their prayers and the worship of the Lord. I believe it is a time now for reformation — extended and increased reformation — over the conditions that have prevailed among us in the past. I appeal to my brethren who bear the Priesthood, the Lesser as well as the Melchisedek Priesthood, that we engage in this work, first laboring with ourselves regulating and setting in order our own lives, and when we have accomplished this, that we shall labor to set in order the lives of our friends. I believe that we will find many people, who are our neighbors in the land of Zion, who will go hand in hand with us thus far in our religion. May be they will not receive it all, some of them will not but many of them' will, and this is an opportunity to show to the people of the world as well as those with whom we associate, that we are in earnest, that we are sincere, and that we are not hypocritical. 

I believe the time is here, my dear brethren and sisters, that we ought to make whatever reformation is really necessary in order that the power of this Gospel may be felt in the earth. The coming of the Lord is near, even the coming of the Lord Jesus to reign on the earth, and you and I and our chiFdren, should we live until that day, would be happy, and it would be very desirable, I am sure, that we should find ourselves in the possession of faith and in the accomplishment of good works for the building up of the kingdom. If it is our good fortune to live, certainly we want to be worthy to meet the Lord. If we don't live to meet Him here, we will meet Him all the sooner on the other side, and hence our preparation will not be in vain. We want to be prepared for His coming, we should be ready, and we will then be in splendid condition if we depart before He comes, but His coming is near at hand. We see it in the signs of the times., among the nations of the earth. The Lord is befriending His people. He  caring for His Saints — a little handful of people, a small percentage of all His children, of course, but a chosen people. He has selected us; He has poured out His Spirit upon us; and we have been prepared, exercising our agency, to receive the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. We have a belief in God. We know that God lives, for He has revealed Himself unto us. He revealed Himself to the Prophet Joseph, as an introduction to this work, so that Joseph knew the Father, and the Son was introduced by the Father. The Holy Ghost has been given to all Latter-day Saints, that Spirit which has established the people, made them strong, made them stable, and given them success. It has inspired them with a desire to gather to Zion, and has strengthened them in their efforts to do the will of God on the earth; yet, we are a small minority. Although we are but a little handful of neople, we have gained a splendid footing in a splendid country, under a splendid government; and, thank the Lord, it is His business to care for His Saints, and He will do so. There is no question. You and I can't take care of this work. Men have not been able to do it. The Prophet Joseph could not take care of the work in his day, when he stood alone, when he was but a boy, almost, for at the organization of this Church he was only twenty-five years old. What can we expect today of a young man twenty-five years old? But the Lord was with the Prophet Joseph, and the Lord raised up men about him, — men of intelligence, men of judgment, a strong class of men who stood by the Prophet, although some of them fell away. Some of them were not faithful; they could not endure, for the seed sown in their hearts fell  stony ground; there was lack of strength and vitality in the ground where the seed was sown. Many of those who were with the Prophet fell away, so that, so far as men are concerned, he stood almost alone; but a few such men as Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and others of that class were brought to the work and stood by the Prophet so that the work was established. It started with just a few poor people — poor people, so far as this world's goods are concerned — but the Church has grown from the very beginning. It has advanced, it has been sustained; the Lord has taken care of it, and there has never been an enemy that could overcome the work of the Lord. This work has been maintained and it will endure to the end. It will not be broken to pieces. It will not be given to other people. The earth will never be left again without the Church of Christ established unon it. This Church will remain, for the Father is at the helm'. I would bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that God lives and is the author of this work. He it is Who sustains it; and He it is, through His Son, that has guided and controlled and cared for it all the time. They have selected the men, and, they have known the men that have endured and carried forward the work to the present time — not only the chiefs, not only those that have been called to responsible positions but He has chosen you, this body of people here today, and all Israel, the hosts of Israel that are gathered in these valleys of the mountains. The Lord has had you in reserve. He has brought you here and has planted your feet here to remain. You cannot go anywhere else, for this is the land of Zion. The Lord has saved this land; He  prepared the way and laid the foundation. Some of us have struggles, but the work will arise and triumph and prosper, in the future, more gloriously than ever before. 

How lovely it is, when we discover, as we travel and labor among the Latter-day Saints, the improvement that is being made on every hand, careful attention being given to every individual — not a soul,not a child in Zion that does not receive particular attention, and this is necessary in order that our children may be properly trained and reared in the ways of truth and righteousness, and when they get old they will not depart from it. 

At this time special efforts are being made to establish temperance in the country, and we have received encouragement from the outside and everywhere in order that we may be a more temperate people. Why should not the people of the United States set that kind of example for the rest of the world. This is the land of Zion, the land upon which men must serve God or they are in danger. It is a choice land the land of the Lord, kept hidden for many centuries, for this country was not known. For very many centuries the learned men of the world did not know that there was any such country as these North and South Americas. They thought they had everything in the east, and they did not know there was any west. It is only a few centuries, four or five, since the discovery was made that there were two sides to the world; that there were people on this side of the world; and all the evidences of a remarkable and refined civilization is found today upon these lands. The people are just beginning to open up and discover the stories that these lands have to tell. This is the land of Zion, and why should not the people of this country lead in these matters. We as Latter-day Saints are under the law of the Lord. We are prohibited from the use of strong drink and tobacco. We are prohibited from profanity and all kinds of wickedness. We have been living under prohibition in this line, under the law of the Gospel, for the law is: thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not lie; thou shalt not commit adultery; thou shalt not rob or trespass, but serve the Lord and do what is right. We are taught to love our neighbors as ourselves; we must do as we would be done by. These are some of the laws we have been living, and according to these laws we have been trying to order our lives. Prohibition is not a new departure with us. I know so far as I am concerned, I have been under the law of prohibition for very many years. I obeyed it as a law of the Gospel and it is a good thing. I discover that it is a good thing to be sober a good thing to be temperate. It is a good thing to do what is right among men — not only among Latter-day Saints, but in the world. Why, a man is absolutely safe in this world if he will only do what is right. This is what the law of the Gospel requires : that men should do what is right — work righteousness, for on no other principle can we obtain salvation. 

Brethren and sisters, let us go out from this conference to every part of the Church with the determination in our hearts that we will work righteousness, that the spirit of this conference may be felt throughout the Church. We expect to go to every part of the Church; we expect to go into every ward. We would like you to look out for us,  we are coming to see you. We shall visit you in your wards i ana when you hear of the brethren coming, we want you to meet them at your homes — that is, at your home places of gathering. We cannot go into all the homes of the people very well; there are too many people, and we are too few. The time was when the Prophet Joseph could go into the home of every Latter-dav Saint, visit all the people, shake them by the hand, and erive them a blessing; but today 1 resident Toseph F. Smith can visit but a very few of the people in their homes. He can see them in general conference, but onh' a very small percentage of the people can come here to conference. Suppose there will be twenty thousand people gathered here tomorrow, on the Sabbath day — that is a small minority of the half million of Latterday Saints. In order that we may see all the people and labor among them, get acquainted with them and know their spirit, that we may be able to bless them and take into their neighborhoods instruction counsel and encouragement we must  visit the people. In order to look after the affairs of organization and regulation as well as ordinations and the blessings necessary to establish the kingdom and keep it regulated, we must go to every stake, and there are fifty-six stakes — six or seven hundred wards — and we must do that every year, and two, three or four times a year we must visit every stake. We are in that ministry all the time. I want to say to every Latter-day Saint : If you be converted and are true Latter-day Saints, we want you to convert your neighbors — and convert them by your living. No stronger testimony can be borne in regard  the principles of honesty, temperance, justice, mercy, truth and morality, than for a man to live those principles and doctrines. No testimony is stronger. People may question what we sav and what testimony we bear, but they cannot question our lives. If a man lives an honest life, meets his obligatior if he is a true man and lives a godly and upriedit life, dealing with his fellow men as he would that men should deal with him, if he is true and faithful in every line, no man can say nay to what that man does, for it is unquestionable, it is the facts as they exist and are eternal. 

There are a few things to which we would like to refer which were mentioned in the presence of the First Presidency, in our councils, as we report regularly to them; we report our labors, just where we have been and what we have accomplished, every week. These men here, the brethren of the Twelve, and these Seventies, as well as the brethren presiding over the stakes of Zion, are all men of God. They are strong, capable men. They are men of worth and integrity. In all these fifty-six stakes, and in all these six or seven hundred wards, and in the quorums of the Priesthood these leading men are men of God. They have been chosen of the Lord; every one of them' has been designated by the finger of the Lord in revelation for their positions of responsibility, and the authority they bear is just as sacred as that given by the Savior Himself to the Prophet Joseph, or the authority conferred upon the Prophet Joseph by Peter, James and John, who were the chief apostles in the days of the Savior, for it was their mission and ministry. They have not come to the earth for eighteen hundred years to give that  and power to any other men, but after that great length of time, after those centuries of time, these men, bearing the keys of the kingdom, came under the direction of the Son of God and conferred that authority, and priesthood and power, upon the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery. Before them came John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of the Savior; he, too was the forerunner of the Prophet Joseph, and he came and administered to Joseph and Oliver. He instructed them and authorized them to officiate with the power of the Lesser Priesthood, by which they , had authority to baptize each other. Then came Peter, James and John with the Melchisedek Priesthood, holding the keys and authority to organize and build up the kingdom' of God on the earth. They brought that authority to the earth and conferred it upon these young men, with the promise that it should never be taken from the earth again, and it has remained. Since that time the Latter-day Saints have multiplied, but not phenomenally, not very remarkably, for there have been other peoples that have multiplied much more rapidly, having doctrines, ideas, and fashions that were more popular with the world, and they accepted the easier plan. It is a difficult thing for fallen men to serve the Lord in this life. It is rather difficult for the reason that fallen men incline to do wrong. Their appetites and passions rule them; they are fraught with evil propensities and desires, and the tempter is always before them. Therefore it is difficult for them to overcome and open their hearts to receive the truth. That is the reason we are not more numerous than we are, but we are a remarkable people. No other people in the world gather together; no other people in the world build temples as do the Latter-day Saints — temples erected to the name of God,in which blessings and ordinances are administered for time and eternity. There are no other people who marry for time and eternity, and who are laboring for the salvation of the dead — not another temple on this earth today, except these four temples of the Latter-day Saints, in which ordinances are being performed for the salvation of the living and the dead. These are some of the many evidences that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, for whenever the Lord has a people upon the earth who bear His authority, you will find these same doctrines and principles advocated and established among them— not only for the benefit of those that are here and those that are to come, but for the good of all those who have lived in the past, for it is one great family. From the time of Adam until the winding up scene of the children of men on this earth there is just one family of our Father, and the Lord is just as much interested in the men who came first as those who came at the last, or those who came in the meridian of time. Men were just as valuable in the beginning as they were in the days of the Savior; and they are just as valuable now as they were in the beginning or at the time of the Savior; it will be so to the end, and the children of God are innumerable. And this is a great work, of populating: the earth, bringing the family of God here to dwell and giving them opportunities. Of course there are plenty of other opportunities, there have been and will be throughout all the ages of . This is not the only work of the Lord — this is only one section, one department of the Lord's work, but it is very important, very remarkable, and those of His family who come here will be very numerous, but there will be plenty more for other worlds like this hereafter without number. There will be no dearth of worlds, no dearth of spirits, no dearth of space, no dearth of light, intelligence and opportunities for the development of human kind who have always been and who always will be. 

My brethren and sisters, let us be true to this cause. We Latter-day Saints are few, only a handful of people in a world of many millions, but we have been gathered together and entrusted with this great and remarkable work. Let us be faithful and do our duty well, so that in a few years when we depart and go to the other side, it may be said of us that we have been true and faithful, that we have fought a good fight. 

Now in regard to keeping the commandments of the Lord, being temperate and living up to His laws in all things — I want to make this impression upon this body of people, UDon these elders and sisters here today: The leading brethren do not want to be lonesome in keeping the commandments of God. We want you to be temperate as we are temperate. It is not any more important that we should keep the commandments of God than that you should keep them. You must be upright, temperate, honest arid conscientious. It is not enough for me and my family to do the will of the Lord. You, my brethren and sisters, and your children, your neighbors and kindred, and all who are Latter-day Saints should keep the commandments of the Lord, and then it will not be lonesome for us. We want your help. We want your support. We want you to minister and labor with us. When the President was speaking of the Lesser Priesthood, I was reminded that not long ago there came into my home two Teachers and a Deacon. I think it was the first time I had had a Deacon come to visit me. I would like you to remember that the lesser Priesthood has a ministry. Any man who bears this Priesthood, any part of it, either the lesser Priesthood or the Melchisedek Priesthood, has a ministry, and the Lord requires that that ministry should be magnified and honored. The way should be opened so that these boys may be given a chance, that they may be employed and have their ministry as Teachers, for it is their duty to labor and assist the Teachers in all things. The Priests also should perform their duties in the homes of the people, that the people may be stirred up, not only in regard to temperance, but in regard to the principle of prayer, that men and women shall be taught to pray, that they may know how to pray, and have courage to pray, that in their prayers they may stand committed before the Lord to keep His commandments. Be sure that you live in such a way that when you pray, you can say: Father, I have done Thy will this day. Start out your prayer like that. Live so that you will be able to tell the Lord that you have done exactly right that you have not done anything that is wrong. Tell the Lord that and tell the truth, and I say to you that you can't ask the Lord a thing you ought to have, that is reasonable at all, that He will not give. Keep His commandments, then  your hearts to the Lord and ask Him for what you need, and He will grant it unto you. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May His Spirit fill all our hearts, and may we go from this conference strengthened, and established, and fortified so that we shall never fail but that we may be successful in the service of God through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "Oh Shining Light," was rendered bv Sister Clorinda Poulton. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Influence of sweet song inspires to good resolutions. — Necessity for strict compliance with correct principles. — Temperance generally observed by the Saints. — Satisfying comprehensiveness of the true Gospel. — Joy in the doctrine that all infants arte saved. — Proud and grateful to be associated with God's great work. 

I desire that I may possess the good spirit that has been enjoyed by the brethren who have spoken unto us thus far, during the conference. In order that I may do so I would like to read two or three verses from that wonderful hymn written by Brother Phelps : 

"There is no end to virtue; 

There is no end to might; There is no end to wisdom; 

There is no end to light; 

"There is no end to union; 

There is no end to youth; There is no end to priesthood; 

There is no end to truth; 

"There is no end to glory; 

There is no end to love; There is no end to being :— 

Grim death reigns not above." 

I congratulate you, my brethren and sisters, on your ability to be in attendance upon this conference, that you have found the time and the means, and have had inclination to be present to commemorate this wonderful day. To me it is among the memorable days of my life, from the fact that it commemorates the birthday of my oldest living son, and also one of my wedding days. 

I am happy in the privilege of attending this conference and receiving the impress of the spirit, in the songs rendered by the choir, as well as the solo given by our sister, to which we have just listened. The touch of inspiration that reaches us from this source gladdens and sweetens these gatherings, and causes us to reflect, probably more seriously and more thoroughly upon our condition. We are inclined to weigh with thoughtfulness the possibilities of our conduct in the future, as we look backward upon our lives, under the influence of the spirit of song. I presume resolutions have been made by every man and woman present, many times in their past lives, as they have felt the influence of the spirit of song, or have listened to the words of inspiration that have fallen from the lips of their brethren, that in the future they would! make a very earnest and serious endeavor to apply in life the principles and doctrines of the Gospel of the Redeemer. I presume that probably all of those under the sound of my voice, whether members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or of any other of the church organizations of the world, have made these resolutions quite frequently in their experiences and many of them, possibly, have hedged quite close to the fulfillment of the covenants,  they have made in secret conversations with themselves and their Heavenly Father. No doubt the same will be our experience as we depart from this gathering here today, as we weigh the past, as we look into the present, and as we consider and reflect upon the possibilities that are in the future. When we look upon the list of calls that have been made from among our ranks in the past few months,and consider the possibility of such calling coming to us, as soldiers of the cross of the Redeemer, we may well consider with deliberation and thoughtfulness the character of the seed we have sown, as shown in the lives of the children our Father in Heaven has entrusted to our watch-care, and who should - have been impressed, by the character of our lives, with regard to the principles of everlasting life. I believe that all the fathers and mothers congregated here today would like to have every child of theirs follow carefully, thoughtfully, and prudently the doctrines which they accepted when they embraced the Gospel of the Redeemer. We would be most happy if the moral principles that it has been our purpose to implant in the minds of our fellow-men, as heralds of righteousness, shall have made an impress upon their minds, as well as upon our own, so completely and thoroughly that there would not arise a necessity for words of warning and counsel, such as we continue to give concerning the problems involved in this latter-day Gospel. With all our success, and with all the efforts we have made to implant these truths in the souls of our children, and notwithstanding the efforts we have put forth to establish these principles in the minds of  fellows, we note conditions existing that are not quite in harmony with our wishes in regard to these matters. Nor is there a proper consideration of these problems to be found sufficiently in the minds of those who have possibly received the impress of this great mission of the. latter-days, and who still cling to the truth,but who fail to apply its doctrines as completely as they might in their lives, and in the work that continues to present itself before them. 

Our attention has often been called to this principle of temperance, upon which President Smith and the brethren spoke this morning, and to which President Lyman has referred this afternoon. How deeply it should have made its lodgment in our souls. How thoroughly its impress should have been stamped upon the lives of our children. How completely we should have observed this law, that in the fulfillment of our duty in this respect our example might have impressed our fellow-men wherever, in the providences of our Heavenly Father, it has been our duty to labor and minister. It has made its impress, probably, in wider circles than we sometimes imagine, but how much more extensive would its influence have been among the children of men, as the result of our companionship, if we had received of it in the spirit thereof. If there had been a more thoughtful application of this principle in the conduct of our daily lives, its power for good would probably have spread much further than it has done. But, it is not my purpose to continue my talk upon this subject, except to say that I believe, in proportion to our numbers, we have observed this law of temperance  fully than the people of the world. I believe that the Latterday Saints, taken as a whole, whether located within the state of Utah or beyond the borders in the various states of our Union, in the Republic of Mexico or the Dominion of Canada, or among the governments of the world, a larger proportion of them have applied the principles of temperance, along the lines marked out by our Heavenly Father, than you will find in a like number of people anywhere in the world. It is true there are many thousands, of good men and women in every land and clime whose hearts have been so fully given to respect and reverance for the Divine Master and His teachings, that they have largely applied these moral principles in their lives. Thjere are many people who have accepted these doctrines, but when we come to consider their impress upon a whole community, I believe that these principles have sunk deeper into our hearts than they have into the hearts of any other people. I trust that in the future, guarding our own rights and the rights and liberties of our fellows, we shall seek fully and thoroughly to obey the Spirit of our Heavenly Father in regard to this matter of temperance, and that through our companionship its impress shall be felt among all classes of people with whom it shall be our privilege to mingle. 

My brethren and sisters, I think the young people of the Latter-day Saints should rejoice, indeed, in the privileges that have been theirs. No matter where they are found, or how far they may have drifted from the path of rectitude and temperance, I do not think that any of them will ever be able to say that the doctrines of the Church, of which their parents were members, did not impress upon their minds the importance of righteous living. The aim of the Church has been to teach the best that could be found and to implant in the hearts of its members such ideals that, seeking to approximate the conditions presented by those ideals, they might be in advance of conditions found among others with whom they have mingled. To me there is no scheme presented to mortals, in the world's history, which presents so bright a prospect as the system given to us and known as the Gospel of the Redeemer. There is nothing in the world which presents to mortals such possibilities and privileges as are given to the Latter-day Saints in that religion which the world calls "Mormonism" — so broad, so complete, so thorough in every detail, and presenting such incomparable possibilities and probabilities. 

Just think of one proposition that comes home to the hearts of the mothers who are congregated here this day, under the sound of my voice. Compare their situation with that of the mothers who were believers in the doctrines of Calvin and good old John Knox, when the idea prevailed that infants, by countless thousands, were forever lost, unless, per chance, parents had the foresight and wisdom to have administered to them certain ordinances; and if by any chance those ordinances were not administered their infants were eternally lost. Compare this doctrine with that presented by the boy Joseph Smith, in the introduction of the Gospel in these the latter-days, saying to all the mothers of the world — not to the mothers  the Latter-day Saints alone, but to the mothers of the Catholic Church, the Protestant Churches the Jewish Church, the Buddhist Church, and the mothers of every denomination in the world : "Your children are redeemed by the blood of Christ, not one of them' will be lost." What a beautiful proposition, in its breadth, in its liberality! It comes home with joy and gladness to the motherhood of this organization of which we are members. What a comfort this is to them, when they take their infants to their breasts and care and minister for them. And if any of their babes drop to sleep in death, they realize that these little ones are welcomed by the Redeemer of the world, that they are not outcasts, they will not be found among the unjust, the impure, the vicious who have rejected God and His truth. 

We are taught that every human being, that reaches an understanding of right and wrong, shall be judged upon the basis of his acceptance or rejection of the truth. To every man and woman it is made known clearly and fully that the justice of our Heavenly Father operates in the interest of all His children who have grown to maturity, that all who comprehend right and wrong are accountable for the lives they lead, and in the end they shall be called upon to answer for their actions, whether they be good or evil. Upon the opening of the books where the facts of their lives are recorded, they will be judged according to their works and their understanding of right and wrong. We cannot go through the world in recklessness, in viciousness, in impurity, injustice, doing wrong, trampling be our feet every principle of righteousness, and then think that by declaring with our last breath that we believe in the Redeemer of the world, that the door-way to heaven will be opened to us. Think of these things you "Mormon" boys and girls, when people talk of the breadth of the doctrines of the sectarian world, and condemn, and brand with infamy the doctrines and system introduced through the providences of our God, by the declaration of the Father Himself, in the introduction of His Son and in the bestowal of the keys of everlasting life. 

President Winder spoke to us this morning of the great work being accomplished in the temples, in behalf of the millions that have died without a knowledge of the Redeemer of the world, without an understanding sense of the purpose of His Gospel, without a knowledge of these glorious buildings dedicated to our God, wherein work is performed for tke salvation of the dead, and clustering under the Gospel of the Redeemer all those for whom these ordinances shall be administered. 

Why need any Mormon boy or girl in the world hang the head when men brand with infamy, and lack of liberality, or lack of worth, or power or goodness, a system that makes men pure and clean, by the gift of God, redeems them by His blood and crowns them with everlasting life? Why should we bow our heads, or be ashamed of a cause which aims at the establishment of righteousness, and teaches that, under the laws of God, we shall all be judged according to our individual works ? Shall we find fault with the justice and mercy  our God, when His great plan, as revealed to us, provides for the redemption of millions who have gone before without a knowledge of His Gospel, and to whom' the witness of the Spirit had not come? He says to those who are living: Do your duty in harmony with the principles of righteousness, then the key of knowledge shall be turned, and the thousands who have gone before shall hear and accept the Gospel in the spirit world; the justice of our Father thus exhibiting itself for them as for us. 

My friends, especially you younger people who are under the sound of my voice, I ask you to weigh these propositions, study these principles. Standing in your presence and feeling the impress of the Spirit and the nature of this great work, I declare to you that in all the schemes and devices that have come to the understanding of men through their own skill, through their own wisdom, and light, and knowledge, there is nothing which can be compared to it. Everything else in the world sinks into insignificance when we think of this wonderful plan of life and salvation which has been restored to earth in our day. There is no truth in the world, whether in the sciences of men or from the revelations of God, but what is part and parcel of the Gospel which the Redeemer has given to us. I bear you my witness to its truth, and implore your thoughtful consideration of it. I trust that these younger people will weigh its possibilities, that they will keep themselves pure and unspotted from' the world, and fulfil the mission and destiny of genuine, earnest, devoted and thorough-going Latter-day Saints. May peace abound with you all, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Evidences of increased faith. — Financial and moral advantages in obeying Word of Wisdom. — Zion's people tried, but all is well. 

It is always a pleasure to me to meet with the Latter-day Sanits. I have listened with interest to the remarks that have been made by those who have preceded me in this Conference; and while 1 stand before you today, I desire that all I say may be for our mutual benefit. I trust that it may be calculated in its nature to inspire us with a determination to press forward, and discharge the duties and obligations resting upon us as Latter-day Saints. 

I feel to rejoice in the splendid condition of the Church at home and abroad. I rejoice that the gatherings here this morning, and this afternoon, have been the largest that I ever remember to have seen in the first meetings of our Conference. It is an evidence to ine that the Latter-day Saints are interested in the Gospel, that they are anxious to hear what may be said to them by those who shall speak during the Conference. If there is any one thing more than another that is not calculated to inspire a speaker, it is the privilege of talking to empty benches. I have had that privilege, in years gone by, when speaking in the first meeting of our Conference. The gallery was not often opened, and the body of the house more than held the congregation, years ago. Therefore, I am very happy indeed to  this large gathering. To me it is an evidence of improvement among the Latter-day Saints; it indicates a growth of their faith, and of their interest in the teachings of the servants of the Lord. 

Three weeks ago, I had the privilege of speaking from this stand to the; people who were assembled, and I devoted nearly the entire time to quotations from the Doctrine and Covenants, from the Word of Wisdom, and from the leaves of the journal of an old criminal lawyer. My remarks were all upon the subject of temperance. I read to the audience a statement that the drinkbill in Great Britain amounted to over $800,000,000 a year; and other items, showing that the drinkbill in America was fully up to the average of the people of Great Britain. The Lord has said that the Word of Wisdom was given to the people for their temporal salvation, and when you and I stop to reflect upon the fact that tea, coffee, tobacco, and liquor, with the exception of the small amount manufactured in our state, all comes from a distance, and that every dollar expended in breaking the Word of Wisdom goes out of this country, never to come back, with nothing in exchange for it, and when \vc realize that the profits of all the sugar factories in Utah would not begin to compare in amount with the wasted money thus sent away, it does seem to me that our financial sense ought to teach us to obey this law of God. I have no hesitation in saying that if the Latterday Saints had obeyed the Word of Wisdom, as a people, from the day they entered these valleys until the present time, that this would be the wealthiest state west of the Mississippi River, from which neighborhood our fathers were driven. 

Money accumulates very rapidly when it is allowed to remain in any country, and goes from pocket to pocket, or is compounded from year to year. AJ1 the money that has been spent for the breaking of the Word of Wisdom, during the sixty years that we have been in this country , — almost every single, solitary dollar of it, might have been retained in this community, it might have been here accumulating and multiplying, and growing all the time. 

In the article which I read here (three weeks ago,this man announced that he had been a criminal lawyer for more than thirty years; that he had defended sixty-two men who had been accused of murder, and that forty-nine out of the sixty-two murders were committed because of the use of strong drink. He announced that he had defended a boy for killing his own brother; that he had defended a son for killing his own father; that he had defended a husband for killing his wife; that he had defended a mother for killing her child. Then he askes this question: "Is there anyone who would, for one moment, presume that these murders were committed because of the natural inclination of the people ?" And he went on to show that in these cases he had brought witnesses forward to prove that these people had committed these crimes under the maddening influence of drink* 

Now, . the Lord has said to the Latter-day Saints that it is not good for us to partake of strong drink. Let us, as Latter-day Saints, show to the world, by our good deeds, that we believe in the teachings of our Heavenly Father; let us, by observing the Word of Wisdom, set an example before the world that shall command the admiration of  fellows. I want to say to the young people that, as a coldblooded business proposition, as an investment, there is nothing that will give a young man more credit, or better standing in the world, than to obey this simple law of God Many of the greatest corporations, employing thousands of men, will not employ a man who smokes; neither will they employ a man who drinks. They are beginning to find out that men who drink, who smoke, and break these commandments that the Lord has given to the Latter-day Saints, lack the intellect, lack the physical strength, and the moral character which is so necessary to efficient service. They discover that those who break these laws of God are not so capable in the performance of any labor as are those who keep these laws. Now, let us fit and qualify ourselves morally, intellectually, and physically, that we may be able to fulfill every duty and obligation in all the walks of life. Let us have this capital as a part of our reserve; for it will prove to be one of the means by which we can make a success in the battle of life. 

I had the privilege, a day or two ago, of attending a little meeting that is held in the temple-annex, just before those who work in the temple enter that sacred building. On that occasion, I read the hymn on page 168, it having first been sung by the choir; and, as Brother Smith was reading the hymn, "If You Could Hie to Kolob," I decided to read it to the audience here today : 

"Zion stands with hills surrounded — Zion, kept by power divine; 

All her foes shall be confounded, Though the world i« .arms combine; 

Happy Zion, What a favored lot is thine! "Every human tie may perish, 

Friend to friend unfaithful prove, 

Mothers cease their own to cherish, Heaven and earth at last remove; 

But no changes Can attend Jehovah's love. 

"In the furnace God may prove thee, Thence to bring thee forth more bright, 

But can never cease to love thee, Thou art precious in His sight; 

God is with thee; Thou shalt triumph in His might." 

This was the favorite hymn of the late President Lorenzo Snow, and there never was a time in his life when he doubted for one moment that her foes should be confounded; he never doubted for one moment that, although in the furnace God might prove us, He would thence bring us forth more bright. 

This hymn reminds me of another, that I did not intend to read but I will : 

"ZION PROSPERS, ALL IS WELL. 

O awake! my slumb'ring minstrel, Let my harp forget its spell; 

Say, O say, in sweetest accents, Zion prospers, all is well. 

"Strike a chord unknown to sadness, Strike, and let its numbers tell, 

In celestial tones of gladness, Zions prospers, all is well. 

"Zion's welfare is my portion, 

And I feel my bosom swell With a warm, divine emotion, 

When she prospers, all is well. 

"Zion, lo! thy day is dawning 

Though the darksome shadows swell, Faith and hope prelude the morning; 

Thou art prospering, all is well. 

"Thy swift messengers are treading Thy high courts where princes dwell, 

And thy glorious light is spreading; Zion prospers, all is well." 

There is no question in my mind that Zion prospers, and that all is well. I rejoice when I read these  words which were written by the late Eliza R. Snow. I belive, as was said here this morning, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was never in a better condition than it is today, spiritually, and temporally, and every way. During the last year, I have had the privilege of traveling in many stakes of Zion, and I believe that the presidents of stakes, the high councilors, the bishops of wards, and the teachers are more energetic, more diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and in teaching their people to live the laws of God, than they ever have been before.; I believe that the auxiliary organizations of this Church are in a flourishing condition, from the Relief Society down to the Primary Association. I believe that the Latter-day Saints as a people are taking more interest in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and are striving to carry out the commandments of the Lord more perfectly than they have ever done before. I rejoice in this fact; I rejoice that the people love the Gospel; that they desire the advancement of the work of God upon the earth, and that they are anxious to so order their lives that the example which they set shall be worthy of the imitation of all men. 

I want to bear witness here today that no man or woman ever lived, who kept the commandments of God and lived according, to the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, whose example was not worthy of the imitation of all men and all women, in any land, and in any clime. This Gospel of Jesus Christ, which you and I have embraced, is in very deed the plan of life and salvation. It is in very deed the Gospel revealed again to the earth. It is the same Gospel that  proclaimed by our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ; and He gave His life in testimony of the same. And the lives of our Prophet and Patriarch were given as a witness to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. For seventy-eight years this Gospel has been proclaimed to the world without money, without price. Freely we have received, and freely we have given to the world. 

May God give us the light and inspiration of His spirit as our constant guide and companion. May  be Latter-day Saints in very deed, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
