Morning
05 04 1908

ELDER RTJDGEE, CLAWSON. 

A gathering of the Priesthood described and analyzed. — The spirit of the Priesthood delineated. 

My Brothers and Sisters : If there is anything in the world that will cause one to feel timid, it is in facing a congregation of this character and magnitude, wherein the hosts of Israel are assembled to worship before the Lord. I trust that you will give me your faith and prayers that I may be sustained by the Lord in the remarks which I shall make. 

We had a very remarkable gathering in this building last evening. It was a meeting of the Priesthood of the Church. There were present 1389 souls, possibly as great a gathering of this character as we have ever held in the Church. I think  was. A stranger sitting in our midst last evening would doubtless have said : Yes, this is a gathering of your Priesthood. It seems to me that it is a very heterogeneous body of men. The answer to that remark would be : No, it is not a heterogeneous body, but a homogeneous body. If the word had come from the presiding officer of the meeting, there would have been an immediate re-arrangement. The brethren would have divided and sub-divided into groups, until we should have had quite a variety of councils presiding authorities and quorums of the Holy Priesthood; varied as to number, but homogeneous in purpose, in sentiment, and in faith. And if the stranger had sought to discover the identity of these various councils and quorums of the Priesthood, he would have found : first, three great presiding Pligh-Priests, the Presidency of the Church, whose jurisdiction in the Church is supreme, and from whose decision there is no appeal. The Lord has so ordained it. He would have discovered the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, whose authority and jurisdiction reach out into the fifty-six stakes of Zion, and into the world, a body of men who labor directly under the authority of the First Presidency. He would have discovered the council of the Seven Presidents of Seventies, whose jurisdiction and authority extend to an army of Seventies throughout the Church, numbering about ten thousand. He would have discovered the Presiding Patriarch,with a body  Patriarchs,' whose jurisdiction extends to spiritual blessings in the Church. He would have discovered the presidents of stakes, coming from localities in all directions and all parts of the Church, representing fifty-six great stakes of Zion, whose authority is very great and farreaching in its character, and who preside in a general way, over the quorums of the High Priests and the Elders of the Church, and the Bishopric of the wards and, 1 the lesser Priesthood. He would have discovered the bishops of the wards coming from something like 652 organized wards in the stakes of Zion. These men who are denominated as common judges in Israel, are appointed to act as fathers of the people and ministry not only in spiritual affairs, also in temporal matters, to give counsel, and direct, to look after the poor, and see that no iniquity abounds in the Church. He would have discovered numerous quorums or bodies of men 'such as High-Priests, Seventies, Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons. The stranger would also have discovered that if this vast body of men had been called into action, every man would know perfectly the scope of his authority and the character of his duty. They would move in a solid phalanx, there would be no confusion, no disorder, no stubbornness of spirit. This is what the stranger would have discovered. Such, my brethren and sisters, sis the Priesthood of the Church of God. It is the result of seventy-eight years of training under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, which is the spirit of order; it is the spirit of obedience, the spirit of united action, the spirit of harmony and oneness of purpose. 

The opening song that was given last night will be found on page 28 of the Hymn Book. The words of the first verse are as follows : 

"God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform, He plants his footsteps in the sea 

And rides upon the storm." 

The thought occurred to me, expressed by Bishop Nibley in his remarks last evening, that nowhere in the wide world beyond our borders could such a body of men be brought together as were those asassembled in this building last evening. During the meeting, the following song was sung: 

"Praise to the man who communed with with Jehovah; Jesus annointed that Prophet and Seer, Blessed to open the last despensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven; Traitors and tyrants now fight him in in vain; 

Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; 

Death cannot conquer the hero again. 

Praise to his mem'ry, he died as a . martyr; 

Honored and blest be his ever great name; 

Long shall his blood, which was shed by assassins, Stain Illinois, while the earth lauds his fame. 

Great is his glory, and endless his Priesthood; Ever and ever the keys he will hold; Faithful and true, he will enter his kingdom, 

Crowned in the midst of the Prophets of old. 

Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven; 

Earth must atone for the blood of that man; 

Wake up the world for the conflict of justice : 

Millions shall know "Brother Joseph" -again." I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, that the spirit aroused by the singing of that hymn last evening in the priesthood meeting and in the meetings of the general assemblies of the Church is a spirit which is unconquerable. I do not say this in an offensive way. It is the spirit that stands for peace, for good order, for virtue, for temperance, for justice and for truth. I tell you, brethren and sisters, it is the spirit that burned in the heart of the prophet, when he declared to the world that he had seen the Father and the Son. And he made this declaration in the face of the opposition of the world, and against the sentiment and the faith of the world. When he would not recant, or take back the announcement or say that he had been deceived, he was hunted like a wild beast. He was driven from pillar to post. He was dragged before the courts time and time again, and on every occasion was discharged for lack of evidence, such evidence as the enemy wanted to convict him, un til finally the great prophet of this dispensation, with his brother Hyrum Smith, were lured into the confines of the Carthage jail, and there suffered martyrdom. It is the spirit that fired the heart of Brigham Young when he led the Pioneers across the desert, and into these mountains, and established them here to become a great and mighty people in the Rocky Mountains, in fulfillment of the prediction of the martyred prophet. It is the spirit that burned in the heart of John Taylor, the champion of truth, a man of courage and of unyielding faith. It is the spirit that burned in the heart of Wilford Woodruff, the intrepid missionary of the Church,  man who carried the Gospel to the nations of the earth, with a spirit that could not be wearied, a spirit that could not be discouraged and which knew no failure; a mighty man of Israel. It is the spirit that burned in Lorenzo Snow, who, like his predecessor, also carried the Gospel to the nations and kingdoms of the world, and in whose heart, when he came to the presidency of the Church, burned a great desire, a great longing, to see the Church freed from the bondage of debt. He inaugurated that great work. It is the spirit, brethren and sisters, that burns in our present leader, the Prophet of God. and a man of mighty faith, a man of integrity a man who loves his people and who is beloved of his people almost as no man who has preceded him' in that office. He has lived to carry on that glorious .work of relieving the Church of its obligations, and he lives today, to see the consummation, and, in fact, to bring about the final consummation of that glorious undertaking. I say, my brethren and sisters, the Lord God of heaven bless our leader, and bless the Priesthood of the ChurchMay He bless the Saints, the people of God,that we may go on from one victory to another, without fear, without trepidation, putting our trust in the arm of Jehovah. I pray that His bessings may continue with us and that His Spirit may abide in our hearts, and rest down mightily upon us during the progress of this great conference of His people, which I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. Charles Kent's male chorus rendered a selection entitled "Nearer to Thee." 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Saints desire to learn truth, and govern themselves by God's word. — The Church authorities faithful guides to the people. 

It is written, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God," and it is further written that, "Every person that belongeth to the Church of Christ shall observe and keep all of the commandments and covenants of the Church." While I presume all of us have not arrived at that stage where we are living according to every word that has proceeded out of the mouth of God; while we are not all observing to keep all of the commandments and covenants of the Church, nevertheless I believe there is a strong desire on the part of the Latter-day Saints to live as near as possible to the words which have been, spoken by the mouth of God unto the people. From the testimony of President Smith yesterday morning, it is evident the Saints are improving every year. Each year we are growing a little better, living a little closer to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, keeping the commandments of the Lord a little more fully, and remaining true to the covenants we have made within the Church. This congregation is an evidence that the Latter-day Saints are not content to live by bread alone, but that they are exceedingly desirous of hearing the word of God. Hence we have come up in vast numbers to this conference, that we might hear the word of the Lord as it shall be given unto us through the Lord's servants; and we will not have come in vain. We have never yet come up in vain, but each time that we have gathered in our general conferences we  received the word of God, and we have received it, too, in open hearts, after which we have gone home and carried into effect, in a measure, that word. 

It is the truth we love; it is the truth we seek; and we believe there are no men who are better acquainted with the truths of God than the constituted; authorities of His Church. Our belief is verified in the results that have followed the Saints when they have heard and put into practice these truths. "The spirit of truth is of God," declared the Lord to Joseph Smith the Prophet. "I am that spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying : He received a fullness of truth, yea even of all the truth. And no man receiveth a fullness unless he keepeth His commandments. He that keepeth the commandments receiveth truth and light until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." That is our desire, to keep the commandments of God, and to become acquainted with truth and light. The Lord has said, "He tjhat keepeth the commandments receiveth truth and light until he is glorified and knoweth all things." We want knowledge and wisdom. We want to understand the truth, and understanding the truth rejoice in it. We want to know what the commandments of God are, and knowing them we are determined, as a people, to keep them, that we might come to a knowledge of all truth, even as the Lord Jesus Christ understandeth and knoweth all of the truth. He arrived at that condition through keeping the commandments of God, His Father. 

I rejoice in the general faithfulness of the people of the Latter-day Saints. They are indeed, as it were, a city set upon a hill which cannot be hid, whose light is shining-, in all the world, and is lighting the feet of those who are seeking the Word of Life. We have been gathered out, and others are being gathered out, from the world and are following in the footsteps of God's servants. I would advise the Latter-day Saints to continue in following the servants of the Lord, who preside in the Church and Kingdom of Christ. Never in the history of the people have the saints gone wrong or gone astray while following the lead of the Presidency and general authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Never in the world will the people go wrong or go astray and fall by the wayside, if they will continue to follow the lead of these men of God; and I want to suggest that we look to the Presidency of the Church, and the leading quorums of the Priesthood, as true indicators of the way the Lord would have us walk. They are indeed God's liahona, and if we will discover their spirit in all matters pertaining to the building up of the Kingdom of God, the spread of everlasting truth, and then follow them, we will be right, will prosper, will do as the Lord wishes us to do. We will keep His commandments, and in return shall receive light and truth until we be glorified, and know all things, and are prepared and worthy to dwell with God in Celestial Glory. 

May the Lord bless the Saints, that they may ever be willing thus to seek to understand and know the mind and will of God, as it may be indicated unto the people in all things, through the Presidency of the Church; and, having discovered what the Lord wishes, be determined that with all our strength and power we shall go in that way. 

This will be a blessed day, a blessed future, for the Saints of the Most High. 

God bless the people in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Appreciating the importance of the Sacrament. — Reverence and care in its adminstration. — Scripture teachings concerning the Sacrament. — Sacredness of covenants. 

I desire that my words to you may be indicted by the Spirit of our Father in Heaven, for the brief time allotted to a speaker is so valuable that individual opinions are of little worth, except they be inspired of the Lord. 

, I have rejoiced in being permitted to attend this conference, and in meeting so many of our brethren and sisters. To me it has been a time of refreshing, and I have enjoyed, more than I can tell, the instructions and spirit of the Conference. 

It is my privilege to travel and visit from place to place in the Church, and among the evidences of faithfulness that I have observed, in many places, is the increased attendance of the members of the Church in their sacrament meetings. I feel that a comprehension of the sacredness of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper is important to the members of the Church. We partake of pjhysical food — that is, we partake of bread and water etc., to nourish the physical body. It is just as necessary that we partake of the emblems of the body and blood of our risen Lord to increase our spiritual strength. It is observed that men and women who go from year to year without partaking  the Lord's Supper, gradually lose the Spirit of our Heavenly Father; they forfeit its companionship where they have had opportunity to participate in that blessing, but have failed to take advantage of it. The sacrament is of great importance. The Lord Himself ordained that we partake of these emblems.  There are many people who believe it is necessary to be baptized, and to have other ordinances of the Gospel performed in their behalf, and yet they become indifferent and careless regarding the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. It was regarded of such imporantce by our Father in Heaven that, through His beloved Son, and the apostles and prophets, as recorded in the scriptures, the Saints were admonished to partake of it regularly. Three of the evangelists refer to it, and we find that the scripture, in many places, teaches the importance of it, as it was taught by the Lord Himself when He dwelt in the flesh. Our Father in Heaven does not give us commandments or advice that are not of importance. He teaches us for our uplifting, for our growth and development, and if we will follow His counsel it will prepare us to go back into His presence. So I rejoice that the Saints are more faithful in observing this requirement of our Father. Each Sabbath day we are expected to meet together and partake of the emblems of the body and blood of our risen Redeemer. I have turned to a passage of scripture in the 11th chapter of First Corinthians, beginning with the 23rd verse, which reads as follows : 

"For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread : 

"And when He had given thanks, He brake it, and said, Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you; this do in remembrance of me. 

"After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood : this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me. 

"For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till He come. 

"Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 

"But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup. 

"For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. 

"For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep." 

When I remember these words that have been given to us as the revelation of our Fathers' will, I rejoice when I find our brethren and sisters coming to the sanctuary and partaking of these emblems as indicated — worthily; but I desire to call your attention to the fact that there is danger if we do it unworthily. Before partaking of this sacrament, our hearts should be pure; our hands should be clean; we should be divested of all enmity toward our associates; we should be at peace with our fellow men; and we should have in our hearts a desire to do the will of our Father and to keep all of His commandments. If we do this, partaking of the sacrament will be a blessing to us and Will renew our spiritual strength. 

In connection with this matter, I note that there is a great improvement among us as a people. I believe our understanding of the importance of this requirement is increasing and becoming better all the time; that we are more particular to have the vessels bearing these emblems scrupulously clean, and that everything pertaining to the sacrament is as our Father in Heaven would have it — clean, sweet, and pure. 

The Lord has indicated the importance of the sacrament in another way. There are certain of the Priesthood who are not permitted to officiate in this ordinance. The Deacon or Teacher may not administer the sacrament, and those who bear no Priesthood, cannot act in this capacity. The Lord has certainly emphasized its importance by designating those who may officiate. Our people have been taught to take the sacrament with the right hand; we believe that is appropriate, and proper, and acceptable to our Father. The sacrament should not be accepted with a gloved hand; nobody should receive it in that irreverent manner. We should partake of it in humility, with preparation of clean hands and pure hearts, and with a desire to be acceptable to our Father; then we will receive it worthily, and rejoice in the blessing that comes to us by reason of it. 

. The Lord has spoken regarding this matter in the Scripture; I refer to the Bible, Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants. I find in the Book of Mormon, chapter 9, that Mormon, while teaching the people, admonishes them as follows : 

"See that ye are not baptized unworthily; see that ye partake not of the sacrament of Christ unworthily." 

He thought it was of sufficient importance to emphasize it, and thus he taught the people in regard thereto. 

We also find reference to this matter in the 18th chapter of Third Nephi, where the Savior is instructing the people on this continent, just as He had taught His disciples in the old world, to observe the sacrament. It reads as follows : 

"And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, He said unto the disciples, behold there shall one be ordained among you, and to him will I give power that he shall break bread, and bless it, and give it unto the people of my Church, unto all those who shall believe and be baptized in my name. 

"And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done, even as I have broken bread, and blessed it, and gave it unto you." 

We believe that the sacrament is not the literal body and blood of our Lord; in other words, we do not believe in the doctrine of Transubstantiation. The next verse reads as follows 

"And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have shown unto you. And it shall be a testimony unto the Father, that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me, ye shall have my Spirit to be with you." 

So the Master taught, and there are other things in this chapter, pertaining to the same matter, that I will not take time to read. In addition to that, we find that in our own day the Lord has given us revelation upon that, subject. In section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives unto us instructions upon the matter. In that revelation, beginning with the 75th verse, He says : 

"It is expedient that the church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus; 

"And the elder or priest shall administer it; and after this manner shall he  it — he shall kneel, with the church" [It does not say that the church must kneel, but he shall kneel with the Church] "and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying — " 

Note the beautiful prayer that follows. It is the same as that contained in the Book of Mormon, with the exception of one single word: 

"O God, the eternal Father, we ask Thee, in the name of Thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto Thee, O God, the eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of Thy Son, and always remember Him and keep His commandments which He has given them, that they may always have His Spirit to be with them. Amen." 

The prayer and blessing upon the water is somewhat similar. How sacred, how profoundly sacred, are the thoughts expressed in the sacrament prayer. I admonish you, my brethren, that when we officiate in administering the sacrament, we repeat, if possible, the exact words given by revelation, and that we do so with the Spirit of the Lord. When we repeat these prayers, we should feel the sentiments expressed by the words that we speak. Then I say also to those who partake of the sacrament, we should consider seriously the covenants we make with our Father. Let us pay strict attention to those covenants, and let us see to it that we eat and drink worthily, for the blessings of our souls and for the increase of our spiritual strength. These blessings are for you, my brethren and sisters, who are of the household of faith. Let us appreciate them, and live worthy of them, that by our lives we may exemplify our belief. Let none of us be under con by partaking of the sacrament unworthily, thereby being deprived of the companionship of the Spirit of our Father. 

May the Lord bless us; may His Spirit continue to be poured out upon us. May we love each other, as our Father commanded that we should do. If we can partake of the sacrament worthily, we can love each other, even as our Father has ordained; remembering that He has said unto us: "If_ye are not one, ye are not mine." May we be one. May we be His in very deed — examplars of His cause and His truth, ever ready to teach and expound it in kindness and love, to the convincing of His children who know not of it. Let us teach them the truth by precept and example, so that, by reason of our faithfulness in so doing, our skirts may be rid of the blood of the generation in which we live; and when we go to our eternal home, may we be welcome there because of our labor in the interest of our Father's children. 

May the Lord add His blessings, and His peace be upon us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDEE GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

No perfect building can be erected from a variety of plans. — One perfect plan of salvation devised by the Great Architect. —  "Mormonism" includes God's plan of salvation, the greatest thing in the world. — "Mormonism" Is built upon the immovable rock of revelation. 

My brethren and sisters: For several days I have been contracting a cold which this morning has reached that stage which renders my voice hoarse and unnatural, and I have some fears that I will not be able to make this vast congregation hear all that I say. I have, too, some anxiety with reference to what I shall say upon this occasion; for I realize that the time is very valuable, where so very many Latter-day Saints are assembled together for the purpose of receiving instruction. 

During the meetings of this Conference, however, there has been a thought in my mind which I would like to develop in a measure before you, if I can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. I wish to say, in beginning that I am heartily in accord with all the sentiments which have been expressed by my brethren at the meeetings of this Conference. They have spoken words of praise for the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints, as well as words of inspiration to the people. 

I will read the 28th and 29th verses of the 14th chapter of Luke : 

"For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? 

"Lest, haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him." 

The use which the Savior makes of this figure is different from that which I design to use it for. The Savior here implies that it would be very unwise indeed for a person to undertake the building of a tower, or a structure of any kind, without first having planned and made an estimate of the cost, and determined in advance whether he would be able to meet the expense to build the structure. I say, the words of the Savior imply the folly of one undertaking such a structure without having first made the plans. No reference is made here  plans, but I conclude that in order to arrive at the actual cost, or even the approximate cost of the structure, especially if it be complicated, that the plans must first be made. 

Now, suppose that one of us is going to erect a beautiful and modern home that would be expensive, that would be complex in its architecture and construction. We would find it necessary to have an architect provide plans and specifications. When those plans were privided, what would you think if other and different plans were submitted, and the individual should start the building, and employ some workmen on one side and some on another, distributing these plans, varied though they must necessarily be, — all these men engaged on the same structure with the thought that there would be eventually a most perfect modern building constructed? Why, you would think, of course, that there was folly in it. 

I speak of this to impress upon the minds of the people the necessity of there being harmony of design in any great movement, just as there must be but one design and plan for a building; unless, perchance, those which are added are duplicates. 

Then, another point in connection with that. When the plans are all made, the individual who has the plans in hand and understands them, comprehends the work from beginning to end. He may not sumbit the whole of the plans to any one of his workmen, but, if it were a large building, requiring much time and many laborers, he might give certain details to some of them, and on another part of the structure he would give other details of the general plan to other workmen; but  would be working together systematically upon the one great plan. In this way, the architect sees all his work, even the end from the beginning. That is the point. 

Now, things earthly, we are told, are typical of things Heavenly, and that which comes nearest to perfection here on earth reaches nearer to Heaven, or is more like the things which are Heavenly, Which are perfect. So the great plan, the greatest of all plans, which involves the salvation of. the human race, and covers a period of at least seventy centuries; with many thousand millions of people, living under different conditions, having different temperaments, different dispositions, and different faiths and desires. This great plan must, of necessity, have had an Architect, and His plan must have been well designed. So we read in the Acts of the Apostles, the 15th chapter, 18th verse : 

"Known unto God are all His works from the beginning of the world." 

To me, this means that all along down the line all things were known by the Lord, the Great Architect, even the end from the beginning. By reason of this knowledge, the result of a definite and well-defined plan, He could pdint out the details of this great work to be accomplished many centuries in the future. Whis is the very thing He has done, for He revealed these things to His apostles and prophets, who have lived from the earliest days of this world's history down to the present time. He is, indeed, the Great Architect, the Sole Builder, — He Himself being, as the Scriptures tell us, "The chief corner stone." He knows whereof He speaks, and it is small  for Him to indicate to His workmen, His prophets who have lived upon this earth, any matter of detail pertaining to this great plan. 

Now, the other point: if one Would consider it folly for a man, having undertaken to erect a large building, to have different plans, perhaps made by different architects, and none of them alike, submitting one plan to one workman, and another plan to another workman engaged in the building of this great structure, and expect to reach symmetry, beauty and perfection when it was completed — if man would consider such a course one of folly, how can he consistently believe that God, the Eternal Father, the Author of the plan of salvation, would give to His children different plans to follow, with the hope that, in the end, they would succesfully complete the desired structure? If it would be folly to take such a course with respect to a building, how much more necessary it is to have a definite purpose respecting plans which affect the salvation of the human family. I wish to quote the saying of the Prophet Joseph, which is recorded in his "Gems," found on page 288 of the Compendium. He says : "At the first organization in Heaven we were all present, and saw the Savior chosen and appointed and the plan of salvation made, and we sanctioned it." 

While the term! "Mormonism" is a misnomer, it is nevertheless a comprehensive term, because it embraces both the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and also the Church which was instituted as the machinery for the carrying out of His great plans and purposes. "Mormonism" comprises the great plan of the Creator, and there was no other plan instituted in Heaven for the accomplishment of this great work — .If there were more than one plan we would find confusion in the work of the Lord, but there is not, consequently there is symmetry and beauty, and progress, as our brethern have testified during the meetings of this conference. The confusion in the world concerning the principles of salvation is due to the fact that men, of their own volition, have made plans and doctrines according to their own ideas. Everywhere in the great structure they have attempted to erect they have introduced conflicting ideas, hence the confusion that we see throughout the world today. I want to say to this people, and I say it to the world, for these words will go forth to the world in print, that "Mormonism" is the biggest thing in this wide world. It is of more importance to the children of men today, this wide world over, than anything and everything else combined; because in it is included the law by which the children of men shall be judged. 

The Scriptures tell us that until the law came, sin was in the world. But sin is not imputed where there is no law. To me this means that where there is no law there is no judgment. To us, and to all the world to whom "Mormonism" has been proclaimed, has come the law by which the people of the world are to be judged. I want to say to the world to whom "Mormonism" has come, or may come in the future, that it is unto them the savour of life unto life, or of death unto death, according as they receive it and live it, or as they reject it. 

The foundation of this work is revelation — Divine revelation from God. On one occasion, Jesus told Peter, "Upon this rock," (the rock of revelation) "will I build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." And so this Church has been built upon the rock of revelation; and it has met the storms; the rains have descended upon it; the floods have come and blown against it from every side; the blasts have not impaired it; it stands because it is founded upon a rock. Neither can these things dis-, turb it, — all the falsehoods, the persecutions, the calumnies, anything or everything that the adversaries of righteousness may inaugurate or wage against this work, only have dashed against it; the winds have the effect of lifting it up and moving it forward. "Mormonism" thrives in adversity; the more we are hounded, the more we are opposed, the more life, energy and zeal is exhibited on the part of the Latter-day Saints. It has come to be a common expression that every time opponents kick "Mormonism" they kick it up hill; which is a veritable truth. "Mormonism" is growing and prospering in the earth, because it is the truth, and truth will not be downed; or, if downed, it will rise again. Truth, like murder, will out, and the world must know it. I thank the Lord that so many of us are engaged as champions of the truth, and we have an assurance of the great destiny of this work. 

In the second chapter of Daniel, the prophet refers to the establishment of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth in the last davs; for the time there indicated in the interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream does refer to the last days. It is written that the God of 

Heaven would set up a kingdom which shall never be left to another people,a kingdom which shall not be destroyed; but it shall break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and shall stand forever. We are told that it is likened unto a little stone cut out of the mountain without hands. This Church and Kingdom of God had a most humble beginning, but it shall progress, increasing in size and strength, and it shall roll upon that great image, representing the powers of the earth, until it shall be crushed to pieces, and become as the dust of the summer's threshing-floor, which shall be blown to the four winds of heaven. And this kingdom shall roll on and on until it fills the whole earth. The Lord has identified most clearly this Church and Kingdom as being that seen by Daniel. We find it in the 109th Section of the Book of Covenants, 72nd paragraph, where almost the identical words of Daniel are used. The restoring of the Gospel by the visitation of an angel, as predicted by John, upon the Isle of PatmOs, has been fulfilled. The Lord established that fact most clearly in the 133rd Section of the Book of Covenants, beginning with the 36th verse. Of these things, the Latterday Saints are well assured. To doubt the ultimate triumph of "Mormonism" and its glorious destiny, as depicted in the Second Chapter of Daniel, we would have to doubt the word of God as it is given to us in these modern revelations; and it would be necessary for us to repudiate Joseph Smith as a Prophet of this dispensation. But we are assured of the fulfillment of God's word, and we do know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. The Lord has revealed this to us  clearly; and testimony upon testimony have the Latter-day Saints received from the Lord as they have continued in faithfulness to serve Him. They know whereof they speak when they say that this is the Church of'Jesus Christ,established by the power of God, and destined to fill the whole earth, until it shall be known as the Kingdom of God, for Jesus, our Lord, is to come and take charge of His Kingdom and reign as King of kings, and Lord of lords. Through our faithfulness, we have great hope of obtaining eternal inheritance in that Kingdom. 

May the Lord add His blessings to the Latter-day Saints, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "In our Redeemer's name." 

Conference was adjourned until 2 p. m'. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis W. Shurtliff. 
