Morning
04 04 1908

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPEiNING ADDRESS. God's protecting care, mercy, and blessings manifested. — Efforts of opponents over-ruled for good. — The Saints' business is salvation of the living and redemption of the dead. — Practical efforts in cause of Temperance. — Important educational movement among Priesthood. — Boys should be actively employed in their callings. — Contention a characteristic of apostates. — Interesting statistics. — Testimony of divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith's mission. 

I esteem it a pleasant duty to attempt to make a few remarks at the opening of this our 78th Annual Conference. I am delighted with the vast number of brethren and sisters who are in attendance this morning. I am glad to look into your faces, to see you,and to,realize,asI am made to do this morning by your presence, the interest that you feel in the cause of Zion,and in the work of the Lord in which we are engaged. It is also evidence of the interest you feel in the matters that may be presented to the conference for your approval; we desire and hope that we will be able to present only such matters to you, for your action and acceptation, as will be pleasing to you and acceptable to the Lord. 

I believe that we have every reason to feel grateful to our Heavenly Father, the Giver of every good and perfect gift, for His merciful providjences and wonderful kindness that have been extended to His people during the past yean since the last general annual session of the Church in conference in this place. The hand of the Lord is over His people, and His eye is upon His work — never was it more so than is visible at the present time. It is true that we owe to Him our deliverance from, our 'enemies, from those who have sought our hurt and who are still seeking our hurt. We acknowledge the hand of Him who over all things, for we do not claim to possess the wisdom, the knowledge, or the power, in and of ourselves, to accomplish that which has been accomplished, or to effect the deliverance that has been wrought out for the people of God since the incipiencey of this work. We realize that it has been by the favor, and mercy, and protecting care of Almighty God that His people and the work of redemption, established in the latter days through the Prophet Joseph Smith, have been preserved and brought to their present standing, power, and influence in the midst of the earth. We thank God for His mercies and blessings; and I do not know but what we owe in some small degree gratitude to those who have bitterly opposed the work of the Lord; for in all their opposings and bitter strife against our people the Lord has developed His power and wisdom, and has brought His people more fully into the knowledge and favor of the intelligent people of the earth. Through the very means used by those who have opposed the work of God, He has brought out good for Zion. Yet, it is written, and I believe it is true, that although it must needs be that offenses come, woe unto them by whom they come; but they are in the hands of the Lord as we are. We bring no railing accusation against them. We are willing to leave them in the hands of the Almighty to deal with them as seemeth Him good. Our business is to work righteousness in the earth, to seek for the development of a knowledge of God's will and of God's ways, and of His great and glorious truths which He has revealed through the instrumentality of Joseph the Prophet, not only for the salvation of the living but  the redemption and salvation of the dead. 

I rejoice as much tjpday— and more, if I am capable of rejoicing more, in the work of the Lord than I ever did before. I feel today as confident and as sure in the continued providences of the Lord, in His continued mercy toward His people, and in the glorious fact that it is His work, that He is directing it and will continue to do so, as I ever felt in my life. Indeed there is not the shadow of a doubt in my mind in regard to these things. I feel confident of the truth of God's work, of the mission of the Prophet Joseph, of .the truth and divinity of the precious ordinances of the Gospel that have been restored to man in the latter-day, and I believe that this Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. I feel sure of it. I am convinced of the truth of these things in every fiber of my being. 

I "feel that it is a great privilege for us to be permitted to come together from time to time in. the capacity in which we have met this morning. Here, during our conference, the elders of the Church will have opportunity to bear their testimony of the truth, to exhort and to admonish, to advise andj . counsel and instruct the people, as the Spirit of the Lord may move upon them and give them utterance. Here we have the opportunity of mingling together, of renewing acquaintances, and of partaking of the spirit of the work of Ijhe Lord which pervades assemblies of this kind. I rejoice to see you here and welcome you today. I pray that God's blessings may be extended to every soul present this morning, that life, and health, and peace may be our portion. I prav that the protecting care of the Lord may be upon you, individually and col, and upon all that you possess, all that the Lord has given unto you. I trust that we may have a time of rejoicing, and that at the conclusion of our conference we may return to our homes having renewed strength and determination in our souls to continue on and on in faithfulness to the covenants that we have made with the Father of Lights, with Whom there is no variableness nor shadow of turning. Let us strive to keep sacred the covenants we have made with Him in the waters of baptism, and in the ordinances of the Gospel, wherein we have promised to be His children in very deed. 

It may be proper for me to say that since our last semi-annual conference, quite a number of our beloved brethren and sisters have been called from this sphere of action Some of them were prominent in the ministry, and all have been beloved, and honored for their integrity to the cause of Zion. They have gone to meet their Father, and to render that account of their ministry in the world, as described by Alma the Prophet, by which they shall receive that judgment which will assign them to the paradise of God, where they shall await their resurrection from the dead. "The Lord giveth and . the Lord taketh away," and we feel in our hearts to exclaim, like him of old, "Blessed be the name of the Lord." 

I will say to my brethren and sisters who are present that I believe, in all candor and in truth, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, now organized in the midst of these eternal hills, was never in a better condition, spiritual or temporal, than today. The people never were more united than they are now. They never observed the laws of God more faithfully, or more truly and honestly than they are doing today, not only upon general principles, or in a general way, but specifically they are becoming more careful in their observance of the wortls that the Lord has spoken for their good. I believe that we are coming nearer to the point where we shall be able to observe that great and glorious law of temperance which the Lord Almighty has given unto us, wherein He has said that strong drink is not good, that tobacco is not for the habitual use of man, not for the. stomach, but for sick cattle. We are coming to the conclusion that the Lord knew best, when He delivered to the Church, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that "Word of Wisdom," contained in the book of reflations from the Lord. Although we see a few, professing to be Latter-day Saints, who are still slaves to the debased appetite for tobacco, and perhaps some with an appetite for strong drink, yet the great majority of the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints are coming nearer and nearer to a proper observance of the law which the Lord has given to us for our health, for the preservation of our lives; that we may be in harmony with His Spirit and His will, that we may be clean and undented, that we may be nearer like unto Him Who was without sin, Who was indeed pure and holy as God is pure and holy. When I see a man professing to be a Latterday Saint, or even professing to be a member of the Church, though not making any great professions of being a Latter-day Saint, befouling His breath with intoxicating drink, with the fumes of tobacco, or unnecessarily indulging in stimulants, it grieves my spirit, my soul goes ( out for him in pity and  sorrowful regret, and I wonder why it is that we, individually, cannot realize our own folly, our own degradation in yielding t to these pernicious habits that are neither useful or ornamental, nor in the least degree beneficial, but indeed are harmful. Why cannot we rise to that degree of intelligence that would enable us to say to the tempter, "Get behind me," and to turn our backs upon the practice of evil. How humiliating it must be to a thoughtful man to feel that he is a slave to his appetites, or to an over-weening and pernicious habit, desire, or passion. We believe in strict temperance. We belive in abstinence from all injurious practices and from the use of all hurtful things. Poison, in the judgmen of the physician, may be beneficial, under some conditions in life, as a momentary relief; but poison, under any circumstance, should only be used as a temporary expedient, necessary, perhaps, in our best judgment, for the time being, for the instant — for sudden and certain desired relief, — but the continued use of that poison will fasten its fangs upon us, so to speak, in such a way that by and by we will find that we are over-powered by it, and we become slaves of the pernicious habit that becomes a tyranical master over us. 

There is a general movement throughout the land looking towards local option and temperance among the people of our state, and of the adjoining states. I sincerely hope that every Latter-day Saint will co-operate with this movement, in order that we may curtail the monstrous evils which exist, especially in our cities. I wish to say that I am in sympathy with this movement, and I know that my brethren are united with me and in  with the efforts that are being made to establish temperance throughout the land. We want nothing drastic, nothing that would be illiberal or oppressive, but we do think that the people ought to have their choice as to whether they will permit or have in their midst drunkenness, rioting, and murder — which is too often the result of drunkenness, — or whether they will insist on abstinence from these things, that the people might have peace insured among them, and that their children might not be subjected to the temptations into which they are thrown because of the presence of these evils. 

Several very important movements have been inaugurated of late among us for the advantage of the Saints, and especially for the benefit and advancement of those who are associated with the various quorums of the Priesthood. I desire to mention the effort that is being made by our Seventies in their organization of classes and schools for the instruction of the members of their quorums, that they might be qualified for the great work of the ministry to which they are dedicated. Efforts are also being made to organize and put to usefulness the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood. In my judgment, we are progressing rapidly in these directions. It is also understood that those of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the presidents of High Priests quorums, and the High Priests throughout the Church are instituting methods by which those who are members of these quorums may learn their duty and become familiar with the laws of the Church, which should govern their actions, that they may be, indeed, fathers among the people, exercising the functions that belong to their calling as High 

Priests in Zion or in the Church. They should be examplars; they should be teachers. They should understand, above all other men, the principles of government and the order of the Church. They should move forward solidly in the exercise of their influence, individually and collectively, against all evil, against the spirit of indifference, the spirit of neglect and unbelief. Every man who holds the office of High Priest in the Church or has been ordained a High Priest, whether he is called to active position in the Church or not — inasmuch as he has .been ordained a High Priest, should feel that he is obliged, — that it is his bounden duty to set an example before the old and young worthy of emulation* and to place himself in a position to be a teacher of righteousness, not only by precept but more particularly by example — [giving to the younger ones the benefit of experience of age, and thus becoming individually a power in the midst of the communities in which they dwell. Every man who has light should let that light shine that those who see it may glorify their Father which is in Heaven, and honor him who posseses the light and who causes it to shine forth for the benefit of others. In a local capacity, there is no body of Priesthood in the Church who should excel,or who are expected to excel, those who are called to bear the office of High Priest in the Church. From among those who hold this office are chosen the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and the High Councils of the fifty-six stakes of Zion which are now organized; and from this office are chosen the bishops, and the bishops' counselors, in every ward in Zion; and heretofore, of this office are those who have been called to take charge of our stake Mutual Improvement organizations. Those holding this office are, as a rule, men of advanced years, and varied experience, men who have filled missions abroad, who have preached the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and who have had experience not only abroad but at home. Their experience and wisdom is the ripened fruit of years of labor in the Church, and they should exercise that wisdom for the benefit of all with whom they are associated. 

The Seventies are laboring for the purposq of qualifying themselves for the work of the ministry abroad among the nations of the earth, which is their legitimate calling. I commend the efforts of our brethren of the Seven Presidents of Seventies in their endeavor to bring about the good results they have in view in this direction. 

The Elders' quorums should also be looked after, and those who preside in them should be active in season and out of season. They should be vigilant and faithful in looking after those intrusted to their care, and are subject to their direction and counsel. 

The Bishops and the Lesser Priesthood should be very active and energetic. We should look after our boys w'ho have been ordained Deacons, Teachers, and Priests in the Church. We should find something for them to do in their callings. Let them be appointed to active labors in their several spheres. Put forward those who have not had experience to accompany those who have, and give them something to do. Let the Deacons not only assist to keep the meeting houses in repair and their grounds in proper condition, but let them be set to work to look after the welfare of the widows and fatherless,  aged and the poor. Many of our young men who are idle, languishing for the want of something to do, could be made most useful in helping the poor to clean up about their homes and make them comfortable, and helping them to live in such a way that life would be pleasant to them. There is no reason why the members of the Lesser Priesthood should not be engaged in missions and labors of this kind. Instead of calling upon the Trustee-in-trust for the tithing to pay for planting trees to ornament the grounds of the meeting houses, or to paint the woodwork, or to renovate and cleanse the houses of worship, to make them suitable for the worship of God, — call the Lesser Priesthood to the work. Give them something to do that will make them interested in the work of the Lord, and above all things direct their energies in such a way that they will be helpful to the needy, helpful to the poor, helpful to themselves and to the Church. It will benefit them not only as regards their standing in the Church, and their faith in the Priesthood which they bear, but it will help them to become better boys at home. They will be more dutiful to their parents, more respectful to their brothers and sisters and others. They will become more mindful of their duties at home and abroad. This is in the line of discipline, of instruction and of gaining practical experience. Instead of leaving these young people, who are full of energy, to roam the streets, to congregate upon the corners, or to idle away their time in folly, and in contracting, perhaps foolish habits and practices, give them something to do that wiil be uplifting, something that will be enlarging to their souls, and that  be an instruction to them that they will remember all their days. 

I want to say also, that so far as I know, and I think that we have the opportunity of knowing pretty well, — the condition of our auxiliary organizations is satisfactory. As a general thing they are in good condition. We may lack in some things, but as a whole our auxiliary organizations are active and energetic and are working constantly for individual and general good. I believe that there is a feeling of harmony existing between all these associations, one with another. There is no strife existing among them. There is no contention. Indeed the spirit of contention is a thing not known among the Latter-day Saints. You find the spirit of contention only among apostates and those who have denied the faith, those who have turned away from the truth and have become enemies to God and His work. There you will find the spirit of contention, the spirit of strife. There you will find them wanting to "argue the question," and to dispute with you all the time. Their food, their meat, and their drink is contention which is abominable in the sight of the Lord. We do not contend. We are not contentious, for if we were we would grieve the Spirit of the Lord from us. Just as apostates do and have always done. 

Perhaps I should not have occupied so much time. I have been suffering a little of late, like a great many others, with a cold, and I find that my talking is affecting my voice somewhat, but I have some data here that I thought I would mention in a general way. 

One item is the number of missionaries laboring in the worid, — that is Elders sent out from Zion into the mission field: On the 31st  last December we had 1810 missionaries from Zion out in the various mission fields in the world. There .were also forty-four sisters who have accompanied their husbands upon these missions. Besides these there are a number of local Elders working in the ministry. 

We sent out, during the year 1907, into the various missionary fields 927 Elders, who will spend from two to four years on their missions. 

There have returned from the various mission fields, during the year 1907, 707 Elders. 

In this connection I wish to mention the fact that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, through their Trustee-in-Trust, have paid the returning fares of all these Elders. They go out into the world at their own expense. They maintain themselves in their missions, at their own expense or by the assistance of their parents or kindred at home, and the little assistance that they may receive from time to time from the people among whom they labor. 

I have another list, which is too long to be given here today, showing the number of Elders in the mission field from each stake of Zion. We can tell you, in a moment, just how many Elders each stake has in the mission field; but I feel that to continue longer would be to trespass upon your time. 

I pray God to bless you. I feel joyous and happy in the ministry, in the work of the Lord. 

We will hear, during the conference, reports from other quarters. A very careful and exhaustive auditation of the accounts and books, the receipts and expenditures of the tithing, for the last year, has been made by the Auditing Committee of the Church. 

It just comes to rnv mind that Elder Charles W. Nibley, having been called to the Presiding Bishopric, has been released from the Auditing Committee, and Brother Henry H. Rolapp, of Ogden, has been appointed to act in his stead. I would like to submit the name of Brother Henry H. Rolapp before this meeting for your approval and acceptance to act upon this committee. (Vote unanimous). 

The general authorities of the Church will be presented possibly tomorrow, and if not then, the next day. We desire the brethren and sisters who come to the conference to come with their hearts full of the spirit of wisdom and of truth, and if you discern in us any lack of wisdom, or of judgment, any failure in the performance of our duty, we desire that those who have superior experience and knowledge, and greater intelligence, will do us the honor and favor of coming to us individually and letting us know wherein we come short. We will give a thousand errors, ifVe can find them or if they exist in us, — any moment for one truth; and we will swap off a hundred mistakes, aye thousands of mistakes if they can be found, for one accurate, consistent, and proper action. We are seeking for the truth. We love the truth, and we know when we learn the truth that it is the truth. We believe in the divine mission of Christ and in His great plan of redemption for the living and the dead. We belive in the divine mission of Joseph Smith the Prophet. We belive in every word that he spoke by the inspiration of Almighty God, and not one word that he ever uttered or gave as a revelation from God will fall to the  as error, but it will stand upon its own merit as truth, God's truth, eternal truth,— "While life and thought and being last or immortality endures." This is our testimony to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the divine revelations that the Lord made, through him, to the world. God help us to receive the truth and abide by it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "From afar, Gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock.". 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

President Smith's sentiments endorsed. — Greatly increased interest in Temple work. — Never has been a brighter day for the Saints. 

In consequence of a very sudden cold I have taken upon my lungs, I do not know that I can make this large congregation hear, but I desire to say to you that I endorse every word and sentiment that has been spoken in our hearing, this morning, by our President. I repeat that I am in strict harmony with him in every sentiment he has expressed. I am thankful for the opportunity of saying this much, and acknowledging mv gratitude to the Lord that He has been so good to me, and spared my life to see another conference, and to again meet with you, my brethren and sisters. 

Every day of my life I see new evidences of the truth of the everlasting Gospel, and of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. There was one thing the President referred to incidentally that I would like to mention, and that is in re to the salvation of the dead. You will all remember the great anxiety of the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to this subject. On more than one occasion he said that he was very much concerned about this matter, and desired to bring it before the people. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be enabled to say to you this morning that there has been a wonderful increase in the interest manifested in this work, especially during the past six months. The Temple, the House of the Lord, has been so crowded, on many occasions, that we have had to send people away, much to our regret, however. Every day shows an increase in this work. The Latter-day Saints come here from all parts of the country, from Old Mexico, New Mexico, Arizona, and all the settlements in the south, as well as from Canada, from Idaho, and all the settlements in the north. They flock here by the hundreds, and I may say by the thousands. This is one of the evidences, to me, my brethren and sisters, that the people are improving; and they are fulfilling the promises that have been made by the prophets of old, that the hearts of the fathers would turn to the children, and the hearts of the children would turn to the fathers. There is a greater interest in this direction, within the last six months, than I have ever seen before; and that is only one item that causes my heart to rejoice this morning. 

I never saw a brighter day than this, for the Latter-day Saints. Everything that I see around me and everything that I hear causes me to rejoice. We have heard this morning that there are eighteen hundred missionaries abroad in the world preaching the Gospel of life and sal, "Peace on earth, good will to men." That is the message they go abroad to deliver, and it is left optional with every person to accept or reject it. If they accept it, it is life and salvation; if they reject it, it may be their condemnation. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I did want to say just these few words to you, and to exoress my thanks and gratitude to God, my eternal Father, that He has preserved my life this long. I am' now in my eighty-seventh year, and I am thankful that I have all my faculties. 

I pray God, my eternal Father, that He will continue to bless and prosper His people; and He surely will, my brethren and sisters, if we fulfil and discharge our duties as we ought to do; and may the Lord help us, is my prayer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LTJND. 

The Saints not contentious, but peacemakers. — The ethics of "Mormonism." — The gathering an important feature of God's work. — Outcasts from home, but blessed in Zion. — Joseph's prophecy fulfilled concerning the Rocky Mountain region. 

I am happy, this morning to have the privilege of being present with you, of listening to the discourses that we have heard, and the good instructions given us. I believe that they have been enjoyed by all. I rejoice in the testimony that we have heard, and I rejoice in possessing this same testimony, that I know the Prophet Joseph Smith was authorized and sent of God to perform the great and important work which he accomplished. 

President Smith said that a contentious spirit showed the spirit of apostasy. I thought of the words of the Savior: "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God." We want to be peacemakers. We do not want to contend. The Lord says to us : "Contend against no church, save it be the church of the devil." Our desire is not to contend, but to preach the Gospel of peace unto men. Where men want information concerning what we believe, we are always ready to give it unto them; but if they only want to contend with us, and they have a quarrelsome spirit, we do not want to encourage argument with such. If. however, they are seeking for truth we are ready to meet them in a friendly spirit, for the sake of convincing them of the truth. The Lord has given unto us the truth, and the truth has made us free. We do not labor under the oppression of doubt and darkness, but through the truth revealed from heaven we have been set free, and we rejoice in this freedom. 

I am pleased to see so many here this morning at the first session of our conference. I would like to read to you a few words from the fifty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments; 

"For them that live shall inherit the earth, and them that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them, and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them; 

"Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my Gospel, for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth; and it shall bring forth in its strength; 

"And they shall also be crowned with  from above, yea, and with commandments not a few; and with revelations in their time : they that are faithful and diligent before me. 

"Wherefore I give unto them a commandment, saying thus : Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve Him. 

"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things." 

These verses give us the ethics of "Morm'onism." Here also are glorious promises unto those who have come up to the land of Zion. Through the principle of gathering, this vast congregation is present today. Most of the older people have come from other states and other nations. They have come here because they wanted to assemble with the people of God. They have left their homes to come to the land of Zion, and all those who came here with an eye single to the glory of God, have found Zion. Those who did not come with an eye single to the glory of God, but whose aim was to build up self, make means, and so forth, have not found Zion. but have been ready to find fault with it. You who came here with Zion in your hearts did not feel to find fault with existing conditions, although you may have had to take hold of labors that you had never been accustomed to. ' You may have left good homes to come here; you may have tasted of poverty, and so on, yet, having Zion in your hearts, you felt you had come to the land that God had appointed for a gathering place for His people. 

The principle of gathering was taught early in the history of our Church. When I read the eleventh  of Isaiah, which the angel Moroni quoted to the boy Joseph, then only eighteen years old, I see that he was taught this principle of gathering, and of building up a Zion unto God. It was not a principle that was evolved after the Church was organized and it had been thought best to gather together the people. The angel Moroni taught it to Joseph before any one was baptized in the Church. In May 1829, the Lord revealed to Joseph Smith that He would gather His people together, and said that if they would come they should partake of the water of life freely. The Prophet received this principle from the Lord; he could not have taken it from any of the existing religions, for it was taught in none of them. He was told that the Lord intended to gather His people, and during the first year after the organization of the Church, from month to month, there are allusions to this principle; and before a year had passed the Lord spoke like this, concerning Zion : , 

"And the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion. 

"And it shall come to pass, among the wicked ,that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee unto Zion for safety. 

"And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. 

"And it shall be said among the wicked, Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible; wherefore we cannot stand. 

"And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy." 

This revelation was given March 

7, 1831. The Church was not then a year old, and but very few had accepted the faith; but the Lord revealed through His servant, the Prophet Joseph, the glory that should come unto Zion, and He told him that the people of Zion should be gathered from every nation. Think of this young man called to lead the Church, then but twentyfive years of age, given this promise that there should be established a Zion to which the people should gather out of all nations! What likelihood was there for him to imagine this himself, when he looked at the small flock around him that believed in his words? But it was not his imaginings; it was the revelation of God unto him that there should be established a Zion to which people should come from out of all nations. It was the fulfilment of the prophecies in the second chapter of Isaiah, and fourth chapter of Micah, in language similarly worded, when they looked down through the vista of time and saw there was to be a gathering, and that the people would go up to the "mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob," in order that they might learn of His ways and walk in His paths. Isaiah prophesied to this effect, and we bear testimony it is coming t<3 pass. 

In this congregation before me there are people from all parts of the world. They have heard the Gospel preached in their different homes. They have learned what it means to accept the truth. They have learned that those who will live godly in Christ shall be persecuted. They had not done anything to deserve the strictures, the mockings, and the persecutions of their neighbors; they had simply believed in the words they heard from the servants of God and made covenants with the Lord, in the waters of baptism, to serve Him'. In the sincerity of their hearts they had repented of their sins and were trying to live better lives, and for doing this their neighbors and friends, yea relatives, looked down upon them. They felt like a certain mother who, when she heard that her son had received the Gospel and become a Mormon, said: "Oh, how could you do such a thing and bring shame upon us. Had you stolen and been sent to the penitentiary, you could have got over that, but the thought of your becoming a Mormon, the thought of the shame that is brought upon us, makes us say that vou are not a son of ours." Yet he had done nothing except that he believed in the Gospel as preached to him and had repented of his sins and been baptized. Thus he was rejected by his own mother. In this way friends and relatives have risen up against those who have joined the Church. You, my brethren and sisters, have learned what it costs to join an unpopular people, but do you feel that you would exchange the blessings you have received by obeying the Gospel, for the good will of those who despise yeu ? I think not. You have found the "pearl of great price." To you it is of inestimable value, and you cannot afford to lose it. "Blessed are they who have come to this land," says the Lord, "with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments;" and He also says, "Blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel, for they shall receive for their reward (the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength." This  the promise. I have often wondered if the pioneers, when they first saw this valley, with its barren, sunbaked soil, covered with sagebrush, except along the creeks where willows and a few straggling cottonwoods grew, thought it possible that this promise could be fulfilled : that they should receive the good things of the earth, and that it should bring forth in its strength. When these words were revealed through the Prophet to the Saints of the Colesville branch in Jackson county, and they looked upon the beautiful country around them — the rolling plains, the fertile soil — it was easy for them to believe it; but it was not so easy for the Saints who came here to believe that this dry soil would be able to bring forth in strength the good things of the earth. Yet they had enduring faith; they had followed their leader, President Brigham Young, over the plains and had come here having full confidence in his leadership for they knew that he was the successor of the Prophet Joseph. 

The idea of going to the Rocky Mountains was not original with President Brigham Young. He just executed the plan which had been given through the Prophet Joseph, when he prophesied that this people would gather here in the Rocky Mountains and become a mighty people. So imbued was the Prophet with this thought that a committee was appointed by him to go to the Rocky Mountains to examine the country and select a gathering place for the Saints. Through circumstances which arose the committee did not go during his lifetime, but it shows that the Prophet Joseph, with the eye of -prophecy, saw what would come to pass. President Young followed him. He called  men to come with him, and having a testimony of the truth, and believing that he was the Prophet of God, they followed him. He did not know much about this country. Before them lay the pathless plains on which roamed the savages; and beyond those plains, what? The Rocky Mountains, unexplored. Only a few had been here before the President, inspired by the Spirit of God, led the people to this place; and as forbidding as this land looked when they came here in 1847 he still said : This is the land, and here shall the Temple of God be erected. With the eye of prophecy he saw the future. It was not an easy task that was given to the pioneers to settle this country, but the Lord had said : "Blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel, for they shall receive as their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength." That promise was made, and you can all bear testimony that it has been fulfilled. You can testify that the Lord has blessed this land, that He has tendered the elements, and through His blessings and the labors of His people this land has been made to blossom as a rose, to use the figurative language of the Prophet. 

The Lord is able to bless His people, but He asks of them' that they shall keep their eye single to His glory, single to this one aim, to serve Him. None can serve two masters. He that serves two masters, Jesus says, will love the one and despise the other. We love the Master, we love to serve Him, for He is able to bless us, not only in the present but in all time to come. If we strive to live with an eye  to the glory of God, doing His will, we will be able to gather riches that, will be imperishable riches that we will not need to leave behind us, for they will go with us. When working for self we acquire the things that will perish, but that which we do through faith in God, with an eye single to His glory, with love and brotherly kindness for each other, that will be placed to our credit, and no one can take it from us. 

Brethren and sisters, let us all resolve that we will serve God. Let this thought go through the heart of each of us : As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord, come what may. The time which the Lord has given us here upon the earth is very valuable indeed. There is so much that we can do. Let us not neglect our opportunities. Let us rejoice in having received this Gospel and the testimony that it is the Gospel of Christ. Let us rejoice that we are members of His Church, and resolve to so live that the whole world may know that we have received the truth and are what we profess to be. May God bless all Israel, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 


