Overflow
05 04 1908

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. Elder Heber J. Grant presided, and Prof. Charles J. Thomas conducted the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

Praver was offered by Elder Stewart Eccles. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it gives me pleasure to have the privilege of standing before you for a few minutes, to briefly report the labors of the Elders laboring in the Northern States mission. I take it that you are more interested in that subject than in any doctrine that I might preach. I feel highly honored in having the privilege of laboring with so many good men and women as are now in the Northern States mission, men and women who are active and faithful in their calling. They are struggling earnestly to magnify that calling before their heavenly Father. We are indeed grateful to God for His wonderful blessings, and we rejoice when we realize how He has opened the way, so that the honorable men of the earth may hear the gospel and read our literature. 

As most of you know, in the past three years, we have turned our attention more to the distributing of the Book of Mormon. We find that the dissemination of the Book of Mormon has more than doubled the distribution of other books and tracts. Three years ago we disposed of 1,000 Books of Mormon in our field, and something like 12,000 small books. In 1906, the Books of Mormon increased to 5,000 and our other books to over 20,000. Last year the Elders increased the Book of Mormon distribution to something like 12,500, and increased the ten-cent books to about 58,000. It has opened the door to the homes of- hundreds of people, and our Elders feel that the Lord has been with them and has magnified them in their labors. They feel that in taking the Book of Mormon to the doors of the people that they have something important enough to take to the biggest men of the nation. The Lord, speaking to the Prophet Joseph and some of the Elders, in  eighty-fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, seems to have chided them because they had neglected the things they had received, and speaks particularly of the Book of Mormon, — beginning with the fifty-fourth verse, He says : 

"And your minds in times past have been darkened because of unbelief, and because you have treated lightly the things you have received, which vanity and unbelief hath brought the whole Church under condemnation, and this condemnation resteth upon the children of Zion, even all; and they shall remain under this condemnation until they repent and remember the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon and the former commandments which I have given them, not only to say, but to do according to that which I have written." 

The Book of Mormon has been given to the people of this dispensation to bring them nearer to Christ. It is a witness that the Bible is the word of God, and that God has established His Church in this day and time. There is something remarkable about the Book of Mormon, it is a great missionary book. You can open it any place, and the Spirit of the Lord, which accompanies the book, comes upon the people, and they are at once interested. 

The missionaries have enjoyed excellent health in the Northern States mission, having had little or no sickness. There is nothing that gives me greater happiness than the manifestations that the Lord has given to me, that He is establishing His work in the earth. I have a testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was His prophet, and that our Fath-. er has fulfilled, and is fulfilling, the promises to His servants in the missionary field, wherein He said, that He would send His angels before their face to prepare the way. We are learning every day of our lives that in order to keep pace with the angels that the Lord has sent out to prepare the way, we must work, and work hard. It is my experience that when we are weary in body we feel these messengers are with us, guiding and sustaining us. In the past I believe many of us have neglected the opportunities, and have come long after the way has been prepared, and the hearts of the people have grown cold, but I am glad to say, we are now doing our' best, and cheerfully, too, to keep pace with the messengers that have been sent before our face. 

The last five weeks we have met all the Elders in the mission, but four, holding nine conferences with them, and laying plans for our summer work. Instead of preaching to the Elders in these conferences we had a short report, and then, in about an hour's talk, laid before them a plan for our summer campaign, and asked them for suggestions. At the close we voted to make the plans laid before them the plans of the conference for our summer's work. 

Our plan for the summer is to send a letter to the leading men of the city chosen for our week-end conference. We also expect to send two men ahead of the company of six, to call upon the newspapers and announce our conference as well as place our posters in public places announcing the coming of a company of Elders to hold conference in that town. In going through these cities, we expect to leave as many Books of Mormon, Voices of Warning, Durrants and Cowley's Talks as we can, and also copies of the Liahona. We expect to send them away not only with the spirit of the work but also with plenty of  and literature. We have prepared a tract containing 17 of the songs of Zion which preach a sermon, as it were, of the restoration of the Gospel, and all who will may go home with this collection, having heard some of them. Many learn to love and sing our songs, and music has a wonderful influence. 

We have had testimonies in the past year concerning men who have heard their children singing the songs of Zion, and they have been led to wonder from what source they came, and were moved to investigate the Gospel. The Lord has been eood to us, and we rejoice in the truth. We rejoice in the manifestations of our Father. We pray that God will continue to bless and prosper Zion, and assist the Saints to send more of their sons and daughters into the mission field that they may learn that God is guiding His work, and that His angels are guiding the elders in their work. 

May the prayers of the Saints of Zion be fulfilled upon the heads of our Elders abroad, and upon our leaders at home. May God's special blessings be upon President Joseph F. Smith, upon his. counsel and upon the Twelve, that Zion's people may receive through them the blessings they are praying for, and go forth and build up Zion. May the light of Zion guide the honest in the whole earth, to join in preparing the earth for the coming of the Savior, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

I have rejoiced greatly in the good spirit that has been upon the servants of the Lord, and the Saints during this conference. I have been interested in the words of President Ellsworth, and I am glad to hear concerning the successsful methods adopted irt the mission over which he presides. The missionary fields are better systematized than they have been in years gone by. 

In the Northwestern States mission we have had an average of thirty-one Elders during the year ending December 31, 1907, and we baptized a considerable number more good converts than have been baptized in any year since I have presided over that mission. We have received encouragement and blessings, by the accession of some strong men and women, full of faith, who have come into our mission from Zion. I refer particularly to the Nampa branch, in Idaho. The tithes donated by the Saints in our mission are greater than ever before, to the extent of about $1,230. 

We have received many evidences of the divinity of the calling of the Elders. The eyes of the blind have been opened, and sight restored. One individual's lungs were supposed to be gone, it was thought she was dying, but she was restored by the power of faith. We have been blessed with numerous manifestations of the power and gifts of God. 

We have visited more of the middle classes (if we should speak of classes in free America) the last year than at any time previously. I would like to repeat to you some sentiments which were expressed to me by Mr. M — , a passenger agent of a railroad and steamship system. He said to me : "There is one man in your community whose ideal life in his home is the most beautiful I ever witnessed. I would  any time a hundred miles to meet him. I have never seen nobler characters than are his wife and himself and their children. [Now, this is the testimony of a Presbyterian.] In my own religious community, where I am acquainted, I have never seen such faithfulness, such devotion, such perfect truth and goodness as I witnessed in that man's family." This man that he praised is well known to all of you. I won't tell his name, but I exhort you to emulate his example, and let your light so shine that your righteousness and faithfulness may affect your neighbors. 

Goodness in the home is the foundation of Zion's prosperity. Cultivate cheerfulness at home. There is no man or woman who cultivates the spirit of affection for the members of their households but that is cheerful. Cheerfulness may be cultivated until the gloomy man starts his liver to working so that biliousness will cease and he will become the glory and the sunshine of his own house. His children, instead of wanting to hide when father comes home, because they feel the oppression of a man who treats them tyranically, will look to his coming with joy, and the neighbors, seeing the hands of the children held out to a good father, will say, "how beautiful such home government is." The influence of a kind and affectionate father will diffuse itself through every member of his family, and will attract the honorable who see his home life. 

I was conversing with a man who is an ear and eye specialist, when I was availing myself of his services, and he told me that he was passing through the trouble of a divorce suit with his wife in court. 

He said to me, "It is reputed of your people that they are the most constant, and most faithful to each other of any people in the world. I feel that if I ever desired to be united to a woman again, after my troubles are over, I would like to get a 'Mormon' girl." I answered, "You would have to become a mighty good man if you tried to imitate a 'Mormon' as a husband, you would have to become like the Latter-day Saint in principle, to satisfy a 'Mormon' girl; in fact vou would have to receive the d/octrines of Jesus Christ as they are revealed in this age." 

Our Elders have been working on splendid lines last winter. We changed our plans, and established a system of missionary work in the great towns, so that we have reached more people and accomplished more than at any other time, in the mission's experience. Our Elders are healthy, united, industrious, and happy, and they are abler than they have been. Elders of experience are being sent to the field, who are making themselves felt among the people in the states of the northwest. They visit men of influence in financial and governmental affairs, men who are officials of the state and municipalities. There are more men reading the Book of Mormon in our field than ever before. I allude to men outside of the Church. There is still, however, much indifference which we cannot break through. Many are hardshelled, as it were. Sometimes the Elders are sneered at, and ordered out of the house, or out of the office of a business man; but business men generally treat us better than the common people do. 

We have evidence that the power and blessing of our Father is in upon the Elders and upon the Saints. When the Saints are liberal in tithes and offerings, to help build up this kingdom, you may know they are in a healthy condition. God bless you here at home, my brethren and sisters. God bless President Smith. My soul echoes the blessings that have been pronounced upon our president by those who have spoken during this conference. The Saints shall prosper, and God will magnify them. He is magnifying you in the earth and there is not a hand that could be raised, and there is not a weapon that could be formed that can stay this work, from this time henceforth and fprever. Whatever the conditions may seem, this work has come to stay. God has revealed it to us, and we know it is true. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O, say, what is truth?" 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

I have been requested, under the direction of Apostle Grant, to occupy a speaking position between two presidents of missions and two presidents of stakes. I noticed that particularly in the appointment announced yesterday, and that naturally introduces to my mind the two grand objects that we as Latter-day Saints have in view, or rather, that God had in view in commencing His great work upon the earth in, these last days, viz., to preach the Gospel in all the world, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to build up stakes of Zion — to build up strong places, where the elect from the four quarters of the earth may gather together to learn more perfectly the ways of the Lord, and walk according to His statutes and commandments. I have discovered by close study of the history of the Church, that whenever conditions at home have been favorable and good, and whenever the sons and daughters of Zion have walked in the paths of righteousness, the spirit of Zion has, naturally been felt for good abroad, among all the nations where missionary fields have been established; and these fields have always flourished better when conditions have been favorable at home, that is, the missionaries who have gone abroad generally carried with them the spirit that prevailed at home. When the gathering places have been what they should be, and when the people at home have prospered in good works, the missionary fields have generally flourished in proportion. There never was a better time in the missionary field than shortly after the Saints had located in these mountains, when the good reports went forth that Zion at last had found a resting place, and that the persecuted people of God of these the last days had finally been brought to a land where they were sheltered by high mountains, far away from the wicked world. The glorious reports that went forth from these valleys in these early days diffused life among the Saints in all the world; and, as I say, at no time in the history of the Church have our missionary labors flourished better than they did in the fifties. 

This introduces to us the great principle of gathering, the great principle of the Saints of God, flocking together to places which the Lord designates as gathering places for His people, where they may be properly trained and become what  Lord intends they should be. This principle goes back to the beginning of creation. You may never have thought of it in that light, but I have. In the beginning, as Moses tells us, the Lord created this beautiful world in which we live, more beautiful, in the beginning, of its existence than it is now. The Lord could consistently look upon "everything that He had made, and behold it was very good." Nevertheless, he planted a garden "eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed." This garden then was a choice spot upon this earth where everything was good. The garden of Eden was the first home of man, a choice spot, which the world in vain has tried very hard to locate, but which we, as Latter-day Saints, by the revelations of God, have succeeded in locating. This was in the beginning. A little later, as men began to multiply upon the earth, and some of the inhabitants of the same became wicked and others righteous, the Lord raised up a great Patriarch Enoch, who was commanded to build a city, and to that city the righteous gathered, and in that city the inhabitants conformed their lives to the glorious principles of righteousness until the city became holy enough to be taken up to God. We find that in other instances the people of God were warned to flee from wickedness, and from destruction, as at the time of the deluge, when the people had become so wicked that it was necessary for the Lord to call upon those who would obey Him, in order that they might be preserved, to build an ark in which He kept them from destruction, while the wicked perished in the flood. Of a little later period we read about some "cities on the " afterwards a part of the kingdom' of Israel, in which, the righteous were commanded to flee from the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and seek refuge in the mountains, because the Lord had decided to destroy the wicked cities of the plain. 

Shortly after the deluge, too, we find that the Lord decided to confound the language of the people, in order that they might be scattered all over the face of the earth In this connection we read in the Book of Mormon about a man called Jared, but more particularly about one whose name is not given in the record, called the Brother of Jared — a man of mighty faith, who prayed to the Lord that the language of himself and his family might not be confused; and the Lord heard his prayer. And after the Lord granted him this first request, he prayed again that God would lead them to a land where he and his kindred and friends could dwell by themselves; and the Lord also granted this request, and led them to a land of promise, to a land which was "choice above all the lands of the earth." (Ether 1 : 42.) That was the introduction of the Jaredites to America, and their history tells us that as long as they kept the commandments of God in this land, they were prospered exceedingly. 

Perhaps the next instance, in a chronological order, was the calling of Abraham in Ur, in Chaldea, where the people had gone astray and were worshiping strange gods. God called Abraham and commanded him to get- out of his country, and from his kindred and from his father's house, unto a land which the Lord would show him. And after he had traveled, in obedience to the comandments of God, and found  in what is now the land of Palestine, the Lord said : "Unto thy seed will I give this land." (Gen. 12: 7). We have the history of the Israelites before us, and without going into details, I will state that it took some hundreds of years before the descendants of Abraham' were numerous enough to possess the land of promise, and then they spent some time in preparing themselves for taking possession of the land. We all remember that they spend forty years in the wilderness, receiving laws and making preparations to enter the land that the Lord had promised to Abraham — a promise that was afterwards repeated to other Patriarchs, as they came along in their line. History tells us that, later on, the Children of Israel, in that promised land of Canaan, bowed their knees before Baal and other idols, and became very wicked, on account of which they were severely chastized and brought into slavery under heathen nations and eventually dispersed among the nations, to be gathered in the due time of the Lord. Next I will draw your attention to another gathering dispensation, or rather, a gathering out, when a good man — a prophet at Jerusalem — by the name of Lehi, some six hundred years before the birth of our Savior, was commanded of God to leave his native country — leave his own people and take his family and depart into the wilderness. (I Nephi 2:2). - And as he came into the wilderness, in obedience to the commandment of God, the Lord spoke to him as follows : "Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ve shall prosper, and shall be led to a land of promise, yea even a land which I have prepared for you; yea a land which is choice above all other lands." (I Nephi 2: 20.) Thus it soon became apparent that Lehi and his family should not lose anything by leaving the land of Jerusalem', for the Lord would lead him to a land more choice than any other land upon the face of the earth; that land proved to be the same land to which the Jaredites had gone a long time before. Hence the land of America is once more introduced to us as the land of Zion. 

We have indeed the whole history of the world before us, in connection with this command of God, to gather out or to gather in, as the case may be. The people of God have again and again been called to gather out or to gather together in certain localities, which the Lord designated unto them. 

This Church was only nine months old when the Lord revealed to the Latter-day Saints that this also should be a gathering dispensation, that the time for the gathering of Israel had come, that the dispersed of Judah should be gathered that the lost tribes of Israel should be sought for, and that gathering places should be provided for them. A few years later Moses appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the first temple built in this dispensation, that at Kirtland, Ohio, and committed to the Elders of this Church the keys for the gathering of Israel from' the four quarters of the globe. But even before these keys were given, the gathering commenced to Jackson County, Missouri. I haven't time to go into details, but in 1831, step by step, and all in very quick succession, the Lord made known to His Saints in these last days, that He would give to them, as He had formerly given to the Children of Israel, a land of inheritance in which they should , and in which they should build up cities to His name, and in which they should keep His commandments and laws like their progenitors had done awav back in the days of Canaan. Our history leads us through Jackson county, Mo. Some of our history is connected with Kirtland, Ohio, and that, too, of a very interesting character; then we have our experiences in Clay, Caldwell and Daviess counties, in Missouri. There we have a history of a gathering and a history of a scattering; the history of mobbings and persecutions, partly in consequence of the people of God failing to keep the commandments of the Lord with that fidelity which was required. They were driven from one place to another, but in these various places efforts were made by the Latter-day Saints to build cities, and in two of them, in the state of Missouri, they also commenced to build temples. Next we found ourselves in Nauvoo, 111., where we succeeded better than we had ever done in any other place we had hitherto occupied in the east, inasmuch as we built- up a greater city and a larger temple than we had ever built before in our history. 

Then came the great exodus from Nauvoo to these mountains, and it became our privilege to settle in the only land in which the Latter-day Saints have ever been permitted to dwell in peace. I want to tell you right here that during the last few months of my life, I have had the greatest pleasure possible while preparing Church annals, to post myself thoroughly in regard to the events that took place in these mountains in the early days of Utah, or even before this inter-mountain region was known as Utah, when there was no government here ex that which was inaugurated by the Latter-day Saints. This country was Mexican territory at that time, it is true; but no Mexican jurisdiction was extended here,, and no Mexican laws carried out, because it was so far from the center of Mexican government, and consequently all the laws that prevailed in these valleys for about three years and a half were such as were enacted by this same people that came from Nauvoo, accused by their enemies, who had driven them out, of all the crimes that were known to the criminal code. But these people came here and worshiped God, and established a community of which we are justly proud today, and in which there existed many excellent conditions. The liberty and justice measured out by the Pioneers of Utah in these early days make you and I and every Latter-day Saint feel thankful. These valleys of the mountains became our gathering place, and in this place we had a chance to show what the real fruits of "Mormonism" were; we laid here a foundation for a commonwealth of which we are justly proud to this day. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I will simply emphasize this fact, that we, as Latter-day Saints, are under obligations similar to those that rested upon the children of Israel in the days of Canaan, in the days of Joshua, in the days of the Judges, in the days of the kings of Judah. The Israelites were under obligations to worst"'" the only true and living God. They were forbidden to fall upon their knees and worship the idols of the nations that surrounded them. And their history tells us that as long as they remembered the God of Israel, and as lone as they kept the laws that 

He had thundered out unto them from Mount Sinai, they prospered in the land, and none had power to overthrow or subdue them. But it was when they did wrong and forsook the commandments of God. that the Philistines, the Middianites and the other surrounding nations came upon them and led them into bondage; and it was after they had crucified the Son of God, and had slain the prophets that had been sent unto them, that the armies of their enemies came upon them and scattered them' among all the nations of the earth, until they became a hiss and a by-word among all nations. 

The Lord has commanded us in tl.ese last days to do something similar to what was done by ancient Israel in those days of which I speak. He has given us a land in which we may dwell and keep His laws and commandments, and our history is already sufficiently long to tell us this one grand and true story, that when we have done the will of God; when we have listened to the counsel of the Almighty, when we have been obedient to those men that the Lord has placed over us, and have listened to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, we have done well and we have prospered in the land which the Lord our God has given unto us. And it has generally been at times when we have not hearkened so well that trouble has come upon us. 

And now, my brethren and sisters, I feel in my heart that the Lord has intrusted us with the possession of the soil of this western land, that these mountain valleys are the valleys of modern Ephraim, that Israel is to gather here, and that the tribe of Ephraim predominates here. We can go through the land of Palestine today and there find the valleys of Ephraim, once blessed, and now cursed; but these valleys of Ephraim in the west are blessed of the Lord. Let us make this a land of Zion indeed; let us keep the laws of God and honor His commandments in this western land. Let us listen to the voice of inspiration, and let us make this a land of temperance, of virtue, and honor; there should be no drunkenness in this land, so far as we as a people are concerned; there should be no whoredoms in the land, and no adulterer allowed to go unpunished. Let us worship no strange idols; these may not, as in days of old, be made of wood or stone, but they may consist of foolish fashions, extravagance of dress and kindred evils. Let the people of Zion also keep the Word of Wisdom. I don't know that prohibition on general principles has been preached stronger in any part of the world than the Word of Wisdom has been preached among us at hqme. We are loathe to think that it is necessary to take upon ourselves any formal pledge, or to join any particular society or organization, for the purpose of keeping sober, or for a man to keep away from' strong drink, or from drinking to excess. It is only necessary for us to exercise strong personal will power in keeping the commandments of God; and we should be the most willing to receive these, and to observe them, and we certainly should welcome temperance among the people of our state, even if enforced by law. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that we will do what is right, so that this land may continue to be a land of Zion unto us, and that we may continue to be blessed and  in these mountain valleys, that the word of God may go forth from here to all the nations of the earth, that righteousness and the spirit of the true Gospel of Jesus Christ may shed its rays of light upon the nations, and that the cause of Zion may be prospered in all lands and in all climes, until the kingdom' of God shall be established and have dominion over the whole earth. God hasten the day, is my prayer in the name of Tesus. Amen. 

ELDER FRANKLIN S. BRAMWELL 

(President of Union Stake.) 

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of meeting you in general conference, and in hearing the good reports that have been piven concerning the various organizations of the Church throughout the world. It certainly is gratifying, indeed, for us to hear from our leaders that Zion is growing, not only numerically but in righteousness. 

It affords me great pleasure to represent the Union Stake of Zion, which is located in the eastern part of the state of Oregon. We have there a very excellent country and a choice neople. Some of our wards have nearly doubled in number during the last twelve months, and the spirit of peace and thrift prevails. 

But while I speak in glowing terms of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, I think it would be very unkind of me not to make specific mention of those who are not of our faith. It has never been my pleasure to labor among a people more friendly or broader in their views, or who extended the hand of broth to the Latter-day Saints so generally as is done in our community. Our Elders have been preaching and doing a good deal of local missionary work, and we have received personal messages over the telephone requesting us to send the "Mormon" Elders again, that they iiked to hear them. I have never seen a better field for missionary work than the State of Oregon. I have never been in a place where the people attend our meetings more generally, or where they manifested greater interest, and investigated with greater soberness, than they do in that locality. We have a missionary organization whose business it is to collect funds to purchase tracts, and in this way we are disseminating the word of God as fast as oossible. 

A key-note expressed by President Smith, in the opening of our conference, yesterday, was the more particular training of the lesser priesthood. I rejoice, and I am very pleased, indeed, that our boys are to receive closer and better attention. I have known boys who have grown up without experience in the priesthood, and when they have reached their majority, and have gone to the Bishop for a temple recommend, with the understanding that they were going to be married, their recommends have been brought to me for indorsement, and it has given me pain to observe some instances, that while the young man was clean and pure and sober, he was inexperienced in Church affairs, and I thought surely something had been neglected. I believe that, if we organize more fully the lesser priesthood in the stakes of Zion, an important missionary work will be accomplished, and when our boys reach majority they will be  to receive the higher priesthood, and they will make better husbands, better fathers, and in general, better in every particular than they have been hitherto. 

I notice, in the report of Sunday schools in the Union stake, there are something like 85 per cent of the members of the Church in our stake that observe the Word of Wisdom. We are going to take upon ourselves a missionary labor to convert that other fifteen per cent. We are going to arrange in alphabetical order the names of all members of the Church of school age,and we are going to see that special missionary labor shall be taken up with them in their homes. We are going to take the wild boy, who has thought that he counts for nothing who has thought, as he expesses it, "I ain't any good"; we are going to labor with that boy, and take him by the hand and let him know that we cherish his soul, that he is a son of God, and our brother. We are going to try and take care of the eighty-five per cent, but we are also going to give specific attention to the fifteen per cent, until it shall be recorded in the Union Stake, and in all the Stakes of Zion we hope, that one hundred per cent observe the Word of Wisdom, one hundred per cent are enrolled in the Sunday School, one hundred per cent are active in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, one hundred per cent are taking part in this glorious work and assisting in consummating the majestic purposes of our Father. 

I see necessity of missionary work at home, and I rejoice exceedingly to hear of the success of missionary work abroad, under the systematic methods that are employed. I rejoice to hear that hundreds of thousands of books and phamphlets relating to the Gospel are being distributed in the world, but I know there is need for work of a similar character to be performed at home, near our own door yards. How many of us who have received the light are giving it to our neighbors? How many of us are inviting our neighbors to participate in the blessings that the Gospel affords, and has made possible for us to obtain? I fancy, sometimes, that we look too far off for our duties. I am afraid, my brethren and sisters, that some of our neighbors may stand before us at the judgement day, and say, "My friend, you claimed to have the light, claimed to have received the priesthood, the higher authority; yet never once in your life did you invite me into your home; never did you proclaim to me the liberty which you claimed you had received; never did you invite me to read concerning this system of truth; never did you invite me to partake of that divine influence the Holy Ghost." I am afraid we sometimes forget what Christ has said, "Freely ye have received, freely give — " freely impart unto your brethren and sisters. This work applies to all the world . It is an individual work. We are called into the ministry, every one of us, some to labor at home, and some to carrv the Gospel abroad. No man who has received the Priesthood has a right to lay down his armor, or a right to cease to bear witness unto the world concerning those things that God has revealed to him. If it is good for us to bask in the sunshine of "Mormonism" it is good for our neighbors to enjoy the same blessing. If it has been the duty of some Elder to bring to us, it is equally our duty to carry it to our neighbor, to  brother; and we will stand condemned unless we do this. I hope, my brethren and sisters, that we will broaden out in our daily intercourse. I believe that among the crying evils of the day is falsely judging each other, a lack of charity, a lack of faith and confidence in each other and in the world. We should remember particularly the words of wisdom from the mouth of our Redeemer, "Condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned, judge not and ye shall not be judged; the measure that ye meet out unto others shall be measured back unto you, pressed down and running over." I am afraid many of us are something like a country judge I once heard of. The case had been before him for three or four days, and at the conclusion of the argument of the attorneys,he looked over his glasses and remarked : "This case has been very stubbornly fought, the client on each side has been very well and ably represented; the court is inclined to be just, it is a very intricate case, and I shall take the matter under advisement for three days, at the end of which time I shall render a decision in favor of the defendant." Like that Judge, we pass judgment, sometimes, I think, before we ought to. If we have meted out love to our neighbor, if we have meted out faith, hope and charity, and that is measured back to us, pressed down and running over, then we will indeed rejoice; but if we have meted out to our neighbor disorder and strife, if we have undermined him, dealt treacherously and unrighteously with him, and that is meted back unto us, pressed down and running over,then it will indeed be« cause to sorrow and to mourn. As the greatest of philosophers has said, "we reap  which we plant." If we plant faith, we will reap faith; if we plant hope, we will reap hope; if we plant discord, we will reap discord. If we plant dissolution, we will harvest dissolution. It is our duty to bless all the world. The Lord has said this is our duty. Men may revile, my backbite and malign us and persecute and imprison us, but it is our duty to bless all the world, we have no license to do otherwise, that I know anything about. 

I rejoice because of the growth of "Mormonism." It is established in the top of the mountains, and we have a promise from God that it shall not be removed. I rejoice that the Prophet of the Lord can truthfully say that "Mormonism" is growing. The march is onward. The faith of the Saints is growing and increasing, and the conditions that obtain today are better, perhaps, than at any time in the history of the Church. We want to apply it to ourselves individually, and ask ourselves the question, are we doing our part? If we are not, the Lord will not be pleased with us as individuals, he will not bless our efforts, and we will be unhappy. We should be beneficent and benevolent, see that order and tranquility prevail in our homes, and extend it to all the world. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART. 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

We are having a glorious time during this conference, yet I feel my weakness in representing one of the Stakes of Zion. You remember on the map of our State there is a kind of rectangular bite taken out of the  part. The Uintah Stake lies just beneath the lower part of the rectangular bite, that forms a sort of chair seat where that piece is taken out. The Stake is about two hundred miles from here, and extends over a considerable area of ground. Before I forget it, I desire to say to the good people present that we have lots of room for more good people out there; and if you are not so very good, but just like some of the rest of us who are there, you may come, and we will all try to get better together. If you have sons or daughters who want to take root somewhere, and branch out, and grow up with the country, just send them over to the Uintah country. It is in Utah, on the borders of Colorado and we think it is a goodly land. I am glad the Lord has given me the spirit of loving that country, inasmuch as He has sent me there. Our stake comprises, in round numbers, about 100 square miles of agricultural land; and we are just like little flies on a big wall, we are so few as compared with that expanse of country. But, as President Lyman said upon one' occasion, so I believe,it is destined to be one of the rich and populous sections of the state of Utah. In speaking this way I do not feel to depreciate any other part of the vineyard of the Lord, because all of it is important. The land and the people must all be reclaimed and brought under cultivation, temporally and spiritually. You can find there any altitude you want, from 4,500 to 7,000 feet above sea level. You can get any kind of soil you may desire. At the base of the mountains, you will find black alluvial soil; on the benches red sandy, or clay soil; or, in the valleys below heavier clay, whiteish soil, which is kind of wax like, and never needs to be fertilized; or you can get sandy loam, if you desire a soil to work more smoothly over the plow, share. The climate is rather dry, and inclined to be hot in summer, and rather cool in winter. The rainfall is light, but there is ample water supply, it being one of the best watered countries in the west. All it needs is perseverance, faith, bone and sinew, every-day intelligence and stick-to-itiveness to get the water out, soread it over the land and make the country "blossom as the rose." Brother Samuel R. B^nnion, his counselors, and the brethren and sisters who have labored with them in the past for almost a quarter of a century, have made our valley a place beautiful to look upon. As you ascend the hills in going into the valley, in the summer time, it begins to look almost like a garden of Eden. The trees skirting various avenues, fields of grain waving under the warm sun make it look beautiful. Down in the valley you find the town of Vernal. The people who built in different parts of the valley have improved their farms until they present a very sightly appearance, and show what inight be done throughout all that vast country. 

As to ecclesiastical work the Presidency and High Council with the other boards of the Priesthood, and the various auxiliary departments, are doing what they can to further the work of the Lord. Last year we divided the High Council into committees, and enlisted them as special missionaries to the various priesthood and auxiliary departments, giving them a year's labor. We receive reports from time to time concerning conditions they find, and suggestions as to what would be  for the betterment. At our last quarterly conference, we made a little innovation. We used Saturday's portion of the conference as a special convention day; that is, we had a program, and appointed members of the Priesthood and also leading sisters of various auxilary departments to speak upon subjects that would be of special interest to the priesthood and the various departments. Then we allowed the congregation to discuss the various points at the close of the dissertation on the subject. It proved an occasion of very great interest and edification. Sunday was devoted to general services, and instructions, were imparted to the people on general topics. The plan worked very admirably. We did not do this however, without getting the sanction of the leading brethren. 

The people of our stake, as a rule are feeling well and trying to live their religion. Last fall, in holding our ward conference, catching up the forerunning of the spirit of teaching the Word of Wisdom, as we have heard here, we made that a special subject in all ward conferences throughout the stake. The spirit of the Lord was with us, and the people felt that the time had come to observe that law more than we have done in the past. It is only a few years since President Snow was impressed by the Lord to preach more abundantly, and impressively, that other law of temporal salvation, the law of tithing. You remember, he went south and first delivered the message there, and then continued northward through the country, and the people were everywhere aroused to observing that law of temporal salvation. Not only is the Church free from financial bondage today, but the peo also have received spiritual blessings abundantly. Now the other law of temporal salvation is being brought forward by the Church authorites, the law which governs health, longevity, strength and our perpetuity in the earth, the Word of Wisdom, It should be gratifying to the Latter-day Saints to know that, after so many years have passed since the Lord gave that law of temporal salvation, especially condemning the use of strong drinks, many of our brethren and sisters in our great country now join hands with us, and preach prohibition. It is gratifying to us, and we gladly join hands with them for the betterment of conditions among us. We young people are often admonished with reference to the Word of Wisdom. Our fathers and mothers have been treated with great leniency with respecft thereto, because they came into the Church with the old traditions and many of them were addicted from childhood to the use of tea,coffee, and tobacco, and in some instances, perhaps accustomed to the use of liquor. In our Stakes of Zion, while we have endeavored to intensify this principle before the young, we have told the fathers and mothers that, wherein they could get sufficient strength to keep the Word of Wisdom, it would not only be a blessing unto them, but they would furnish thereby a rich example of faith and works to their posterity. I have felt to thus encourage the fathers and mothers to keep the Word of Wisdom. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters in observing the laws of the Lord. My heart is full of gratitude and joy at the testimony of the First Presidency we heard yesterday. I felt that no Latter-day Saint could  under the sound of their voices and not have his or her faith increased, to witness the strength, the love the living faith that emanated from those men of God. May God help us to do our part, be valiant in the testimony of Jesus, and live so that we may illustrate the sentiments expressed in the words of this hymn that we sing — 

"Why should we think to earn a great reward, 

If we now shun the fight? Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, 

Our God will never us forsake; And soon we'll have this truth to tell : 

All is well, all is well." 

Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Age no excuse for non-observance of Word of Wisdom.— Utah should be exemplary temperance state. — Doctrines in Book of Mormon are evidences of its divinity. — A key note to success. 

It is always a pleasure to me to meet with the Latter-day Saints, and I have listened with interest and attention to what has been said by the brethren that have preceded me today. I earnestly desire that, in occupying the remainder of the time at this session of our conference, that the light and inspiration of the Holy Spirit may be and abide with me, that what I say may be of benefit to those who are here assembled. I have never had any desire in my heart in standing before the Latter-day Saints other than that I might be able to say something that would be for their good, for their benefit, and that Would be calculated in its nature tc encourage them and to fix in thei? hearts a desire and a determination, to be more faithful, more diligent more energetic in the discharge of the duties that devolve upon them in the future of their lives than they have been in the past. 

I feel to be charitable to fathers and mothers who have been breakers of the Word of Wisdom; but there is just one little item I want to call attention to, and that is, if our fathers and mothers were in the church, and were six years old when the Word of Wisdom was given, they would now be 81 years old, because it was given over 75 years ago, and it seems to me that a child six years of age might have imbided the spirit of the Word of Wisdom. So our charity will have to be, to a certain extent, mixed with justice, and with a determination to impress upon the minds of those who are aged that there is greater necessity for them to observe the Word of Wisdom because they are aged and therefore more in need of the blessings of the Lord. Now, I realize that the Word of Wisdom was not orginally given by way of a commandment and that many have taken advantage of that fact. I was only a boy, however, when President Brigham Y/oung announced that from that time forward it was a commandmient to the people; and I rejoice that it seems to be coming now with greater force than it has been in the past. 

Many years ago when I first heard a political speech, by a member of Congress from the east, in the Salt Lake theatre, my heart was filled with joy and gratitude as he announced that Utah stood fourth in the entire nation on the question of education. He said there was a map in the capitol building at Washington, which as education grew in this country, was painted white; that it was all black origin, and in proportion to the advance of education in the various States and Territories it was changed and made white. He told us then that there were but three spots upon that map whiter than Utah. At that time w;e were still a Territory, and had received none of the public lands and government 'moneys for educational purposes. Today, as I understand it, when it comes to literacy, there is only one State ahead of us. Some two or three months ago I noticed a map in the Improvement Era, indicating where the sale of whiskey ruled supreme, or was curtailed, it was painted black where liquor was not curtailed. I found that Utah was one of the six States painted black, and that there were forty states ahead of us. I feel that if there is any spot upon the face of the earth that should be first, and that should set an example before all the world in the matter of temperance it is Utah. If we had kept the Word of Wisdom, as we should have done, Utah today would have the credit of standing as a leader in temperance. 

I confess there is something in being at the head that has always favorably impressed me. When a young man I was struck by the saying of a friend that he would sooner be the head of a mouse than the tail of a lion. Today he is one of the leading men in the community. There is a great deal in a man or a community in aspiring to be at the head; there is much in making up our minds as Latter-day Saints, that we and our families will serve the Lord and keep His commandments, and set examples before all people worthy of their imitation, and that shall characterize and stamp us as in very deed servants and Saints of God. I rejoiced exceding, many years ago, over a quarter of a century, in fact, when I was called to be one of the Apostles, to receive a letter from a man who had known me many years, stating that he had always believed the Latterday Saint leaders were dishonest, and that they were imposing upon the people; but now that I had been chosen to be one of the leaders he had changed his mind, and he owed them an apology, he now believed they were honest men. He said, "I have known you from a boy, and I know that you are honest, and now I know these men must be honest or they wouldn't invite you into their private councils, where you would know all that was going on, because if they were dishonest they would know that you would expose their wrong-doing." I rejoiced in having this kind of an expression from this man. There is a great deal, my friends, in the statement of Josh Billings. He says, we must not judge a man by his relatives, because he can't help them; they are crowded on to him. But, judge a man by the company he keeps, because he picks his own. Now let us pick our own company, and be sure that it is good, and let us set examples before all men that shall be worthy of imitation. Let us make up our minds that we will serve God. 

I rejoice in the wonderful spirit of the Book of Mormon. I believe that it is one of the greatest missionaries in the hands of the Elder that it is possible for him to have. I believe that no man can open that book and read it with a prayerful heart, and ask God, in the name of Jesus Christ, for a testimony regarding its divinity, but what the Lord will mainfest unto him by His Spirit the truth of the book. Now that is the promise made in the book , and God has performed it; he has done it in thousands of cases. There is a mark of divinity on this book; and I maintain that no man can read, for instance, the 36th chapter, the commandments of Alma to his son Helaman, without receiving an impression of this kind. It is claimed by some that this book was written as a novel. I maintain that a man ought to have his head tapped for the simples who would undertake to say that any one would be idiotic enough to write a book like the Book of Mormon as a novel, hoping to sell it to the people. I maintain that no man can read that chapter, wherein this great man says: "My son, give ear to my words, for I swear unto you, that inasrquch as ye shall keep the commandments of God, ye shall prosper in the land." Also: "For ye ought to know as I do know, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land; and ye ought to know also, that inasmuch as ye will not keep the commandments of God, ye shall be cut off from His presence. Now this is according to his word." And again the words we find in the 29th chapter of this same prophet, saying : 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people; yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance, and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. ****** I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men, according- to their, wills; whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction." 

Read all the 29th chapter, and the 36th chapter of Alma. I know them nearly by heart, because I have read them so often; and I maintain that no man can read those two chapters and then believe for one minute that any man was idotic enough to write them, hoping to sell the book as a novel. It is the outpouring of an honest heart. It is the outpouring of a heart that desires the salvation of all mankind. This man Alma verily desired that he could have the voice of an angel to cry repentance unto all the ends of the earth. This man desired that his son should serve God; and he confesses in the 36th chapter that he had been guilty of waywardness in his youth. He confesses his wrongdoings, that he went with the sons of King Mosiah trying to destroy the Church of God. He confesses that an angel of God came and stopped them by the way, and commanded them if they would be saved themselves to seek not to destroy the Church of God; and he says that he erred unto God for repentance, and that, after feeling the depth of sorrow and humility, he was forgiven. These are the outpourings of a Prophet of God. No man can read the life of the Prophet Nephi, as recorded in this book without being a better man, if he reads it with an honest heart and a desire to learn. I read the Book of Mormon when I was a young man, and the one character among all others that I fell in love with was Nephi, a mian who never complained, who was never , who was never despondent; a man who had for his guiding star the conviction manifest in the remark he made to his father on returning from seeing that wonderful vision, when his father desired him to go up to Jerusalem for the record of Laban. He said, "I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save He shall prepare a way for them] that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." And he went up with his brethren, and Laban refused to deliver the plates. Then they took all their wealth and offered it to Laban, and he again refused to give them the plates, and sought to take their lives. Then his brothers desired to go back to their father and his tent in the wilderness, but Nephi said, "We will not go back until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord has commanded us." And when Laban had stolen their gold and silver and driven them out, the brothers beat Nephi, but the angel of God appeared and commanded them to desist, and told them to go up again to Jerusalem and God would deliver Laban into their hands. But after the angel had departed his brothers began to murmlur and said : "How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us ?" But Nephi answered them : 

"Come, let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens  thousands." "Let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord." That, O ye Latter-day Saints, is the key-note for success in any labor that God gives to us. Let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of God. 

May God bless us; may we be true and faithful in keeping His commandments. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing." 

Benediction was offered by Elder Joseph E. Smith. 
