Second Overflow
05 04 1908

ELDEK STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN. 

(President of Alpine Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I trust that the few moments I speak to you this afternoon that I will be assisted by the faith and sympathy of those who are assembled, that I may express my feelings, and report acceptably to my heavenly Father, satisfactorily unto myself and, I hope, profitably unto you. I realize the responsibility  rests upon me, and upon the other brethren who are called to speak. We have here a vast congregation, and I am not certain that you will all be able to hear, but I trust that I may have sufficient volume in my voice and be able to exert sufficient strength that all may hear. I know how eager the Saints are, as a rule, to listen to the testimony of the general authorities of the Church, when they come together on occasions of this kind. I always desire to sit where I may hear all that is said, because I realize that it is a good thing to listen to the living oracles of God. I take great pleasure in reading the holy scriptures, and I also have pleasure in listening to the men whom God has set in the Church to give unto us that spiritual food that is necessary for each and every Latter-day Saint. My experience has taught me it is necessary that we partake of spiritual nourishment in order that we may be strengthened in spirit, just as it is necessary to partake of food to keep our physical bodies in proper condition. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of this conference, and in the testimonies that have been borne concerning the truthfulness of the Gospel, and the excellent condition that the Church is in today. I rejoice also in the fact that so many of our brethren and sisters, and friends, have availed themselves of the opportunity, and have gathered together at this time, because I realize that if we keep in close touch with that which is going on in the Church we feel better. The nearer we live to the Lord, and the more earnest we are in the performance of our duties, the more we will have of the Spirit of the Lord. and the more we will love the Lord and love the work He has established, and the greater love we will have for those who have been chosen and sustained to preside in the Church. When we meet them, and enter into the spirit of their labors, we learn to appreciate them more, we love to associate with them, and we have a greater desire to sustain them with our faith and good works. I love the men who are placed to preside over us in this Church, and I listen to the instructions given by them, because I wish to become informed upon the principles of truth that they desire the people should know, that I in turn may be able to do some good among those over whom I have been called to preside. 

We have in our stake of Zion many noble men and women, men and women of integrity, full of faith and good works. I meet quite frequently with them at their homes, and in meetings of the various organizations and I feel that the saints in the Alpine Stake of Zion are living more closely to the principles of the Gospel, are attending to their meetings better, are freer with their contributions for the erection of meeting houses, than ever before. I have discovered that the more the saints do in these lines the better they feel. The stake is now about seven years old," and during that period we have erected a number of meeting houses in various wards, ranging in cost from $3,000 to about $60,000. I have discovered, in looking over the records of our people, that during the construction of these meeting houses the saints have been more faithful, and have paid more tithing, than they had done in previous years when they were not erecting meeting houses. They have attended to  duties better, they have sustained those who have presided over them faithfully, and there has been good feeling in the hearts of the people, when they have something to do. I am satisfied that the more busily we are engaged, the more earnest we are in promulgating the principles of eternal life, and putting forth our efforts in this work, and the more firmly we stand in the Church. I have noticed many of our young men who have gone on missions, and have returned full of faith and the spirit of the Gospel, if they are kept busy, if they have something to do and they do it, they are strong pillars in the Church, able workers, and they accomplish much good among the people. I have also noticed other young men who have filled missions, and on their return apparently have had the spirit of the work, but through the force of circumstances, or some environments, they have not been used in the wards. They go away from home, out to the sheep herd, to the mining camp or upon the railroads, or other places where they are not surrounded witlh a proper influence, where they have not the opportuntiy of laboring in the Church affairs and in a comparatively short time they become cold in spirit, and some become reckless in their manner of living. Therefore, it is important that we all have something to do, that we keep busy, so that we have not time to do anything only that which will have a tendency to uplift us, and to build up the Church that the Lord has established in the earth never more to be thrown down or given to another people. _ I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the sentiment that has been so freely expressed at this conference that our people, above all  the face of the earth, ought to be temperate in their habits. The Latter-day Saints have had good teachings, and have been trained to be temperate. They have been taught from childhood that it is not right to partake of strong drink, or use tobacco; and that tea and coffee, mentioned in the Word of Wisdom as hot drinks, ought not to be used in their homes. I sometimes wonder that we are so full of sympathy toward some of our brethren and sisters in advanced years, when I realize the fact that many of them have had these teachings and training from almost their infancy, through the Word of Wsidom. If there is a people on the face of the earth who should be prepared to carry out counsel with reference to these things, it should be the Latter-day Saints. I regret to say that some of our young men are ignoring the teachings of their fathers and the authorities of the Church. There are none of them who felt that they desired to become drunkards, but they first partook in a social way and, after they have been "treated" by their companions, they desire to return the compliment, and through these associations from time to time they have come to drink a little today, tomorrow, next week, next month, and soon they are in the condition that they indulge every day, and then many times during the day. But we are continuing the training, we are trying to live above these, habits, and to carry out the counsel of the authorities of the Church, as an example before the people and for our own individual blessing and benefit. In the Alpine stake of Zion, there are, I regret to say, a number of places where intoxicants can be purchased. In some small settlements there are as many as two or  of these places, and I fear they are not maintained wholly by those who are not of our faith, possibly some who> claim membership in the Church frequent these places, and purchase that which destroys the body, and oft times the soul. I hope that the spirit of temperance will spread throughout the land, and that we will have the strength of character, determination, and desire that will enable us to free ourselves from the saloon evil. I hope we will appreciate this sentiment that has come to us, that we will stand by each other, and that we will not sympathize with those who are opposing the work of God and that which is for our best good. I have heard some of our brethren say, I would believe in prohibition if we could prohibit. That argument is unreasonable. The law against murder does not prevent that crime, but that is no reason why there should be no such law. 

Let us, my brethren and sisters, get just as near to the mark as we possibly can. There is one thing certain, and I wish I could impress it upon every Latter-day Saint, and that is, we will never rise above our aim; if we set our aim high and work to it, we will assuredly come close to it. I hope that our aim will be high, and that we will use good judgment, and persistently labor along these lines, that good may be accomplished. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

BISHOP JOHN W. HART. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that my being called to occupy this position is a far greater honor to me, possibly, than a benefit to you. As has been stated by Apostle Clawson, I preside over a very humble ward in the State of Idaho. I am from the youngest stake of Zion, I believe, the Rigby stake, that has just recently been orgainzed. I feel, however, under these conditions, that you will not expect very much from me. For the last 23 years, probably longer, I have placed my services in the hands of the Lord, for Him to use me in any way that He could get the most good from me. I rejoice in mingling with you at this conference. I have been greatly interested in the instruction that has been given unto us. We always hear something new, or that appears new to us, at each of these conferences. 

The Gospel that we have received is a great plan. It embodies a very large scope of thought and reason. We cannot learn all about this Gospel in one day, or in a limited time. It takes diligent thought, humility and prayer to our Heavenly Father. When our Savior was upon the earth, He established this plan. He made the fundamental principles of the Gospel very plain, simple, and easy of comprehension. He told us what would be required of us in order that we might enjoy the benefits of His mission to mankind upon this earth. Among other things, he said, "This is eternal life to know thee, the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." My brethren and sisters, if we are to be saved in the kingdom of heaven, to receive an exaltation therein, there is a great work for us to do. It is necessary that we keep busy at it all the time. If we do not, we will fall short of those blessings that we desire to enjoy. 

It is necessary, in order to intelligently worship the Almighty, to know who He is, to know something of His attributes. If we do not know these things, it is impos for us to worship Him intelligently. He says we must know Him in order to gain eternal life. He has pointed out the way whereby we - can claim and obtain this blessing. It i-s imoossible for us to know God only through revelation. Peter, the great apostle, knew Him only through this principle. When the Savior of the world asked Peter, among other things, who He, Jesus, was, Peter answered emphatically, "Thou art Christ the son of the living God." The Savior then said unto him, "Blessed art thou, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee but my Father which is in heaven." As further evidence showing that we cannot know the Father only through revelation, we have learned through that principle that God is a tangible being, as is also His Son, that He lives and that He hears and answers the petitions of His children; that He has the power to chastize us when we do wrong, and to bless and reward us when we do good. Not all of the people of the world know God in this true sense. They have not received this information as we have received it. Notwithstanding the fact that Jesus made the conditions very plain when He was upon the earth. The Savior said then that He was the express image of His Father, that whosoever had seen Him had seen the Father also. After the Messiah was put to death, and came forth out of the tomb, a resurrected being, it appears that many of the disciples questioned as to the kind of being He was, whether He was tangible or not. The Savior knew this doubt existed in their minds. As a consequence, He appeared to them from time to time, in His resurrected form, that they might be convinced of His personality, that there might not be any doubt left in their minds concerning His tangibility, that they might be able to go forth and teach the people the kind of beings God and His son Jesus Christ are. We find in this dispensation that,' when the Gospel was restored to the earth, and the plan of salvation inaugurated among the people, the Lord impressed this great principle upon the minds of those whom He placed in charge of His work. He was so particular in this matter, and deemed it of such consequence that the Father and the Son both came down to the earth, and appeared unto the chosen Prophet, Joseph Smith. Hence we have the testimony renewed in this dispensation; we have the evidence of righteous men who have seen these Heavenly Beings, and know of their tangibility; and they have given unto us the means by which we also may know them. How ? They are the same principles by which Peter knew, and that the Savior established so that we may know. The Spirit of the Lord, that we are entitled to be in possession of, will impart this knowledge, and place us in the proper condition to obtain salvation and exaltation. These, my brethren and sisters, are great principles. They are things that we should understand thoroughly. I would exhort the Latter-day Saints, both young and old, to seek for evidence along these lines, to work out salvation for yourselves, because it is a personal work. The Lord is a just God, and has never asked His people to do something for nothing. Do not let us place faith too strongly upon the arm of flesh; but let us stand squarely on our individual knowledge in these matters. 

I feel well in the work of God, and I feel to encourage the Latterday Saints. As has been stated, I come from Idaho, and I want to say, before I sit down, that the work is progressing there, the same spirit which permeates you here is enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints there, they are prospering and growing. Wards and stakes are being organized in the southeast of . the state of Idaho, probably faster than anywhere else in the Lord's vineyard. I wish to say, further, that those who are not of us, not members of our Church, are friendly, as a rule. We have a multitude of such friends who are fair-minded, and willing that we should enjoy our rights as Latter-day Saints, in accordance with the privileges guaranteed unto us by that sacred instrument, the Constitution of the United States. We have a few enemies, but friends are greatly in the majority, and we are very thankful for this. We are grateful for all of the blessings we have received from the Lord. We are thankful that we are permitted to live in this dispensation, to know, and to see, and to hear the living oracles of God, and to partake of the inspiration that flows from the Prophet of God. I know that he is a Prophet, that he stands at the head of the work of the Lord here, and I sustain him as such, as it is our duty to do so. 

Let us, my brethren and sisters, order our lives so that we will be above criticism; be honest, true, just, and shun that which is evil, and the Lord will continue to bless us. Let our light so shine that others will see our good works and follow in our footsteps, as Saints of God. May the Lord bless us to this end, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I trust that you will give me an interest in your faith and prayers, as you evidently have done with the brethren who have preceded me. I appreciate the remarks that have been made, and I agree with them. I cannot help but think that we have leaders in the Church and Kingdom of God who are setting an example that is worthy of imitation. When President Joseph F. Smith was before the investigating committee in Washington, one of the members asked him this question : "Mr. Smith, how rriany children have you?" and his answer was, "I have 42," and he added, "I am proud of every one of them." Now why should he be proud? Let me tell you: — President Smith, as I know, has 42 children who keep the word of wisdom; all of them who are old enough say their prayers, night and morning, and they attend their meetings and do their duty as Latter-day Saints. Now then, that is a splendid example for the leader of our Church to give unto us. In the stake where I live we remember it, and we are trying to live up to that one of the most wonderful examples in all the world. 

In our Stake the presidency the high council, the bishops of wards, and the various other officers tell each other how they are living, how their families are living, and what they are doing. Let me report to you a little about these high councilmen. They say, "In our family we keep the Word of Wisdom. When we come to the breakfast table in the morning, we  family prayer, and we ask a blessing upon the food. My wife takes turn with me in prayer, and my children who are old enough take their turn. They have their secret prayers; and they belong to various organizations of the Church." Some of the members say, "I have in my family a member in the Religion Class, another in the Primary Association, another in the Young Men's Association, another in the Young Ladies' association, and another in the Relief Society; and we sustain the various organizations of the ward." Others say, "I have a son on a mission." They are proud to report when they have a son that is on a mission. I want to say to you that the children in the stake are sustaining their mothers and fathers in these things, and are helping forward the various organizations, assisting the Bishops and others who are called to work of responsibility for the good of the people and the building up of the kingdom of God. I do not know of a boy, or girl in the Church, in the Summit Stake of Zion, that breaks the Word of Wisdom. I know that their fathers and mothers do not. They are sustaining their fathers and mothers in this great work, and the Lord is blessing and prospering them, for keeping His commandments. One of our High Council men recently made to us this report in regard to prayer : 

"Sometimes I hire men at my place,andsom l e of triem ,are not members-of the Church. When those nonmembers were in the house I have felt as if it was casting pearls before swine if I had prayers before them. On one occasion I had a young man, a gentile, to take over into the reservation, and he came to my house. 

When he was there, I got up early and went out and prepared the horses to take the trip, and while I was out I made up my mind I would go in and get breakfast, and start off without family prayers. But, when I went in to breakfast, the children had come out, and table was set, and the chairs were placed, and some were already kneeling down, and I had to have prayers. After we got into the wagon and drove off , this man said to me. 'Is that the kind of thing the Latter-day Saints always do? Is that the way Latter-day Saints live?' I said yes, if a Latter-day Saint is living his religion, he has prayers in his family every morning, just" like that. 'Well,' he says, 'I want to investigate, I want to find out more about your people, and what your people are doing.' He has since bought some books, and I understand that he is going to join the Church." One of the authorities said to us today, what a magnificent thing it would be if the people who came out to this country could find that all the Latter-day Saints were living their religion, that they were consistent with it, and with the fact 'that they believe that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I heard some one say recently, a man was introduced to me as Brother so and so. "Why no," said the one introduced, "he is not a brother, he is not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints! he carries a sign that he! does not believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God." "What do you mean?" "Why, that cigar he has got in his mouth is a sure sign that he does not believe Joseph Smith is a Prophet." 

We believe in temperance. Some of the Saints in our stake will hard drink hot water, and some almost hesitate to use hot gravy (laughter). We have good water out there, the finest in the world; and we raise fine trout, and many of our friends come in the summer to eat the trout, drink the water and build themselves up. Now, in regard to the question of getting rid . of saloons. The saloons do not hurt President Smith, because all his family keep away from such places. It is not the faithful sons of the president of the Church, or of the apostles, or of the bishops and presidents of stakes who patronize, saloons. Let me tell you what one of the Bishops of one of our wards did, and the Relief Society helped him in it. There was a saloon started in the ward, and made us all kinds of trouble. Sometime passed, and the members of the Church bought a lot just opposite the saloon on which to build a meeting house. Then the Bishop came to the presidency of the stake and said, "What shall we do about that saloon?" The presidency of the stake said, you go on hauling and cutting rock every day, right along. So they did it, and in about three weeks, he telephoned the presidency of the stake, and said, This saloon man has got quite friendly, he comes out, and talks with me. The people don't patronize him very much, and he says he will sell his saloon for so much, what shall we do? I told him to offer $50 less, and I will give you the money. Then the Relief Society bought it; and the women went into the vacated saloon, and they got lime and made it into whitewash, and they whitewashed floors and everything else nearly; they wanted to wash the sin away, you know. And then they erected a long board table in it, and every day they got up a big dinner in that old saloon building. Now they have got as fine a meeting house right opposite that former saloon building as there is any where, and the people built it, and it didn't cost them very much money. Thus sometimes you see, a saloon building is a very nice thing to have, if it is used by the Relief Society (laughter). 

I pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with the Latter-day Saints always and that we will follow the magnificent example that is set by .the President of our Church. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Praise ye the Lord! 'tis good to raise." 

ELDER OLEEN N. STOHL. 

(President of Box Elder Stake). 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, while I stand before you, that the same swejet influence may direct my mind in the words I utter that has inspired all that has been said and done during this conference, and that has suggested to our brethren who have spoken this afternoon that which would be for our good. I rejoiced very much yesterday morning when the president testified that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints is in a better condition today, spiritually and temporally, and from the standpoint of unity, than it ever was before. When he made that statement, I thought to myself, that so far as my knowledge goes in relation to conditions in the Church, and particularly the stake in which I have the privilege to labor, is concerned, I know that he speaks the truth; and I am very thankful for this condition and for this . That is only as it should be. While we are to be commended for the condition, still it is nothing more than ought to exist among us as a people. I think of the army of workers that we have in the Church, who are interested, and zealous and faithful in the great labor in which we are engaged. A short time ago I had the privilege to visit one of the wards in our stake, attending a ward conference, and when the Bishop had the ward officers presented, I found in that small ward they had 178 brethren and sisters working as officers in the ward and the respective organizations. Nearly two-fifths of the members of that ward engaged in the Relief Society, in the Sunday School, in the Young Men's and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, in the Primary organization, and in the Religion Class, as officers in those organizations. When we can select two-fifths of our people and get them harnessed up in the work of the Lord, and get them to perform the duties required of them in their work good is bound to come out of it, and the Church is going to continue to improve as long as those conditions exist. Now, I think this Church has always been improving; I believe there has never been a day since it was first organized when this work went backwards. Its course has always been onward and upward. That is its course today, and I have full faith that it will so continue. But, while the condition is as President Smith stated, there is room for further improve-' ment, and we all realize this fact; and in realizing it, I feel that we are determined to do better, to live better lives as Latter-day Saints. If the Lord has permitted us to see and understand our weaknesses, I think  should strive to overcome those weaknesses; and as we individually overcome them we are improving and bettering ourselves. In thus improving ourselves, we are improving' the great organization to which we belong. I believe, brethren and sisters, it is very important that we all should be thoroughly conversant with the great organizations of the Church, that we should sustain the authority of the Church, and assist in supporting the Priesthood, and in helping to perform the duties that are required. In line with this thought, I feel that the success of these organizations that I have referred to largely depends upon the thorough conversion of our fathers and niothers to the great work those organizations are performing. For example, I remember a few years ago, in our stake, that many of our people were not converted to Religion Class work. Some of them thought it an unnecessary organization, that we had enough organizations; in fact, that we are over-organized. Well now, since the Religion Class has been operating and working among the people of our stake, parents have begun to see the benefits derived from it, they have seen the blessings that have come to their children in their being taught the eternal principles of life and salvation,in the children being taught to pray, to ask a blessing upon the food, to perform littlq duties required of them towards their parents, and towards the officers in the ward. They have seen the good that has come from these organizations, and that is coming from them, and they are converted better to that work today than they ever were before. The result is that the Religion Class movement is lunging forward today as it never did before. I believe  we as parents ought to appreciate these various organizations, and encourage our children to sustain them, and patronize and take part in them. If we will do this, these organizations will flourish in the Church, and we will realize their great advantages. 

And this also applies to the Priesthood organizations. I feel that if there is any work in which the parents can co-operate with the bishops of the various wards, it is that in relation to the lesser Priesthood. They should encourage their boys to perform the duties required of them by the bishops, and in attending the meetings of their respective organizations. I think, my brethren and sisters, this is a vital point. There is nothing comes closer to us than our children; nothing more important to us than they are, nothing that will ever be of greater worth to us than they. They are our jewels, they are our wealth. Temporal things are not to be compared to them. Our children are given to be ours eternally, under the holy covenant, and it is our duty to interest ourselves in them, to see that they can be ours in honor here and throughout eternity. We cannot do anything better than help to encourage our children, and establish them in the faith, encourage them in performing duties along the lines that are indicated in the respective organizations of the Church. 

I think that, as parents, we should unite our work with that of the respective organizations. We should know what they are doing, and in becoming acquainted with them, we might conduct little religion classes in our homes, and there consider the lessons and the work that is being taken up by the Religion Class, the Primary Associations, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Sunday Schools, and thus show to our children that we are interested in them. If we would do this, and conduct these little devotional exercises in our home, we would plant faith in our children's hearts, and plant confidence in them, in the great work in which we are engaged. They would feel that we are sincere in it, that we are trying to live it, and that we are earnest in our desires that they should live it. 

Our children live very much as we want them to. It is our duty as Latter-day Saints to live so that they can see our good works, and be willing to emulate our example. I was impressed sometime ago by a thought that was* expressed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we cannot be perfect without our children; we cannot enjoy exaltation in the kingdom of God without our children. If we expect to enjoy this exaltation and this glory, we must have our children with us; otherwise we cannot enjoy these blessings to the fullest extent. Now, if we would take up this work, and get our families to unite with these respective organizations in the Church, I believe sincerely that we would accomplish wonderful results, and that this work will continue to grow much more rapidly, perhaps, than it has in the past. 

I rejoice in this Gospel; I know that it is the work of God, and I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for this testimony. I feel that, if there is one thing more important than another at the present time for the Latter-day Saints to consider, it is to plant in the hearts of their children a knowledge and a testimony of the divinity of this work. It is important that our children believe they will get it if they will seek it in the way the Lord has di, and keep His commandments. One thought that gives me great joy in connection with the doctrines of the Church is that they stand the test. The Savior, you know, on one occasion said, "My doctrine is not mine but his that sent me; if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself." Our doctrines stand the test; if you will do the will of the Father, in other words, if you will accept the doctrine, and practice it in your daily lives, you will know of the doctrine whether it is true or not. Where is there a man or a woman who has tested the doctrines of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in this world and ever found them wanting? No man who has lived humbly, in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, can stand forth and say that they are not true, that they are not of God. Now, let us apply the test, and continue to add one test after the other. I tell you it will do more to establish us and our children in the work of our Heavenly Father than anything else we can do. 

May the blessings of Heaven rest upon the people of Zion, and may we rejoice in the great work which is being accomplished, and ever feel to thank our Heavenly Father that this Gospel came to us, and that we are partakers of the same. May we live so that we can be an honor to the work, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

BISHOP HEBER C. IVERSON. 

Like those who have already spoken, I greatly rejoice in the spirit of this conference, in the splendid and wholesome advice and admonition that has fallen from the  of the servants of our Father who have been inspired of Him in all their utterances. 

I am grateful to live in this day when we see a sentiment spreading abroad that bids fair to become universal, almost, if not entirely, that shall restrain, and obliterate if possible, the dens of infamy and vice that have cursed our country for so many years. My heart has ever gone out to the.youner men and women in Israel. I am not so far advanced along the path of life that I am unmindful, or unconscious of the character and force of the temptations with which the young men and young women are daily surrounded. They love amusements, they love pleasure, and it is natural they should, but in seeking amusements and pleasure they are sometimes taken advantage of and led into paths of vice, innocently. Therefore, I feel that it becomes the duty of the Elders in Israel, and the citizens of this commonwealth, to recognize the fact that these places which lead to sin, to death, to sorrow, to poverty and shame, should be removed from our midst. We know that their establishment and maintenance is contrary, in every particular, to the spirit and genius of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. You and I have been taught from our infancy that to observe the word of the Lord, the Word of Wisdom, would be helpful to us in every way. We have put it to the test and have proven it true. We know the Word of Wisdom is scientifically as well as scripturally true, and it is for the well being of our Father's children. I say, therefore, this movement is a blessed thing, and 1 hail the sentiment heartily, as do you. I know this is the sentiment of every true 

Latter-Day Saint from the centre of the Church to its circumference, even to the uttermost bounds of Zion. 

As President Stohl has said, there is nothing more precious to us, as fathers and mothers in Israel, than the children whom! God has given us. Are they not the greatest source of sorrow or happiness according to their aims, their lives and conduct. Is there anything we possess that brings to us more real joy and pleasure. We have heard this afternooa that President Joseph F. Smith said, when giving his testimony before the investigating committee, that he had. 42 children, each and all of whom he was proud of. Does he not feel in them a great source of happiness? And can you not say, when your sons and daughters keep the Word of Wisdom, the commandments of God, that you are proud of them, and they are a source of the greatest joy and pleasure that is possible for the human heart to experience. As President Moses Taylor said, they are not temporary possessions, they are eternal possessions, for they are children of God as well as our children. The Apostle Paul says: "We have had fathers of the flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence, should we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of sprits and liye." God is the father of the eternal part of the child that is given us here. We recognize in man a dual character; a dual being, physical as well as a spiritual. We recognize the truth of the sentiment so beautifully expressed in that hymn — 

O my Father, thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! 

When shall I regain thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In thy holy habitation 

Did my spirit once reside? In my first primeval childhood 

Was I nurtured near thy side! 

For a wise and glorious purpose, 

Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection 

Of my former friends and birth; Yet ofttimes a secret something 

Whispered, "You're a stranger here;." And I felt that I had wandered 

From a more exalted sphere. 

I had learned to call thee Father 

Through thy Spirit from on high; But, until the key of knowledge 

Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? 

No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason; truth eternal 

Tells me I've a mother there. That doctrine was ridiculed seventy years ago, when announced by this hymn, teaching what had been given by inspiration flowing first through the mind of the Prophet Joseph Staith, that we have a mother in heaven. Not long since I read in one of the leading magazines of this country, from one of the great thinkers of our day, that he recognizes this truth as one of the most profound and sublime in the universe, that womanhood forms a portion of the Godhead. He discourses very learnedly upon the dual sequence of the term Elohim, and proves conclusively by his deduction that there is a feminine element existing with the Deity, and that we have in Deity a mother as well as a father. There are mothers of our spirits. As the poet has said God has kindly sent to earth these sons and daughters of his. His spirits become our children in the flesh. 

To the mothers of our children I will say : Could you have any greater honor, could you possibly have any greater ambition in the world,  to be the medium, through which a child of God shall come to earth, to fulfil a wise and glorious purpose ? Do you envy your brother, your husband, your male relatives for the honors that come to them, because, forsooth, they occupy positions of responsibilty ? I say to you mothers in Israel, that yours is one of the most honored and honorable positions occupied by any child of our Father upon earth. We do honor to the hero of the battle field. We erect magnificent monuments to his glory, because he offers his life in defense of his country, moved, possibly, by the love of fame, or of popularity. Should he give his life while engaged in the duty of taking the lives of his fellows, duty as he sees it, then we place his name upon the pages of history, and it is handed down to future generations to be revered by them. We erect a splendid monument to his name, because he jeopardized his life, through his heroism. How about the mother in Israel, who, in keeping the commandment of Him who said to Father Adam and Mother Eve, "Mutiply and replenish the earth," and who has kept inviolate the sacred covenants she has made with her husband in sacred and holy places, does she not jeopardize her life in maternity? Does she not place her life upon the altar of sacrifice and duty, ac J -?ndure untold agony? I say to you hers are deeds of heroism worthy of the greatest monument; nay, more than that, of an eternal crown in the celestial kingdom and presence of our Father. We have heard it said that "the hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." Mothers, do you appreciate this fact? Do you realize that much depends upon you; that the future of  Church, this community, this state, or this nation as a commonwealth, depends very largely upon you as mothers in Israel? Another one has said, and to me it seems a well deserved tribute to motherhood, "God could not be with us always, so He gave us mothers." If there are any under God's heaven deserving our tribute of praise for the offering of life with a love that is divine, a devotion that is angelic, that is charitable,long suffering and kind, that is willing to sacrifice all that one possesses for the love of another, it is the mother in Israel. After having passed through the dark valley of the shadow of death, having brought into the world a child of God, she watches patiently, prayerfully and faithfully over the little one, ever solicitous of its welfare, and devoted to its interests. President Roosevelt, not long ago, made use of these words, and I know you will agree with him; "No leader in church, in state, in science, in art or industry, I care not how important tne cnaracter of his work begins to do work that compares in importance to that done by the father and mother in the home for they are the first of sovereigns and the divinest of priests." 

The most sacred duty we have to perform in the earth is to care for those whom God has confided to our keeping, whom He has placed under our guardianship. We shall be held responsible for their care, not only for the precepts or teachings we give therm by word of mouth, but, as President Stohl said in his remarks, we will be held sacredly responsible for the example we set our children, for the very words we utter in their presence. More forcible, and more potent in the forming of their character, and establishing  in the faith of the Gospel, is our example, far more than our precepts can possibly be. If we teach them by word of mouth some thing that our lives contradict, can you imagine their condition of mind, what their ideas are? May they not reason thus : My father is a hypocrite, or else he is too weak to believe, practice, and live up to that which he teaches me, and which I believe to be true. I do not desire to speak of my personal experience, but, aside from the testimony and strength of the Spirit, the still small voice, the whispering that monitor has given to me, as a result of my obedience to the Gospel, aside from this I say, that my father's life, his obedience to the requirements of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is the most potent factor in sustaining me in the faith. It means much to me; and I realize that my life also means much to my children, and that your lives will mean much to your children. 

Now my brethren and sisters, let us realize, as President Stohl has said, that these precious ones whom the Lord has entrusted to our care are likewise precious to Him. Each son of ours, each daughter of ours, is a child of His. It is a great responsibility, and let us see to it that, even when it requires sacrifice on our part, and though we have to deny ourselves many things that we would like to enjoy,we shall be willing to deny ourselves for the salvation of our children. We should be men enough and women and Latter-day Saints enough to do it, for their good and benefit, and for our eternal blessing. 

I want to bear you my testimony, in conclusion. I know that this is the work of the Lord, and these men whom! we sustain as His servants are inspired of Him. I desire, if I may have sufficient strength, to follow continuously, and consistently, him who is at the head of this work, whoever he may be, be he Joseph F. Smith or any other man whom God shall place there; for I know that the Lord will never permit the man who stands at the head of this work, as a guide to His children and to His Church, to counsel or advise contrary to His will. I believe that one in authority may give wrong advice, that may be possible, but the Lord's anointed never. He is my watchword, he is the one under God whom I shall endeavor to follow, by the help of the Lord. May we all do so, and our exaltation will be sure in the presence of our Heavenly Father; which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RTJDGER CLAWSON. 

Absence of traitors an evidence of growth and stability of the Church. — Intense devotion now manifest. 

My brethren and sisters, the Church has been organized 78 years tomorrow. Have the Latter-day Saints made any progress in that period of time ? Mark this. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was surrounded in part by false brethren men who were ready and willing to betray him. Some of them he had taken to his heart. Some of them were associated with him in the presidency, and some of them were connected with the quorum of the Twelve Apostles; and there were many among the High Priests and the Seventies who were false to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Upon one occasion Wilford Woodruff, who was approached by some of  men, lifted up his voice in warning, and predicted that if they did not repent of their sins that they would be damned and go to hell, and this because of their opposition to the Prophet, because of their willingness to betray him to his enemies, for they said he was a fallen prophet. He was not a fallen prophet; they were fallen prophets. How is it today? Pause, my brethren and sisters, for a moment and reflect. There are 56 stakes of Zion,each presided over by a presidency. That means 56 presidents and 112 counselors. There are 652 wards, each presided over by a bishopric. That means 652 Bishops and 1304 counselors. There are 21 missions in the world, presided over by 21 mission presidents. That makes altogether 2,145 very prominent and influential officers in the Church and not one, so far as I know, is a traitor, not one. 

Here is evidence brethren and sisters, that the Church has grown, that it has progressed that it has shot ahead wonderfully. And it may also be said of High Counselors, Patriarchs, and High Priests, Seventies and Elders, and members of the Lesser Priesthood, and in fact of members of the Church, generally that very few, if any, are traitors among them. The Latterday Saints hate the spirit of apostasy, and they despise a traitor, and God despises a traitor, and there will be no place found in the kingdom of heaven for a traitor, for the man who would betray his God or his religion, or his country. Now, I rejoice in this tesimony, for it confirms to me the divinity of this work. The growth and progress of the Church clearly shows powerfully the spirit of God is operating upon His people and upon His  to make strong in the faith, to make them firm in their attitude to the world and to each other, in keeping the commandments of God. 

This is a glorious time which we now behold, a glorious conference. The Spirit of the Lord is upon His people, and we are made to rejoice. There is a multitude of people assembled in the great tabernacle, and this house is filled to overflowing with Latter-day Saints, and the temple grounds are covered, and there are hundreds of Saints who have deft the grounds, and there are other hundreds upon the streets, and thousands and tens of thousands in the various stakes. Assuredly Zion is growing, and Zion is becoming strong, both spiritually and temporally. Let me say to you that a people who are weak spiritually and strong temporally are a weak people, and a people who are strong spiritually and weak temporally are a weak people; but a people who are strong spiritually and strong temporally are a strong people. My testimony is that the Latter-day Saints are a power in the earth which will be felt in a time to come. May the Lord bless and prosper us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The choir sang the hymn, "Hark! ten thousand thousand voices." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Arthur Parsons. 
