Outdoor
05 04 1908 

The Tabernacle and Assembly Hall could not accommodate all who desired admittance and, the weather being propitious, several hundred assembled on the lawn, near the 

Bureau of Information building, where services were held at 2 p. m., under direction of Elder Benjamin Goddard. 

Prof. Charles Kent conducted the singing, and the selections rendered by him and his male chorus were highly appreciated. 

The services were commenced by the male chorus and congregation singing the hymn entitled "Sowtag." 

Prayer was offered by Bishop David A. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Hope of Israel." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

We are glad, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you in this capacity. We regret very much that we have not seats for all. It has been suggested that, if the Saints who desire to receive instructions are to be accommodated hereafter, it will be necessary to roof over this entire block. From the increased attendance, it is very evident that "Zion is Growing," and that the cry is going out not only from our children in the Sabbath schools, but from all Israel, "Give us Room that We May Dwell." I pray that the blessings of the Lord may rest upon you, that through your faith and prayers, the brethren who address you may be inspired of Him to give unto you words of wisdom and truthfulness. May God bless you unto that end, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REUBEN G. MILLER. 

(President of Emery Stake). 

I am thankful to be here, and to listen to the testimonies that have been borne. It has done me good, and I trust that all of you who have been in the Tabernacle during this conference, have enjoyed the spirit of it. I think that the key-note has been sounded to this people, and it is that of local option. The time has come when we can put into practice the principles of the Gospel more fully than we have ever done. The Word of Wisdom is one of the most important subjects for this people to observe. For one, I shall advocate that question more strongly in the stake where I reside. At one time I was called upon to report the Emery Stake of Zion, and I spoke of the modern conveniences that were in the stake, not wishing to convey the idea that we had saloons belonging to Latter-day Saints, but that saloons were there. Since that time, several of our people have permitted their names to be stricken from the records of the Church because of engaging in that business. We propose to follow that up, and all who will not live according to the rules of the Church, in this regard, we propose to take their names off of the Church records. Brethren and sisters, I feel encouraged in this work, because I know it is the work of God, and not of man. In and of myself I feel very weak, but I "know that this work is the Lord's, and I am desirous of living up to every principle that the Lord has revealed, doing His will, keeping His commandments, and teaching others to do so. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

As I remember reading the sacred scriptures, there was an husband who invited all of his friends and kindred to a marriage feast. When the hour came for the meal to be served, he found none of them in attendance. Then he sent his servants out upon the byways and highways to constrain every man that passed by to come in to the wedding supper. I think, from the presence of this great crowd, that we are living in an age when the Gospel invitation to come to the marriage supper of the Lamb has been heard, and answered, by many friends and kindred, and also by many who are strangers to the cause. 

I rejoice in the work that the Latter-day Saints are performing in the world. I rejoice that many of the honorable of the earth are beginning to comprehend the fact that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is potent for good; that it is a power in the land; that in the genius of the Gospel there is life, durability, and stability. Many who have not been able to find satisfaction in any 'one of the creeds of the various churches, or in the dogmas of science, are beginning to comprehend this fact, that in the Gospel, which is preached by the Latter-day Saints, there is that which appeals to the heart and mind of man; there is something ennobling in it, something uplifting and progressive; it has come to remain in the land. They feel a little of that which Apostle Clawson portrayed this morning in his address, when he told of the files, ranks, columns and battalions of the Priesthood, that such a force is irresistible; and the Gospel they preach must obtain. I have found, in my experience, some of the better class, many of the enlightened men of our state (California) — among the , the railroad men, the doctors, and the laywers, many who have their eyes upon the economical aspect of Mormonism, and because of this, have accorded to me and my brethren, many privileges that otherwise would not have been ours. We feel, in a measure, that we are a preferred class among these men, having been invited to their clubs,given transportation over their lines, participated with them in some of their political and civic movements. This, I take it, not as a compliment to me or my brethren, but to the great body of the Latter-day Saints whose representatives we are. 

Just at this time there is a ferment of expectation upon the part of the people of the Coast in relation to the arrival of the great American fleet, and with that there is an undercurrent of feeling of unrest in relation to conditions as they obtain in the Far East. You know, perhaps, that' we have had some little trouble — so-called trouble — with the Japanese in our schools; and there are those who are so pessimistic as to prophesy that, within two years from now,the City of Los Angeles and most of the coast towns of California will be patrolled by Japanese soldiers. This statement was made five weeks ago today, over the signature of one of the generals of the United States Army, who has been for the past five years in China, seeking the regeneration of the great Chinese Army. He gives his reasons for it, and I must confess that it appeals to me that such a thing might be possible under the conditions that he tells us of. "The proximity of the Philippines, of Hawaii, and of Alaska to the Flowery Kingdom, and the fact that they are preparing, no matter what the  says to the contrary, for something in the immediate future," is what he states. 

But I have a hope, I have an assurance in the words which God hath spoken, that this is a land of liberty, and that He will fight the battles of the peoples of this land. I remember what He said to one of the ancient prophets of this land, and I ask you to indulge me while I refer to it briefly. He is speaking of the day when Christ's Gospel shall again be taught among the children of men, and when the Jews will begin to believe upon His name. I was very much impressed yesterday by the prayer offered by Patriarch Joseph E. Taylor, praying for this people, the Hebrews. I have had the privilege of preaching the Gospel to some few of them. I associate almost daily with one who has the blood of that people in his veins, who is an able expounder and defender of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have had the privilege of baptizing a young man of that blood. Here is what the Lord says : 

"Behold, thus saith the Lord God: When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance. 

"And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from their long dispersion; f"im the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be great in the eyes of me, saith God, in carrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance. 

"Yea,^ the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and their queens shall become nursing mothers; wherefore, the promises of the Lord are great unto _ the Gentiles, for he hath spoken it, and who can dispute?" 

In California there are two Hebrew leaders of reform, who point with considerable pride to the fact that Jesus Christ was a Jew, who are looking forth to the time "when Christianity and Judaism shall be one, and when righteousness will cover the earth as the waters cover the- mighty deep." Some of the kings of the earth have made solicitation of the Sultan of Turkey to permit the Hebrews to buy Palestine, and fix themselves again in the land of their fathers. The hearts of the Jews, as you know, are turned to that land, and conditions have been turned backward in a way, and they are coming into their own; for they begin to believe in part in the ministry of Jesus Christ. Furthermore, in the day when this shall obtain, the Lord tells us of these things : 

"But, behold, this land, saith God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, [speaking to the people of Nephi], and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. 

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land who shall raise up unto the Gentiles." 

Why, men may say when this book came forth, in 1829, that John VI of Portugal had seated on the throne of Brazil his eldest son, Pedro. I grant you that, and therein I find a greater testimony of the truthfulness of what the prophet has here written, for he was not raised up from among the Gentiles of this land, but was brought from abroad. But we want to go further in the case, and see what became of him. 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations; 

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God; 

"For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the 

King of heaven, will be their King, and I will be a light unto them for ever, that hear my words." 

This man, Dom Pedro I, was succeeded by Dom Pedro II, but, within my recollection, he had to abdicate his throne. Brazil was made a republic, and he returned to the fatherland, Portugal. Within the recollection of all of you, within the past few weeks, there has been the assassination of the King of Portugal, and of the Crown Prince, who were the descendants of John VI and his daughter Dona Maria, whom he set up to preside over that land (Portugal). The fate of that country today is trembling in the balance. A usurper is trying to undermine the throne, and conditions are very unsatisfactory to say the least, at this very day and hour. 

But more signally, perhaps, this prophecy was fulfilled in 1865-6, when Napoleon III sent one of his favorites, Maximillian, and "raised him up" to the people of this land, the Lamanites, as a king. It was while the North and the South were divided, in war and civil strife, that this thing was done. And the old world powers, England, France and Spain, thought that they could obtain from Mexico some of their claims, whilst the Federal Government of the United States had its hands full, and could do nothing to put into effect the so-called Monroe Doctrine. The Federal government protested, and Russia, in a compact made with that government, sent to New York harbor all of her battleships, which were to be turned over, in case of need, to the government of the United States. England withdrew her 10,000 troops, and so did Spain, but Napoleon was perverse for some time, and established  man as the Emperor of Mexico. Under the leadership of Juarez, the father of that country, and Diaz, the present President, the people were called to arms. Maxim'illian's forces were overcome and he was cast into prison. His lovely and devoted wife, Carlotta, went to the various Courts of Europe and plead for succor for her husband in this land of Mexico. When petitioning at the feet of the Pontiff of Rome, she went mad, and was consigned to a mad-house, and to this day does not know the sad fate of her husband, who was shot to death by the soldiery of Juarez. So this king, who was raised up like John of Portugal and his son, (John, you remember, died very soon after returning to Portugal, worn out with the troubles he had encountered in Mexico) and so Maximillian met his death; and he was the last of his line. Napoleon III, who had "set him up," was forced to flee to England, an exile from his country, with his empress and young prince, "Napoleon Bonaparte. This prince, who afterwards enlisted in the British service in South Africa, during the Zulu war, was ambushed, and killed by the Zulus, thus bringing an end to the house of Napoleon III. 

How signally has the Lord brought out the forces of this country victorious against overwhelming numbers and older countries. As an earnest of what the future will be, this tells me that we need not fear foreign oppression or foreign arm's. God hath established here the tree of Liberty, in this land of Joseph, that the nations of the earth might find shelter under its branches and eat of its fruit; for this is the land where God shall build His city, the New Jerusalem. 

This is the land from whence shall go forth the law of the Lord. From this land shall go forth His word by His ministers and ambassadors; "and the power and the dominion and the greatness of his kingdom," says Daniel the Prophet, "shall be given to the people of the Saints of the Most High God," with whom our interests are identified. He has said, "I will fight the battles of the Gentiles of this land. I will fight the battles of this nation." So, you and I who have faith in this word, who have the precious pearl of great price in our possession, have no doubts, or misgivings, or perplexities in relation to what the future has in store for this land of Joseph. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and enable you to do what is right, to maintain that which is true and just to all men, that the promises made to our fathers shall not fall to the ground, but that we may inherit all the glories that shall come to the people of God and to the people of this nation, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Tehovah!" 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Southern States Mission). 

When the prayer was offered opening this meeting, I was reminded of a little pamphlet that I had in my pocket, which bears a portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith, with some of his words uttered concerning his beloved brother, Hyrum Smith. And it also contains a picture of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, with his sons, Joseph F. and John, each side of him. I want to speak to you concerning the words of the Prophet Joseph in relation to his brother Hyrum, and also what the God of Israel said concerning that beloved brother of the Prophet. The words of the Prophet Joseph were as follows : "Brother Hyrum, what a faithful heart you have got! Oh, may the Eternal Jehovah crown eternal blessings upon your head, as a reward for the care you have had for my soul! Oh, how many are the sorrows we have shared together! and again We find ourselves shackled by the unrelenting hand of oppression. Hyrum, thy name shall be written in the book of the Law of the Lord, for those who come after to look upon that they may pattern after thy works." This was uttered August n, 1842, while he was in the hands of his enemies. 

I read from a revelation of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smithgiven Jan. 19, 1841, the following, concerning Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, "And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto my Church, as well as my servant Joseph. . . .That my servant Hyrum may bear record of the things which I shall show unto him, that his name may be had in honorable remembrance from generation to generation, for ever and ever." 

I was reminded of this little pamphlet, containing these words, when a grandson of Hyrum Smith opened this meeting with prayer. I was impresed more when I remember that this grandson stands, with two others, at the head of the Aaronic Priesthood upon the earth, he being one of the members of the Presiding Bishopric of this Church. 





In the Tabernacle today you will find two of Hyrum Smiths sons: one the Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church in all the world, and the other occupying the same position that Hyrum did when he was assassinated in Carthage jail, Patriarch of the whole Church. Thus the name of Hyrum Smith is remembered today, by these children, this grandchild, another grand child in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, another as Assistant Historian of the Church, and by others faithful, true, clean as any men or women in the Church. They have maintained, by their faithfulness, in honorable remembrance the name of Hyrum Smith down to this generation, and will continue to hold him in honorable remembrance throughout all generations. 

There has not been a day since the organization of the Church that his Satanic Majesty has not endeavored to get between the people of God and the man who stands at the head of the Church. It was true in the days of Joseph Smith; and true in the days of Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and Lorenzo Snow, and it is true today. If he can succeed in getting between these people and the one whom God has placed at the head of the Church, he" wins a victory over the hearts of the people, to a certain extent. The spirit of the Nauvoo Expositor was not more malignant in the days of Nauvoo than is manifest at the present time. All the fiery darts of the wicked are directed today, as they have been from the year 1830 to the present time, against the head of the Church. The devil has always inspired men to believe that, if they could destroy the man who stands at the head, they could  the Church. How foolish! If they should succeed, which I do not believe they will. — If they should succeed, what would happen? Just what has happened upon the death of every former President of the Church. The Twelve Apostles, with their chief, would stand up as leaders of Israel, and the work would go on; because it is not built upon man. The enemies of this Church do not care for man, they do not care any more for Joseph F. Smith than they care for any one of you. You exchange places with him, if it should be the will of God, and no more fiery darts of the wicked would be directed toward Joseph F. Smith; they would be pointed toward youand he would be forgotten. Thaf has always been the case. This work is built upon that rock mentioned by Jesus when He was talking to Peter, and asking him whom men said that He was. When He asked Peter who He was, and Peter answered that He was Christ, the Son of the Living God, Jesus said, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, flesh and blood has not revealed this unto you, but my Father, which is in heaven." He also said, upon that rock — the source of information that gave to Peter the knowledge that Jesus was the Christ — He would build His church, and the gates of hell should not prevail against it: and they did not. The wickedness placed by the devil in the hearts of mankind at that time caused them to believe if they could destroy the head of the Church they would destroy the work, and they took the Master, the head of the Church, and nailed Him upon a cross and crucified Him, and laid His body in the tomb. Then Christ, while His body lay  the tomb, was quickened by the Spirit, and He broke down the gates of hell, showing that they could not prevail against Him. He then went into hell and preached the Gospel to those who had been swept off the face of the earth in the days of Noah. 

We are engaged in preaching the Gospel of Christ. It has come to the earth, this time, with the promise that it will stay forever, never more to be thrown down,never stopped. It will continue to grow, and increase until it fills this whole earth with the righteousness of God, in fulfillment of prophecy. As the missionaries go throughout the world, it is their duty, their business, to search out the children of Joseph, the blood of Ephraim and Manasseh, and bring them to the land of Zion. In God's own due time, His spirit will move upon Judah, and they will go to the land of their fathers, and Ephraim and Joseph will conle unto the land given to them, and then Zion will become the great capital city of our God, and Judah will rebuild Jerusalem. Then as Brother Robinson quoted, "The law shall go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem;" and the time will come when the seed of Joseph will meet their brethren of Judah, and the peace of God will reign over the great capitals that He is going to found upon this earth; but in accomplishing this, there are many things to contend with. God gives an assurance that we will be successful if we will be patient. He has told us that it is our business to forgive all mankind. He has told us that He is the Judge, and we must remember that. 

I was reminded of a statement made the other evening by one of my brethren about Paul, when he was known as Saul. When he was a persecutor of the Saints, on the road to Damascus, having willingly held the clothes of those who stoned one of the martyrs to death, (I suppose he had a look of contempt upon his face when he heard that missionary, with his dying words bear testimony that he saw the heavens opened, that he saw God, and Jesus standing upon His right hand), he was filled with hatred, this man Saul, and determined to punish every man who would bear testimony that the Nazarine was in reality the Son of the living God. When he was on the road to Damascus, to execute his designs, to serve the papers he had in his possession, he saw a great light and was stricken blind. He heard a voice, and the voice said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Then the question, "Who art thou, Lord?" And the voice answered : "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." Then he realized what he had done. Although he was a persecutor of the Saints, he was a choice spirit, and the time came when his eyes were opened; when he was converted to the Gospel. He was led blind, until an humble missionary came to teach him the way of salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I tell you, my brethren and sisters, he is not the only Saul that has lived upon the earth. It has been my privilege to meet a man who was the leader of a mob, who attempted with hatred and violence in his heart, to get at our elders, and, by streaks of lightning from the heavens, three different times he and his companions were driven back, then the horses of the mob took the bits in their mouths,  riders lost control, and the animals fled with the mob away from the servants of God. It was my privilege, two years ago, to lay my hands upon the head of the man who was the leader of that mob, and bestow upon him the holy Melchisedek Priesthood, and send him out to preach the Gospel, as Saul of old was sent out. It teaches the lesson of patience to us. We can afford to leave all mankind in the hands of God. But we cannot afford, my brethren and sisters, not to keep the commandments of God, and not follow the revelations that God the Eternal Father has given us. 

I wish to call your attention to the work that a woman can do in this Church; I refer to Mary Fielding. In England, many years ago her father was a minister, an honorable man, who did not believe it was right to preach for hire and divine for money. He sent two of his children, Joseph and Mary to America. They landed in Canada. The Spirit of God led them into a little company of people, of whom John Taylor was a member, and they were praying for light, asking God for the truth. A Mormon missionary, Parley P. Pratt, also led by the Spirit of God, just as that Spirit took the missionary to Saul, taught tjiat company the Gpspel that had been restored to the earth, and brought many of them into the Church, among others John Taylor, Joseph and Mary Fielding. She afterwards became the wife of Hyrum Smith, the mother of Joseph F. Smith. Our President was born at a time when Hyrum Smith, his father, was dragged by his enemies away from the side of his wife, when she most needed his care and attention. Under those circumstances the present Presi of this Church was born in the world. After the death of Joseph and Hyrum, the martyrs, she maintained allegiance to the man who then stood at the head of the Church. She was found trailing across the deserts, her boy, nine years of age, driving an ox team; thus manifesting her abiding faith in the man who stood at the head of the Church. She also took the other children of her husband, by hte deceased wife, and nurtured faith in their hearts. She went through all the trials that the other pioneers went through, and was always faithful with her tithes and offerings. This woman planted the faith of the Gospel so deep in the hearts of her children that all hell has not been able to root it out of a single one of them. Through the faithfulness of that woman, her children and grandchildren stand where they do today. 

There is a lesson in this of the responsibility that rests upon mothers. Take it to yourselves; look after your children. 

Do not let the devil get between you and the man who stands at the head of the Church, no matter who that man is. God bless you. Amen. 

Prof. Kent's male chorus rendered a selection entitled, 'Thy way. not,mine, O Lord." 

SISTER RACHEL H. LEATHAM. 

My brothers and sisters : Some of you, I know, will appreciate my feelings as I stand before you. I think that I am one of the happiest girls in all the world, and it is the Gospel that makes me feel this way, for I do know that the Gospel is true. I do know that God our Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, came  and brought the Gospel and established it, and spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is His Prophet. I feel that if I could live forever, I could never thank my heavenly Father enough for the blessings that have come into my life, for the privilege of going out into the world and bearing this testimony, telling them of the Gospel being restored, of the authority Christ has given to His servants, and of the blessings that are in store for those who listen to and obey the words of truth, life and salvation, as they fall from the lips of the servants of God who are sent out to preach the Gospel. 

I sometimes think that we young folks at home do not fully realize the responsibilities that rest upon us. We do not always remember that those who stand at our head are aged, and that when our fathers and mothers are gone it will devolve upon us to assume their work; that we are the future responsible people of Zion. Are we doing our part, and are we preparing ourselves so that we will be able to do the work that our fathers have done? Are we ordering our lives so that the Spirit of God will dwell with us as it has dwelt with our parents ? Do we realize the extent of the blessings that God has given us, and do we understand the words of life and salvation contained in the Scriptures and in the Doctrine and Covenants ? Are we able to tell what the promises are that God has made us, if we will keep His commandments? Are we familiar with the ancient record of the inhabitants of this continent, the Book of Mormon ? And are we familiar with the great truths that are taught therein, and with those books that teach us the beauties of the work in which we are engaged today ? I am afraid we are not sufficiently conversant with the principles of the Gospel, and that we are not as diligent as we should be. 

Where much is given, much is rerequired; and you know, every one of you, how much has been given to us, and how much will be required at our hands. Are we preparing ourselves so that we will not fall short? Let us live by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Let us live so that He will ever be willing to own us, and bless us, and love us. 

I do not desire to speak longer, but I want once more to bear my testimony. I want to say again that I know the Gospel is true. Not because my father knows it, not because my mother has always taught it to me, but I know that the Gospel is true because God has revealed it unto me. His Spirit has borne witness unto my spirit, and that testimony is God's most precious gift to me. 

May God bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

SISTER M. M. LANGENBUCHER. 

My brothers and sisters : One of my greatest privileges is bearing my testimony. I can say that I know the Gospel is true, and I love it. There is nothing in life that has given me so much joy as going on a mission and bearing my testimony unto the people of the world. They ridicule us, but we know it is true, and we do not feel at all hurt for what they say. 

I greatly appreciate the privilege that we have of meeting together in these Conferences. We do not have  privilege out in the world, and we never see so many Saints gathered together as there are here. How happy we all ought to be in coming and receiving words of instruction from those who are placed in authority. If we are humble and prayerful, we can accomplish a great deal of good in this world. 

We are set upon a hill to be a light unto the world, and our actions are watched every day. Out in the mission field, the Elders are watched as they walk the streets, and all their words and actions are closely observed. 

I sincerely trust that the Spirit of our Heavenly Father may abide with us during the rest of our Conference; and that we may enjoy ourselves while receiving instructions that will be for .our eternal benefit. 

I have never had more blessings visited upon me than I did while in the City of Denver, going from house to house and bearing my testimony. 

I pray that the Spirit of God may be with us, that we may be a light to the world, that those who see our good works may glorify our Father which is in heaven. May this be our happy lot, is my prayer in th< name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Prof. Charles Kent sang, by request, as a solo, the hymn, "Kind words are sweet tones of the heart." 

EIDER JAMES G DUFFIN. 

I feel grateful for the privilege, my brethren and sisters, of meeting with you in this great conference, and of partaking of the spiritual feast that has been spread befor us. I am reminded of a few , containing a prophecy, that were given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, on the 6th day of August, 1842, while standing with a number of his brethren in front of the Masonic Hall, in the town of Montrose, Iowa. 

"I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction, and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others would be p it to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities, and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

A few thoughts concerning these words have passed through my mind while my brethren have been speaking. It is a fact that our people did suffer persecution after these words were uttered. It is a fact that they were driven from their homes in that land where they had established themselves. It is a fact that they went out upon the great plains. It is a truth also that many of them endured great privations, and many of them laid their weary and worn out bodies in the silent grave along the pathway of that great exodus from the Mississippi River to these mountain vales. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, particularly I would speak to those of our boys and girls who are here today, your fathers and your mothers blazed the way. They came to these mountain vales, and they established themselves here under the direction of men of God. They devoted their lives to fulfil the words of God the Eternal Father, as given through His servant, Joseph the Prophet, and it is as a result of their labors, of their , of their integrity to the truth, to the work that God had established upon this earth, that you and I are here today, and enjoying the blessings of these mountain vales. Now there are those who, when these words were spoken, looked upon this western country as "The Great American Desert." Statesmen made the assertion that it was absolutely worthless so far as commercial value was concerned. The great statesmen of the day — one of them in particular, when discussing the opening up of a great highway to the west — speaking of this great western country, of which there was little known at that time, said, "It is worthless. I would not give a $5 bill for the whole country.*' Notwithstanding this, the Prophet of God said that fhis people, God's people, should come to this western country to be established in these mountain vales. There they should build cities, towns, villages, and become a mlighty people. It is not land that makes a state, but it is men, men of integrity, men of honor, men of truth, men who love liberty, that make a state; but lands and country are adjuncts to a people, and in order that they might become a great and a mighty people, they must have lands and other properties as well. 

Now for a moment or two, I want to talk to you upon the temporal side of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. My brethren, my friends here, President Rich, President Robinson and others, their special work is to direct the energies of our boys who are out among the nations of the earth declaring the words of eternal life. I have had that great privilege also, but I have been released from that labor, and my mind and my energies are directed more particularly toward the temporal affairs of the kingdom of God at the present time. I see undesirable conditions in our midst concerning these wonderful lands that have been subdued by our fathers and our mothers: I see a condition arising in our midst that if we do not meet it, many people, thousands who now possess these productive lands, the possibilities of which are yet little understood even by us who have spent our lives here, are going to allow what they now hold to pass out of their hands. Now, I am not going to say a word against any man or set of men who come into our midst, who see the possibilities of this land that has been subdued by our fathers, and come to us and tempt us to part with our possessions for a handful of gold. They have been in other countries, and they understand the value of lands such as we are in possession of. They come here into our midst and see what we have. They come to us and say, "You have been holding your land at probably a hundred, or a hundred and fifty, or two hundred dollars an acre, some of your best lands, and I want to get hold of a piece that you are in possession of. I will give you three hundred dollars an acre, double what you have been valuing it at." And what do we do? We cannot resist the temptation to sell our possessions, and we part with them, and they go out of our hands. Some of our older brethren, notwithstanding the fact that their pood wives have almost worn their lives out in assisting them to make a home, sell that good comfortable home, and are going out again and attempting to subdue arid wastes. Now, I say I do not blame, neither have 

I a word to say against a person who, seeing these beautiful possessions of ours, has a desire in his heart to obtain them by honorable purchase, but the thought that is in my mind is thus: Is it justice, you husbands, to these dear wives of yours, to sell the homes that you have spent so many years in making, and taking that dear wife out again upon the arid waste, and wear her life out there, without her enjoying the comforts and blessings you had mutually labored so many years to collect around you? And is it justice to your posterity to set an example of that kind before them ? 

This was one thought that was in my mind.; Now another in connection with this prophecy. Joseph said that in the midst of these mountains, the Saints should become a mighty people. No people ever became mighty who would part with their possessions for a handful of gold. It is the people who get possession of the soil, and retain it who stay, and build from that foundation, who become mighty. I want to call your attention to a remark that was made by a son of Heber C. Kimball, some years ago, in speaking at a conference in this great Tabernacle, he said : "If you Latter-day Saints would but put yourselves in a position to fulfil prophecy, after it had been made by the servants of God, they- would not be so afraid toprophesy!" The Prophet of God, speaking by the light of heaven said that the Saints should become a mighty peoole in the midst of these Rocky Mountains. I hold it as a true principle that, when servants of God are moved by the spirit of our Father in heaven to prophesy, it is the duty of this people to do all that lies in their power  fulfil that prophecy. It is your duty, young men, you gray heads, mothers and daughters in Israel, and my duty, to do all that lies in our power to see that the word of the Prophet of God is made true, that we do not rest satisfied with the conditions we are under today, but that every movement of our lives shall be to glorify Zion, and build up the kingdom of God upon earth. 

There is another thought in my mind in connection with this subject. The enemies of eternal truth, as has been remarked here today by one of the speakers, always direct their darts against the man who stands at the head of the work of God. Why? Because, if they could destroy the confidence of the people in that man, they destroy the confidence of the people in the work of God; for he is the one who holds the keys of eternal Priesthood. I will read to you a portion of the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, while he was lying in Liberty Jail, Clay County, Missouri. "The ends of the earth shall enquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in dension, and hell shall rage against thee, whil<! the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand." Now there is a thought in- connection with this. Who are they my brethren and sisters, that you see raising their forces against the mian who holds the keys of the everlasting Priesthood? Did you ever hear a man who was clean, who was pure, who was seeking every day of his life to do what was for the good of humanity, for the establishment of truth and of righteousness upon this earth— did you ever hear of a  of this kind lifting his voice against that man who holds the keys of the Holy Priesthood ? Now, think for one moment, young men of Israel, if you have never heard a man of that character lift his voice against the head of the Church, who are the men who do that? Then consider, if you are ever tempted by a man, or by any set or combination of men, to raise your voice against God's servants, consider where they are likely to lead you if you accede to them. You had best beware how you listen to the tempter, because he will come to you. 

Fathers and mothers, young men and daughters of Israel, remember that when the Lord speaks He sees that it is fulfilled. He provided the way for the fulfillment of His words through the Prophet Joseph, when he spoke to that little company of his brethren in front of the Masonic Temple, in Montrose. His people came here. They have grown. They have continued to grow, and it is your duty and mine to see that those words receive a greater fulfillment, not only in a temporal way, but see to it that we are true and faithful unto the authority that God has placed here upon this earth. 

God bless you forever. Amen. 

The male chorus sang the anthem, "Nearer to Thee." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder William Langton. 


