Afternoon
06 04 1911

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., in the Tabernacle. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the congregation to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

O, say, what is Truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; And priceless the value of Truth will be, when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem Is counted but dross and refuse. 

Prayer was offered by Elder David H. Cannon. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Onward, Christian soldiers! 

Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus 

Going on before. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

A suggestive question. — The marvelous work of God. — The believing and the skeptical. — Illustrative anecdotes. — The Iconoclast abroad. — "Mormonism" remains unshaken. — Science and Religion must agree. — All truth one. 

It is a common custom, too common, I think, with some of the elders of Israel, when called upon to address a congregation, to proclaim at the outset that they have nothing upon their minds. I have often thought it a most superfluous statement; for, when true, the congregation finds it out very quickly, without any information in advance. I have also thought this in relation to it — What right have men of God to have nothing upon their minds? What right have those who have been commanded by the God of heaven to become learned, to seek knowledge out of the best books, to seek learning by study and also by faith, to store up in their minds continually the word of the Lord, in order that the Holy Spirit may have materials to select from, when the proper time comes for the framing of a discourse — what right have men, or a people, so instructed, to have nothing upon their minds? I leave the question here; it is sufficiently suggestive, without any further comment on my part. 

I cannot say that I have nothing upon my mind. Unreceptive, indeed, would that mind be which had not received some good and lasting impression, some suggestion of further ideas and discourses, from what has been so well said during the meetings of this conference. I have plenty upon my mind; the difficulty is to get it off my mind, to choose from the many subjects that have been running through my thoughts, the theme most suitable for this occasion. In the hope that I may speak that which ought to be spoken by me, I humbly place myself in the hands of the Lord. 

Seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior, a prophet of God, gazing down the vista of the future, proclaimed the coming forth of a marvelous work, even a marvelous work and a wonder, in the  of which the wisdom of the wise should perish, and the understanding of the prudent be hid. It is the belief of the Latter-day Saints that the fulfillment of this prediction, in its most marvelous phases, began in the spring of the year 1820, when Joseph Smith, the founder of this Church, received his first visitation from on High. It was something more than an answer to the boy's question, addressed in prayer to Deity, as to which of all the existing churches he should join; it was the beginning of a work destined to bring about "the restitution of all things," to gather into one "all things in Christ," and consummate all preceding phases of the work of God pertaining to this planet. 

A preparatory work, we may reasonably conclude, had been wrought before the setting up of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I refer to the discovery of America by Columbus, and to the founding, by the Patriot Fathers, of the Government of the United States. Do not deem it an arrogant assumption that these great events were preparatory to the marvels and wonders foretold by Isaiah for the last days. I am aware that sneering remarks are sometimes made when this statement is put forth. "The idea," says one, "that the 'Mormon' Church should have the audacity to assert that it had as a forerunner the founding of this nation, or the discovery of the western world!" 

In answer to this, I have but to say that something more than the setting up of a church was contemplated by the ancient Prophet, when he made this wonderful prediction. It meant the opening of the last and greatest of the gospel dispensa; it meant the gathering of the whole house of Israel from their long dispersion; it meant the introduction of the millennial reign, the coming of Christ to sway the sceptre over this planet; it meant the resurrection, the thousand years of peace, and the eventual glorification of the earth, which is yet to be converted into a celestial sphere, that beings of a celestial order may inherit it. And if you will only give the acorn a chance to spring — the oak an opportunity to grow, there will come a time when even the United States will not be ashamed to acknowledge that it was indeed a forerunner of this wonderful work; and the same with all governments, institutions, and events, all persons and powers that have been used by the Almighty from the beginning to prepare the way before the glorious advent of the King of Kings. 

What I desire, specially, to call attention to at this time, is the marvelous character of the work of God. The opening event of this dispensation was the personal appearing of the Father and the Son, and their proclamation of other wondrous events that were to follow. Surely it was marvelous, when God Himself broke the silence of the ages, spoke again to man, and announced the approach of the great consummation! So marvelous, indeed, that many minds cannot grasp it, and are tempted to doubt, to deny, or give it an explanation unworthy of its stupendous character and significance. They hold that Joseph Smith did not really see the Father and the Son, but imagined that he saw them; that it was a mere concept or idea, and not an actual visitation. Some go so far as to declare that  epileptic fit was responsible for the glorious manifestation. 

I, for one, believe that Joseph Smith saw what he said he did; that it was an actual visitation, and not a mere concept, or flight of fancy. The theory that would account for his visions by ascribing them and their wonderful results to an epileptic fit, is too ridiculous for serious consideration. I believe that Joseph saw the Father and the Son — just how, I do not know; probably it was not with the natural eye — most likely with the inward or spiritual sight; but he saw them none the less, and they were there in person, speaking to him, while he beheld them. I accept his testimony concerning what the Methodist minister told him was "all of the devil," I accept it as all from God. There is nothing more pathetic in "Mormon" history, to my mind, than those simple words in which the Prophet reasserts his claim to having seen, actually seen, the Father and the Son. Men might traduce him, might threaten him, might take his life, as they eventually did; but his testimony would be, and was ever, the same : "I knew that I had seen a vision, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it; for I felt that if I did, I would offend God and come under condemnation." 

Subsequently, as Joseph declares, an angel appeared to him, giving his name as Moroni, and revealing the existence of the plates from which was translated the Book of Mormon, a record of ancient America, "the land of Zion." I accept that literally. I believe the Prophet actually saw the Angel Moroni, that he conversed with him, and received from him the plates containing the Nephite record. Joseph also affirms that John the Baptist, as a messenger from heaven, laid his hands upon him — upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and ordained them to the Aaronic priesthood, giving them power to preach the gospel of repentance, and to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins; also promising them a greater priesthood, that would empower them to lay on hands and confer the Holy Ghost. That greater priesthood — the Melchizedek — was afterwards bestowed upon these two young men, by the Apostles Peter, James, and John, and under the authority thereby conferred, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized on the 6th of April, 1830. 

It was indeed a wonderful work. The words of Isaiah were vindicated at the very beginning of their fulfillment; and in nothing more strikingly than in the realization of that part of his prophecy declaring that the wisdom of the wise should perish, and the understanding of the prudent be hid — bewildered, confounded, in the presence of God's marvelous work. More than ever is it "a rock of offense" — unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Gentiles, foolishness. But they will change their minds in relation to it. Give the acorn — the oak, time to grow. "Mormonism" is yet in its infancy, and "only children and fools," it is said, "criticise half finished work." 

There are tens of thousands of people who declare solemnly that God has given to them a testimony that these things are true; but there are millions who have no such testimony, and have never had the opportunity, most of them, to receive it. And even those to whom the opportunity has come, who have had  attention drawn to this work, do not all see it alike. There are many good and honest people in all churches, in all countries, who do not see as we see; and I, for one, do not expect a Gentile to take a "Mormon" view of our subject. The spirit of this work is necessary to a proper understanding of it, and only those who have received of that spirit can possibly comprehend the marvels that it makes manifest. Nor is this any reflection upon natural intelligence; it is simply, the assertion of a divine principle, that the things of God are only to be discerned by the Spirit of God. In the absence of that Spirit, which is only bestowed upon those who have bowed in obedience to the gospel, the wisdom of the wise perishes. Unless men and women humble themselves, and come as little children, believing in God and repenting of their sins, and have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost, they cannot understand this work, no matter how intelligent they may be. 

A man is not a bad man because he is not what we call spirituallyminded, quick to believe in the marvelous, in spiritual mysteries and manifestations. The world is made up of two great classes of people — the spiritually-minded and the worldly-minded; and even among the former class some believe more readily than others. Some are naturally believing, others naturally skeptical, or so intensely practical that they demand demonstration before they will believe. We have a shining example in one of the original Twelve Apostles, — not a bad man — a good man, and one, moreover, who had the right to know, not merely believe, that his Lord had risen. That was the special  of those Apostles; it had to be more than belief with them. They could not go before the world merely with a message that they believed Christ had risen from the dead; they had to know it; it was their privilege to know; but the rest of the world were required to believe their testimony. That, in my opinion, is the reason why the Savior came to Thomas after He had said, "I will not believe, unless I can feel of the prints of the nails in His hands," etc. The Savior, condescending to re-appear, said to him : "Reach hither thy hand, feel the prints of the nails, and be not faithless but believing." Thereupon Thomas, no longer doubting, fell at His feet, exclaiming, "O Lord, my God!" Jesus then imparted this lesson : "Thomas, thou has believed because thou hast seen; but blessed are they who have believed and have not seen." Because, after all, whatever God's special dispensations to individuals, this life was designed for the exercise of faith. For the sake of their own spiritual development, men are required to believe, without seeing, without hearing, without feeling, unless the Lord chooses to make them special witnesses, as He did the Apostles. Perfect knowledge swallows up faith, and removes the opportunity for its exercise; while through the exercise of faith, made manifest by good works, we obtain the spiritual development for which we entered upon this our second estate. 

All good men and women do not quickly believe; and all are not bad who desire demonstration. Hyoocritical and corrupt "sign-seekers" are another class entirely. If only those quick to believe were acceptable to God, it would shut out mil of sincere and honest souls, worthy of the kingdom of heaven. It would condemn some of my own ancestors. If it is natural for me to believe — if my first impulse, upon hearing the testimony of a man of God, is to accept it, I owe it more to my mother than to my father; and yet he was just as good a man as she was a woman, though he could not see spiritual things so quickly. It was the same with his parents; his father was a business man, a practical man; while his mother almost lived in another world, she was so spiritual; but Newel K. Whitney was just as good a man as Elizabeth Ann Whitney was a woman, every whit as faithful and true. In the case of my mother's parents, the order was reversed. Heber C. Kimball was a giant of spirituality; he drank in the gospel as his mother's milk; while his wife, Vilate, was slower to comprehend and receive; yet there is no nobler name among the women of this people than Vilate Murray Kimball. She was not so ready to believe as was her husband, but once convinced, she was as firm as adamant, immovable. Therefore, I find no fault with those who are not spiritually minded, who cannot believe as readily as do others. It is largely a matter of temperament, and the work of the Lord has need of both kinds. 

What I deplore, is a disposition prevalent throughout the world, to strip God of His divinity; to take from Jesus Christ everything pertaining to His Godhood; to do away with His miracles, His marvelous works, to question and even ridicule them; to deny that they ever were; to hold that Christ was merely a good man, a wise teacher; that His principles are only human precepts, and that there is no virtue in His atoning blood; that he is not the Son of God more than any other man, and did not come with a mission more divine than any good and great teacher before or after Him. I think this is carrying the practical too far. It suggests an abnormal development of the practical, resulting, perhaps, from neglect of the spiritual. Still, we cannot overlook the fact that some are born that way. Some minds cannot grasp the marvelous, the miraculous, and are not willing to concede its possibility. 

In the Eighteenth Ward, one Sunday evening, a Primary Conference was held, at which one of the sisters, gathering a class of little children around her, related to them how the Savior fed the multitude — fed five thousand people, with five loaves of bread and two fishes. Going home, a mother asked her little son what he had heard, and he repeated, as best he could, the teacher's instructions. The mother, anxious to impress the lesson upon the mind of her child, asked : "How, do you suppose, did the Savior feed five thousand people with five loaves of bread and two fishes ?" The little boy thought a moment, and then said : "Well, I don't believe those in the middle got any." (Laughter). I wonder if Saint Thomas was not that kind of a child. It seems to me a very good portrayal of the disposition of "the doubting apostle." 

I am reminded of another story, told by the famous temperance orator, John B. Gough, in a lecture delivered at the Salt Lake Theater many years ago. He was deprecating the practice of simplifying the Bible for the study of children. "Children," said he, "understand  better than we give them credit for. Let them read the Bible just as it is; they will understand it." To illustrate the point, he told of two little boys, Johnny and Billy, who were engaged in conversation. Johnny was seated on his mother's door-step, whittling a stick, and Billy had just caught a fly. He came with it to Johnny, and said: "What a funny thing a fly is.  See what lots of legs he's got; and every time I blow him he buzzes." Then he would blow on the fly, and hold it up to his ear, to hear it buzz, grinning with delight at the sound. Finally he remarked, "I wonder how God made him." And the great orator paused long enough to observe, "Many a learned man has asked the same question, and could not answer it." But Johnny had an idea of how God made the fly. "Well, Billy," said he, as he whittled away. "God don't make flies like men make houses. When He wants flies, he says, Let there be flies; and then there is flies." (Laughter.) 

Now, this boy, Johnny, would have understood how the Savior could feed the multitude in the wonderful manner described; he had read in the Bible how light was made, and could grasp the idea that the power of God is greater than the power of man. He would not have insisted upon bringing the miraculous down to the level of the commonplace, and denying the truth or existence of things, simply because they were outside the range of ordinary human experience. Johnny was a believer in miracles, which, after all, are only the results of natural law — higher law, perhaps, than the finite mind can fully comprehend. Man, when he wants light, must strike a match, or press  button, and turn on the gas or electricity; but God, when He wants light, says. Let there be light. Yet is it not the same light in both 

cases ? 

The two anecdotes I have related illustrate the two classes of people to whom I have referred — those who question or ignore "miraculous manifestations," and those who believe in them, and whose faith is equal to the acceptance of God's 'marvelous work and wonder," predicted as such by His prophets, and realized as such by tens of thousands of witnesses. What wonder that the prediction should have a fulfillment? And yet, even among the Latter-day Saints there are some who find it difficult to believe that God deals directly with man; that the heavens actually opened at the' beginning of this dispensation; that the Father and the Son appeared in person to Joseph Smith the Prophet; and that angels ordained him and Oliver Cowdery to the Priesthood. But the great body of this people have accepted these things as true, have received a testimony that they are true. They do not attempt to strip Christ of His divinity; they do not doubt the miraculous phases of "Mormonism." It is clear to them that the prophecies concerning it would have been uttered in vain, would have been invalidated had there been nothing marvelous in connection with the Lord's great latter-day work. 

There is a disposition in these modern times to test the foundations of things; and it is not altogether of evil significance. The Lord has decreed that everything that can be shaken shall be shaken; and I think whatever can be, ought to be shaken. The gospel, going forth from Zion, is shaking the na; the Lord is threshing them by the power of His Spirit. But the world will retaliate; they will come against us, and shake us if they can. Everything not built upon the rock will crumble and go down. Even the most sacred plinciples, and the most thoroughly established facts of history, are called in question by modern scientific and philosophical criticism. The iconoclast is abroad. Look to your idols; for everything that can be broken will be broken, and the debris removed to make way for a better and higher order of things. But truth will endure, and withstand successfully every assault made upon it. 

I picked up a magazine the other day, a scientific periodical, issued about a year ago, in which was an article entitled, "The Ethnological Background of the Eucharist.'^The writer of it undertakes to prove that the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, instituted by the Savior on the night of His betrayal, and given to His disciples as a solemn reminder of His sacrifice, is of human origin— was not originated by Christ at all, but introduced into the Church by the Apostle Paul, who discovered it through hh wide knowledge of doctrines and ordinances that preceded the coming of Christ; such as those of the Gnostics, and the Mithraites, worshipers of the sun-god. The article goes on to show that there are indications that these ancient peoples practiced a ceremony similar to the Eucharist, and that even savage tribes and barbarians have sacrificial customs suggestive of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Hence this author jumps to the conclusion that it is of human origin, a natural growth, and not a supernatural revelation. In short, that the Eucharist is an example of ceremonial evolution. 

How can the Christian Church meet such an argument? The early Christian Fathers tried to answer it by declaring that Satan had imitated the Sacrament instituted by Christ and placed it among the Pagan peoples around them. Unfortunately for this defense, however, the practice of such ceremonies among the Mithraites and the Gnostics was older than the introduction of Christianity. Christianity cannot answer, but "Mormonism" can. Standing upon a rock that is not to be shaken, we reassert the divinity of the Sacrament, without fear of successful contradiction. How will we answer modern criticism ? Simply by proclaiming what God has revealed; that this religion, called "Mormonism" today, Christianism two thousand years ago, and known by some other nickname, doubtless, in earlier ages, is the Everlasting Gospel, not owing its origin to any man, nor to any time, but instituted in the heavens before the creation of this world, and revealed to men upon the earth at different times and in different places* "Mormonsm" can say, with the Son of God: "Before Abraham was, I am." Adam had this Gospel — the Gospel of Christ — which was in the world before Christ's coming, and helped to prepare the way before His advent. One of the first things Adam did, after his fall from Eden, was to build an altar and offer a lamb thereon, to foreshadow the sacrifice of the Son of God. After the deluge, when Noah with his family came forth from the ark, one of the first things he did was to erect an altar and offer a similar sacrifice. He had the same Gospel that 

Adam, Enoch, and others had before him; and the sons of Noah— Shem, Ham, and Japheth — who peopled Asia, Africa, and Europe, doubtless took with them, wherever they went, the traditions of the. ancient faith, the faith of their fathers, and practiced their customs and observances. What wonder, then, that even among savage tribes, barbarous peoples, however ancient, there should be found remnants of this faith, fragments of this rock of ages; or that science should even discover remains of other revealings from God to man, of which the Bible — a mere skeleton of history — says nothing? 

What is there in all this that should tempt a Latter-day Saint to throw away the revelations of God, and jump to the conclusion that these divine institutions are of fiuman origin? Nothing, whatever. The foundation upon which we stand remains unshaken, unmoved by any discovery of science, or any onslaught of modern criticism. 

One word more. It is an absurdity to speak, as some do, of religious truth and scientific truth, as if they were two different things. As if truth could be divided, any more than light, or eternal duration. Man, for his own convenience divides time into centuries, years, months, weeks, days, minutes and seconds, basing his calculations upon the movements of the earth and the heavenly bodies; but with God there is no past, no future; it is all present, no yesterday, no tomorrow, — only today. And light, whether it comes from the sun, or the moon, or the stars, is all one; the light of the sun being the same light that illumines our understandings. All light is one; all truth is one. Truth cannot contradict itself. If science  religion — true science and true religion — seem, in the least, to disagree, it is simply because man has not discovered enough, and God, perhaps, has not revealed enough, to bring us to the point of reconciliation; but that time will come. There is no need to disbelieve, or to reject truth already revealed, either through religion or through science, while awaiting the Lord's time for clearing up the mystery. 

"Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan His work in vain; God is his own interpreter, And He will make it plain." 

Amen. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

I confess to being just a little frightened in standing before such an audience as this, and following the speakers who have addressed us. 

We are living in the most wonderful age that the world has ever seen. The first ten years of the twentieth century have been more eventful than almost any number of years in the past history of the world. The world has developed and grown rapidly. In the matter of population the increase has been great. In the way of material development the world has never seen anything like it before. Great undertakings have been projected, like the Panama Canal, which are being pushed to completion. The wireless telegraph and the flying machine are products of this new century — the latter made possible only through the wonderful development of the gasoline engine which is a rapidly developing power in doing the work of today. In every department of human affairs there is hurrv and bustle as if there was not time enough to get the work done. 

The principle of liberty which the Lord caused to be established in this land, many years ago, is rapidly spreading and growing in all lands. In these first ten years of the twentieth century we have witnessed political upheavals in many countries, which testify to us how this leaven of liberty is working. In Russia the people have secured something of representative government, which has been wrung from the Czar and his advisers and a parliament, or douma, has been established; something hitherto unknown in the great Russian empire. Even among the heathen in China, this same principle is at work, and representatives of that people are to meet in convention in 1913 and begin to assist in the governing of their own land. And so in Persia, and so in Turkey and to a greater or less extent in all parts of the world. In these recent years we see this spirit of liberty moving in the hearts of the people, overthrowing thrones and casting down the mighty ones of the earth. The people of the world are awakening from the sleep of centuries, and also from the degradation of centuries, and are coming gradually but surely into the light. In a material way, too, the people are improving, but whether the morals of the people are improving is an open question. Men of wealth and of large heart have given most liberally of their means for the establishment of schools, colleges, universities, hospitals, also for the promotion of science, and for the promotion of peace on earth. These benefactions are so enormous that they almost go beyond imagination. All of this is good and makes for the blessing and uplifting of humanity. 

In the conquering of diseases too, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  medical science and surgery, there has been more development along those lines in the past ten years than in almost any other period of the world's history. The Yellow Fever, which always had been a scourge of the tropics, has been conquered in that time. Typhoid Fever may be said to have been practically conquered also. Consumption, the great white plague as it is called, if not entirely conquered is at least, to a very great extent, being subdued by the people learning just one practical common sense lesson, sleeping either in the open air or in rooms where there is abundance of fresh air. It has been discovered, too, in the ten years that I speak of, that the ordinary house fly is the most destructive and, perhaps, the most death dealing insect that exists in the world todav, and that many diseases which have hitherto carried off millions of people can be practically controlled if we keep flies and filth out of our homes. This little fly, one writer says, carries more of death and destruction than all the reptiles, snakes, tigers, lions and all wild beasts in all the world put together. So we see men are growing in intelligence. The world, in respect to many of these matters, has grown and is becoming better. We know more about sanitary measures and how to live and how to take care of our bodies than we did formerly. Science is proving that that which has been revealed to the Latter-day Saints from the beginning, which we call the Word of Wisdom, is the truth, and is revelation from Almighty God; which scientific confirmation, though a little late, is, nevertheless, appreciated by us. 

While all these good things which I have mentioned have come to the , and many more could be mentioned that are good, there is one thing so very needful for the happiness and well being of mankind that the world, instead of progressing in, has actually fallen behind and retrograded. That is, in the spiritual or religious side of life. Man is a being who must believe. Belief, says a distinguished writer, is great and life giving. So long as he is sincere in his beliefs, and in his worship, such belief and worship will, to a very gre^t extent, shape and control his life. But when he is trying to believe something which has grown to be unbelievable, his worship then becomes an insincerity and hollow mockery. So we see throughout the land that the churches, instead of being reasonably well filled, are practically empty. Men and women do not take interest in religious matters. They are lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, and have a form of godliness which, in the main, is an insincerity and is attended to for form's sake only. The knowledge of God does not yet cover the earth as the waters cover the mighty deep, not by a long way. Indeed what little conception of God the world has hitherto had is being very rapidly overthrown during these recent years. 

Now, here is the mission of "Mormonism." Here is the great need of this Church; that faith shall not be abolished from the earth, from the hearts of the children of men. I thought, while sitting here today, when I heard some of these brethren of the apostles preaching, if ever there was a time, in the history of the world, when there was need for special witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ that time is today. Never so much as today. If , there was a time when there was need for the testimony of these men that are sent out, these seventies, these elders, testifying for Jesus, standing for Jesus; the miraculous Jesus, the Jesus who was begotten by His Father, the Lord God Almighty, and born of the virgin Mary — the Jesus of miraculous birth and miraculous life; who went about performing miracles and doing good, doing no evil whatever; the Jesus Christ who was crucified upon the cross, and who rose again. If ever there was a time that it was needful to stand for that testimony against the surges and billows of unbelief, that threaten the belief of the entire world, the time is now, right now. So this is our mission, my brethren and sisters; and you are sustaining it who are contributing of your means to send your sons and daughters to bear this testimony, that God has spoken in this last time; that the same Jesus shall be testified of as having, in a miraculous way, revealed Himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith. To testify of the miraculous coming forth of the Book of Mormon. To testify of the miracle of "Mormonism" in every way. "Mormonism" is very truly practical as well as spiritual, what with its colonization schemes, its building of roads, bridges, and canals, and carrying blessing with it to the people everywhere, in every way, yet with all the good in the practical or material side of "Mormonism" we need to testify of the miraculous "Mormonism" as well. The wonderful visions and manifestations made to the Prophet, the founder of "Mormonism," under the Lord Jesus Christ; the work which that Prophet did, all demand our testimony. 

So you, my brethren and sisters, who are sustaining this work by contributing tithes and offerings, and by sending your sons and daughters out as missionaries, thus testify of the truth of this miracle of "Mormonism." The organization of this most wonderful piece of spiritual machinery, called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, is a miracle in itself. We must instill this faith in the hearts of our children, and try to get it established in the hearts of the children of men everywhere. This is very important. To accomplish this work our children should be educated. We believe in education; but some of us send our children away from home to be educated, and many of them come back seemingly determined to claim relationship with the apes rather than with the angels. They lose their faith by failing to call on*the Lord in faith. Without faith it is impossible to please God. We must teach faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ. Faith in the Prophet Joseph Smith; faith in the Book of Mormon, faith in the miraculous birth, life and resurrection of the risen Redeemer. 

On next Sunday week all Christendom will be celebrating Easter Sunday. The theme of their sermons will be "He is not here, He is risen," and yet many disbelieve that He did really rise from the grave, that He is a living personality today, and that He will come again. How many of those who will hear in the churches throughout the land about this risen Redeemer believe that He is risen indeed? Perhaps not one in a thousand. So "Mormonism" is here with a mission and the Lord has provided men and women who are stalwart and true to carry on this work. His servants are determined men of God. Men of faith who believe that God has spoken; who are assured in their very souls that this is His special work; that He has established it, and they believe and accept it without reservation or equivocation. I bear witness of it. Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, whom to know is life eternal. I bear witness of His mission, of His life and of His 'resurrection. If we Latterday Saints do not stand for this faith, shall the Son of Man, when He cometh, find faith on the earth? I tell you, mighty little, indeed, unless the Latter-day Saints, and their sons and daughters after them, carry out the mission whereunto we are called. 

I know that these men who are called to preside over the Church of Christ are men of God. I bear witness of that also, for I know them. It has been my high privilege to know, better than most men, better than almost any, of the life and labors of President Joseph F. Smith, and I know what manner of man he is. I testify to you that he is a man of God, choice and most precious, as I believe, above every man whom I know or have ever known; honest, sincere, devoted, patient, forgiving, loving and most precious. This is the kind of man that God has called to lead His Church, in this the beginning of the twentieth century. At. the beginning of this century Lorenzo Snow was President of the Church; and, by the way, Pope Leo, the thirteenth was sitting in the papal chair at Rome as president of that Church. It is scarcely worth while, except to refer to associamention any other churches, tions of individuals or societies, to 

I bear testimony to you, also, con the integrity of these men, the twelve apostles, special witnesses of Jesus Christ, that miraculous Jesus, that same Jesus, the risen Lord. They are men of God, every one of them, and on Easter Sunday and indeed on every Sunday and every other day, they believe with all their souls, — with all the earnestness that men and women command, and they try to make other people believe that Jesus has indeed risen, that He is the Redeemer of the world; and they try to instill that faith into the hearts of the children of men. I bear witness that these seventies are of the same high class of men, men of faith, men of God, who have that same testimony in their hearts, ready to stand before all the world and testify that God, our Eternal Father, has revealed that Jesus is the Christ, that He has risen, that He lives and that He will come and reign upon the earth. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, this then is the great mission of "Mormonism" and herein is the great need of "Mormonism" in the world. It has its practical and temporal affairs, all of them good, as we heard from our president at the opening of the conference; but with all that, with all its good work in practical matters, the greatest and highest need of all is this testimony of Jesus Christ, which must stand, and which we must not allow to perish from the earth. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

It has become something of a truism with the Latter-day Saints, that every conference is the best one. The last conference is always the best. I feel in my own heart  this is the best conference I ever attended. My spirit, in listening to the brethren, has been lightei and my heart better satisfied when contemplating the truths to which our attention has been called. I do not know how well I shall succeed in concentrating my thought and giving expression to some reflections that have passed through my mind; and certainly I never felt more dependent upon the Lord and the inspiration of His spirit than 1 do at this moment. There is one thing that has occurred to my mind, several times, by reason of that which has been spoken to us. It is an historical incident. It is recorded of the first Christian emperor of Rome, that when leading his armies against those who were contesting with him the mastery of the Roman empire, that at mid-day he saw in the heavens a luminous cross, and written upon a scroll were these words, "By this conouer." This vision of the day was supplemented by a dream of the night, in which the Christ appeared to Constantine and instructed him to place this insignia of the cross and these words, "By this conquer," upon his banners, and success should crown his arms. It is a question with historians, whether this circumstance really happened, or was only an invention of a man noted for his cunning, Constantine, and if we judge the circumstance by the character of the man, we could at least readily believe that it was an invention. But whether an invention or not, it is certainly a wonderful legend, and it will introduce an idea that came to my mind in respect to the matters of our conference, and in relation to the Latter-day Saints and the great work of God committed to their hands. If you view our people with reference to their  of course we are an insignificant people. If you regard them in relation to their influence in the  financial world, we are almost a negligible quantity. If we think upon ourselves as we are regarded by the great religions of the world, we are almost contemptible. If you regard us from the viewpoint of learning and philosophy, we cut no great figure. And so, viewing the matter, I asked myself the question, and submit it to you, wherein, then, lies our strength? From what source shall we draw confidence needful to our strength in the great conflict with the world, that confronts us. When I asked myself that question I can, at least in mental vision, see in the heavens a scroll, and upon it, these words — "Principles — by these conquer." The principles, of course, are those of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Therein lies our strength — not in numbers, not in wealth, certainly not in political influence, certainly not in renown for learning, but in the truth or principles we have received from God, we are strong; not so much, either, because of the little truth that has been revealed to us, the little knowledge to which we have attained, but more because of that great ocean of knowledge that we have access to, through one of the great principles we announce as a doctrine to the world, namely this : "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important truths pertaining to the kingdom of God in these last days." Through the acceptance of that doctrine we have access to God's hidden treasures of knowledge; which, in comparison of that which men in this world have received, is as some mighty ocean to a lakelet. We have only a part of that truth; but we have in the foregoing article of our faith the principle through which more of that truth can be learned. Now, do not misunderstand me; I do not for an instant belittle the truth we have already received, because of this great ocean of truth that exists, at present, outside of our consciousness. In this new dispensation of the gospel, we indeed have received great truths, and precious withal. God has revealed himself unto His Witness of the new dispensation, Joseph Smith, in a most effective, splendid manner. We know something of the character, and even something of the form and features of that mighty Intelligence that stands in the councils of the gods , and out of whose wisdom and power creation and guidance comes as to the affairs of this universe. God has made known unto us, indeed, that Jesus Christ is the express image of the Father, and that as the Christ was, in form and feature, in intellectual and moral quality, in the attributes of soul, so indeed also is the Father. To know this and to know it well, to have it take possession of the consciousness, so that when God is spoken of, the image of the Christ, holding — as He announced to His disciples that He did hold — all power in heaven and in earth; to have such a consciousness of God, so that when His name or title is spoken this vision of God, revealed through the person and nature of the Christ arise, is a very great truth indeed. 

The efficacy and power of the atonement of the Christ has been revealed to us. The Church of the Christ with all its order of officers, and with the channels of communication that it opens with God, has been established, which is great . To know the means through which we can appropriate the atonement by the Son of God for man — that indeed is great and precious knowledge. These truths, spoken this morning, by Elder Penrose, in relation to the eternity of the relationships of men and women in and after the resurrection of the dead; the renewed assurances of the resurrection from the dead — all these truths that God has made known to His Church, through the principle of revelation, that we accept as true; and as the medium through which God imparts truth unto His Church and unto the world — these, indeed, are great truths and should be held — and we do so hold them — in reverence in very deed. So that in my passing remark and imperfect way of putting the thing, as to the little we know in comparison of what there is yet to learn, it was not my intention, for a moment, to discredit these splendid truths that we have received, merely because I called attention to the fact that outside of these things are many, very many things, yet for us to learn and for God to reveal. The truths of the gospel, and God's method of teaching those truths to the world are such that they appeal to the humblest people. We may say, as one of the world's great poets once said: "Religion * * * is surely a simple business, as it equally concerns the ignorant and the learned, the poor and the rich." One of the most beautiful things in the New Testament is the declaration of the Son of God, in reference to the class of people to whom the gospel was preached in His day. You will remember that His forerunner, John the Baptist, was thrown into prison, and while passing through that gloomy period of his life, he  messengers to the Christ, saying, "Art thou he that should come, or look we for another?" Jesus sent the disciples of John back to him with this message, "Say that the sick are healed, that the blind see, that the lame walk, and unto the poor is the gospel preached.'' So far in our experience, it has been with us as it was in the former dispensation of the gospel, namely, that it has been the common people who have heard our message gladly. But while that is true, it still remains true, also, that this faith ot ours, this system of truth so well adapted to comfort the heart of the common people, the lowly, the simple-minded, the humble people who readily believe, while it is within their reach, and their souls can be filled with it, bringing joy and comfort to them — yet this Mormonism, so long despised as a religion that can only thrive where ignorance is most pronounced; whose officers are reputed in the world to be anxious to keep their people in ignorance, that they may rule them to their advantage, and as with a rod of iron — this religion that has such a reputation in the world is nevertheless essentially a religion for intellectual men. It is a religion the philosophy of which, it seems to me, must appeal to the highest intelligences of the earth, when they shall come to know it. I should be disappointed in it if this was not true; for while religion must appeal to and satisfy the emotional nature, it must also appeal to and satisfy the intellect. I find that satisfaction in the religion of Jesus Christ as made known in the new dispensation of that religion which we have received — the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

Of course, the subject that opens up before one by indulging in these , is altogether too large for treatment in a few moments; one thing only can I briefly refer to in this kind. It has been my pleasure and duty, during the past few months, to review and set in order for the study of our Seventies' quorums the doctrine of the atonement of Jesus Christ; and this late inquiry into that subject has had a wonderful effect upon my own thought and state of mind. I have for many years believed in the atonement of Jesus Christ and have accepted its symbols in baptism and in confirmation; and have repeatedly renewed my acceptance of that atonement by accepting the sacrament of the Lord's supper. It has been a matter of faith with me and of knowledge, by the testimony of the Spirit of God to my soul; but upon close inquiry, by deeper delving into the subject, my intellect also gives its full and complete assent to the soundness of the philosophy and the absolute necessity for the atonement of Jesus Christ. That this atonement, the method and manner of it is the only way by which there could be brought to pass an at-one-ment, a reuniting of soul of man with soul of God. I account it for myself a new conversion, an intellectual conversion, to the atonement of Jesus Christ; and I have been rejoicing in it of late, exceedingly. I am convinced that when men of intelligence 'can be brought to the point of being sufficiently humble to read again the Book of Mormon, and to take into account the high purposes for which it was written, viz., to testify to the truth of the Jewish scriptures, but more especially to testify of the Christ, to bear witness of Him both to Jew and Gentile; testifying that Jesus is the Christ, and that there is no other means of salvation provided but through His atonement. When they will consider the message it has to bear upon these important questions, and will stop sneering at such human elements as may be in it, and will examine once more its teachings upon the great theme of salvation through the atonement of the Christ, they can indeed find wisdom and philosophy and truth in its doctrines. I proclaim to you, my brethren and sisters, that in the Book of Mormon, more than in any other book written in this world, and I do not except the New Testament — in the Book of Mormon more than in any other book, we have there the ne of, and the truth of the atonement of the Christ taught to the children of men as nowhere else. I rejoice in these truths; may the Lord seal them upon our hearts and give us grace and strength to live in harmony with them, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 


