Second Overflow
09 04 1911 

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Charles W. Penrose presided. 

The Farmers' Ward choir was again in attendance. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Come, thou glorious day of promise, Come and spread thy cheerful ray, 

When the scattered sheep of Israel Shall no longer go astray. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Ferdinand F. Hintze. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Zion stands with hills surrounded — 

Zion, kept by power divine; All her foes shall be confounded, 

Though the world in arms combine. ELDER CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Preliminary remarks. — Attacks upon the Church. — Necessity of sustain ing its authorities. 

Brethren and sisters, I congratulate you on having a suitable place in which to assemble, seeing that the tabernacle is full to overflowing. 

I hope you will enjoy the meeting that is convened in this place. It does not matter much where it is so long as we have the right spirit. We shall enjoy our services and the remarks that will be made by our brethren who have been selected to address us. If you will give us your attention, and keep as quiet as possible so that the voices of the brethren may be heard distinctly in every part of the building, I am sure that we will receive good instructions suitable in our present condition and circumstances. 

We have some selections, too, to be rendered by the Farmers ward choir, which has become somewhat famous for its good music. And I pray that the blessing of the Lord will be upon us, and that we shall have a time of rejoicing and instruction. 

It will be necessary, first, before we introduce the speakers, to present the general authorities of the Church, that you may have the privilege of lifting up your hand just as though you were in the big tabernacle. For if there ever was a time in the history of the Church when the Latter-day Saints ought to have the opportunity of showing their faith and confidence in and devotion to the men who are called to guide us, it is at the present time, when floods of vituperation and calumny are poured forth, and when there is a special endeavor to black their character before this nation and before the world. This is one of those things that occur almost periodically, and when the floodgates of the regions below seem to be open to pour forth venom against the servants of the living God; and as is usually the case, and has been from the beginning, their chief attacks are directed against the man who stands at the head, the Prophet, Seer and Revelator called to preside over the Church. 

Elder Charles W. Penrose presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, and they were severally sustained in the positions named, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

ELDER MELVLN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

It has been said that a few years ago a party of tourists returning from a trip on the continent of Europe met one evening in a hotel in the city of Paris, and among other things were discussing points of interest which they had seen on their trip. Each one of four among the party appeared to have visited a famous obelisk, and one of the number said that its color was white. This was disputed by a second visitor, who said that it was blue; and still a third person insisted that both of the previous speakers were mistaken, and that its color was green. Each was sure that he was right, when a fourth person spoke up and said that he too had visited the obelisk, and that each one of these gentlemen was rght and that each was wrong, for, said he, "it is white on one side, it is  on another, and green on a third side. The trouble with you, gentlemen, is that you did not go all the way around it." As I read that story recently, I thought of the wonderful variation in testimony which has been borne recently with respect to "Mormonism." We have been listening the last few days to testimonies of those who are in sympathy with the work of the Lord, wherein they nave told of their strong faith in His cause, the truthfulness of the principles of the Gospel, the righteousness of the lives of the men who are associated with this Church as the leaders of the organization. 

There has preceded our conference a series of attacks upon the character of the work, and individual members of the organization, wherein, perhaps, some of the failures that we have made (for we are not perfect, the net gathers of all kinds of fishes, and there are some among us who make their failures and mistakes;, and perhaps this has furnished the foundation and the basis, in a number of instances at least, for the attacks that have been made, and these have been enlarged and exploited to serve the purpose of those who have it in their hearts to hurt and to injure. As I study human nature, I find that notwithstanding we try to look at the same thing alike, there is such a difference in our individual makeup and temperament, also in the environments which surround us, that we cannot always look at the same thing and describe it alike. The attacks which have been made upon the sacred scriptures have aimed at the fact that the Apostles Peter, James, and John have not borne testimony in the same identical manner with reference to the  of Christ. I call attention to the fact that these men all looked upon the Master from the same point of view, believing Him to be the Son of God; and when these men described such scenes as Christ before Pilate, though their descriptions are about the same, yet there are some slight variations in detail, but not sufficient to contradict their testimony of His mission and character. Some of those who related the life of our Savior, because of previous training in a certain direction were inclined to state that which appealed to them most strongly; one, because of his temperament and training in mathematics and tax collecting, was attracted by certain phases of the life of Christ; while John, the spiritually minded man, saw in that life the greatness and the spirituality of the Redeemer. 

If that is true of men who try to tell the truth, and are in sympathy with the object of which they speak, then, we shall find in like manner more diversified opinions as we shall find men more widely separated in their view-point. As instance the testimony of a bitter apostate, who has had his mind darkened against the word of God and the leaders of the Church, whose own wicked life has colored his vision, and he pours forth all the venom of his distorted mind upon the people he once loved, though they have not changed since he loved them. No one else can see things just as he sees them. Then you have the example of the man who writes only for the monetary value of the story to him, who is paid to exploit his theme, and who gives it color without venom, but maliciously distorted, nevertheless. Then you have still other phases represented, until you reach the burning, strong testimony of men and women who know the whole truth, who have gone all the way round, who have seen it and know it in all its phases, whose minds are free from malice and hatred, who have borne testimony of the truth and seen the majesty of it, as it has been divinely made known to them. You have their testimony as to the uprightness of the lives and characters of our leaders and the nobility and value of the organization. So, my brethren and sisters, when you shall consider the possibility of human nature to err and get in the dark, and how it is influenced by its prejudices, you shall then perhaps more easily understand the great diversity of opinion expressed and sent broadcast about us. 

But, whose opinion shall we receive ? I was asked not so very long ago, by a very respectable man of the northwest, if it was possible that magazines of the character of those that have been attacking the Church could be mistaken, for they have a respectable standing in the community. I answered him that if these magazines are mistaken on their present attitude toward the Church, it is not the first time they, and other equally as respectable capers, have been on the wrong side of great questions. The world's judgment against tne Latter-day Saints is no evidence that we are wrong by any manner of means. My researches into the history of the past reveal the fact that not only in religious matters, but in scientific matters, and in the matter of the coming forth of truth from various sources, there has been a disposition on the part of the world seriously to condemn and reject that which is true. I might call your  to the fact that some three hundred years ago all the world believed that the earth on which we now live was flat, & great expanse in the universe, and that the stars, the sun and the moon, each made their revolutions around the earth, and that it was the center of space and^ did not move in space. When Galileo, the great and inspired philosopher, first announced that ' the earth was only one spark or gem in God's great universe, that it moved .together with other worlds with which it was associated, that the sun was the center of the solar system, and that the conditions of night and clay were produced by motions of the earth, he was haled before the highest tribunal of his dav, and condemned for advancing a doctrine which was false and in contradiction of the scriptures; he was condemned to suffer a cruel death or recede from his position. In order to save himself for future struggles in maintaining the truth, and realizing a denial did not change the truth which he had discovered, he said that he would recant his statement; but, aside to his friends, he said, "The world moves just the same." In later years, when he again revived the doctrine and gave further evidences of its truthfulness, he was again haled before the high tribunal and condemned, and burned at the stake for having taught a doctrine which now everybody who is posted at all knows to be absolutely correct. So in numerous other things, we have discovered that the judgment of the world has been wrong. 

I content myself by calling your attention to the one gift. of God to man. Great and good as are the gifts of scientific, psychological, and philosophical researcn, and the gift  wisdom manifest in discovering the electric telegraph, telephone, and all the glorious things which minister to the want and comfort of man, mounting far above them all, greater than all combined is the precious gift of God to man, His Son Jesus Christ. Did the world receive Him? No; condemned, executed between two thieves, buried in the oblivion which they hoped would cover him so that future generations would know nothing of him, nor the part they took in his execution, expecting to prove to the world that they had merely rid their nation and their people of a malefactor who was unworthy to live. Was the world right or wrong? They believed that they were doing right. The world erected monuments to the princes who exterminated Christians, in the hope that coming generations would pay reverence to those princes for having rid the world of the abomination know as Christianity. The world has returned, not to place its laurels upon the monuments erected, but to .honor the names of those who suffered, and condemn those who erected the monuments, as having raised their hands against the most precious of all doctrines, and the most glorious of all individuals who have ever visited the world, the thing that the world needed most of all. 

And so will the world be proven to be wrong in its present judgment of the "Mormon" people. As shown, it has not been the first time that it has been mistaken. The world will not be satisfied, perhaps, by our testimony so far as it is favorably expressed. There is one way, thank God, that we can answer all accusations and charges. The Master stated that way, and  manner by which our true character may be determined, the conclusive evidence is, "By their fruits ye shall know them." He thus announced the way by which we or any other people may prove our claim, or rather may prove ourselves worthy of what we claim to be. And so to this let us direct our attention just a few moments. 

You have heard some statistics during this conference, vital statistics, and I refer to these again because they show some of the remarkable fruits of the system. We are told that, in 1910, there were thirty-eight births to every one thousand members in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, an excess over the birth rate in the United States, by comparison of the latest statistics, of twenty-five per cent. That means that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints shows a birth rate far in excess of that in the United States; and I presume I am not far from the truth when I say that the United States leads the world in this matter, consequently we have an excess in our birth rate over any nation, or country, or people. Is that desirable fruit, or undesirable? Why, the greatest statesmen in the present age are exercising their persuasive powers to the uttermost in endeavors to induce men and women in our country, and other civilized nations, to honor the first great law of God, "Multiply and replenish the earth." Thank the Lord, men and women in our Church keep the ranks replenished, and give at least our quota to make our nation endure in greatness. Thank God that the doctrine of race suicide which exists in the world has not become popular among us and is not breaking down the high ideals that have been held before our eyes by the men and women who lived according to God's law. In the world, where do we find increase principally? Children are rare among the exceeding wealthy or those living in affluence, luxury and ease; neither do you find large families among those steeped in transgression and sin. Children are more numerous in that greater and better element of mankind called the middle class, the honest men and women who believe in honoring the great command that I have announced, which was given to man in the beginning of his habitation upon the earth. 

We were told that the death rate in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is nine and a fraction per thousand, while the general death rate in the United States is seventeen per thousand. The death rate, Brother Grant tells us, among individuals received in life insurance associations seldom comes as low as ten per thousand. Are these fruits desirable or undesirable? Do the people of the world know how to live properly and perpetuate life? The great medical philosophical and psychological schools vainly strive to advise the people to live according to natural ways and means by which life may be perpetuated. God gave to this Church the great key of health, about which so much has been said in this conference; and, thank the Lord, a great majority of the Latter-day Saints obey the Word of Wisdom, and thereby a foundation is laid in themselves and their children for strength of body and of mind. By reason of obedience in these things, they receive the blessings of health and strength, and long life. 

We were told that the divorce rate in the Church is so low that it is only about one-fifth the general divorce rate in the United States. Are these fruits desirable? Most assuredly they are. There is a great cry for ways and means by which there may be a curtailment of this evil of divorce, loosing the bonds of matrimony. Does the record speak well for the Latter-day Saints ? Surely it does. The great cause of the divorce evil in the United States today is the unfaithfulness and infidelity of men and women to each other and to their families. How have Latter-day Saints been trained? You know, when we were boys we were told to hold virtue so sacred that ,we would rather lose our lives than to ruin or despoil the virtue of any woman, that personal purity was more sacred fi> us than our lives. We do not have a double standard of morality. Thank God, we have listened to the advice of our fathers, and accepted the teachings of the gospel, and have produced, notwithstanding some mistakes and failures in other respects, a generation of young men and women whose equal in these things cannot be found anywhere in the world. Are these fruits desirable? O, my brethren and sisters, I desire with all my heart that the young men and women of this Church shall show forth by their lives even stronger testimonies than these, and that they shall be a sufficient answer to all our accusers — not our words, but what we are. The world has many new systems of philosophy, new religions, and new theories of solving problems of life, such theories are very plentiful, but they have not yet succeeded in producing a race of men and women  to the children of the Latter-day Saints. And so, my brethren and sisters, while we are growing in numbers, I trust we shall be noted also for our growth in virtue and every good and desirable thing. 

By the way, it is complained just now that the reason why we ought to have immediate attention is that we are increasing so fast. We haven't any disposition to wrangle about that question, we acknowledge that we are growing. I noticed in statistics published by the Literary Digest, about six weeks ago, a statement concerning the leading churches of the United States, showing their rank twenty years ago, their place today, and the increase in population in the twenty years. The Roman Catholic church was ranked as number one, twenty years ago, and is the same today, and shows an increase of ninetyfive per cent in that period. So they go in their list until we reach church number fifteen, which the table shows has made the greatest growth in the United States in the last twenty years, and the statistics are not ours, that is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now, among the fifteen churches on the list here enumerated, until we reach this "Mormon" Church, there is not an increase in position of any one of them of more than two points. Whereas, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was rated as church twenty-one, twenty years ago, and as church number fifteen this year, an increase of six points, a showing two hundred per cent better than the others. Then in point of membership, none of the fifteen have a greater increase than ninety-eight per cent except the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Saints whose increase is two hundred and fifty per cent! In this connection I will say that, four weeks ago, in the city of Portland, I heard an address given by the secretary of home missions of the Methodist church, who said that unless there was a change in their methods of proselyting they would soon be decreasing. Said he, $40,000 expended in the city of Boston netted but twenty-one converts; $50,000 expended in the city of Chicago had netted but forty-four converts; and he made the further remarkable statement that last year the great Methodist church, which stands as the second largest church in the United States, with a membership of 3,180,000 souls, showed an increase of but 40,000 last year. Compare that with the Church we represent, with a membership of about 500,000 souls, showing an increase of 16,000, and contrast it, in view also of another fact, that of the 40,000 souls introduced into the Methodist church last year only five per cent were men and women over twenty-one years of age, ninetyfive per cent were children. Its power to appeal to the matured judgment of men and women of this country must surely be waning, when it can claim only five per cent of its converts from the ranks of matured minds. Not so with the Latter-day Saints. Our increase has been very satisfactory, and has come largely from the mature, thinking men and women of the country. I know it is so in the Northwestern States mission, and I am sure that it is so elsewhere. Now, is this growth and increase desirable? I maintain that it is, and ought to continue, for the world's good. The best men and women are crying out in their souls for that which we have, though they know it not, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has that which the world needs, and which the world must have to save itself. 

We need not be alarmed at the assaults which have been made. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints shall not falter, nor waver, nor shall it be harmed by the present attack. I bear you witness, as I rrjingle among- people outside of Utah, and know what the sentiment is, that thinking minds of the present day have been stirred up by the recent articles to a spirit of enquiry such as they have never manifested before.  We have opportunities for gospel conversations such as we have not had before. Recently we had an opportunity to answer the enquiries of the president of one of the greatest colleges in the west. He recognized that these stories did not contain the truth, and he wanted to know what the truth is. I can say that the commonwealth here, our glorious Utah, where so many of us were born, is being injured more seriously than is the "Mormon" Church. The Church thrives in spite of persecution, but the citizens of the State of Utah suffer from the indignities and vilifications that are being published. Thirty thousand home seekers came into the northwest during last spring. It has been my privilege to meet thousands of them on the trains, and I have taken the opportunity of making a canvass among them, and to ask them "why don't you go to Utah ?" 1 have exploited some of Utah's resources and her opportunities, and the answer has been, in many instances, that they were prejudiced against Utah be of the recent agitation that has been going the rounds of the press. So, Utah is suffering more than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God bless Utah, the vales we love, the place of our birth and our homes. 

The Church shall stand, and thrive, and increase in its numbers, and shall never diminish. We are only just beginning; we are but forming the nucleus of a great and mighty organization that shall grow as fast as it can absorb new members, and it shall increase in its absorbing, and shall yet be numbered by millions of the children of this generation. This is my testimony, and faith, and I may say, I speak it with knowledge. We missionaries go not to the world with a spirit of resentment, but in the spirit of love we approach their homes, and if they turn us away, we still feel that we have brought to them the most precious of all gifts, and that we have honored that household to which we have come with our message, offering the most precious boon that could be bestowed upon them, none greater has ever been offered to this world in all the years of its history. In all our labors we try to show that we love the whole world; in the spirit of kindness we work among them, not with a spirit of retaliation, but of forbearance, — showing by our lives and the examples which we set that we are what we claim to be: members of God's Church; not perfect men, but seeking according to the knowledge that we possess, and the Spirit of the Lord within us, to perfect our lives in harmony with the laws of God's truth, and inspire them to do likewise, which may God grant us the opportunity to do, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred song, entitled "Face to face," was sung by Mrs. F. M. Bishop. 

ELDER HUGH J. CANNON. 

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, those who have attended the sessions of this conference can testify that the Lord has been with us. He has manifested Himself to us again this afternoon, and I am sure He will continue to do so during the remaining part of this meeting. 

Several thousand faithful Latterday Saints have come together, with prayerful hearts and with a desire to be fed with the word of life, to be built up in their faith and strengthened in their desire to serve the Lord; where this is the case it is absolutely certain that thev will not go away hungry. Of course, the thought does come to an individual who may be called upon to speak, that because of some delinquency on his part he may not have as much of the Spirit of the Lord as he would like, and consequently no man, at least no thoughtful man, ever attempts to address a congregation of the Latter-day Saints without a feeling of fear in his heart. I can think of nothing more appalling or terrifying to me than to attempt to address this people without the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord. It would be impossible for me, through any power which I have or any ability which may be mine, to instruct those who understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ quite as well, or in many cases very much better than I do. 

I believe the Lord designs that we should exercise our faith for those who are called upon to address us,  by its exercise it becomes stronger, and if there ever was a time in all the history of the Church when Latter-day Saints needed to have their faith strengthened it is at the present time. Surrounded as we are by the temptations and allurements of the world and with all the responsibilities of life which rest upon us; it is of absolute importance that we grow in faith and in the knowledge of the Lord, and in the knowledge of His plan concerning us, because unless we do we simply cannot succeed. While the Church will of course go on to fulfill its grand destiny, those who do not cultivate faith, and do not have this principle in their hearts, will fall by the wayside and will not be able to keep pace with the Church itself. There are many examples in the scriptures of how faith comes to those who ask for it and who endeavor to earn it by pursuing an upright life. Christ said, "Whatsoever thing ye shall ask of the Father in my name, believing, ye shall receive." My prayer constantly to the Lord is to give me faith, to give me a knowledge of His plan and purposes, to help me to understand the part which I should perform in the carrying out of that plan. 

We have heard a good deal during this conference about the things that are being said of us. We could not endure those things, nor stand to be ridiculed and assailed, unless we understand the future to some extent, and have an assurance that the Lord will overrule all things for the good of His people. You all remember the occasion when one of the rulers of the synagogue came to Jesus and asked Him to come to his house because his daughter was dying. With His usual sympathy the Savior consented, and when they were on the way they met a messenger from the house of this man who said to the ruler, "Trouble not the Master, because your daughter is dead." The man no doubt was overwhelmed with grief. But what did the Savior say to him ? I think in all the scriptures we cannot find a more beautiful saying, no sentence more full of meaning than the four simple words of the Savior, "Fear not, only believe." And that is the statement of the Lord to us in this day. We can take it to ourselves. "Fear not, only believe." And if we have this assurance in our hearts it matters not what the world may say, we can stand aside and watch the Lord work this thing out. I do not mean that we should stand aside in idleness, for we must do our part. But we need not worry regarding what they say, because the Lord will take care of those who assail His work. That is my testimony. I know this is His work, and that those who make war upon it will be held responsible for what they do, even though the results of their efforts may be overruled for good. 

As has been testified by Brother Ballard, people enquire concerning our doctrines because of the assults which are made upon us, but even if the Lord does overturn these attacks to our good, it will not relieve those who make the attacks from responsibility. The Lord is with us, He is with this work, and He wants us to "believe and fear not." I presume there are few. if any here who have ever listened to the audible voice of the Almighty. We are not permitted to behold His person, but we do see Him in all His marvelous creations, see Him, if we  faith, as distinctly and with as much assurance as though He stood before our natural eyes; and as though we were able to see His person, to behold His face and to touch His hand. To those who understand the Gospel, and the whispering of the Spirit of the Lord, He is visible in all these things, and we are able through the influence which He gives us, through our prayers, to hear His voice, though it may not be audible to our natural ears. I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that God does live, that He rules, and that He will overturn all things for the good of this people. 

Before I conclude, I want to say one thing in regard to what has been said by several of the speakers in this conference, and which was dwelt upon so splendidly by Brother McKay this morning. My heart rejoiced in listening to his remarks. I thank the Lord for what has been said regarding this question, the Word of Wisdom, and the evil of the saloons in our midst. For my part I have always been opposed to them with all my soul, and with all my strength, and my desire is to maintain that same position in the future. I realize that speaking on this subject will not accomplish the work. If we succeed we must do something more than speaking, we must be up and doing, we must get into this battle, and fight and fight, and organize and work, and if we do not do that, I feel very certain we will not succeed. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to accomplish all that He designs us to do in this life, and finally save us in His presence, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MARK AUSTIN. 

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I feel certain the Latter-day Saints will be a great, grand and a good people, when I realize the fact that we have so much valuable instruction imparted to us from time to time by the servants of the Lord. One of the strongest evidences to me of the divinity of this great work, among many others, is the fact that the Lord has entrusted it not only to those who are skilled in education and in learning, but also to the unlearned. He has sent them out into the world to meet the mighty ones, and all classes that are to be found. We have been told in this conference that not one of those thus sent out has been converted to the teachings which are found in the world; it may be that a few, a very few, have made, possibly, a partial failure of the work, because, no doubt, of their own weakness. The great majority of them have been strong and powerful, and have been able to deliver the gospel message that has found lodgment in the hearts of those that have desired the opportunity of becoming acquainted with that divine plan which would save the souls of men. These have been gathered into the fold, and they have taken up the work of God, regardless of what it cost them, and have rejoiced in this, the greatest thing in life. We can fully understand that, if we understand "Mormonism," so called. 

I have rejoiced during this conference in listening to the mighty testimonies that have been borne by the servants of God under the influence of His Spirit; and I have very much rejoiced during this session in listening to the testimony of Elder Ballard and others of our brethren who have spoken, who  labored for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. What a mighty work; what a splendid good thing. If the world could understand the purpose we have in delivering this message, what a blessing it would bring to them. But it seems that these things are hard to understand. It takes a good deal to make the sacrifice, as the world understands it, because of the conditions under which they are living. They find it requires a great sacrifice to become members of this Church and defend it, and we cannot stand unless we do defend it. I am thoroughly convinced that we must be active. Inactivity is death. Therefore it is necessary that we actively live for and defend the truth, this will bring joy to our souls, and we will increase in the knowledge of this great Latter-day work. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us and help us to understand the part that we should take and to do it, and never be ashamed of His work, nor of His servants, whom He has called to minister among the children of men. I respect them for the sacrifices they make when they labor as they do unceasingly, that they may be faithful in their calling to the children of men. I pray that God will bless us and bless His work that it may cover the earth as the waters do the mighty deep; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A male quartette, "Savior, comfort me," was rendered by members of the choir. 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS. 

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

We are approaching the close of one of the last sessions of a very enjoyable and profitable conference of the Church. I have had the pleasure of attending some of the sessions, and have read the proceedings of the others. I am very thankful that in my own heart I have feelings of harmony and approval of all that has been taught and done, with which I am acquainted. 

I rejoice in the prosperity of the work of the Lord. I thank and praise Him that I have been given a lot among this people, and that I am called to labor in His service. I enjoyed the remarks which were made this morning in the general assembly in the tabernacle, as well as those made this afternoon by the mission presidents. One of the greatest assets to our cause is our missionary system. We could not suffer greater loss than the discontinuance of that system of proselyting which has been characteristic of the work of the Lord in this dispensation. The renewal of spiritual force and enthusiasm, which comes to all our communities and organizations from these elders who return from the nations of the earth, where they have been bearing glad tidings of great joy, rekindle in us at home the spirit of missionary work. How infallible is the key given us by President Kimball, this morning, with respect to the spirit of the Seventy. Said he, Have you ever felt a desire to go upon a mission? if you have, you have enjoyed the spirit of a Seventy. If you have never had that desire, you have not received of the Lord the spirit of your calling, even though you have been ordained a Seventy. My own experience confirms that statement, for I know it to be true. A desire to convey to the world the message that the Lord has committed to us is an evidence that we have received the Spirit of the Lord. If 

I have any advice to give to the Latter-day Saints, it is this, to continue to prepare the young men for missions in the world, and to help them to shape their affairs so that they may go upon missions when they are called, without delay, without begging for time, without any disposition to procrastinate or postpone the day'of their departure, for there is no greater blessing that comes to the youth of Israel than this opportunity to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth. 

We have many demands upon us for missionaries. We have many young men who are not adequately prepared for this service. I have sometimes felt that those who hold positions of presidency should give them a few months, or a year, if necessary, to prepare themselves for a call. Let them know that the eye of the presiding officers is upon them, expecting them to be able to respond at some future date. We have many young men whose hearts are turned in other directions, for the lack of proper teaching in their homes, and I hope the Latter-day Saints shall not overlook the great importance of preserving and maintaining in the home the spirit of the gospel by proper religious devotion and proper Christian examples. The home is the stronghold of the Church, as it is of the state, as it is of society; and if the home be not pure, maintained upon principles of virtue, faith and industry, the state, and society and the Church will correspondingly suffer. The mother and the father at home should try to preserve among us these principles for which we stand as a people. 

I believe all that President Ballard has said of a complimentary character with respect to the Latter-day Saints. I can readilv see  he has become well supplied with these facts and figures, in speaking in defense of our people to the world! I don't know that I should be so much inclined to speak of these things to the Latter-day Saints themselves, for I fear some of us may be somewhat too much inclined to rest contented upon what we think we are and overlook the evils that are among us, and the sin — to use a common, plain term — of which some are guilty. I do not wish to be pessimistic. I would rather speak of the good things than the bad; but I do not believe that we as a people are living exactly as we should. I do not believe that we are living 1 up to the Word of Wisdom as faithfully as we should. Too many of the elders of Zion are not strictly observing that principle. Yet, in spite of this shortcoming, the average standard of morality among our people, I believe to be higher than that of the world or of any other people. 

Another thing of which I am convinced is one that brings a great deal of sorrow to my soul, and that is that the standard of morality is lower among some of our young people today than it has been. It would be a miracle if it were otherwise, because of the prevalance of evils in our midst, due to city life which has grown remarkably in the last few decades, and the destructive influences which are aggressively at work in all cities, increasing as cities increase in population, for the destruction of virtue in boys and girls. You, perhaps, in the country, little dream of the insiduous efforts made by the powers of evil in this particular direction. The powers of evil are so great that it seems that some must fall, but there is altogether too much liberty given  our young people in going to places of amusement without restriction and without chaperones. I repeat, too much liberty is given to our young people. And the use of liquor, in public and in private places, the use of cigarettes and other kindred vices are on the increase, and have brought about the results which I speak of , so lamentable in their nature, lowering the standard of virtue. I could give you facts which would be appalling if you knew them, disclosed in the Juvenile Court and in the public schools that prove conclusively, I believe, what I state here. I speak of these things in order that we as men and women who are called to look after the interests of the youth of Zion shall not be derelict in the discharge of our duties. The teachers visiting on the blocks, the Bishops, High Councilors and Stake Presidencies should be roused to look after the welfare of the Church through its members, so that if any guilt exists among the Saints of God, they can lend a helping hand for its eradication; and they need the co-operation of the fathers and mothers in their homes in order to work effectually for the salvation of the young. 

With President Cannon, I thank the Lord for the splendid discourse that Apostle McKay delivered- this morning. I thank and praise the Lord for the inspiration of His Spirit which was characteristic of that address. The Latter-day Saints have made high professions, as we are inclined to do always, with respect to temperance. But I doubt if we are making the headway we should in this regard. Two of the witnesses to the Book of Mormon were excommunicated from the Church. One of the charges r>reGENERAL CONFERENCE.  against them was that they failed to observe the Word of Wisdom. If they did that fifty and sixty years ago, I imagine we have not made the progress we should, for I have heard of no man being cut off from the Church for not keeping the Word of Wisdom in modern times unless it became a most flagrant case. 

We as a people are approaching a great opportunity in our history. Our standards are higher than the standards of the world. We largely predominate in this State, and through an act of the legislature we are given an opportunity this vear to express ourselves by the ballot as to whether we will tolerate the saloon. For this reason, I think the remarks made by Elder McKay very fitting and proper, and I am satisfied they will bear fruit. Perhaps fifty per cent of the crime is traceable, directly or indirectly, to the use of liquor. We have been altogether too much afraid of what has been called the "business interest" upon this question. It is not a question of how much money is involved, to me. It is a question of what is right. I understand mv duty and my calling to be to work for the right; and on the liquor question I expect to work until success shall eventually come, for truth shall triumph as sure as God lives. The right side of this question is plain to every Latter-day Saint and to every rightly inclined individual. No one can speak in defense of the saloon if he regards the welfare of mankind, for it does no good, and it does incalculable harm. There can be no doubt of this. Every year that this nation lives, there is a sacrifice of its citizenship to the extent of 100,000 men upon the altar of intemperance — 100,000 men's lives  every year by reason of over indulgence in intoxicating liquors. Talk about conservation! The Department of Agriculture spends millions annually to teach men how to produce and preserve the right kind of stock, such as hogs, horses, and sheep. It spends millions in the conservation of our streams and our forests, very wisely too. But scarcely anything has been done with respect to the conservation of the greatest resource of all, man himself. And the greatest enemy which he has is intemperance. While perhaps the nation is not prepared to take hold of this question by federal law, it is only the principles which we are now pursuing which will eventually lead to the enactment of a measure which will effect the destruction of this evil. Until we do this, we shall not have succeeded in our mission as a nation. The world has seen nation after nation sink into oblivion from all  their glory and achievement, despoiled and destroyed by intemperance, and immorality so closely allied that you cannot possily separate them. 

I urge the Latter-day Saints, wherever they live, to observe the law of God first, and let each one make himself one who does not need the enactment of a prohibitory law respecting liquor, or the adoption of a local option law to turn his city or his county dry. Make of yourself a temperate man, not only temperate, I will say — a total abstainer. That is the higher standard. And then help your weaker brother who may not be so able to overcome the evil. It reminds me of Carlyle's philosophy, "Let him who would reform the world make himself an honest man, and he will be sure there is one rascal less in the world." It is a good thing to 101  with number one. I have heard of advocates of prohibition who, when they feared their county was going dry, would lay in a large store of liquor. Such men do not help the cause. Such hvoocritical examples are injurious to the case. Now we have an opportunity, next June, of deciding what we shall do with respect to this important question; and I believe the position of the Latter-day Saints may be vindicated upon this question. It is strange how every age has its opportunity to decide between good and evil. This may not be, in the minds of some, the great question which I believe it to be; but I do not recall a more serious question coming before any nation than that which we have to combat today. You remember the opportunity came to ancient Israel to decide whether they should receive Him who was sent to them. They pushed Him aside with open palms, and said they would not have Him. Said that He admitted Himself to be king of the Jews. And when Pilate, sitting in the seat of justice asked and plead with the Jews, "Whom will you have released unto you ?" According to the law, one prisoner might be released unto them anually. "Whom will you have released unto you, Barabbas or Jesus ?" The Jews, stiff-necked and hard of heart, said, you remember: "Release unto us Barabbas. As for this man, crucify him, crucify him. Let his blood be upon us and upon our children after us. Release unto us Barabbas." It is not a question of as great moment, perhaps; but it is a similar question, and we as a people have to decide this day whom we shall have in this year of grace, the year 1911, whether we shall have the Christ or Barabbas; and 

God give us the wisdom and the courage, "God give to us the Christ whom we desire above all else in the world." 

May God's peace be upon the Latter-day Saints, and His choice blessings upon the servants of the Lord, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Closing exhortation. — Timely advice. Testimony of the Truth. 

I thank the choir of the Farmers ward for their presence with us this afternoon, and their excellent musical services. 

I am glad to meet with so many of my friends of the Latter-day Saints in conference, and I hope they will take with them to their homes the spirit that has pervaded the conference, and particularly I commend to them the advice given this morning, and again this afternoon, in regard to the 27th day of June, 1911, the anniversary of the death of our martyred Prophet. On that occasion the people of Utah will have the privilege of showing by their votes whether they are in favor of the traffic in alcoholic stimulants which cause so much misery, or whether they desire good regulations, peace and order in their respective communities, and I endorse what has been said concerning this subject. It is a matter of religion with us, not a mere political affair — one of party in any sense of the word; people of all parties and sects and persuasions, and religions can manifest on that day what their sentiments are with respect to this great question affecting all humanity. 

Brethren and sisters, take with you to your respective fields of laGENERAL CONFERENCE.  and to your homes, wherever you reside, the spirit of this conference. And when the time comes show by your acts and by your votes whether you are on the Lord's side or on the other. You cannot be on both sides at the same time. 

I bear testimony to this congregation, as I have had the privilege of doing many times in years that are past, that God, the Maker of the universe, is our Father, the Father of our spirits; that Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified on Mount Calvary, is His Son, in the body as well as in the Spirit, and that He is our Savior. I bear testimony that Joseph Smith, who was slain for the word of God and the testimony which he bore, was a Prophet of the Most High.raised up to usher in the last and greatest of dispensations. I bear testimony that the covenants that we have made with God to serve Him and keep His commandments are recorded on high, and we shall have to meet them on the great day of accounts. If we fail to keep them we cannot obtain the fulness of the blessing of the gospel of peace. If we live according to the principles that God has revealed through that great Prophet, this Church will overcome the world, the flesh and the devil and establish the kingdom of the Most High which will prevail over all the earth, and they who are faithful unto the Lord will obtain the great reward. Thrones, dominions, principalities, and powers and exaltation in worlds without end shall be the portion of the true the faithful Saints of the living God. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful in all things and to overcome all things that we may inherit all things in His glorious presence. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Awake my soul." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph R. Morgan. 
