Afternoon
06 04 1911

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Judgment by principles of Sermon on the Mount. — The people familiar with Church leaders, and know their integrity.— Righteous people are not persecutors. — Prohibition needed to help the weak. Latter-day Saints advocate and practice righteousness. 

It is delightful for the Latterday Saints to meet together to worship the Lord and to consider the blessings He has bestowed upon us, to listen to a recital of sqme of the advancement that has been made in the Church, and some things in relation to our good record. We compare very favorably with our neighbors and with conditions that exist at the present time, in the world, hence there is no excuse for the agitation that is being provoked by some who feel that it is their duty to arraign the Latter-day Saints before the public opinion of the world. 

I was reminded, this morning, in my early waking moments, it being the sixth day of April, the occasion for the general annual gathering of the Saints to transact the business of the Church, and to hear the word of the Lord, I was reminded of the conditions that exist around us, and I thought of the Sermon on the Mount. My mind was turned to it, and I feel that to read just a few verses from that memorable sermon by the Savior will give us an opportunity to consider and to examine ourselves and, possibly, draw the attention of our friends to an examination of their condition as well as ours. I believe you will discover that it is a very fitting text for a little talk, for us to look over the field and regard ourselves, and to remind our friends and neighbors of the opportunity, also, to consider our faith and our standing and fellowship with the Lord. We can  much by this, and we may discover, possibly, some reformation that we need to make ourselves, in order to be fully in harmony with the doctrines of the Lord; but I believe that the comparison will be very favorable for the Latter-day Saints. I will just read a few verses, in the fifth chapter of Matthew, commencing with the third verse : 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

"Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. 

"Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. 

"Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. 

"Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. 

"Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. 

"Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. 

"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

"Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 

"Rejoice, and be exceeding glad : for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. 

"Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. 

"Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. 

"Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

"Let your light so shine before men. that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." 

Now, I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the Latter-day Saints have great reason to take courage and feel consoled when we look  the field and consider what is being said in regard to us, when we consider our own position, how carefully and exactly the Latterday Saints are attending to their own duties, magnifying the priesthood we bear, devoting ourselves to preaching the gospel throughout the earth, preaching the doctrines of life and salvation, and ministering for the salvation of the children of men. 

We work for those who live and also for the dead, thus following in the footsteps of our Lord and Master, for as soon as He had finished His mortal mission here on the earth, before He returned to His Father, before He arose with His body and went to heaven, His first mission and attention was given to those, who had died, those who were indifferent and cared not for the truth when it was taught to them in the flesh. He went to the spirits in prison, to preach the gospel and labor for their salvation. He turned the key, opened the door, and established a mission among those who had rejected the gospel — not those, altogether, who had not beard it, but also those who had beard and had rejected it and concluded not to receive it. To such He went and preached the gospel. Now, you know, my brethren and sisters, what our works have been, especially these thousands of men who are present here this afternoon, who hold the priesthood. This congregation is made up, largely, of men bearing the priesthood, men who have been called into the ministry in the world, and they have been preachers of the gospel and defenders of the faith. You know your brethren who preside over you; you know those who have presided over this Church from its in, eighty-one years ago; you know the history of all the prophets and the apostles of the Latter-day Saints; and when the world, or men in the world take up a mission to war upon the Latter-day Saints, and charge us with insincerity, with immorality, and with any kind of wickedness, you are my witnesses that these statements are untrue. You know, this congregation knows the truth concerning these things; and other people who are here, who are not Latter-day Saints but who live among us, they know also the integrity of our course, and our devotion to the work in which we are engaged for the salvation of the children of men. We are known; our doctrines are known; our principles are known. 

I would like you who want to consider this matter, to look over the history of those who are making trouble for the Latter-day Saints, those who have made trouble for us in the past, and those who are thus engaged today. I would like you to weigh and measure them by this standard that the Savior has laid down, and find out whether those trouble-making men are persecuting people, whether they are persecutors or being persecuted. Are the Latter-day Saints persecutors, or are they being persecuted? Are they being betrayed? Are falsehoods being uttered in regard to the Latter-day Saints ? Are we being imposed upon, or are we imposing upon the world? My brethren and sisters, are we not laboring for the salvation of the children of men, carrying the same mission of faith to the world that the Savior Himself brought? Are we not teaching the doctrine of repentance, and of baptism, by_ immersion, for the remission of sins? Are we not teaching, also, the gift of the Holy Ghost, through the laying on of hands, by men who are authorized of the Lord and commissioned of Him? Are we not thus laboring all the time in the world, carrying the gospel as far as we possibly can, and do we not expect to carry it to every creature; is not that the truth ? Are they telling the truth about us when they are publishing, in their magazines, those articles that are being published against us ? What kind of men are those who put forth those doctrines and make these efforts against the Latter-day Saints, what is their character and standing? Are they trying to improve the Latter-day Saints? Are they better than the Latter-day Saints in their lives, is their morality superior to ours ? Or, are we the people who are being persecuted? Is this not an evidence and a mark that designates the Latter-day Saints as the followers of the Lord Jesus ? The very fact that wicked men stand up and undertake to berate and impeach the character of the Latter-day Saints, is it not a positive testimony and evidence that we are the followers of the Lord Jesus? 

You know your own people; you are acquainted with them in your own wards; you know them in your own stakes, the Latter-day Saints that are gathered together; and you know the class of men that are being sent out from among you into the world. You know how carefully they are trained, how carefully they are instructed at home and abroad. You know, also, that if any fall into sin, how quickly it is . discovered, how soon they are detected, when that occurs, which sometimes does. Men are fallible and liable to fall, but as a rule the 

Latter-day Saints are stable. They are superior because of the spirit that is with the work of the Lord, the Holy Ghost that has dwelt with us, that we received at our baptism and confirmation, through our faith and repentance. The Latter-day Saints would not be gathered together without that measure of faith that the Lord has bestowed upon us, which He has been generous enough to bestow upon all people. He would be delighted, as a loving Father, for all His children to receive the same spirit that our elder brother received, the Holy Ghost that was conferred upon Him, and that descended upon Him, succeeding His baptism. Have we not been so laboring, and are we not thus engaged at the present time? All this army of men have labored either at home or abroad. That is the labor which has been required of the Latter-day Saints. We have been trained in morality, in purity, in sobriety, in temperance, in faith, in charity, and in all the gifts and graces of the gospel. That has been the mission and ministry of the Latter-day Saints. That was the mission of the Prophet Joseph, and of his brethren, all who have shared with him in the priesthood that has been restored from heaven. 

You know the attitude of the Latter-day Saints toward these principles; and not only do we know, but our neighbors, among whom we live, and those who live in our neighborhood, they know perfectly well that the Latter-day Saints are a good people, an honest people, a conscientious people, and a moral people. We are not encouraging immorality, neither here nor abroad. We do not want immoral men. We have not preached for immorality, nor for immoral people. We have  advocated the coming of wicked people; we have not desired that any one should come here for wickedness. That is a false accusation, and those who have taken that stand and position fgainst the Latter-day Saints, to try to make trouble for this people — this little handful of people, gathered together here — they are not inspired of the Lord; they are operating against the truth, and they have need of repentance themselves; they have need for reformation. They have been berating better people than they are themselves; that is what they have been doing, and that is what the wicked do. That is what they did in the days of the Savior; they persecuted Him to His death. They will not persecute us any more than they did Him. But they are persecutors; they are not peacemakers; they are not the righteous that are laboring for the salvation of the children of men. It is not their exceeding purity and righteousness that is prompting them, but it is the spirit of evil, the spirit of Satan, and not the Spirit of the Lord. 

You will not find good people persecuting bad people. Now, you look for persecutors, look for people right at home that are trespassers and you win find that the righteous are not transgressors. The righteous are not seeking to do injury to the wicked, but it is the wicked that persecute, that speak evil, and that revile their neighbors. We simply endure what is put upon us; and we have this assurance, my brethren and sisters, that this kingdom which the Lord has established is so sustained by the power of God that it will never be overthrown. You may be overthrown, if you do wrong; if we go into transgression and sin, we shall be disturbed and; but not so with this work. It is a mark of the Latterday Saints that they are struggling for righteousness and truth, for justice and for mercy. They love peace and work for it; they are not a warlike people but a peaceable people, a spiritually minded people, a people who love justice, righteousness, and truth. I thought that this doctrine of the Lord upon the Mount was very fitting to our condition at the present time, advising us that if we were persecuted we need not be surprised. Why, the Saints were persecuted in the days of the Savior, and as long as He engaged in His ministrations among the people He was not exempt, although He was the Son of God. We need not worry, if persecutions come upon us. The wicked do not need to be persecuted; the wicked can be handled by the law, and can be dealt with and treated by the law; but if you want to disturb the righteous, the pure, and upright, it must be done by persecution, and not legally or lawfully. 

There is no need of troubling about the Latter-day Saints on account of their alleged sins. If we are sinners, we stand in the presence of the law, as we stand in the presence of the Lord, and are answerable — ready to answer for everything that we are guilty of. The Lord will sustain His people. He will sustain u=> as individuals, men and women, members of His Church. Now, that is right and proper and pleasing in His sight. We ought to appreciate the fact, my brethren and sisters, that the troubles that are arrayed against us in the world only tend to refine us, purify us, and do us good, possibly cutting us a little closer on guard in the future, that we may be better than we have been. We are not afraid to stand in the presence of the law, as we heard this morning from our president, in regard to conditions that exist among us in regard to marriage, in regard to divorce, and so forth. We can stand to be taken care of, certainly, as well as the people of the earth, for it is discovered that we are fully as good as they are, and, in some things, a little better than the people of the world. We have information, knowledge, truth, and revelation superior to what the people of the world have. The Lord has been generous to us. We have been fortunate enough to come upon the earth at the very time when the gospel has been sent, and are favored with taking part and portion therein. The Lord is pleased with His people, as a whole. There are, no doubt, individuals among us who have not pleased the Lord in all things. We have not always, all of us, done right, but as a people, as Latter-day Saints, the Lord is pleased with His people, for their righteousness, not for their sins; but we are struggling, all the time, to do better. We are struggling to make all the people better. We are endeavoring to gather the good and honest from the world, and to reclaim those who are wayward. I was impressed with the prayer of the president, not only for the leading brethren among the people, and the Latter-day Saints, but those who are wayward as well, those who need the favor and blessing of the Lord particularly, those who have not been so favored in their dispositions, those who have not felt inclined to repent, to reform and work righteousness as they should. The blessings of the Lord were asked upon them. That should always be , as it is the sick that need the physician. Let the petitions and faith of the people go out for the advantage and benefit of those who need to be encouraged and strengthened. 

I thought the conversation of the president, this morning, was very encouraging for the Latter-day Saints, and he spoke the mind of the Lord, the will of the Lord; and so did President Lund, upon the subject of the Word of Wisdom, and also the subject of temperance. We find ourselves, just now, as he drew our attention to the fact, confronted with this question, and in a little while we are to determine, the Latter-day Saints and our neighbors and friends who live among us, are to determine what shall be done. I am persuaded that our friends, very many of them, I think I would be perfectly safe in saying that the majority of our friends and neighbors who live among us, who ar*: not Latter-day Saints, are in favor of temperance, in favor of good order, in favor of law and of peace. I think we can say that concerning most of the people of our state. There are, of course, exceptions to the rule, but as a rule I believe that our neighbors, as well as the. Latter-day Saints will demonstrate, on the 27th day of June, this year, that the people of the State of Utah are in favor of sobriety, of temperance, and of prohibition. I hope so; I hope they will be ready for that. I have been personally under the law of prohibition so long that I want everybody else under it; I have found that it is good, very good indeed. I can commend it to all the people of our state, and I want to sound a note of advice for the people of Utah: Let us be a sober people, and let us help those who are weak. If we are strong ourselves, and feel that we can get along, that we do not need any law or anything to help us, let us help those who need to be helped; let us strengthen them. If we have been strengthened and converted, and are able to stand fairly well ourselves, let us help our neighbors about us, and let us be Latter-day Saints in very deed. We have made profession to do this. We should keep the commandments of the Lord and refrain from all evil; we should be temperate not only in regard to the use of liquor but in regard to the use of other things that are forbidden in the Word of Wisdom. Let us be Saints, and encourage our neighbors about us to follow our good example. Let them see; let our light so shine before all men, and in their presence, that they will discover our good works. We do not want them to discover in us any bad works, we do not want to engage in any bad works; it is not necessary; and the Lord will not excuse us, not near so readily as He will excuse those who have not been instructed, and who do not know as we know. 

We have received of the Spirit of the Lord. Other men have received of other spirits. There is a world of spirits about us and among all peoples. Every denomination and every organization, political or otherwise, have their spirit, the spirit of their organization; and they partake of it, and it seems altogether right to them, I presume; but it takes the Spirit of the Lord, the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, in order for men and women to serve the Lord, to find out, and to know Him. We can't do it without faith, without Repentance, without bap, without the inspiration of the Holy Ghost which we receive by the laying On of hands. These are the initiatory doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus, and they are. imperatively necessary. I want to bear my testimony before my brethren and sisters, here today, that these doctrines and principles are indispensable for Latter-day Saints. Other people may not care for them and will not, possibly, until they have some other chance on the other side. They may reject these principles here; they may not see; they do not see; they can not receive the same spirit that we have received except on the same conditions, and that is through the principle of faith. Again, a mere profession of faith is not enough, but it must be a genuine, living faith that will produce repentance and works of righteousness. That is what is necessary. 

The Lord has arranged for His people, and He will sustain His people, and the truth concerning this work and the true character of thispeople will be demonstrated before the world. The world will find out that the Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people; that although there are so many bad things said about us, they will find us a good people. That is what we are laboring for. We are preaching righteousness, advocating the doctrine of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no law against that. Isn't that good doctrine? We also teach repentance. Isn't repentance good doctrine, and is it not effective? You can't save a man without repentance, of course; and a man will not repent who has not faith; it is the principle of faith that will produce repentance. There is no repentance without faith in God, and there is no forgiveness of sins without the ordinance of baptism; it is important and necessary, and we can't avoid it. We can't relieve ourselves of the sins we have committed, except in the way I have explained. We may cease to sin, and sin no more, if we please, but in order to free ourselves from the sins that we have committed, and to enter into the kingdom of God, as the Son of God did, Himself, we must do it through baptism, genuine baptism, the baptism that the Lord has laid down and so instructed us. It must not be looked upon as unnecessary; it is important; we can't free ourselves from it at all; it is the law. 

This is the work that the Latterday Saints have been engaged in, and they have done a wonderful work in eighty years. It is a remarkable work, and our position is unique, and remarkable in the world, among the Christian denominations of the earth. I say it is very remarkable, and what a sensation is made throughout the world today by this good people. It is not for our sins, not because we are wicked. We have not clogged the courts with the necessity of taking care of us for our wickedness. We have not advocated immorality or impurity at all. It has never been countenanced by the Latter-day Saints, and is not today; and whatever of evil there is among our people, and in this state, is not chargeable to the Latter-day Saints; it is properly chargeable to men of corruption, wickedness, and the worst of immorality; that is what it is. It cannot be charged to us; we are not guilty of these things, they have not been established by us. We have not advocated them abroad, or brought them here and established them; not at all; and we are not engaged in any kind of wickedness. 

The Latter-day Saints are not doing it. That is my testimony for the Latter-day Saints who are gathered together in Zion, that we are laboring for purity and righteousness and for the salvation of the children of men and our sons and daughters. We rejoice exceedingly at their devotion and faithfulness to the Lord, and our hearts are broken, and sorrowful, and tender, when we find one straying from the path of truth and righteousness. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters; and I commend to you the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, that I have read to you. Read them in your own Bibles at home, and see if they are not very fitting for the conditions under which the Latter-day Saints are living at the present time, and the experiences that we are having in connection with the world. May the Lord bless us during our conference, that we may rejoice exceedingly and take home the word of the Lord from His servants, and be better and stronger in the future, and realize that the Lord has established His kingdom and will sustain it and preserve it to the end, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, entitled "Make the home beautiful," was sung by Sisters Esther Davis and Erma Pendleton. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Teachings and example of Church leaders invariably for righteousness. — The faithful noted for good works, but renegades become malignant persecutors. — Statistics proving high standard of Latter-day Saints. — The saloon bar:"A bar to heaven, a door to hell." — Plea for health promotion. 

I am pleased to again have the opportunity of meeting with the 

Latter-day Saints in general conference, and I rejoice in seeing so large an attendance at the opening meetings. It is evidence, to me, of great interest on the part of the people, and of their desire to hear what may be said by those who shall be called upon to address the Saints during this conference. I have rejoiced in the remarks that have been made in our hearing, thus far, and I earnestly desire that the same good spirit, which has attended the brethren who have spoken, may be with me in the remarks that I shall make. I desire to say only tliose things which will be for the good of the Latter-day Saints; and I am convinced that the desire which I have is the same that has always inspired the servants of the Lord when standing before the people to proclaim the gospel unto them. From my early childhood, when I had the privilege of attending meetings in the old tabernacle and in the oldbowery, as I look back and recall the counsel and advice given by those who spoke in our conferences, I realize that it was always good, and for the uplifting, for the advancement, and foi the welfare of the people. I have never heard, in all my life, any of the servants of the Lord giving any vicious advice, advising anybody to do wrong, or to perform any act other than a good act. The constant burden of the teaching that I have listened to, all my life, from my earliest recollections, from the servants of the Lord, has been : Serve God and keep His commandments; live lives of virtue; be honest; be sober; be loyal; be patriotic; serve God, and serve your country; be good; be kind; be charitable; be longsuffering. I do rejoice exceedingly in knowing that each and every one of the leading  of the Church of Christ, from my earliest recollection to the present day, have labored, and labored unceasingly, for the benefit and the uplifting of the people. 

One of the great testimonies, to me, of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged is the fact that those who have turned away from the truth, without one single, solitary exception that I can recall, have done so because they have failed to keep the commandments of God. To me it is little less than marvelous that no faithful man or woman, within my recollection, has ever lost the faith of the gospel. Only those who have neglected to serve God, only those that have not kept the light of the Holy Spirit burning within their hearts, by obeying the commandments of the living God, they are the only ones who have lost the faith and turned away. This gospel of Jesus Christ has been proclaimed all over the world, and from the day the Church was organized, not one single, solitary missionary, who was diligent and true in serving God, has ever lost the faith; and no missionary has come home with increased light and knowledge to tell us tnat the gospel is wrong, or that he has discovered the truth in some foreign land. But they have come home with increased faith, with increased knowledge, with greater love for the work of God than they had when they went away. I rejoice in these things. I rejoice that in all the travelings of all the elders, wherever they go, in every land and clime, they are constantly gaining increased testimonies, and evidences, and knowledge regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged; and this is as it should be. I regret, however, that there should be any of the Latterday Saints, that is, any of the product from the homes of the Latterday Saints, who should go out into the world and become the enemies of this people. I regret that some of the sons and daughters of faithful men and women in the Church should turn away from the truth and should become the enemies of the people and be numbered among those who malign, and belie, and villify the leaders of the Church and the people generally; but I am thankful that those who do this almost without an exception have made a record for wickedness, for corruption, for licentiousness. I thank God that by their fruits ye shall know them, and that the fruits of all those who have turned away from the gospel and are fighting against it today are unworthy. I confess freely and frankly that it would stagger me and the reasoning faculties with which God has endowed me, if I should discover that as men and women grew in good deeds, as they grew in virtue, as they grew in the love of their fellows, as they grew in ability to serve God, they lost the faith of the gospel of Jesus Christ; but I have never discovered one such individual. 

I remember purchasing a North American Review, some years ago, on the train or at the depot in San Francisco, and I found in that North American Review a very vicious attack upon the Latter-day Saints, by a grandson of the prophet Brigham Young. This man accused Brigham Young and the Mormon people of disloyalty to the Government of the United States. From my earliest recollection, at my mother's knee, I have been taught by her, and in public and in , by all those with whom I have ever mingled, loyalty to this country! At the very time that this young mari wrote his article attacking the "Mormon" people as being disloyal — this young man had been recreant to his faith — his own half-brother, a man loyal to his faith, true to God and the religion of his grandfather, was commanding the Utah batteries in the Philippines. "By their fruits ye shall know them;" and the fruits of the young Latter-day Saints have ever been the fruits of loyalty to our country. Today we are being attacked by a son of one of the late presidency of the Church, than whom no young man in all Israel has made a more unsavory record; no young man in all Israel has been more guilty of bringing sorrow and pain and humiliation to his parents; no young man has been more guilty of lying about the servants of God than this same man who today is publishing attacks upon the Latter-day Saints. "By their fruits ye shall know them." I rejoice that the wicked and the corrupt have no part with us. When I read such articles against us, I rejoice in knowing that they are false. The truth hurts, but falsehood never. "A lie lives only until it is found out;" but truth lives and survives; it will live forever, and it is bound to triumph. I rejoice in knowing that one of the most honest, one of the most Godfearing, one of the most humble, one of the most diligent of all the men whom I have ever known in the Church was the late Karl G. Maeser, ,and a vile, wicked: and corrupt article, written against the Latter-day Saints, was the cause of his "investigating the truth, it  been said that nothing can be done against us but what shall be for us — nothing against the truth but what shall redound for the benefit of the truth. When Brother Maeser read this article — that the "Mormon" people were industrious, that they were frugal, that they took care of their poor, better than any other people, that they were honest and temperate, and yet that they were wicked and vile and corrupt — "why," he said, "the man who wrote this article is a liar." The article gave the address where missionary work was being carried on in Scandinavia, and he wrote at once and received information which eventually led to his investigating and embracing the Gospel. 

I maintain that no man can reflect upon what has been read to us here today, unless his head needs fixing, and not be able to see a refutation of the charges made against the Latter-day Saints. The great life insurance companies of America, the greatest in all the world, being mutual companies, having no anxiety to make money for the stockholders, as they have none, and they will not insure a man's life unless he is up to a certain standard of health — they would not have me until after I was over forty years of age; they thought I was going to die, and would not take my money — but with all their selection of risks who come up to their standard, they have ten and a fraction who die to the thousand. With the lame, the halt, the sick, and all kinds among the Latter-day Saints, we have nine and a fraction. What a wonderful refutation that our people are vile! Do a corrupt people live long? No, they do not. Are they healthy? No, they are not. 

And in the divorces — five times as many divorces in the United States, on an average, as among the Latterday Saints; and the crying evil, today, in this country, is the breaking up of families, a lack of fidelity, men not being true to wives and children. Another great crying evil is the destroying of life, and the failure to have families. We lead them all, multiply them time and time again, by the number of children who are born among the Latter-day Saints. In all the vital statistics that go to make for good, we stand at the head. Years ago, when we were eighty-five per cent of the population of Utah, we had less than fifteen per cent of the criminals; and the remaining fifteen per cent of the population furnished the eighty-five per cent of the criminals. When it comes to insanity, we have, less of insanity. When it comes to sobriety, we have more of sobriety. When it comes to drunkenness, we have less of drunkenness. And so in all the vital statistics that go to make for good, we are not afraid to compare with the whole world. Let us remember that the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ speak for themselves in the lives of the Latter-day Saints; but let us, each and every one, make up our minds that we are going to improve our already splendid record. 

I rejoice in the key note that has been sounded here that, under the law which has been enacted, we can and should do away with the saloon in every community where the Latter-day Saints are in the majority. I read a few verses today along this line. When I read a thing that strikes me, I write it down, or if it is in a newspaper, I cut it out. I read something about a saloon, and I will read it to you: 

THE SALOON BAR. 

"A bar to heaven, a door to hell — Whoever named it, named it well! A bar to manliness and wealth, A door to want and broken health; A bar to honor, pride and fame, A door to sin and grief and shame; A bar to hope, a bar to prayer, A door to darkness and despair; A bar to honored, useful life, A door to brawling, senseless strife; A bar to all that's true and brave, A door to every drunkard's grave; A bar to joy that home imparts, A door to tears and aching hearts; A bar to heaven, a door to hell — Whoever named it, named it well!" 

I recommend that you expel this door to hell from your communities. You have the ability to do it; and if you do not do it, it will be your own fault. If, in years to come, the tears and the dishonor and the shame that are depicted in this little piece of poetry, come into your own home by the lives of your own children, a part of the sin will fall upon your own heads. We find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, that it shall be the duty of parents in Zion, or in any of her stakes that are organized, to teach their children faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they are to teach them to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord, and that they are to repent and be baptized before they are eight years of age. If the parents do not do this, the sin shall be upon the heads of the parents. Now, teaching by precept, without example, is mighty poor teaching. The apostle James is one of my favorites; he says : How much does it profit a man to say to the man who is hungry, Be thou fed, without giving him any food? Nothing at all. How much does it profit us to teach our children to serve God and to keep His commandments,  yet to put temptation in the way of our children. We have the power, so we are told in the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein we are agents unto ourselves, and that we should bring to pass much righteousness of our own free will and accord. Now, I would have liked, very much, during the last year or so, to have made a whole lot of speeches in favor of prohibition; but do you know that the disease of politics is of such a character that a man can't open his mouth, in the presence of some people, but what he is misunderstood, and they think lie is preaching politics. Politics, as I have often said, are a great deal like the measles : The measles don't hurt very much, if you will take some saffron tea and keep them on the surface; but if they once set in they turn your hide yellow and you can't see straight. (Laughter). And politics have more or less of the same effect. Let us keep politics on the surface, so far as any reformation is concerned, anything for the benefit of the people, for the advancement of the people, to help them to better serve God. We should not let politics interfere with anything of this kind. 

Now, another thing, I maintain that we have been very careless about sustaining and upholding law for the benefit of the general health of the people. There is a lack of interest, on the part of the people, in observing sanitary regulations. Let us improve in this regard. I took quite a lively interest in this question recently, and by request spoke once at a tuberculosis exhibit. The result was that I was asked to speak again and again, which' I did, and finally I was asked to contribute mv money and become a member of the association, which I did, be one good turn, they say, deserves another, (laughter) and you have to keep it up. I was astonished to find the lack of interest, a lack on the part of the people in heing interested in a thing of this kind, something for the general benefit. I was astonished to find that we could spend any amount of money legally for schools, for roads, for bridges, for public improvements, but we could not spend a dollar from the county funds to aid educationally, for the benefit of the people's health. I read of one good lady up in Dakota who said, if one of her hogs was sick, or if anything was the matter with any of the fruits, or flowers, or vegetables and garden truck, if there were troublesome insects or anything of that nature, all she had to do was to send down to Washington, and the Agricultural Department would supply her with information how to cure the hog or protect the plants in her garden. But, if her husband, her son or her daughter was sick, and she should write to the Government, she could not get any information or help. Moral: Be a hog, and the Government will take care of you, if you get sick. (Laughter). I hope we may be able to develop a better public sentiment for the improvement of the health of the people. I hope the people will think enough of the health of their fellows to quit expectorating all over the sidewalks. There has been a law against this for years, and yet some of the people pay no attention to it. 

Let us seek to better our condition — intellectually, physically, morally, and above all let us seek for the inspiration of Almighty God to guide us in all the walks of life, I ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELD EE HYETJM M. SMITH. 

President Joseph F. Smith's life book opened, revealing a life of righteousness. — Love of God, of country and mankind, sustained by precept and example. — Participation in Temple ordinances increases patriotism and all virtues. — Marriage contract for time and eternity. 

Many of the things that have already been spoken have been passing through my mind, and if I shall repeat some of them I trust the congregation will charge it to the spirit that seems to pervade the conference. This morning, in the address of President Smith, in referring to the presidency, he refrained from saying much about themselves. He declared that their lives were as an open book to the people; that we were familiar with them and their lives; and hence he felt it not necessary to make any special remarks concerning themselves and their labors. However, I should like, for a few moments this afternoon, to read a few pages from the book of the life of the President of the Church, inasmuch as I am more or less familiar with the contents thereof. My experience in connection with him, of course, covers the period of my own life, during, which time I have read, very extensively, the things contained in this book. We find therein written that he always has been very conscientious in the care and protection that he bestowed upon his wives and his children, and religiously endeavored to instruct them in the ways of truth and righteousness. He has taught his children from their infancy to be truthful and honest, to be virtuous and chaste, to be kind and just, and merciful, to be temperate and sober, and obedient. He taught his sons to love their country, to love the United States government, to love America. They were told that it was a chosen and highly favored land, choice above all other lands. That it has been held In reserve by the Lord as a land that should be inhabited by a people who should love God, and fear Him, and keep His commandments. His sons and daughters were taught that the discovery of this country was the result of the inspiration of God upon Columbus, and that the men who established the government were also servants of God, raised up and prepared and inspired to establish in this goodly land a government which should offer to the oppressed and the downtrodden of all the world a haven of refuge, where they might enjoy freedom and liberty, and also have the privilege of taking advantage of the unparalleled resources and opportunities for prosperity, advancement, and education that this great republic held out to them. 

Now, I may reveal, perhaps, something that has not been intended necessarily for the public. It is there recorded that he exemplified in a most wonderful degree, the principles of justice and impartiality among the members of his household — his wives and his children — so that it could not be discovered, that any one of them was held more dearly and more closely in his affections than any other. There was no favoritism, no injustice, no partiality shown; but on the other hand, as near as it is possible for man to execute judgment, and justice, and mercy, equitably, these things were so imparted to his family. He loved them all with a love akin to the love of God for His children. We have seen, upon more than one occasion, the presi bowed and crushed in sorrow over the bier of one of his departed children. We have seen him weep as only a great and strong man can weep; yet in the private instruction imparted to his sons and daughters he has told them that he would rather carry every one of them to the grave, in their purity and their innocence, than have one of them ever deny God, or turn away from the Gospel of Jesus Christ and depart from the Church, as it has been established through Joseph Smith, the prophet. He has taught and so impressed it upon his sons and daughters that they knew he spoke the truth — that notwithstanding his great love for his children, he would rather bury them, or die a thousand deaths himself than to see them fall from virtue and chastity, or into drunkenness and immorality. These things were taught at home to his children as they grew from infancy to youth, and from youth to manhood. 

We have also known him as a man of God, as a servant of the Lord, ministering among the people, in public. We have heard him on numberless occasions, and we have never found that he taught a different doctrine in public than that which he taught in private, but that the same principles of justice, mercy, righteousness, prayer, chastity, charity, and sobriety, loyalty and patriotism, were preached unto the Church. The pages that constitute the public part of that book, aswas said this morning, are open before the people; you know them; you may read the contents and judge whether or not I speak the truth. Now, I have been through the temple; I have received the blessings of the house of the Lord; I have received, perhaps, all that may be imparted to members of the 

Church therein; and I have never been taught anything that is in the least contrary to the instructions which I have received in private and in public from the President of the Church and from the servants of God, the elders called to preach the gospel. I have never taken an oath, nor made a covenant that is mimical to our country or its government, nor have I ever been required or even asked to do so. Is it not impossible to even think of a man teaching that this is a land of Zion, a choice land of God, reserved for a government that shall extend liberty and freedom unto all men, preserving their rights unto them; and teaching that his children should be loyal, should sustain the government and uphold it, and never upbraid nor rail against dignitaries who are selected and chosen to hold responsible and governing positions, teaching his sons to lay down their lives, if need be, in defense of their country, and of their people, and of their government, just as they had been taught to lay down their lives, if need be, for virtue's or Christ's sake — I say it would be impossible to think of a man giving such instructions as these to his sons if he was himself disloyal and knew that at manhood and maturity they would be permitted to go into the house of God and there be required to take a covenant or oath that was treasonable to the government. Now, then, so far as that charge is concerned, let me again say what has often been said, and what every Latter-day Saint who has been in the house of God knows, that there is nothing there that requires any man to be disloyal in any degree to his country. But, . if it is possible for a man, born an American citizen, of parents themselves American citizens, descended  an ancestry of loyal Americans who fought and bled in defense of the principles of liberty and freedom and right, to have his love for his country increased, then the obligations and covenants imparted to him in the house of God would accomplish it. No man who goes into the house of the Lord in worthiness but that will come out again more loyal and patriotic to both God and his country, than he was before, also more willing and determined to sustain and uphold this government, which God has established, and to perpetuate it and its benign influences. 

Why, my brethren and sisters, you know these things as well as I know them; and so far as the president of the Church is concerned, let me say that it is given to few men to more thoroughly and honorably exemplify, in their lives, these noble precepts which he and his associates have been engaged in teaching, both in private and in public. 

Now, we say this to Latter-day Saints, who know it to be the truth, in the hope that it may go beyond the Latter-day Saints and find its way among strangers, who do not understand the truth, and who are misinformed. It may be like casting pearls before swine; the swine may trample them beneath their feet; but the lustre of such jewels as these cannot be dimmed, they will be seen and discovered, gathered up and cherished by those who are seeking for the truth. They will be enlightened, and they will be impressed that the Latter-day Saints, as has been testified of them today, by President Lyman, Brother Grant, and others, are a good people. They are a good people, because they have been taught to be a good people, because all the precepts of the gospel are good, because every principle of the gospel of Christ is a good principle. Every doctrine of the gospel and every precept imparted, in this Church, tend to exalt, and uplift, and ennoble men and make them better, purer, and more righteous men and women, more devoted, and full of integrity, loyalty, and faithfulness both to God and to man. I know whereof I speak, concerning the President of the Church, because my life has been enwrapped with his to this moment; I do not know any one who can better, perhaps, bear testimony of these truths than I, though it may be rather personal. And such a man as he has been, all Latter-day Saint men should be , and many Latter-day Saint men are. This is the kind of fathers and mothers the gospel teaches men and women to be. 

I rejoiced most wonderfully when those statistics were read concerning the fidelity, the unswerving loyalty and faithfulness on the part of wives to their husbands and husbands to their wives in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The gospel requires men to be true to their wives; as well as it requires women to be true to their husbands. The covenants we take in the house of God make an impression upon our hearts, as great as life itself, and more enduring than mortal life. Those joined in the holy bonds of matrimony, by the servants of God, clothed upon by the authority of the priesthood, are precious to each other. They must cherish and love and be true to one another as long as they live, because they are married for time and for all eternity. There can be no trivial thing allowed to come between man and wife who are united in accordance with the principles  doctrines and ordinances of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jealousy, human weaknesses, frailties, mistakes must be tolerated and borne with in love and patience. We are all subject more or less to these human frailties, and we expect that those given to each other in the holy bonds of matrimony will be tolerant, kind and long suffering. They know that they must not allow little things to so grow that they bring about a separation and divorce and a severing of those bonds so sacredly entered into. No, we are not like the world; trifles can't separate men and women whom God joins together. Trifles often come between those joined together by men and result in separation and sorrow, because there is no virtue, or little, it seems, in the ceremonies thus enacted and entered into by the authority of man alone. With us it is different; we are joined by the power and the authority of God, and we must endure. Thank God, men and women thus united, who are full of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the love of the truth, are willing to do their duty and fulfill the measure of their creation, to become fathers and mothers in Israel, with the hope and knowledge that in thus obeying God they are laying the foundations for their kingdoms and exaltations, in the presence of the eternal Father. 

I rejoice in the record we have thus made, and I pray that the Lord will give us strength and power to ever increase and make better our splendid record of fidelity and truthfulness, of sincerity and virtue, one to another, as husbands and wives, as fathers and mothers, as parents and children, and as a peo-pie before the Lord and before our fellow men in the nation. God help  to fulfill the mighty and glorious destiny that we have set set forth to accomplish, under His direction and inspiration, and all honor, and glory, and power, and dominion be unto God the Father, and Jesus Christ, the Son, forever and ever. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Let us all press on in the work of the Lord, 

That when life is o'er we may gain a reward; 

In the fight for right let us wield a 

sword, 

The mighty sword of Truth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 


