10
Outdoor
03 10 1915
Elder William H. Smart.
137
29-30

None

None

(President of Duchesne Stake.) 

Brethren and sisters, we have some up from the four quarters of the earth to be in attendance upon the Semi-Annual General Conference, which opens this morning, that we may learn more fully of the ways of the Lord, and return to our homes and endeavor to walk more circumspectly in His paths.  
  
I deem myself under sacrifice by being deprived of the privilege of a place in the Tabernacle this morning, that I might listen to the opening address of the President, and no doubt, in this respect, we all have harmonious sentiments; but it is willed otherwise, therefore, let us submit ourselves with becoming humility to our present lot.  
  
We commenced these services by singing the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter-day days." As we did so I wondered whether we really sense the full significance of these words, and in very truth feel the gratitude they convey. This has been designated as "The dispensation of the fulness of times." It is designed to be laden with most important events, as the essential keys of the Gospel of all former dispensations are to be committed to it; and all important achievements, spiritually and temporally, are converging toward the second coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, as a distinctive feature in fulfilment of the promise made at the time of His transfiguration, in the meridian of time.  
  
The Prophet Isaiah foresaw that the Lord, at a certain time of the world's history, would "proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder;" and the early revelations unto the Prophet Joseph Smith clearly indicated this day to be the time of its fulfilment, and set forth the Gospel, with all the achievements to be accomplished under its divine power and authority, to be that "work." Doubtless, many worthy Saints who have gone before, who, through the eye of prophecy, were permitted to behold this age, well nigh envied those who should live during it and be successful participants in its accomplishments.  
  
The first important event ushering in this dispensation was the visitation of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith, when he was a boy, and in answer to his query as to which of all the various churches was divinely recognized, he was told that they had all gone astray, and for him to go not after any of them, and that in due time the true Gospel would be restored.  
  
A few years later, in the year 1823, the Angel Moroni was sent to Joseph, who acquainted him further regarding this work that was about to commence, and revealed to him the existence of a book of metallic plates, upon which were inscribed the history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, of some of whom the American Indians are a remnant. After four years training, Moroni finally delivered unto Joseph these plates, together with the Urim and Thummim, by the aid of which, and through the gift and power of God, Joseph translated this history into the English language. He found that not only was it profane history, but that it related the hand dealings of God with branches of the House of Israel on this continent, and contained the Gospel as given unto the Nephites by Jesus in person, after His crucifixion. This same Moroni had stood, 1400 years before, as the last of his exterminated race, who had fallen through transgression. He being the last historian had, under divine instruction, hid these records in the Hill Cumorah, and it was fitting that he should restore them when the time arrived for their coming forth. On the east pinnacle of yonder Temple stands his statue, trumpet in hand, figuring the heralding of the Gospel, in fulfilment of the vision of John the Revelator, wherein he saw an angel bringing the Gospel again to earth.  
  
Isaiah saw the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, in the day when the Lord would "proceed to do a marvelous work" when a certain people, through their history would "speak out of the ground." Ezekiel foresaw that a stick, or book, of Joseph would be brought forth and would go hand in hand with the stick of Judah; and the Elders are now going forth into the world with these dual witnesses — the Bible and Book of Mormon — of the hand dealings of God with these branches of the House of Israel.  
  
As this "marvelous work" unfolded, John the Baptist, in the year 1829, came and conferred upon Joseph the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, and was followed by Peter, James and John, who conferred the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood, they themselves having received the same in the Messianic dispensation.  
  
A House of the Lord having been erected at Kirtland, Ohio, under divine instructions, the climax of these commitments seemed then to have been reached. The Savior appeared therein to the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, proclaimed to them His identity, forgave them of sin, declared them to be clean before Him, and accepted the Temple. Following this visitation came Moses, Elias and Elijah and committed, respectively, the keys of the gathering of Israel; the dispensation of the Gospel of Abraham, through whom all nations of the earth were to be blessed; and the keys of salvation of the dead. With respect to his mission, the Prophet Elijah declared that the time had fully come spoken of by Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) would be sent "before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse."  
  
I humbly pray that through faith, repentance and good works, and through the blood of the Redeemer, we shall be cleansed from all sin, and finally prove ourselves wholly worthy of the privilege and the responsibility of being participants in this "marvelous work," and of being partakers of its munificent blessings; which may Our Father grant in the name of His Son, Jesus. Amen. 