14
Afternoon
03 10 1915
Elder Mark Austin.
68
42-43

None

None

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I, too, am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this opportunity of bringing to you the greeting and good feeling of the people of the Fremont Stake of Zion. I desire to say unto you that they are very much interested in the work of God in the earth. They are a good people, and the Lord has abundantly blessed them in the land to which they have gone under the direction of the prophets of God.  
  
I have been very much interested in the remarks, teachings, counsel and advice we have received in this conference from President Smith, and the other brethren who have addressed us. Surely we can say in our hearts we are blessed of God. He has given unto Israel mighty men, clothed with the power of the holy priesthood for the blessing and salvation of the souls of men. We have listened to President Hart, who has lived in Idaho, as he has said, for twenty years. Because of his life and conduct, his straightforwardness in dealing with the people of Idaho, they have respected and honored him in their legislative assemblies; and everywhere that he has gone he has brought honor to our people. We are blessed by the labors of Brother Hart and those who are associated with him, and we are very grateful for this. The Lord softens the hearts of good men and women of the world, who have misunderstood us, when they come to know us; if they love righteousness.  
  
I pray that the Lord may bless us and help us to understand the great mission that has been given to us in the world, to teach men the truth, and when they know it they shall be made free. When men speak unkindly of those whom the Lord has called to positions in the Church, surely they are not our friends, or they would let us rest in peace, in the enjoyment of our right to happiness. But when some cry out falsely things that disturb our peace, surely those can not be regarded as our friends, and we feel justified in warning the Latter-day Saints against them. If a man loves you he will not try to disturb your happy condition. They who are unhappy, and desire to have you likewise, are inspired by Satan, like the adversaries of this work, who accomplished the martyrdom of the Prophet and his brother, and other faithful elders of this Church. Their power ends with the destruction of life, they are not able to go further. The old prophet said, "Fear God who may destroy both the body and the soul in hell." We have no need to fear men who have power to harm the body only.  
  
I thank God that He has called such splendid men to lead us, whose lives are an example of righteousness. God's work is going onward and upward; and one stands at the head today who is fearless as a lion in defense of truth and righteousness. He has the admiration of good men and women in all the world, when they understand his motives. His counselors, the chosen twelve, and all the general authorities of the Church are also righteous men.  
  
May the Lord bless us and help us to be loyal, in accord with the song that has just been sung. We should be thankful for the prophets and the poets; may the Lord bless them, and help us all to understand and properly perform our mission in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 