15
Afternoon
03 10 1915
Elder Walter P. Monson.
94
43-46

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I am deeply gratified for this opportunity of standing before you for a few moments this afternoon, bringing a word of good cheer from the Elders and scattered Saints who are living in the Eastern States mission, on the northeastern borders of this great republic, and also in the four eastern provinces of Canada. I trust that what I shall say, my brethren and sisters, will be actuated and inspired by the Holy Spirit. In and of myself I feel wholly incapable of edifying you. I often think of the example which Joseph, who was sold by his brethren into Egypt, furnishes. When he was brought from the dungeon, after he had prepared himself to go into the august presence of King Pharaoh, on which occasion he was required to give an interpretation of Pharaoh's dream, which had troubled him, he stated, "It is not in me, yet God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace." I have found through my experience in the mission field, and at home, that the Lord will not leave those who are engaged in His service, so long as they will put their trust in Him.  
  
Today the thought has been passing through my mind, what would a mature person answer who should land upon the eastern shores of the United States, when asked, "Have you investigated Mormonism?" He may say, "I have never heard of such doctrine." Perhaps he would set out in search for the truth or falsity of what the world would call "Mormonism." He may go to one of the theatres in New York City, and he will find "Mormonism" made the coarse and vulgar jest of the wicked. He might go to the churches of New York City, and other eastern centers, and find the maledictions of the preachers poured out almost in liquid eloquence against this people. He will go upon the street corners and he will hear "Mormonism" spoken of as a hiss and a by-word. Eventually he may encounter two young men standing fearlessly before the passing crowd declaring that God has spoken from the heavens unto His Prophet Joseph Smith, and has revealed His mind and will to the children of men in this age as in former years. He might be impressed with the sincerity of these young and faithful ministers, and conclude to read some of their literature, and finally decide that he will come to where these people live, that he might learn for himself what "Mormonism" really is. He enters the valleys of these mountains, he sees the beautiful shade trees, and the orchards overburdened with fruit, the fields and the farms well cultivated and luxuriant with golden grain. Every way he turns there is beauty and thrift. When he associates with the people, he finds cleanliness and devotion in their lives, he is compelled to change his erroneous opinion of "Mormonism" to what it really is. He would say, "If this is the fruits of the system that has been mocked and made the subject of coarse theatre jests, and paraded ludicrously upon the vaudeville stage of this country, and has been made a theme of reproach in many a pulpit, then I say, 'God speed Mormonism.' " "By their fruits shall ye know them," and not by what their enemies say of them.  
  
I am sometimes constrained to wish that some of you western people could partake of the "luxuries" that we are having in the East. Conditions are not all pacific, I will say, in the East. There are all manner of representatives of various anti-Mormon organizations trying to deceive the people in regard to what we believe, and with words of eloquence they are blinding the eyes of many good and honest-hearted people. Comparatively speaking, we are just a mere handful, and though I speak of the Eastern States Mission, especially, the same may be said of all the missions in the United States, and those in Europe also. Missionaries clothed in the robes of the holy priesthood, going out meeting and contending with the education and the training of men of the world, missionaries who have not been met squarely, who have not been treated fairly, they are declaring that God lives, and is revealing His mind and will to the children of men. Some of the reports of our opponents' efforts that come to our notice occasionally are not without comedy. I have with me a few newspaper clippings, which come from a Press Clipping Bureau, and I want to bring some of these "luxuries" home to you. I will read only three of them. Here is one from the Philadelphia Pennsylvania Inquirer under date of April 29th, 1915, quite recent:  
  
PERIL SEEN IN MORMONISM.  
  
Speaker Warns Mothers That Daughters Are in Danger.  
  
"Mothers, it is time your eyes are opened to the dangers that threaten your daughters, that attend the high schools and colleges in this country," declared Mrs. May Leonard Woodfurd, recording secretary of the Women's Home Mission Society, at the quarterly meeting of the Philadelphia Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, which was held yesterday at the Arch Street M. E. Church, Broad and Arch Streets.  
  
"Mrs. Woodfurd spoke of the number of people in this country, amounting, she said, to 68,000,000, that profess Christian religions. She spoke of the growth of 'Mormonism' in the Eastern States."  
  
[Now she is dealing with something that we know a little bit about.]  
  
'"The Mormon Church has 2200 missionaries in and around Pittsburgh alone.' " [Laughter.]  
  
I felt compelled to compliment Elder Watson, who is presiding over that conference. I turned to him, and to the four elders who were laboring in that great city, and said, "President Watson, you and your companions are a considerable crowd."  
  
"She said, ' they are attending schools and colleges, and frequently induced good girls to adopt the monstrosity they call religion.'  
  
"The Membership Committee, consisting of Mrs. Seymour Eaton and Mrs. Leonard Woodfurd, announce an increase of fifteen hundred members [of the Mormon Church in that district] during the last quarter of this year."  
  
We are glad to know we are making this progress, and I am not sure but what there is some truth in the report from their point of view; not from our records, however. These people, who are thus antagonizing the Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter-day Saints, hold that all that is necessary for a person to do in order to join their church is to go to their prayer meeting and say, "I believe." I am very grateful for Mrs. Woodruff's opinion that there are fifteen hundred people who have gone to the ministers and said, "I believe in Mormonism;" but they haven't had the courage to be baptized yet. The harvest is coming.  
  
At our conference six months ago a report was read of the expenditures of tithing paid during  
  
1914, which amounted to nearly two million dollars. Here is a clipping taken from the Lutheran's publication under date August 15th,  
  
1915. even more recent than the last clipping:  
  
"The advantages of centralized authority, and of a well-developed financial system, are well illustrated in the achievements of Mormonism. The hierarchy has just issued a report which accounts for nearly two billion dollars received in tithes the past year." [Laughter.]  
  
If the Church population is fve hundred thousand, that makes four thousand dollars each individual paid in tithing. (Laughter.) I call upon all to give some substantial reason why an organization whose members are capable of earning forty thousand dollars each per year and of paving four thousand dollars each in tithes, should be opposed. Nor do the reports seem to be in consonance with each other. Of course everything must be true when it is against the "Mormons." It is really surprising to see how some people will swallow bait, sinker and all. Here is a clipping from the Meadville Pennsylvania Messenger, September 15th, 1915, so recent that the ink almost smears under my fingers:  
  
"INTERESTING LECTURE ON MORMONISM.  
 
"By Mrs. Deifenderfor in First Presbyterian Churches.  
  
"Some startling facts concerning Mormonism were really brought to light by the lecture of Mrs. Deifenderfor at the Presbyterian Church. The following are a few extracts.  
  
"Mormonism is the most highly organized institution in the world today. So perfect is the machinery that a command can be flashed from the head to its most remote member in just forty minutes." [Laughter.]  
  
"It numbers millions of adherents." [Did you get that?! [Laughter.] "It numbers millions of adherents, and has at least three colonies in every state of our Union. It has established churches in New York City," [I wish that were true,] "in Chicago, and many other cities, and has two hundred missionaries in Pittsburgh."  
  
Someone has made a mistake of at least two thousand missionaries. One says two thousand two hundred and another says two hundred. We are being "exposed" before the world, and a great many honest-hearted people are writing to our headquarters asking for literature, and we are only too pleased to supply the same, sending it by special messengers who have been set apart for that work; and we believe the work is growing. The sentiment is changing, notwithstanding the great effort that is being put forth by the adversary of men's souls to thwart the purposes of the Lord in sending this Gospel message to the ends of the earth. I feel we are camping on higher ground every night. We are trying to carry to the hearts of the children of men the doctrine of love for mankind, that man should love men as brothers, and that all should love and respect and obey God, our Father in heaven, as a father.  
  
Now may the peace of our heavenly Father abide in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints forever, I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. 