16
Afternoon
03 10 1915
Elder Charles A. Callis.
3
46-47

None

None

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

The Book of Mormon declares that when we are engaged in the service of our fellow men we are only engaged in the service of our God. The service that wives and mothers in Israel, and the fathers, and the missionaries are rendering is as sacred in the sight of God as the service that angels are rendering around the throne of the Almighty. In the 17th chapter of the Gospel of St. Luke, it is said that Jesus healed ten lepers; of the ten that were healed only one came back to glorify God. The sin of ingratitude is a most abhorent one. I wonder if the account of this healing was intended for the admonition of Israel. I wonder if we who have been favored of God in our crops, and have been blessed in our basket and in our store, sometimes forget to glorify God by paying our tithing and by worshiping the Almighty with all our mind, and might, and heart and soul.  
  
I believe, brethren and sisters, we ought not to look too far into the distant future, I believe there are blessings around and about us. Recently, when a photographer in Atlanta was taking the picture of our recently erected Church edifice, he invited me to look on the plate and I was endeavoring to look through the plate and could discern nothing; but he said to me: "Mr. Callis, look on the plate; don't try to look through it;" and then I beheld a beautiful picture. On every hand, are testimonies of the truth of this Gospel. There are mighty prophecies being fulfilled now at our very doors that we can rejoice in and have our faith strengthened thereby.  
  
When the President of the Church stood up this morning and announced the blessed news that a temple was to be erected on one of the far distant islands of the sea, I said in my heart that that glorious prediction, that the spirit and power of Elijah would be manifested in this dispensation among this people is being gloriously and splendidly fulfilled.  
  
For these splendid things that are happening in our midst, for the great men who preside over us, for this great Gospel, for Israel — for Israel is a splendid people — I thank God, and bear testimony that this is the work of God and that we are the people of God; in the name of Jesus. Amen. 