18
Second Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder Robert D. Young.
113
49-52

None

None

(President of Sevier Stake.)  
  
My brethren, sisters and friends, President Snow was speaking about our hearts beating, but I do not believe that your hearts are beating quite as fast as mine is in occupying this position.  
  
It was stated when I was introduced that I was from Sevier. I remember the question being asked, are the people severe? Not at all. I feel that we have a splendid good people in the Sevier stake of Zion, a people that are at peace with one another as well as with their Gentile friends, and God is blessing them always.  
  
While I was looking over the congregation this afternoon, I thought how differently I viewed this grand congregation than a certain gentleman did, a Rev. Collins, of Australia. I labored in that far-off land, among goodly people for upwards of three years, and I enjoyed very much the hospitality and bigheartedness of that people. (By the way, I see faces in this congregation of some that I was instrumental in the hands of the Lord of taking into the waters of baptism. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that I was obedient to that call, to go as called by the Prophet of the Lord and perform missionary labors in that distant land.) This reverend gentleman I have alluded to paid Utah a visit to study the "Mormon" religion, and also to learn something of the character of the "Mormon" people. When he returned he advertised to his own congregation, giving them to distinctly understand that he did not want it to come to the missionaries' ears, that he was going to deliver a lecture and expose "Mormonism," and tell the people something true about the real character of the "Mormon" people. But some of his good peole quietly informed us when the meeting would be, and we were in attendance, and sat immediately in front of the stand. When he beheld us it seemed to trouble him very much, and it was easily to be seen that he was not at ease. However, he told how he got on the boat at Sydney, and spoke of some of the customs of the Americans as he found them on the boat, which by the way was an American boat. In telling about when he landed in San Francisco he seemed to be a little worked up in his feelings, and as he told about how he came across what he called the barren waste of the desert parts of Nevada, he seemed to be a little more worked up in his feelings. But when he alluded to his arrival in Ogden, he stopped and hesitated, and evidently hardly knew what to say. However, he proceeded, and told about Brigham Young's home and his "forty wives," and other absurdities so on and so forth, which seemed to be very pleasant to some of the congregation. He said, "everything seemed to work in my favor. There was a 'Mormon' conference, and I attended the meeting in the Tabernacle. They had a choir leader who was a perfect genius of music from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, and they had a splendid large choir. But O Lord!" he said, "of all the careworn, poor, miserable looking mothers you ever saw, there were many in that congregation. And what was worse," he said, "was when some of those 'prophets,' as they claim to be, arose to their feet and spoke, and of all the dry discourses that I ever listened to in my life I heard the worst there. But, fortunately, the congregation, practically all, feel asleep, and I prayed to the Lord that I could fall asleep also "  
  
I sat in front of the "reverend." and when he got through I asked him for the privilege of reading a statement from a cosmopolitan gentleman, who had circumnavigathed our globe three times, and who, during his travels, had visited Utah. In Australia, I said, this gentleman that I desire to quote to you, is esteemed to be one of your greatest men, a man whose integrity is unimpeachable, a man who is known throughout this land for his honesty and uprightness. I want you to permit me, before you dismiss this meeting, to read to this people his views along the same line that you have been speaking here this evening. Mr. Collins replied, "This is my meeting, and I want you to distinctly understand that I don't want any 'Mormon' to open his month here and speak to my people." And, after a few words more, he dismissed his meeting.  
  
I want to state that was an example of a prejudiced mind, a man who had vainly tried to stop the work, and had done all in his power to destroy the effect of the diligent labors of the elders in that far-off land. But we find a different example in that gentleman who came here with an unprejudiced mind, with a view to ascertain the truth, and learn for himself whether these stories were true or not. That gentleman made a statement, in words to this effect: that the people should cease striving against the "Mormon" elders, for "I beheld in the Staff of Utah the most noble women and mothers that I have seen in all my travels. I advise that you cease fighting their boys, because the whole ministerial world can never thwart the progress of sons born of such noble mothers." However, the reverend gentleman did not let me tell the congregation that. Later we had the privilege of delivering- our tracts to the greater part of his congregation, and we were instrumental in the hands of the Lord in baptizing some of his foremost people, which vexed him very much.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel grateful when fair-minded persons come in our midst and praise the people. They find the fruits of the Gospel to be good; they find young men who are clean, and high-minded. They find that our young women are pure, modest and refined. They have been taught by their fathers and mothers the principles of life and salvation. They are young men and women who, with their fathers and mothers, sincerely thank God every clay of their lives for His blessings.  
  
When we sing this beautiful hymn, "We thank thee, O God. for a Prophet," our hearts are made glad, and we rejoice we live in the day and age when prophets are with us. We heard inspired words from the lips of the prophet this morning, and I believe they met responsive welcome in every heart, and that our determination is now more than ever before to go forth and diligently perform the sacred work that is assigned to us.  
  
A great thinker and writer has said, "It is not possible for God to be everywhere, therefore He gave us mothers." I wonder if we appreciate our good mothers, our fathers also, those who have taught us all the days of our life to be pure, to be upright, to be honest and to let our light so shine that the world may see it and glorify our Father in heaven. I was just thinking that my mother in far-off Scotland, (pardon me to refer to it), was one of the first in the neighborhood where she resided to join the Church. She had lost her father and mother, and was staying with a family as a servant girl. When she told this family about "Mormonism," they became very angry. She was then only 14 years old, and they stated to her that if she did not cease visiting the meetings they would dismiss her from their service. She asked them not to be so harsh, and said, "I know it is true, I have a testimony it is true." They tried to convince her that it was just a hallucination of the mind, but they could not, and finally she was baptized, and they drove her from their home. All the money she had in her pocket at that time was 24 cents — one shilling — and she gave that, the night she was driven from home, to secure a hall, which was known as Townhead Hall, for the elders to preach in that night. Those elders blessed her and told her that she would never want; and that blessing, I want to testify, has been literally fulfilled. She remained firm, steadfast, and immovable to the cause of Truth. One of the members of that family, a young man, became converted, and finally the entire family were converted, and came to Utah, and their testimony was to the effect that it was all due to the integrity and faith of that little girl. My mother was also instrumental in getting my father to attend meetings, and finally he became converted. When my father and mother came to Salt Lake City with the other emigrants, there was a dinner already prepared for them by this very family that had driven her from their home because of her belief in "Mormonism." I thank the Lord for her immovable faith. I wonder if we are all appreciative of the trials and sacrifices that our fathers and mothers have made to bring us to this goodly land, this great land of America. Are we appreciative of the fact that we are recipients of the true Gospel, that we understand the plan of life and salvation, and that we have so many blessings showered down upon us day by day? I wonder if we are counting these many blessings, thanking the Lord for them, and regarding the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ as the biggest thing in all the world. That we may do this, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 