21
Second Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder George F. Richards.
28
57-59

None

Individual responsibility an essential characteristic in welfare of the Church — Aggregate of "little things" immensely valuable — Prayer one of the most important of "little things" — All Church duties, though humble, are important.  
  
My dear brethren and sisters, I cheerfully and unreservedly bear my testimony to the truth of the remarks of our brethren who have addressed us this afternoon and the spirit which has prompted those remarks. I commend the same to you all, including myself. It will be profitable for us to ponder these things, and to put them, as far as possible, into the practice of our lives.  
  
The remarks made in this meeting and in the meeting this morning, in the large tabernacle, reminded me of some of the savings of the Apostle Paul, which I desire to read to von briefly from the first chapter of First Corinthians:  
  
"For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; and these things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and the things which are not, to bring to nought things that are, that no flesh shall glory in his presence."  
  
And then in the next chapter the Apostle Paul says:  
  
"But as it is written. Eve hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him. But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit, for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him; neither can he know them, because they are spiritedly discerned."  
  
The little things, my brethren and sisters, which go to make up our religious life are the things which count in the end, both for the individual members and also for the Church as a whole, just as the details in any business go toward making the success of that business enterprise.  
  
During the conference we have had detailed some of the things that indicate the growth of this great work in which we are engaged; additional stakes and wards, an increase of population, of tithings paid, etc.  
  
If we would have Zion strong and so recognized in the world, with powers for good, we as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ought each to take his share of responsibility in making it so. If the members are all strong, Zion will indeed be strong and potent for good. Neither does our strength as individuals in a religious capacity nor as an organization of the Church consist in a spirit of independence, of being proud and boastful, or blasphemous, or of exercising our agency so as to show our independence in doing things which no honorable, good man or woman would stoop to do. Our strength is in God, our Eternal Father, through living the laws of the Gospel which He has revealed, and they are made up of little things; and as the Apostle Paul said, "These are as foolishness in the eyes of the world," of men who see not the things of God because they enjoy not the Spirit of God. But not so with us who have entered in at the door of the sheepfold in the way that has been appointed, who have had sealed upon our heads the Holy Ghost, with the rights and privileges of having Him ever with us to guide us in life, strengthen us against evil, giving us power to overcome self, to see and understand the truth, to love and obey it, and to finally obtain salvation.  
  
"Except ye be converted and become as a little child ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." Jesus did not say, except ye become a king upon the throne, or a judge upon the bench. No — ye must be humble even as a little child, so humble that ye can worship God your Father and acknowledge Him and give Him reverence, so humble that ye can acknowledge Jesus Christ the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and serve and follow Him. There is no salvation except through Jesus Christ our Savior, and except through acknowledging Him as such, and by yielding obedience unto the laws and ordinances of His Gospel, simple though they may be.  
  
Brethren and sisters, the little things of life, such as the saying of our prayers, are important. Are we trying to go through life without the help of our Heavenly Father, expecting to obtain a salvation? If we expect His help, and we must have it if we succeed in this great enterprise, we must obtain it through the means which He has ordained, and that is through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, we must obtain it by seeking after it. The promise is only to those who seek. "To those who ask it shall be given," and our asking must be in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavers is like the waves of the sea, driven of the winds and tossed.  
  
Who of us are grown, and were taught when we were children at our mother's knee to pray in secret before laying our heads down to rest at night, and again in the morning after we had risen to offer to Him our prayers, have outgrown these things? Is it possible, brethren and sisters, that we need less of the protecting care of the Lord? less of His guiding hand and inspiration now when we are grown, and have a multitude of responsibilities, than when we were little children? Or is it because we think the Lord will hear the prayers of children, and will not hear us? Or is it because we have so far departed from the way of the Lord that we feel embarrassed and ashamed when we undertake to approach Him in prayer? Or what is the reason that we have forsaken our secret prayers? And have we adopted the order in the Church of praying in our families? If not, why not, brethren and sisters? If we have not adopted this custom in our religious life we are not in full harmony with the Church and the Latter-day Saints. We could call attention to other little things that have been spoken of. The attending to our fasts, for instance. Was the fast day instituted for a few, and they of a certain class! No, it was instituted for every man and woman, from the highest to the least in the Church, and I cannot justify myself in neglecting to fast on fast day. I cannot justify myself in withholding my offerings from the poor which should be given upon the fast day. And so with our tithing. If I am justified in not paying my tithing, why should you be required, my brethren and sisters, to pay tithing? Is not this a common cause in which we are engaged, the building up of the kingdom, and are not the tithes of the people used for that purpose? On the other hand, if you who do not pay your tithing are justified before the Lord, why should not I be justified without paying tithing, or every other member of the Church? And so with every religious duty that devolves upon us. I admonish you to an exercise of care, my brethren and sisters, to all these little details which go to make up the consistent, faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint, and promise you that if you will do so you will have peace of mind such as cannot be purchased with gold and silver or with houses and lands or flocks and herds, yea, that which will surpass by far everything earthly. You will have joy in life, and a hope and an assurance that you will obtain eternal life with all its attendant blessings.  
  
We must know that our course of life is approved of God or we never can exercise that faith in Him which is necessary to take hold upon the blessings of eternal life. And let us remember, too, that we are dependent creatures, that we need the Lord's help to do these simple little things, to live the true and consistent life that is required of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
Now the Lord bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and sanctify to our mutual good, our happiness and our slavation, the remarks, the spirit, the prayers, the singing of this session of our conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
