24
Second Outdoor
03 10 1915
Elder Benjamin Goddard.
63
63-65

None

None

(President of Temple Block Mission.)  
  
I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to speak under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, and that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers. My voice is somewhat husky as I have participated in several gatherings of late. I have been interested in all that has been said this afternoon, and also in the open air meeting this morning, with regard to the great latter day work.  
  
I endorse the remarks of my brethren who have testified that the Lord has commenced a great work in this dispensation. You have heard them comment upon the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. They have referred to the organization of the Church, to the coming of prophets, the appearance of angels upon the earth and their messages to the Prophet Joseph.  
  
This story, wonderful as it is, would have little effect upon the minds of the people if it were not for the evidences of truth following these great events. We declare unto all men, and to all people, that God has not only established His Church, and given unto us prophets and apostles, pastors and teachers, but He has placed His seal upon this work by permitting fruits to follow the ministry of His servants.  
  
I refer particularly to some of the revelations mentioned in your hearing this day, viz: — that angels have come to the earth, that the Prophet Moroni, whose statue is upon our Temple here, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith as a resurrected being, and revealed unto him the records from which the Book of Mormon has been translated.  
  
At a previous meeting, the statement was made that Moses, the prophet, appeared in Kirtland and gave unto the Prophet Joseph the keys of the gathering of Israel, that Elijah the Prophet had also appeared and conferred the keys for the redemption of the dead, that the Gospel with all its authority was now upon the earth, and that we are ministering by virtue of the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood, the power of God given to men. We are often asked for proofs indicating that these statements are true.  
  
Allow me therefore to draw attention to the following facts. In this congregation there are members of the Church who heard the Gospel in Europe, or upon the islands of the sea, or in various parts of this continent. We appeal to you and ask, why are you here in these valleys of the mountains? What incentive brought you here? You will answer by saying that you have believed, with all your hearts, the declaration of Isaiah, that "in the last clays, the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the tops of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it." You are here in fulfilment of that prophecy. God has implanted in your hearts a desire to be with His people; and therefore you have gathered from the nations of the earth, the islands of the sea, and from various parts of this country. Man alone could not have brought together such a wonderful assemblage of people as we see now upon Temple Block. We have sung, "Israel, Israel, God is calling."  
  
I testify that we have heard that call and by our presence give evidence that the keys of the gathering were indeed conferred upon Joseph Smith by Moses the prophet. We have felt the inspiration of the Almighty and the impress has been made upon our souls that this is God's work.  
  
In response to a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph, our elders are preaching the Gospel in many lands, and the promise was renewed "these signs shall follow them that believe, in My name they shall do many wonderful works; in My name they shall cast out devils, in My name they shall heal the sick; etc." These words have been verily fulfilled in the ministry, and we bear testimony that God has thus sanctioned and confirmed the labors of these humble elders of Israel.  
  
We also solemnly declare that Elijah the prophet has come to "turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to the fathers." This is a simple declaration but it is true. We testify that Elijah the Prophet appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in Kirtland Temple. You may read the wonderful story in Section 110 of the Doctrine & Covenants. Friends ask, can this be true? Has Elijah the Prophet really ministered to men in our day? This great Temple, a monument in stone, bears testimony to the faith of the Saints, that the spirit of Elijah's mission is here, for in that Holy House, day after day, year after year, thousands of our members are entering the Temple and ministering therein for the salvation of their dead. If you have opportunity, converse with these faithful workers, ask them how they feel when they enter that sacred building, and they will testify to you that the spirit of their mission is upon them. They rejoice in its saving power. They go to be baptized for their ancestry in full faith that when the departed ones, in the spirit world, receive the Gospel message that the work thus done will be efficacious. Thus do we demonstrate our faith in the mission of Elijah the Prophet.  
  
We believe that every angelic messenger has come with a message, and each message to the believer has been followed by signs following.  
  
The priesthood has been restored to the earth. John the Baptist came, laid his hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood, as recorded in the 13th Section of the Doctrine & Covenants. I commend this book of revelations unto you and suggest that it be read often, that the truth may be in your minds and in your hearts, that you may all know that the great forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ in the meridian of time has again appeared and through Him has come unto us the authority of the Priesthood which he held upon earth and by virtue of that Priesthood our deacons, priests, and teachers are ministering in the work of God.  
  
We also declare that Peter, James and John came and conferred the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood upon the head of the prophet. I exhort you all to read the story. This Church is of God. Our boys are ministering in the Aaronic Priesthood, our elders are abroad ministering in the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the power of God follows them in their work. We have all seen the fruits of their faithful labors.  
  
I trust that we shall receive an incentive today to be more diligent in this work, to meet with and teach it to our families, to inspire our associates as we bear this testimony, for the Master will require an account from us of our labors to advance His great work among the children of men.  
  
May the Lord help us in every good work, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 