25
Second Outdoor
03 10 1915
Elder Edward J. Wood.
142
65-68

None

None

(President of Alberta Stake.)  
  
I come from the extreme north, the Alberta stake of Zion — of Alberta, Canada. I am reminded of a story. There was a Swedishman applying for work as a collector. He went to a gentleman that had a store with a lot of old accounts to be collected. So the employer said, "All right, Brother Johnson, we will be glad to employ you, here are three or four accounts I would like you to go and collect." "All right," Brother Johnson said. So he took the accounts and went out, and came back. Soon the employer said, "Well, what did they say?" "Well, Bill Key, he say him pay when he sell him hogs, John Thomas, he pay when he sell him wheat, Yohn Johnson, he pay in Yanuary." Well, that is the first time that that man ever promised to pay his bill. Are you sure he said he would pay it in January?" "Ya, veil, he say he tank it be a cold day when he pay that bill, and I tank it be a cold day in Yanuary."  
 
It is a cold day when the people of our stake, the Alberta stake, one of the largest in the Church, do not attend their meetings. I heard what Brother Partridge said. I am rather glad I live in Alberta. We do attend our meetings there. We stand at the head of the list, having the largest percentage of people attending sacrament meetings, and we are proud of it.  
  
We are told that our stake extends from the Canadian boundary line on the south to the North Pole on the north. When I saw President Lund yesterday he said, "And the north shall give up — " "Not its dead," I said, "the sea will give up its dead, but the Israelites' army shall come from the North." Two weeks ago today, Apostle David O. McKay and others participated in the laying of the corner stone of the new Temple in Cardston, Brother McKay offering the dedicatory prayer. It rained and it hailed, and it stormed; but it did not discourage us. We ,have a tabernacle, about the distance of this Tabernacle from the Temple. Brother McKay expected everybody to run to the Tabernacle. But no. We stood it out, and we had a good time.  
  
We appreciate the blessings of the Lord; and we appreciate the people that we live with there. The great Dominion of Canada sent one of their representatives to witness the ceremonies I speak of. We have the only member of the British Parliament who is one of our people who also attended, representing our constituency in the Provincial Government in Alberta; and a great many other people were in attendance. We are visited often by many people who travel through the country. They are very interested in the Temple. This member of the British Parliament complimented us by saying that, when the Temple was finished, it would be the best church edifice in Western Canada.  
  
I have listened with interest to what the other brethren have said. I was pleased this morning on hearing that a temple was to be built in the Sandwich Islands. I have been there a number of times, and spent many years on the Samoan Islands. I love the Polynesian Islanders, who we believe are of the same family as our Indians, all of whom I love very much. We have them in our country. I thought I would tell you of a dream that an Indian had, in the far eastern boundaries of Canada. Brother Goddard spoke about the fruits of the Gospel, the signs that should follow the believer. The story is of today, not anything that my grandfather heard, or that I have read in books, but an incident which happened recently.  
  
A tribe of Indians came to our country, called the Kree Indians. They were headed by a man named "Yellow Face." He said that he was a member of a council of five who lived in the eastern part of Saskachewan, the Province to the east of Alberta. They spend their time in the winter hunting and fishing. They roam around the country for that purpose, and then go back again in the spring. This man and his one hundred twenty-eight families came into our country, and camped in the woods by a river, right where the road led from two of our wards. We did not know anything of their business. They went about hunting and fishing. One day this man "Yellow Face" sent to a ward for the "high chief" of that ward, as he called him — we call them bishops — and wanted him to come to his tent and have a visit with him. These people had visited us. We had asked them into our meetings. They had come to our entertainments, and we had become interested in them. They are a very intelligent people, the Kree nation — not like the Indians here. They dress as we do, and they are educated. They have a written language of their own, not made by white men according to signs and sounds, but of hieroglyphics, composing a nice looking alphabet. This man sent for our bishop, and when our bishop came, he found a large tent, with the heads of these one hundred twenty-eight families there, and Yellow Face was sitting right in front, with one lady. So Yellow Face said to this bishop, "We want you to talk to us. We have been to your meetings. We have been to your parties. You have asked us to dine with you. Now we return the compliment. We want you to come and visit us." Bishop Parker did not know what to say. He had never been on a mission, wasn't prepared to preach the Gospel. But he was struck with the sincerity he noticed in the people's faces as they sat in the circle. They were pleased to see him. So he told them about the restoration of the Gospel, and about our work of colonizing in that country. They did not seem much interested in that. After he got through, they said, is that all you know about your Gospel? He thought and said, "Well, I believe I have told about all I know." "Well," Yellow Face said, "don't you have any book that you talk about?" "O yes," and Brother Parker then thought of the Book of Mormon. "Well, tell about that book." Brother Parker told all he could. It did not take very long, and when he got through, the Chief said, "That is all," and Brother Parker went home.  
  
About a week after, he sent for him again. Brother Parker did not know this time what would be expected of him. But he went, and found the same crowd there. This time, Yellow Face said to Brother Parker, "When you were here before, I sat there, and you stood here. This time I'll stand here, and you sit there, and so he related this story to Brother Parker:  
  
"Two years ago the high chief of our council had a vision." [Mind you this man never knew anything about our Gospel, never knew there was such a thing as visions or heavenly manifestations.] "Our high chief, the great chief of the Kree nation, had a messenger come to him that he never knew, and he told this chief, You are going to die, but you won't die all over. The chief did not know what he meant, and he said, When you die, I do not want you to be buried until you get cold all over. So the chief said all right; and he said he went with this messenger, as he thought he died. All the other chiefs thought he was dead. But he had told his nearest associates to watch his body when he went cold, from the extremities of his fingers, his toes, to follow how far his body was cold, and if they found a warm spot, not to bury him yet. So he was watched for five days, and only above his heart was a small place of his body yet warm. On the end of the fifth day, he came to, and he called all his council together, and told them he had been into a country where he saw his forefathers, walked with them, talked with them; and they told him that he would not yet die when he came to the earth, and that he was to go all over the country until he found a people who had the book in which was the history of the very people he had been with in the spirit world; and he said, I will give unto you four signs by which you may know the people. First, they will not drive you out of their country. Second, you can turn your horses loose. They won't steal them. Third, they will go through your village, and they won't rob the virtue of your Indian women. Fourth, they will let you hunt and fish on their domain." So he said to Brother Parker, "with my family two years we have hunted for such a people. You invited us into your meetings. We sat at the table with you in your picnic parties." [He had an interpreter tell all this.] " You have come through our village. You have not molested our women. We are fishing and hunting today on your Church lands. So I asked you. I watched you. We have watched your men, your young men, we have watched every action of all your people. When I heard you speak, it sounded like good news to me, and when you said that was all, I thought again I am disappointed. So I asked you if you had a book. You told me you had. That is our book. That is our history, not yours."  
  
So Brother Parker went and got the book, and brought it back to the Indians. The Indians took it, gave it to the interpreter, and had him sit down and read by the hour. And when he got through, the Indian took the book— did not think he had to buy it. He said, "It is our book, our history," and wrapped it up and took it away.  
  
They have visited us several times. They are a fine people. I pray that God will help us to remember some of the words of this book. I will read just one verse: "Ye cannot say when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this, for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time ye go out of this life shall possess your bodies in eternity."  
  
May God prepare us that when we lay down our bodies, when we go into the grave, that we may have the spirit with us of love and belief in eternity that these Indians have, because as sure as the sun shines and we stand in the shadow of God's house, here on this Temple square, I testify we shall meet our friends on the other side. May we have the Spirit of the Gospel ever with us, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 