29
Morning
04 10 1915
Elder Moses W. Taylor.
77
77-79

None

None

(President of Summit Stake.)  
  
My brethren and sisters, I have been very much impressed in this conference by the counsels given. One statement that strongly impressed me was the remark of President Lund when he was quoting the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to these who find fault with the authorities, that it leads to apostasy. This was brought forcibly to my mind from some experiences I have had as President of a stake. When I first went to the Summit stake of Zion, there were a few of the people that were very much offended, and they continually found fault with the actions of the authorities of the Church. I want to tell you one of the things that influenced me more than anything else in my life. Quite frequently, when I would come into the city, the President of the Church would ask me how we were getting along, and I thought I had better tell about what these men were saying, the fault that they were finding with the Church, and I did so several times as I had opportunity. One day in the President's office, when nearly all the authorities of the Church were present, President Smith asked me that question again, and I started in to tell him and he stopped me. He said, "Moses, say 'Shoo-fly, don't bother me,' about things of that kind." When I went out of the office, one of the prominent men who was present came to me and said, "It is all right for President Smith to say that to you, but he couldn't say 'Shoo-fly, don't bother me.' " I said to him, "I don't care what President Smith can do, the prophet of the Lord has Said to me, 'say shoo-fly, don't bother me,' and I am going to do it."  
  
I want to testify to the Latter-day Saints that of all the counsels that I ever received in my life, I have received the greatest benefit from that "shoo-fly" counsel. Now it don't matter what the unwise say or what they do, I say, "shoo-fly, don't bother me;" and I find that I am magnified in the eyes of the people by taking that course. What called it to my attention, more than anything else, happened the other day. I met a prominent lawyer, and the name of President Smith came up in our conversation, and he said, "I would like to meet President Joseph F. Smith," and I asked "Why." "Well," said he, "he appears to be one of the most remarkable men in the world today, and for this reason, I followed up that period of vituperation, when some of the newspapers were villifying him day by day and day by day. He never answered a word; he must know that he is right, he must know that he is absolutely right." I told him this "shoo-fly" story, and he said, "That accounts for it, that is the way that he lives himself."  
  
I am impressed with the thought that, in our stake we are very anxious that there shall not be anybody find fault with the authorities of the Church. I always tell them that whenever a man starts to find fault with the authorities of the Church, and thinks that the authorities have it "in for him," that it is a sign of insanity, and we tell them right out, "You are going crazy;" always tell them. "You are going crazy, and the sooner you stop it the better." I thought I would like to say that much in regard to that point, because it is one of the greatest counsels I ever received in my life.  
  
There is another thing that pleased me very much. A son of mine came here to the city to work, and lodged in the 20th ward. He had not been there but a short time before the Bishop came and invited him to be one of the teachers. I appreciated that very much. This fall I sent one of my boys in to school, and he stays at his brother's house. I met the Bishop the other day and he said to me, "Have you any objection to me using that other boy of yours as a teacher?" He said, "He came into the ward the other day and your son, on account of work, could not go teaching, but he said, I will send my brother,' and now the teacher comes and says, I want the brother to be my companion, the boy that is going to school.' " Of course I had no objection, I wanted to thank the Bishop for taking care of my boys when away from home, and I felt like saying this to the bishops and others in Salt Lake City here. The boys that come from the country have got pure blood, pure minds, and clean thoughts, and you can't get better teachers in all the world than the boys that come from the country. We parents that live out in the country appreciate it when you take care of them, and use them in the Priesthood; they will prove their worth to you if you will use them.  
  
Now may the peace and blessing of heaven be with us. I know that the Gospel is true, and I know that this is the greatest work in all the world. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the greatest organization in all the world, and the greater position you can get in it, the greater you will be in this world. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that I never have seen a bishop, or other prominent man in this Church, sacrifice his position in the Church, for some financial position or otherwise, that succeeded. They lay down the greater for the less. So brethren, when you have received a position in the Church, magnify it, as President Lyman said, and the Lord will magnify you before the people, and you will realize that God is your father, your friend and benefactor. May the peace and blessing of heaven be with us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 