30
Morning
04 10 1915
Elder German E. Ellsworth
55
79-81

None

None

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the great work our Father is doing in the earth. It is very like the work that has been done by God during all dispensations of the world's history. We find that Father Adam offered sacrifice because he was commanded of the Lord; Enoch worked righteousness among the people in his day, under direction of the Father; and Abraham won the title of the "Father of the Faithful" because he was willing to keep the commandments of the Lord. Moses, under the directions of Jehovah, became the leader of Israel in his generation. Daniel the Prophet, and the three Hebrew children, were preserved by the Lord through divine interposition. Zachariah, though he doubted the visitation, became the father of the great Prophet John. Mary, the mother of Christ, likewise was visited by heavenly messengers; and the birth of our Savior was announced by personal visitors from heaven, as also the resurrection.  
  
In every part of the work of our Heavenly Father, He has been in close communion with His servants who dwell in the earth. He tells us in Holy Writ that He would do nothing but what He made His mind and will known to His servants, the prophets. He has promised likewise that, in the last days, He would send His messengers to prepare the way before His face. He has likewise told us that Elijah should come for a special mission. John, while on the isle of Patmos, was visited by a heavenly messenger, who said to John, when he was about to fall clown and worship the visitor, "See that thou do it not, for I am one of thy fellow servants, worship God."  
  
When I stop and think of the work that is being done in this day, it is so much like the work that has been done by our Father in all ages of the world. It makes me rejoice that I am blessed with a testimony of what God is doing in the same work this day. The beginning of the work was under the direction of the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, renewing again the true conception of the Father and the Son, and telling what would come to pass in this generation, beginning with the establishing of the Church that bears the name of the Master, even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We then find that the messengers promised in the scripture have been sent, and the work that they are doing is identical with the work that has been done in the past ages. John, who preceded the coming of the Christ in his day, preached faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance from sin, and baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. He proclaimed the same doctrine in this day, and instructed the prophet how to proceed to follow this counsel, and be in harmony with the Lord Jesus Christ. Following his instructions, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of their sins. Then Peter, James, and John, at the right time, came and delivered a certain message, certain authority and instructions concerning the great work of our Father in the earth in this day. Following that visit, other messengers, who were prophets of the Lord, came and delivered keys and power which they held under the directions of the Father.  
  
And so, when I stop and think that, in this day, God has established a Church that bears His name, and in the very way He did it in former days, by sending His servants, it makes me happy to think that I have part in such a great work. The very name of the Church is a great testimony to me. I rejoice in the principle of faith in the Father of the spirits of the human race, faith in Jesus Christ, who is His Son in very deed, and our resurrected Redeemer. Faith or conviction of this sort will bring men to repentance, turn them from their sins and evil walks in life to a godly life. When they yield to the instruction of the Spirit of the Lord, they are led into the waters of baptism and come forth in newness of life. I bear witness that I have seen the converts come out of the waters of baptism with a look upon their face as pure as though they were new born. I have seen them reform their lives and walk in the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus, as they had never done before.  
  
When I think that I belong to the Church that bears the name of the Master, and teaches doctrines that were taught by the prophets of old and by Christ Himself, it makes me rejoice that I am thus favored in the world. It makes me rejoice to see the power of the Lord manifest through the young men and young women who come into the Northern States Mission, when they stand forth and bear their testimony to the people of the world. God has truly revealed to their hearts, and has put it in their souls, and has made their tongues to testify of His name, and of the great work that is being done in this our day. I rejoice that I believe in the coming of angels, that I believe God our Father can send prophets in this day, and instruct His children how to live and what to do to come back into His presence. It is a glorious thing to believe that the heavens and the earth are so near together, and that our Father has personal charge in this clay as in other days.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony that has come into my heart that. God sent angels in this day to instruct the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the great work to be done. I rejoice that I believe in the prophets that followed the first angels, and the keys that they delivered. I rejoice, more than I have the language to express, that I have received a testimony in my soul that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that the work of our Father in this day is under His direction. The counsel and advice given by the Prophet to the Latter-day Saints in this conference, and in all previous conferences, if heeded, will make men and women after the similitude of our Heavenly Father and prepare them to go back and dwell with Him eternally. I bear witness that the heavens have been opened, that God has sent His angels, not only in ages past but in our day and age. The angels have been with the missionaries, going before their faces and preparing the hearts of the people to receive them. They have seen them, and heard their promptings concerning what to do and say. I rejoice in my testimony, and pray God that He will bless me and all the rising generations, and implant within our hearts a desire to magnify the name of God in the earth, and fulfill the mission that has been given to this generation. I bear witness that what has been done up to the present time is only a beginning of the work. There will be a time, not very far away, when it will require every man, in whose heart dwells the testimony of Jesus, to go out and bear that witness, and teach the people of the world the straight and narrow way, that His work may be established, and His name may be glorified.  
  
In the hearts of many young men are being implanted a love of the goods of this world, and the honor of men, a love of things that will pass away, while, on the other hand, they should have a desire to be able to bear testimony of the restorer! Gospel, above all other desires of their hearts; for it is the greatest work in the earth. It has been established by our Father. He is directing it. I know that. I should think that every man and woman in the world, who is seeking salvation, would rejoice to know that God has visited the earth, that He has sent His angels, that He has established His Church, putting upon it His name, teaching the doctrines that will make men and women His children in very deed. There is power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to work righteousness and salvation in the hearts of all those who will hear and obey the message.  
  
May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints; may He bless our President and his counselors; may He bless President Lyman and the Quorum of the Twelve. I bear testimony that they are prophets of the Lord, and that God is directing His work through them. May He help us all to magnify His name and to prove worthy of the wonderful blessings that have come into our lives. I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 