33
Morning
04 10 1915
Elder John L. Herrick.
53
86-88

None

None

(President Western States Mission.)  
  
As I listened to the interesting portrayal, by President Smith, of the condition of the Church, yesterday morning, and those who followed him during the day and today, the thought uppermost in my mind was and is now: How thankful we should be for the knowledge we possess pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, and how best can we indicate our appreciation for the blessings and remarkable opportunities that come to us as Latter-day Saints. If you parents could look upon the faces of your sons and your daughters, who have been in the mission field for a few weeks and have become imbued with the missionary spirit, and see there the determination to be servants in very deed of the Master, or if, after they have been in the mission for two years or more, you could hear them say that they regretted going home more than the regret that they experienced when they left their home to go into the mission, you would be astonished and gratified beyond measure, but you would thank the Lord for the opportunity that had come to them. If the young men of Zion could but realize the breadth of knowledge and of training that comes to the earnest missionary, they would all welcome the time to come, and pray for the opportunity to come speedily, when they could go into the world and preach the Gospel.  
  
Upon the occasion when Christ had been instructing His disciples as to their duties, and about the time He answered the question of the young man who was rich, when He said that he should sell all that he had and give to the poor and follow Him, He intended, undoubtedly, to convey to them a thought of sacrifice, for He said:  
  
"And every man that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundred fold and shall inherit everlasting life."  
  
It was immaterial perhaps what kind of sacrifice they made, but if they sacrificed for the least of the things thus enumerated, He would have them believe that they should receive an hundred fold. So I believe in our great work, if we shall go forth as emissaries of Him, if we shall be ready to sacrifice when the time comes, we too shall receive an hundred fold.  
  
The year before this Church was organized, when the Prophet Joseph received a revelation regarding missionary work, this thought was expressed: "Behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store and perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul." That was the burden of the message given to those staunch and fearless men, in the early days of this Church, when they went forth without money, when they went forth giving everything they had and laying it all at the altar of the Church. That I repeat was the burden of their message; thrust in your sickle with your might and you shall bring salvation to your soul.  
  
In the experience of that mighty man Nephi there was an exhibition of faith, the like of which we ought to endeavor to emulate all our lives. When Nephi received the call from his father to return to Jerusalem to obtain the records that should later form a part of that great record of two peoples upon the Western hemisphere, which we have today, what was the reply? "I will so and do the things the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments to the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing he commandeth them." I believe, too, that the Lord requires nothing of us excepting He shall prepare the way for us to do it. It is my faith and my hope in this great latter-day work. I believe that His prophet is placed at the head of the Church to guide and direct this people. I believe that his associates are entitled to the same kind of respect and love that we should have for him. I believe that the Council of Twelve are men of God, and I believe the Lord expects us to heed their instructions, to love them and honor them in their position.  
  
I call attention to the words of Elijah, when he was put to the severe test, when it came to a question of authority, "How long halt ye between two opinions ? If the Lord be God, follow Him; but, if Baal, then follow him;" and so I say to you, my brethren and sisters, shall we hesitate in our allegiance to our Church and its authorized leaders? If we believe that the God of the ancient prophets is our God then likewise believe that President Joseph F. Smith and his associates are prophets, seers and revelators, and as such we should honor them, and give to them our loyal support. We shall then undoubtedly find it to be our duty to sacrifice when the time comes regardless of what that sacrifice may be. It is not only for the poor man, or for the one in moderate circumstances to sacrifice; the professional man, the rich man, the business man, must be called upon to sacrifice sooner or later, and when the time comes I earnestly pray that we may be ready to answer any call made of us to further this great latter-day work, the greatest and most vital thing in all the world. This is my prayer for all of us, in the name of Christ, our Lord. Amen. 