34
Morning
04 10 1915
Elder Evan Stephens.
144
88

None

None

(Tabernacle Choir Conductor.)  
  
My brethren and sisters: About a month ago a letter was sent out addressed to choir leaders, in the various wards of the Church, asking them to ascertain how many of their choir members expected to attend the General Conference, in October of this year, and asking such as so intended to accept an invitation to join with the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir in the singing during said Conference. A large number of choir leaders responded, in all reporting over six hundred singers who would attend, at least, some of the meetings. Tickets admitting all such to the choir gallery were sent out. Some two or three hundred took part with us yesterday, (Sunday), and about one hundred are present this (Monday) morning. But we have reason to believe that a great many have taken seats in the congregation, being timid about appearing in these conspicuous seats, fearing lest it might seem pretentious to take seats with this noted choir. To any such I desire to say there is not a choir in this or any other church where less classification or "aristocracy" can be found than in this choir. The best singers we have in the community lend their services freely in it, without even a select seat assigned. Each and every one quietly take whatever vacant seat is most convenient in the section used by the "part" they sing. Not in all the twenty-five years that I have had, charge has there been an honorary, or special seat assigned on account of rank or merit. The visiting singers, therefore, need not fear that they will be trespassing upon places reserved even for regular singers, or that they will be greeted by any one with other than a welcoming nod or smile. We are most grateful for the presence of those who have so kindly joned us, and especaily for the hearty responses of the choir leaders throughout the Church.  
  
I desire to emphasize again the invitation to all choir members to come into the choir loft, at each future session of the conference that you may attend. May the Lord continue to bless us, that we may perform well our special task in His great work is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

