36
Afternoon
04 10 1915
Elder Joseph Eckersley.
75
94-97

None

None

(President of Wayne Stake.)  
  
It has been my privilege to be called to lift up my voice upon street corners, and in halls hired by the Latter-day Saints, in this and foreign countries, to preach repentance to the people, and I never remember assuming this responsibility in my life without feeling a sense of human weakness, but never have I felt that responsibility more than I feel it in facing this mighty congregation this afternoon; but notwithstanding this feeling, my heart cries out: "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless and praise His holy name." These words of the psalmist are expressive of my feelings this afternoon, as nearly as I can express them, for the good things that the Lord has done for me and, doubtless, for hundreds of my brethren and sisters who are in this congregation this afternoon.  
  
I remember very well that when, as a lad of nineteen years of age, I first heard the message of the Gospel proclaimed by the elders of this Church in my native land, that my mind was beclouded and somewhat prejudiced, for at that tender age, I had read a great deal about so-called "Mormonism." I had read something about what the Christian Herald had to say upon the subject. I had read much from apostate "Mormons;" but, unfortunately, up to that time I had read little or nothing in favor of the Latter-day Saints; and, like many others, having been taught to believe in the traditions in the churches — that Bishop Nibley has alluded to this afternoon — or rather in the tenets of faith of the various churches, having read the kind of literature that I have referred to, you may know that my mind was deeply prejudiced, but I was very greatly impressed with the 13th article of the "Mormon" faith:  
  
"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men. Indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul. We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things."  
  
Those words greatly impressed me. I knew that a people who had such ideals, who believed in such saving principles, could not be of the character that I had read they were, and on investigating I became acquainted with the truth that they were teaching, the plain, simple gospel that I had been seeking for from the earliest days of my childhood, but had never found to my satisfaction. It never occurred to me, my brethren and sisters, in my early youth, that it would be my privilege to find a church possessed of the gifts and blessings of the Gospel that were enjoyed in the primitive church, or of the doctrines as they were proclaimed in their perfection by the Son of God.  
  
Bishop Nibley this afternoon has referred to some of the reformers, and in thinking of their work, I am reminded that those honest men never made the claims that have since been made by the authorities of this Church. John Wesley never bore a testimony to the world such as the Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed. To the contrary, he taught the people according to the light, knowledge, and inspiration that he possessed from God, and we honor the memory of John Wesley, as we honor the memory of other reformers, and those who have not been named this afternoon. You will remember that John Wesley was the spokesman. He preached what he believed to be the Gospel, and that to the best of his understanding. He suffered much, as all good men have suffered for what they believed to be the truth that they taught to the people. Charles Wesley, his brother, was the poet, and in many of his poems he expressed the feelings not only of himself, but of his brother and those who believed in the doctrines that they advocated. I remember that there is to be found in our hymn book one of the poems of Charles Wesley, and in speaking of the days of the primitive church, in reviewing conditions that then obtained, he was led to give expression to these words, thinking of the time when men held the authority to speak and to act in God's name, that Brother Nibley has referred to this afternoon, when men go forth clothed in the authority of the holy priesthood, to call people to repentance, and if they repent with all their hearts and come to God with a contrite heart and a broken spirit, they are endowed with the authority to lead them into the waters of baptism and, in the name of Messiah, to baptize them for the remission of their sins. I think that Charles Wesley was thinking of that day when he said:  
  
"Oh, what an age of golden days,  
 
Oh, what a choice, peculiar race, 
 
 Washed in the Lamb's atoning blood,  
 
Anointed kings and priests to God."  
  
He seemed to have had something of the inspiration of the Spirit, and what it meant to men and woman when the priesthood was enjoyed by men upon the earth; and further, he realized that that power no longer existed with men upon earth. He realized that people were not living in that golden age, that they were not enjoying the apostolic blessings, hence, in looking around in the world, in reviewing the conditions, in thinking of the various religious denominations that existed, he said:  
  
"Where shall we wander now to find  
 
Successors they have left behind?  
 
The faithful whom we seek in vain  
 
Are 'minished from the sons of men."  
  
Oh, what a confession for a man of this character to make! If there were time, and we could review some of the writings, we would find that John Wesley and his brother, and hosts of believers looked forward in fond hope to a day dawning when the fulness of gospel light should shine upon men.  
  
My brethren and sisters, we are living in that glorious age and dispensation, the time foretold that was predicted by the prophets. We are enjoying the blessings of the Church of God that has been established upon the earth. We have been gathered, hundreds of us, as one of a family and two of a city, and the Lord has brought us up to Zion. He has established our feet in these valleys of the mountains. He has given us the opportunities that have so beautifully been portrayed during this conference. I wonder if we are making the best of our opportunities. Reference has been made to the conditions that now obtain in Europe, to the strife and contention that now prevail. Is it not possible that, had it not been for the saving power of God, had it not been that the Gospel of the Redeemer appealed to you and me, we should have been today where many of our relatives are, engaged in that terrible conflict; but instead we are here engaged in the work of the Lord, a work of peace, a work of righteousness, a work of love, a work that brings joy to our hearts as we wake in the morning and as we close our eyes in slumber at night. When I think of all these things, my brothers and sisters, my heart is full, to overflowing, of gratitude to God for His loving kindness to me and to His people.  
  
I deem the privilege of being a member of the Church of Jesus, Christ of Latter-day Saints the greatest honor that could possibly come to me in this life, and the Lord knows that I feel grateful that I have been counted worthy to bear a portion of His priesthood, to be associated with my brethren who are willing to make sacrifice for the work of God. My heart goes out in love and admiration for these men who are willing to give of their time and their substance to bear witness of the truth to the nations. I love these presidents of missions. I love the missionaries who are in the world carrying the message of salvation, in their weakness, to the people; for they will find many among the children of men such as you and I, who are willing to be impressed with the truth when they hear it, who know the voice of the true shepherd and who respond to that voice, for they are of the seed of Abraham, as referred to this morning, of the blood of Israel, and all they are waiting for is an opportunity to hear and receive the truth. It is a glorious privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be associated with a prophet of God, with apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, endowed with power and authority from on high, and with men and women who love God above all other things, and delight to keep His commandments.  
  
I bear you witness that I know that my Father in heaven responds to every seeking soul. I know that every man and woman who will seek the Lord in earnestness, with a desire to know the way of right, will be led into the paths of righteousness. I know by experience that God is no respecter of persons, but that out of all nations and among all peoples, He gives liberally of His Spirit to all who seek Him and desire to do the things that are right. I know that the Lord is working in the hearts of the children of men just as powerfully today as ever before in all the history of men. I believe that the Lord is doing just as marvelous things today as He ever did at any time since Father Adam commenced the great work in this world. I believe it because of the things that I see and the things that I hear, and because of the feelings that are in my own soul. The Lord is doing His work in such a way that unless we are in touch with the inspiration of His Spirit, perhaps we are not cognizant of the marvelous changes that are taking place; but in the events that are transpiring every day, I see the fulfillment of prophecies; I see that God is bringing to pass His purposes, and I rejoice in this work.  
  
I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may heed the kindly counsels that have been given to us during this conference; for I know that a man who will listen to and obey the counsel of the servants of God and the inspirations of the Holy Spirit, to which he is entitled, as he does the will of God, he will be blessed and have joy in this life, and glory, immortality and eternal increase will be added to him in the world to come. There is no reason why we should mourn over the past. There is opportunity for us in the future. Let us find today wherein we have failed, wherein we have been weak, wherein we have not followed always the dictation of our conscience. Let us, from this day henceforth and forever, seek to be diligent in the service of God, and in the end we shall have salvation in His presence. That God may grant us this boon and blessing in the world that is to come, and that we may have joy while we live, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
