37
Afternoon
04 10 1915
Elder Oleen N. Stohl. 
88
97-98

None

None

(President of Box Elder Stake.)  
  
I sincerely pray that the Lord will bless me while I attempt to speak to you for a few moments. I need not say to you that I feel my weakness and dependence upon the Lord in standing before you, but I know that this is our Father's work, and that we are engaged in His service, and I know that He has been with us, and that He has blessed us thus far during our conference, and that He will continue to bless us.  
  
I was reminded, while Bishop Nibley was addressing us, of a statement made by President Welling at the dedication of the Bear River Stake Tabernacle. He said, in the course of his remarks, that since the organization of the Bear River Stake, some six years ago, that they had expended in that stake for meetinghouses and tabernacle, and other church houses erected for the blessing of the people, some eighty thousand dollars, and he testified before the people who were assembled on that occasion, that the people of that stake were better off financially, and enjoying more of the spiritual blessings of the Lord at that particular time than ever before. In other words, there were none of them who were poorer because of their willingness to take of their means and use them for the upbuilding of the work of the Lord. And I began to think of our own stake. The Bear River stake was largely taken from the Box Elder stake. In fact if we go back to the early history of the Box Elder stake, I can say that it was wholly taken from the Box Elder stake. I began to make a little calculation to see what the Box Elder stake had expended for meetinghouses and other church edifices during the past ten years, and I found that we had expended in the neighborhood of ninety thousand dollars in similar improvements to those referred to by President Welling. And I want to bear testimony, brethren and sisters, that the people of Box Elder stake are not poorer because they have done this, but better off. And this was clone in addition to the payment of their tithes and offerings. The Lord has poured out His blessings upon them and they are more prosperous than they ever were before.  
  
I remember at the time that two or three of our wards were building their meetinghouses and making improvements that ran up into a considerable sum of money. At the close of the year the bishops reported that the people had paid more tithing that year than any previous year, so it showed again that the Lord poured out His blessings upon the people; and while they were willing to take of their means for the upbuilding of the Church, they were also willing to observe the law of tithing and did better than they had done formerly. I know, my brethren and sisters, from my experience, that when we are willing to serve the Lord and to use our means for the upbuilding of His kingdom, that He will pour out His blessings upon us.  
  
I am thankful for the testimony I have of this work. I am reminded of the words of the Savior and was reminded of them, and have been during this conference, wherein He said: "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself." Now that is our privilege; that saying applies to us. If we will do the will of the Father we shall know the doctrine, and know whether it is of Him or of man, and the gratifying thing connected with this is that those who have tried the doctrines and the laws, by living them, they are the ones who can testify that they know that the doctrines are of God. That testimony has come to you and to me, and we know that the doctrines of the kingdom of our Father can be tested in this way, and that is very gratifying to us. We are not dependent upon man or men, simply dependent upon our own humble obedience and righteous living, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel this way, that while we are enjoying all of these blessings, many of us laying up treasures upon earth, we must not let our hearts be so fixed upon the earthly treasures that we will forget God who has given them to us, but if we will use our treasures for the upbuilding of our Father's kingdom, and thereby lay up treasures in heaven, the peace and power and blessing of God will abide with us, and we will have that living testimony within our hearts that we will daily and hourly know that this is our Father's work. I rejoice in the spiritual things of the kingdom. While we are dealing with the material things, we are also in daily touch and contact with the spiritual things, and I want to say that I know that the signs follow the believers, that the blessings promised through obedience to the Gospel follow the believers, just as much today as at any time. I feel to praise the Lord because I know that my life through His blessing and power was spared, and as one of my brethren said to me today, I was given a new lease of life of the Lord.  
  
Now I feel that it is not my privilege to take up your time. I rejoice in the work of God; and I know that it gives that joy to us that we cannot obtain in any other calling or labor. Let us go forth and serve our Maker, and let our hearts be centered upon Him and upon His work, and upon helping our fellow men, and serve them and bless them, and if we will do this, our Father will bless us.  
  
May His peace and blessings continue to abide with our leaders, with those who preside over us, and all who labor for His cause, whether it be at home or abroad, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 