4
Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder John F. Tolton.
65
15-17

None

None

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice this morning in the opportunity we have of meeting together in conference capacity. I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the fruits thereof, in the testimony of the Spirit, and in the evidences that we have of the great work that has been established by our Father in these latter days. I rejoice in the labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the establishment of this work, in the testimony that he gave to the world, and that we who have succeeded him in the work are the beneficiaries of his life and labor, and what he did for humanity.  
  
I was just reading in our hymn book the words that were written by Apostle John Taylor, immediately succeeding the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, wherein he says:  
  
"O give me back my Prophet dear And Patriarch, O give them back,  
  
The Saints of Latter-days to cheer, And lead them in the Gospel track."  
  
I wonder, my brethren and sisters, how it is possible to give back to the latter-day Saints, in this day and age of the world, our Prophet and our Patriarch. His words and his life work have been pictured by poets, by orators, and by historians — and these we have with us — that we may revere him, and know him as he was. We have gifted singers who sing the hymns of Zion, and tell us in beautiful language what the Prophet Joseph Smith has done for the Latter-day Saints and for the world. But I wonder, at times, if there is not yet in the future another means which will be used in order that we may have with us the Prophet of our God, in this age of the world. It occurs to me, inasmuch as it has been stated, that there never has been a true likeness and picture given to the world of the Prophet Joseph, that there must come a time in the future when, out of the gifted young men or women of Israel, there shall arise a sculptor or painter who will picture upon canvas, or in marble, a true likeness and representation of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then I cast my eye back over the pages of history, and I wonder which of the many great incidents in his life is the most appropriate one, that reveals the true character and manhood of this wonderful man.  
  
I see him first in Richmond jail, Missouri, manacled and in irons, as he lay there with his brethren, listening to the ribald stories that were being told by his jailers, of how they had ravished the daughters of Zion; and the beautiful picture of that scene which followed, as portrayed under the inspired pen of Parley P. Pratt, wherein he states that, suddenly, the Prophet arose to his feet and, in a voice of thunder, commanded those jailers to cease their ribald stories, declaring unto them that, unless they did cease, he or they would die that minute! Would not that be an inspired picture, as the servant of God, manacled as he was, commanded the guards and jailers to remain silent, and cease their ribald stories? It is said that the jailers were completely subdued, and slunk off into corners or begged for mercy at his feet.  
  
I again see him upon the river bottoms near the city of Commerce, which afterwards became the beautiful city of Nauvoo, as he moved among the people who were living there in the agony of pain, suffering from the fever and disease which had come to them as the result of their exposures and hardships. I see him in the attitude of a ministering angel, as he goes from camp to camp, and from tent to tent, carrying with him the spirit of light, of truth, and of healing power, as he ministered to the afflicted Saints and comanded them to arise from their beds of affliction and how, when he was overcome with fatigue, he withdrew and left Wilford Woodruff and others to continue the good work he had begun.  
  
I see him again as he stood upon the platform in the city of Nauvoo, delivering his last address to the Saints before his departure for Carthage; and as he stands there, addressing that vast multitude, he draws his sword and holds it out on high, and says: "I call on God, angels, and men to witness that I have drawn my sword in defense of the lives of my people, and that it shall not be sheathed again until they have received the legal rights to which they are entitled, or my blood shall flow as water upon the sand."  
  
I see him again the day before his martyrdom, as he is being guarded in a room of the hotel where officers of the Carthage Grays, and others, came into his presence out of curiosity, that they might behold this wonderful man that had been spoken of so freely. And as they stood in the presence of the prophet, he realized that curiosity prompted their presence there, and he said unto them. "Do you see anything in my appearance that would indicate the criminal that I have been pictured by my enemies?" One of the officers spoke up and said, "No, General Smith, we do not see anything in your appearance which would indicate that you are the hardened criminal that you have been pictured by your enemies; but we cannot see what is in your heart, neither do we know what is in your mind." The Prophet Joseph replied to them, and said, "It is true, gentlemen, that you cannot see what is in my heart, neither do you know what my intentions are; but," he said, "I can see what is in your hearts, and I know what your intentions are. You are thirsting for my blood, and you will not be satisfied until you have taken my life's blood. But I want to say unto you that it is not for crime of any kind that I and my brethren have been persecuted, but it is because we have stood for truth and righteousness, and I tell you further that the time will come when you shall see blood to your hearts' content. Men who are here in my presence will live to see the day and time when they will look into the cannon's mouth, and when they will see blood and rapine to their hearts' content. This I leave with you, and when that time comes, you will realize that what I have spoken has been the words of truth."  
  
We have but to refer to the history of the civil war, which occurred some 17 years later, to see that very section of country where the Prophet was then imprisoned become the scene of blood, and resounded with the roar of cannon and musketry; and those who had killed the Prophet Joseph, who had sought his life's blood, were thus given the opportunity to witness scenes of war, contention and bloodshed, rapine and violence to their hearts' content, I do not believe there was ever a more true prophecy spoken by the mouth of a Prophet than that uttered on that memorable occasion by the Prophet Joseph. And so I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he realized that the burden of this work would eventually roll from his shoulders upon those of his successors; and that as a prophet of God he has attained to the eternal honor and glory that shall reward those who are faithful in keeping the commandments of God; which I testify, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 