41
Morning
06 10 1915
Prest. Seymour B. Young.
49
103-106

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
I want to make a confession. I find myself a little bit lame, through carelessness. In trying to catch a car last night I was thrown off my feet, and a sprained ankle resulted. I am reminded of what my father said: "Never allow yourself to get careless. Wherever you are, and wherever you go, remember to be careful, take in the situation around you, watch and guard every avenue of danger so that no accident may happen to you, if you will do this through life, you will be free from hurt." I have considered that very good advice for me to follow all my life; but I missed the car, however, and limped clown to the theatre, where I enjoyed the opera given by the Emma Lucy Gates Company. I must say to you that I enjoyed one of the best musical treats that I have witnessed for many a day. I secured a seat near the orchestra where I could hear and see all the fine points of the vocal and instrumental music, and was amply repaid for my painful experience in limping to the theatre.  
  
I was happily reminded of the builder of that great institution of amusement, President Brigham Young. When I saw and heard his grand-daughter and the talented company that gave her support, in that beautiful production of the opera taken from Camille, the great French play which President Young used to enjoy so much. I was reminded of old times, and thoughts and memories came welling up in my heart and brain. I almost fancied I could see President Young, President Kimball, and President Wells, in their accustomed seats, witnessing the beautiful plays on that dear old stage. President Young understood the wants of his people. In constructing this house of amusement, he said that the people had seen too many serious phases of life, had witnessed so many sad scenes in their drivings and journeyings from city to city, and from state to state, finally making the difficult exodus across the plains, and enduring privations here for several years, being short of food and the necessaries of life. He deemed it very proper to give the people an opportunity to see the pleasant side of life and he gave them a chance to witness on the mimic stage less serious phases of existence, providing places for them to dance and to enjoy social life with each other. Those social gatherings, as well as the theatres, I well remember, were opened by prayer, by a servant of the Lord stepping forth upon the stage of the theatre, or upon the musicians' platform in the ball room, before the play or ball began, and praying before the Lord that the influence of His Spirit might be present and prompt those who acted upon the mimic stage, or those who danced, that their thoughts and actions might be clean and pure, and that this recreation might be a reminder of things that were good, and bring happy enjoyment of the specially selected plays rendered in a proper manner. I must say that, if Brigham Young were present, he would have been pleased with the rendition of that beautiful music, both vocal and instrumental, under the direction, and participated in, by one of his granddaughters, ably assisted by a company of bright young men and women. The orchestra was efficiently led by her brother, Cecil Gates.  
  
I am very glad to say that I am enjoying the spirit of this conference. I am in accord with the remarks of President Smith and his counselors, and all those that have spoken. I endorse the remarks of President Smith in regard to the welfare of the people, educationally; and I am in accord with every effort that is made to maintain the prestige of our Church schools. I see the necessity for them, as the authorities do, and I agree with them that it is better for us to represent ourselves and the principles that we love, the principles of the gospel, in a proper manner before our children, while their minds are in a condition to absorb true principles. Let the pure principles of the gospel be taught them in our Church schools, the Latter-day Saint high schools and colleges. I am glad to know that the University of Utah has become one of the leading institutions of learning in the West. I had the privilege of attending school in the old Council House, that stood on the corner where the Deseret News Building now stands. In that little stone and adobe building the university was begun. Orson Spencer was the chancellor or president of the university, as well as chief instructor, Orson Pratt. W. W. Phelps, and others were instructors also, and members of the regency, and as best they could with the facilities they had, they conducted the institution. I had the pleasure of attending the university when it was advanced still further. Dr. Park was then at the head of the university, and the Doctors Benedict were instructors in chemistry and physiology; Dr. Bellieve was the professor of languages. There was at this time marked improvement over former years, because of improved facilities. Today, I am glad to say, it stands high among the institutions of this western country; and when I consider the efforts that are being made for progress in every educational department that this people are concerned in, my heart rejoices at the success we are making.  
  
The L. D. S. Hospital had a very small beginning. It was first called the Deseret Hospital and was located in a large adobe building, opposite the Sixteenth Ward square, where the University of Utah was established later. This building was occupied as a hotel by David Wilkin, a partner of mine in the handcart missionary company. We started an institution to relieve suffering humanity, and did the best we could to make an institution where people could be cared for who were maimed or ill. The Dr. Groves' L. D. S. Hospital, is a credit to any people and to any country; and I am glad to say this of all the institutions of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
I was pleased to be reminded, in the prayer this morning, of our privilege of voting to establish temples, one in Canada and at this conference, one upon the Island of Oahu. This is in keeping with the progress of the work of the Lord, in providing for the spiritual education of the living, also for the development of those great principles which shall reach through time and beyond the vale, for the welfare of Zion, and her children, for the blessing of the living and redemption of the dead. This in fulfillment of the promise made by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he said, the Lord will send Elijah, the Prophet, and he shall turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. That promise was fulfilled literally in the Kirtland Temple, for the Prophet records that he, in company with one of his chosen elders, prayed at the altar of the Kirtland Temple, and the Savior appeared to them and declared that He was their advocate with the Father. Then came Moses, committing to the Prophet the dispensation of the fathering of Israel; and Elias, committing the dispensation of the Gospel; and then came Elijah, the Prophet, fulfilling the promise that he would come and turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. I rejoice today in the prospects that are before the Latter-day Saints. When I look around and see the many blessings that have been given to us in this year of our Lord, in the way of bounteous harvest, and in the encouragement the people have received to pay their tithes and their offerings; I see a time of prosperity before this people such as they have never known, if they shall prove faithful and true to the trust committed to them.  
  
I was very much pleased not long ago when one of my grandsons, the fifth generation from my grandfather, John Young, who had just returned from Camas. He had gone over to Camas, immediately his school closed, in search of work, and he had a very good position given him. He was manager, clerk, and operator in loading and unloading a hay wagon for thirty days, earning two dollars a day. When he came home, he said, "Grandpa, I want to pay my tithing. Where shall I go? We haven't located yet in a ward since we came from the canyon." Someone has said, in criticism of this people and their doctrines, the doctrines of the Gospel, "Oh, you just wait till the third, fourth and fifth generation come along and you will find that faith has gone out of the hearts of your children and your grand children." It is not so, for I find faith existing in the hearts of our children today, bright and untarnished: and there is more faith, and greater numbers are evidencing that faith in the midst of this people, than ever before. And so it will be if we shall do our part, perform our full duties, in teaching our children in the pure love of God and the Gospel of His dear Son. Thus enabling them to recognize the light of truth and the right.  
  
I do not in this matter wish to be understood to have any censure for our district schools, for the high schools, for our splendid University of Utah, they are in their proper place and they are doing great good. But I wish to encourage the thought that our Latter-day Saint schools are very necessary for in them our children are taught to receive, in their youthful and innocent minds, the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  
  
Now, my brothers and sisters, in closing I bear testimony to you that the Gospel is true, that this Church has the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and that those who preside over the Church today are men God has chosen to preside over His people, and I say may God bless them forever, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 