43
Morning
06 10 1915
Elder Orvil L. Thompson.
91
108-110

None

None

(President of Millard Stake.)  
  
My brethren and sisters, I hope that I may enjoy that same good spirit that has been enjoyed so abundantly by our brethren, as they have occupied this position during the sessions of this conference. My testimony has been strengthened and my faith increased in listening to the counsels and the testimony of those who have spoken in this conference, and I have felt that it is good to be here.  
  
I have been impressed most deeply by the comparisons that were made in the preceding session of the conference by Bishop Nibley, his statement of the activities and the spirit that characterizes the work of the Latter-day Saints as compared with others. As he spoke, the words of the Lord as they were given ancient Israel came to my mind, wherein He said, as He was preparing His ancient people that they might inherit the land that had been promised to them, He used these words: "Thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord has chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto Himself above the nations that live upon the earth." I thought that latter-day Israel is measuring up to the standard that was set by the Lord for ancient Israel before they entered into their inheritance. The bishop made comparison of the forms and ceremonies of the latter-day work and those who have tried to copy, in a degree, some of these ordinances and forms, and pointed out the distinctive peculiarity that pertains to the Latter-day Saints and their worship. I thought of one other great feature of this work that he did not mention in his remarks This item was brought to my attention in the opening session of the conference, in the remarks of President Smith, and the announcement that was so heartily seconded and approved by the great assemblage on that occasion in regard to the establishment of a temple on an island of the Pacific.  
  
One of the peculiar and distinctive features of the gospel, of this latter-day work, has been the building of temples Very early in the history of the Church, even as early as December, 1830,a very few months after its organization, it was made known unto the prophet that there should be a house built unto His name, and a promise was made that the Lord would visit it, or suddenly come to His temple Early in the year 1831, at a counsel of the brethren held in Kirtland, a company of them were selected, and they were sent out into the then far west, and finally congregated in Missouri according to appointment, and there, on the 2nd day of August, 1831, a site was selected for the rearing of a house of the Lord, in Independence, Jackson County, but the building of this great temple was to be postponed for a time And again the Lord spoke to His people and pointed out the necessity of speedily erecting such a building wherein the ordinances of His house might be properly performed. And so, revelations were again given and a place selected, and a spot dedicated for the rearing of a temple in Kirtland, Ohio, and in 1833 this work was begun, in the days of the poverty of the people, and amidst the bitterest persecution; in the days of limited numbers and means was this work begun. In 1835 the building had so far been completed that some rooms could be used for sacred purposes, and in that year some of the most glorious manifestations of the power of God and His goodness and mercy were given unto the prophet Joseph Smith, and those that were associated with him in the ministry at that time.  
  
It is stated in the history of the Church that a glorious vision was given previous to the final completion and dedication of the Kirtland temple, in which it is said that they beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and saw the transcendent glory of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom should enter; they saw the Father sitting upon His blazing throne and the Son at His right hand; they saw the streets of the kingdom having the appearance of being paved with gold. Many other things of a marvelous nature, and of great encouragement to the people in their distressed condition, were given to the people at that time, which encouraged them to press forward in their spendid work so that the temple might be completed, which was accomplished in the year 1836 At the dedication of that temple more of the wonderful manifestations of the power of the Lord was given, so eloquently referred to in the opening prayer of President Smart this morning, and further referred to by President Seymour B. Young, wherein the Lord was seen standing upon the breastwork of the temple, and the veil was. taken from their eyes, and wonderful promises were made. The keys of the gathering of Israel, and of the blessing of the people, and the spirit of Elijah, all of these blessings were bestowed upon the brethren on this solemn occasion But persecution came, they were forced to leave the edifice which they had built to the name of the Lord, and to move away from that sacred spot. Another site was selected and dedicated for the erection of a temple, in Far West, but the building of it was not allowed, and again, in November, having been forced to vacate the places where they had gathered and the Church centered for a time, and found a new gathering place at Nauvoo, again the voice of the Lord comes that a temple shall be built there. As they begin upon the twelfth year of their existence as a Church, in April, 1841, again dedicatory services are held, and the operation of building a temple is again begun. Persecution continues but, amidst all the trials that came upon them our brethren and sisters were faithful to their trust, and prosecuted their labors in faithfulness under the direction of the prophet and his associates.  
  
They were not permitted to see the completion of the temple at Nauvoo, for the Prophet and his brother were murdered by assassins in 1844, and the temple was not completed and ready for dedication until the spring of 1846. Under the leadership of Brigham Young, who took up the work where it was laid down by the prophet and his brother the patriarch, was successfully carried to completion that great work, in the days of the great poverty and persecution of the people. Again they were forced to flee from their homes, but after crossing the wilderness, as they entered this valley from the canyons on our east and looked over its barren waste, the prophet of the Lord saw in vision that this was the place; and four days later a site had been selected, and on that spot designated the prophet said, "Here shall we raise the temple of our God."  
  
And so, this has been a characteristic from the beginning, a distinctive feature of this Church, the building of temples. Then arose the necessity of a temple before this great edifice that now stands upon the Temple Block might be completed, and so in St. George, in the far south, one is erected, and dedicated, and one at Logan in the north, and another in Manti, the central part of the state, and later, in 1893, the – com pletion and dedication of the splendid edifice that stands upon these grounds. Now we hear with joy and our hearts do rejoice at the work proceeding on the erection of a temple in Canada, and the decision to erect another at Laie, on one of the islands of the Pacific ocean. It certainly is a testimony unto us that the spirit of Elijah is operating upon the hearts of the children of men today. I bear record that in the stake over which I preside this spirit is active, and is being manifested in the labors of our brethren and sisters, particularly the sisters of the Relief Society, who have taken great interest in this work. We have not many sick nor many poor that require the charitable attention of the sisters of our Relief Society, and therefore their efforts are being directed in preparing the records of the people for the work of salvation for the dead.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony which the Lord has given me of the truth of His work. I desire to bear it to you, my brethren and sisters, on this occasion, in connection with those who have borne testimony before. I know that this is the work of the Lord. May we live so that we may merit His blessings, and finally achieve salvation in His kingdom, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 