44
Morning
06 10 1915
Elder Samuel E. Woolley. 
114
110-112

None

None

(President of Hawaiian Mission.)  
  
Aloha no ia oukou apau. (A love greeting to you all.)  
  
I feel that I have as much reason to rejoice this morning as any other person present, for truly the spirit of Elijah has been upon the people over whom it has been my good pleasure to preside for the past twenty years. The spirit of temple work, looking after themselves and their dead, has been in the hearts of that people for years, and now we have voted to build a temple upon a piece of ground chosen of the Lord.  
  
That land, the land of Laie, was chosen by revelation, by a committee appointed by President Brigham Young, our President Joseph F. Smith being one of that committee. President Young appeared in spirit to one of the committee and said to him, "Upon this land we will build a temple." That was after the Church had been established upon the islands, and Lanai had been chosen as a gathering place for the Saints of that mission, and after the notorious Walter Gibson had taken advantage of the people, and procured deeds and bills of sale of all their lands, and their goats and their sheep, and their turkeys or whatever they may have had, in his own name. He was excommunicated from the Church after a committee chosen and sent by President Young had investigated his case, and the people were forced to get away from Lanai. A committee of those sent remained and sought out a gathering place that the Saints might have a home. Now, this particular land, the land of Laie, now owned by the Church since 1864, was a city of refuge in olden times, because that people are of the pure blood of Israel, and we find among them until this day rites and ceremonies that were practiced by ancient Israel, and they had cities of refuge and Laie was one of those, and it will be an eternal city of refuge to the remnant of that portion of the house of Israel.  
  
I have felt for years that there would be a temple there, and I have put forth what effort the Lord has given me to that end trying to build up and beautify that sacred land. I believe in the near future that it will grow more than it has ever grown before, and the feeling and sentiment of the people, not only the Latter-day Saints but the sentiment of the outside, is coming toward us. A gentleman said to me only recently, he is manager of a large mercantile institution: "Mr. Woolley if I had mv way, if I were the directing authority of this institution, I wouldn't have anybody but 'Mormons' work for me." Many others have the same good reports to make of our people in that land. A few years ago we had the privilege of voting on a temperance move in that land. A committee was sent out over the whole group to ask the people, the Hawaiian people in particular, their sentiments regarding prohibition, and the tabulation, according to the secretary of that committee, who introduced himself to me one day upon the street saying, ''Are you Mr. Woolley of Laie?" I said, "Yes, sir," He said, "I want to compliment you on the good work you people have done. I have the tabulation of the committee sent out to inquire after the feelings of the people, and I have this to say: "seventy-five per cent of those visited who are 'Mormons' are in favor of prohibition, seventeen per cent Catholic, and eight per cent of the church of whom I am a member, the Protestant, eight per cent only." He said: "I am ashamed, the missionaries who brought the Bible that we hold dear, to this land and only eight per cent, are willing to abolish liquor." There were a number of people, local elders, chosen as members of a committee of one hundred to labor for prohibtion, those who selected them not knowing they belonged to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they were recognized as good solid men. One of the number of our people was one of the three who came here a number of years ago as a committee that went to Washington to intercede for her Excellency the Queen, who was dethroned, the late David Kalauokalani. He said to the chairman of the committee, Mr. J. P. Cook, "I have believed in this for the last forty years, I have been taught it in the church that I belong to." He says: "What church do you belong to?" "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." "Do they teach these things?" "Yes. and every other good thing." "Well." he said, "I never knew that before." "Because you never went to our meetings," was the reply. 
  
From that time we have grown in influence. Those men that took up and labored, in connection with the other denominations, for prohibition have grown and our influence is spreading out, and there is a good feeling towards us today, generally speaking. So I believe that, now we have voted for a temple, when that is completed and dedicated I believe that the spirit of prejudice will be allayed more and more, as it has been in every land and at every time we have dedicated a temple unto the Lord from the beginning.  
  
My heart rejoices in these things, and I love that people because the Lord loves them. They are a good people, and I want to tell you they will be on hand with their means whatever they possess, if it is called for; they will be there to assist, every one of them, and we have now 9,310 souls in the mission. I believe they will come and respond cheerfully with all they have, and they will help to maintain the Temple, because that is one of the characteristics of that people. Last August the Relief Society of Honolulu gave a public feast, on a square right in the center of the city, opposite the Alexander Young Hotel, a beautiful little place, and they were asked twenty dollars for the use of it. They gave this feast. It was upon a Saturday, and they cleared $1,265.00 over and above expenses, to erect a house for the poor at Honolulu. Before twelve o'clock Saturday night everything was cleared away, and left neat and clean, and the man in charge said, "Here is your twenty dollars, I took that because every other feast that has been given at this place has cost us twenty dollars to clear the refuse away." Another mark for our people.  
  
I feel now as I have felt for years, that every time I hear reports from other parts of the world concerning the people, (I have talked with President Smith about these things), I feel in my heart to mark Hawaii up one, and today I feel to mark her up another one. Think of it, the only mission, I believe, since the Church was organized that is going to have a temple, and I rejoice in it. Thank God for good men that the Lord can reveal His mind and will to. I sustain them every one in my heart and in my soul, and I hope to be true, true to the people, true to the Lord, true to the priesthood, and true to the covenants that I have made, and I hope to continue faithful to the end. I hope this for all of us, and for the Hawaiian people especially, because I am most interested in them. The Lord loves them; He chose men to go there in early days, He spoke to President Cannon with His own voice in that land. He came to Brother Cannon at Lahaina, Maui, and told him that He would lead him to a people that would receive the truth, and He did. Now there are tens of thousands of people who have joined the Church in that land, who have passed away without the Temple blessings, and there are tens of thousands who never did belong to the Church who were honest hearted. They will have to be worked for, and the Lord will have to help us to obtain their genealogies, because they haven't kept genealogy, but He can do it. He knows how, and He will do it in the right way too.  
  
May the Lord help us to prove true and faithful to the end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 