45
Morning
06 10 1915
Elder Rey L. Pratt.
26
113-114

None

None

(President of Mexican Mission.)  
  
"Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man. then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.  
  
And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.  
  
And as he spake these words many believed on him.  
  
Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples inded;  
  
And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."  
  
I rejoice very greatly, my brethren and sisters, at this opportunity of bearing my testimony to you of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Since the opening remarks at this Conference, by President Smith, this scripture has been in my mind, and it occurs to me that our duty as a people, is to continue in obedience to the words of the Lord as they are given unto us by His prophet, and by His inspired teachers, that we have among us. By thus doing we will become in very deed the disciples of the Lord, and we shall be able to know and discern the truth in all things, and the truth will make us, in the future, as it has done in the past, free from the evils of the age in which we live. It occurs to me that there is no other way given in the wide world, whereby the world may be rid of those things that are an abomination today, save it be giving heed to the word of the Lord as it comes to us, and living in accordance with that word.  
  
I want to ask the question if there is any system existing in the world today that can rid the world of the evils of war, and of strife and bloodshed that exist in the nations, save it be by living in accordance with the doctrines as laid down in the Gospel of Jesus Christ? And, has there ever been any institution established that will rid men entirely of the evil of liquor, that will rid them of the evils of ambition, of profanity, and every other evil that we might mention, save it be the word of the Lord as taught in the Gospel of Jesus Christ? The Lord said, at the conclusion of that memorable sermon, the greatest sermon ever delivered to man on the earth, that sermon upon the mount: "He that heareth these words and doeth them, the same is likened unto a man who built his house on a rock," and whatever might come afterwards in the way of temptation, in the way of storms that come into the human life, nothing could shake that man who built his edifice, or faith, on the word of the Lord as delivered there, and who obeyed those words. The Lord has said to those that doubt, "My doctrine is not mine but His that sent me; He that shall do the will of the Father shall know the doctrine, whether it is of God or whether I speak of myself." And the Apostle James said: "But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." Therefore I say to you, brethren and sisters, the thought that has come to me is, that it is our duty as listeners, our duty as the people of the Lord in this generation, to give heed to the word of the Lord as it has come to us and do according to that word, and thus shall we be made free, and we shall know of the doctrine that it is of God, and we shall rejoice as nothing else in the world can make us rejoice.  
  
I rejoice to be able to bear to you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the Gospel is true. I know that the angel spoken of by John the Revelator has flown through the midst of heaven, and I know that through him the Gospel has been restored to the earth again. I bear you my testimony that Joseph Smith did in very deed receive a vision of the Father and the Son, because I know that it is true; and I bear you my testimony that he received, at the hands of angels sent from God, the holy priesthood that holds the keys and powers to establish this great work. By that authority he received, he did establish the kingdom of God upon the earth in this day and age of the world. In this Church exists the authority to administer in all of the ordinances necessary for the salvation of the living, and for the redemption of the dead.  
  
As a people we rejoice today in seeing the work grow, extending not only in behalf of the living but also in behalf of the many hundreds of thousands of people of honest hearts who have died without this privilege, and whose descendants now have the temple doors opened to them to work out for them, as far as it is possible for mortals to do for those who have passed beyond, a salvation in the kingdom of our Father in heaven. I rejoice also in the great missionary spirit among the living, and in the opportunity that I have had of laboring among the nations of the earth. I wish to bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that there are very many people in the world whom the Lord loves, many who are not yet members of this Church for the simple reason that they have not had explained to them the principles of the Gospel. When the Gospel is carried to them they will with gladness receive it. Those of us who are fortunate enough to be laboring in the ministry abroad find such people every day in our labors. Very recently it has been my privilege to travel in parts of the country where the gospel has not been taken before, among descendants of the original natives of this land of America, down in Colorado and in New Mexico, and we find the people anxious and willing to receive the teachings of the Gospel. I rejoice in having the privilege of carrying it to them.  
  
I do not desire to occupy your time, my brethren and sisters. I feel good in this work, and I rejoice at the privilege of bearing this testimony, that I do know that God lives and that his priesthood is among us, and our duty is to hear His word, with open hearts, from those men who have authority to give it to us, because it is the word of God Let us, my brethren and sisters, live each day of our lives in accord with the word of the Lord as it comes to us, and we shall indeed be made happy, and free from all of the sins that exist in the world today. May the Lord help us to understand His purposes and to live in accordance with the light that we receive, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 