46
Morning
06 10 1915
Elder Melvin J. Ballard.
1
114-118

None

None

(President of Northwestern States Mission.)  
  
It is not always possible for the younger element in the Church, who have been born and raised in these peaceful valleys, to understand what it has cost to produce those wonderful results that we have heard something about today, and during the other sessions of this conference. We have not contributed very much, some of us, in comparison to what our parents and grand-parents have done. I believe that no man can fully appreciate and deeply love this gospel unless he or she does something for it. I have discovered that those who have labored earnestly, who have sacrificed much, loved much, and I believe that if the young men and women of this Church shall continue to love God's truth they must serve in the proclamation of that truth, and in the establishment of that truth in their lives.  
  
No great things have ever come to the world, of any value, except through sacrifice. We recount the experiences of the past and discover that Jesus gave His life for the most precious thing that we have in the earth today — the plan of life and salvation. Apparently it could not come without sacrifice. It required great sacrifice on the part of the founders, under God, of this work. Many of them gave their lives for it. It required sacrifice on the part of the founders of this great government. I have felt, as I have come to understand and realize, in part, the purposes of God, that this glorious work, "Mormonism," in some manner and way is linked with the great and glorious institutions God our Father has established in America, that they shall go forward, these two great forces, one to break down political bars that have kept men's minds and hearts in slavery, and make the way for liberty to come to all lands, judging among the nations in the settlement of wars, and the establishment of righteousness, politically, among the nations of the earth. As a hand maiden and companion with this mighty force looking to the establishment of political liberty shall be found that other great companion of truth, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, proclaiming the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which shall destroy the error and superstition, and false notions that men have had with respect to God, His purposes and desires; and they shall accomplish ultimately the human redemption and emancipation of our Father's children.  
  
My heart goes out in gratitude that, notwithstanding it has not been permitted to many of us young members of the Church to stand in those perilous positions that have been occupied by our fathers, in building the bridges, subduing the wilderness or in standing before mob violence; that here, after all, are chances perhaps grander than any that ever came to them, to show our manhood, our integrity, and our devotion to the work of God at a time when, perhaps, it takes more strength, more moral courage, to stand out against the allurement of the world, and to be a true, clean, honest, upright servants of God. I feel that if the young men and the young women of this Church can succeed in weathering the insidious influences that are arrayed about us everywhere to destroy true ideals of life, if we can resist and become triumphant by the mastery of ourselves, subjecting ourselves to these gospel principles that we have heard about today, we shall win laurels, place and positions of renown that shall not be excelled by any who have preceded us.  
  
I believe with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that it is possible to do a service today that shall be as acceptable to the Lord as any that has been performed. I feel that we are in unfinished stages of the work of the Lord. I thank God that we have watchmen upon the towers, such as the President of this Church and these leading brethren, constantly calling our attention to the unfinished work that is yet to be accomplished. I believe that the Lord Almighty intended to establish here, as the result of the introduction of this gospel, a perfect race of men and women who shall be an inspiration to the world, the very light upon the hill. We haven't yet perfected ourselves; there is much yet to be clone to bring to pass that perfection in our lives. I am thankful that there are teachers in the Church willing to devote their time to visit the members of the Church. I feel that this is one of the great and important labors of this present hour and time, that we shall reach out to every home, that every father and every mother shall be anxious to keep prominently and conspicuously before the minds of their children the true picture in the mind of our Father when He established this truth, that we shall build on the foundations that have been laid until we shall perfect our lives and by this prove to the world that the great philosophy of "Mormonism," the wonderful truth God has given is practical, it is workable.  
  
The world is full of theories that are not practical. These theories and philosophies of eternal truth are practical; they work out. We must prove that they work out, and then we shall have no difficulty in persuading men and women to believe in the truth that the Lord has given to us. While at the present time, in some sections of the world, the delivery of the message of the gospel is curtailed because of the great distress of the nations involved in war, it may be the winter of the preaching of the gospel, so far as the European nations are concerned. If it be so, I pray you, my brethren and sisters, that we shall be wise during this winter season, that thousands of able and efficient men in this Church shall get out of debt and shall prepare themselves, by gathering strength during this waiting season, that when the cry shall come once again, "Lo, the harvest is ripe," we shall be prepared. I testify to you that there will be called hundreds where tens have gone into the European nations, when this mighty struggle is ended, and it is essential that we shall be preparing ourselves now, to save faith in God in the world.  
  
I believe that men's faith is being shaken; they are being tried, and they are turning away from God and away from Christ, and away from their hope and belief that the gospel which they had would solve the world's difficulties and bring peace on earth and good will toward men. We shall have to preserve that faith. We shall have to preserve the eternal principles by the message that God has given to us. Now don't imagine, my brothers and sisters, that while the Lord has been merciful and kind to us and has brought us, one of a city and two of a family, — and oh, how thankful I am that that is true, — away from Babylon, away from the turmoil and strife of the world, that we be not patakers of her plagues and her judgments, don't imagine that the Lord has brought us here to enjoy this gospel alone. I conceive that He has called us simply to persuade others, simply to be qualified as teachers for the nations of the earth, and our mission is to all the world. We did not come to these valleys of the mountains just to reap and to sow, to plant and to gather the good things of the earth and be contented enjoying the blessings of a material and a spiritual character, for our families and ourselves. We came here true to the prophecies of old, to become teachers unto the nations, the salt of the earth, the light on a hill. Our mission is unto the East and the West, the North and the South, and I am beginning to feel, I believe, as I come in contact with our Father's children, more of that spirit and feeling that the Lord really has.  
  
I was impressed a few months ago, by an appeal that a father made concerning an only son who was in the mission field. The boy had not shown much interest in the work of the Lord, and the father said, "Oh, go to my son; do something for him. He is my only son, and I love him with all my heart, but I can't reach him. Won't you please go and do something for him?" And then the vision arose up in my mind of another father, the very Eternal Father who loves His children with a love greater than that exhibited by this father, and I in fancy could hear the appeal of that Father in heaven to you and to me and to those who have been called and who have listened: go unto them, my children, for I love them. Call them away from the folly of the world; call them away from the powers of the adversary and bring them back unto me. And so I do love the children of men in the world. I don't love their wickedness, but I do love their souls. They are precious before the Lord, and I must have burning in my heart an anxious desire to call them to the Father, away from error, and away from superstition and darkness.  
  
My heart rejoices in this work. The more I do for it, the more I love it and the more I appreciate it. I feel thankful that in this western country, out in the northwest where I have the joy to labor, that there are a good people, broadminded, liberal, not so narrow as many in other sections. I felt, while President Monson was referring to the apparent success of those who are traducing the character of the Latter-day Saints in the East, that not one of such workers as those could succeed in the Northwest. There is a broad, liberal, generous spirit there. Only a few weeks ago, to illustrate, in the city of Portland, where delegates from seven western states had gathered in a great water-power congress, the governor of this state presided over the deliberations of that body the entire time. Everybody knew he was a "Mormon" and nobody objected. President Hart, who spoke to you, was the chairman of the committee on credentials, and Brother Smoot was honored with that most important position of being chairman of the committee on resolutions. Everybody knew who these men were. There was not one to raise a voice of complaint, but all were pleased to see them. I feel that we were blessed indeed, surrounded in this western country by broad-minded, liberal men in these western states who are our friends. They will help us to win the East.  
  
God bless us that we shall continue, out in the settlements where we live, to be exemplary and to win the respect of good men and women, and I know we will do it if we come up to the teachings of this conference.  
  
There is no revolt against the leaders of this Church that corresponds to the vain babblings of some who thought they had discovered a schism and a break. I tell you, and I am sure that I speak for and in behalf of the tens of thousands of young men in this Church, that there never was a spirit of loyalty exhibited by any generation of men in this Church that excells the spirit of loyalty, devotion and faith manifested by the young men of this Church today. If there is a revolt, I pray that it may be a revolt against evil, a revolt against the sins of the world and a resolution and determination that we, the young men of this Church, shall prepare ourselves to step forward in the grand work of the future, perfecting our own lives and calling the world to God and to our Christ, which may the Lord grant in the name of Jesus. Amen. 