48
Afternoon
06 10 1915
Elder Lars P. Overson.
148
121-122

None

None

(President of Emery Stake.)  
  
My brothers and sisters, it makes me shake a little to face this large congregation, but nevertheless, I rejoice in having the privilege to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the work of the Lord in which we are engaged. I have rejoiced exceedingly during this conference in listening to the timely counsel, and the testimony that has been borne, and to the instructions that we have so abundantly received. I feel as though I would be able to go back to my home and be a better man than I have been in the past, that I would be able to bear a stronger and better testimony to the people of the section of the country where I live than I have ever done before.  
  
I come from one of the remote stakes of the Church away off across the mountains, but over in that country we have some splendid, good people, people who are striving to serve the Lord and to live up to the requirements of the gospel to the best of their ability. I rejoice in being associated with them, and to have the privilege to minister in the midst of the people of God.  
  
I have had for many years an unquestionable testimony burning within my bosom of the truthfulness of this work. I realize and fully know to my own satisfaction that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he was inspired of the Lord to bring forth this mighty work, which has spread abroad and grown in the few years since it was first organized, till today it is reaching into all parts of the world. I appreciate the blessings that have come to this people through the establishment of this gospel, through the organization of this Church and through the ministry of the servants of the Lord who have labored in the midst of the people for the establishment of the work of the Lord upon the earth. I sustain and uphold the servants of the Lord who are called and placed at the head at the present time. I know that they are men of God, I know that they are called of God and that they are capable of leading this people onward and upward in the paths of righteousness; and if we, my brethren and sisters, will follow their admonitions and counsel, we will be able to reach that glory and exaltation in our Father's kingdom for which we have started.  
  
I rejoice to know that the gospel is spreading abroad, that the work of the Lord is growing in all parts of the world and that steps are being taken to establish more fully the work of the Lord in the nations of the earth. It has been my privilege to be associated with this Church from my childhood, although I was born in a foreign land, but my parents embraced the gospel while I was a child and brought me to this goodly land, and I have had the privilege to be tutored and instructed in the principles of the gospel, by the servants of the Lord, all the days of my life, and I cannot sufficiently thank my Heavenly Father for this privilege. I know that this gospel will continue to grow; I know that it has been established, never more to be thrown down, never to be given to another people, but that it will continue to spread abroad whether we, my brothers and sisters, keep pace with the work of the Lord or not.  
  
I hope and pray we may all be faithful and true, that we may continue steadfast in the cause of truth, that we may be valiant in its defense, and stand up for the principles of righteousness wherever it may be our lot to be cast amongst our fellow men. That the Lord will help us and bless us to this end and enable us to be faithful all the days of our lives, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
