49
Afternoon
06 10 1915
Elder Lemuel H. Redd.
149
122

None

None

(President of San Juan Stake.)  
  
My brothers and sisters, I feel very timid indeed in standing before this great congregation. I trust that the few words I utter may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord. I can say that I have rejoiced in attending this conference. I endorse every word that has been spoken. I know that the word of the Lord has been given unto us, and I trust, my brothers and sisters, that we will carry with us the good spirit that has been so manifest here during our conference.  
  
I come from the San Juan stake of Zion, perhaps the farthest stake from Salt Lake City. I have lived there for the last thirty-five years, was called there when I was a mere boy. It was a wild Indian country when I went there, but I can say we have a splendid country out there, and a good people and a good place for young men and young women to go to get homes. There is lots of good land, and the conditions are good. If the young people are willing to go there and labor, and be economical and industrious, they can make good homes. It is a splendid experience for young people to go through. I can say that those who are willing to go and be directed by the Spirit of the Lord, and be governed by those who are placed over them, they will enjoy life, they will prosper in the land. This has been my experience.  
  
I am in love with the Latter-day Saints. I am in love with the principles of the gospel. I know they are true. I bear testimony to you, my brothers and sisters, that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord; that no man could do the things that he did unless he was directed by the Spirit of the Lord. Those who have succeeded him also are men of God. I have had the honor and pleasure of visiting with those who preside in this Church, and I know that they are splendid men. I never heard a word or sentiment come from them but what I know to be true.  
  
My brothers and sisters, I pray the Lord to bless each one of us, that we may be enabled to go to our homes and possess the good spirit we have enjoyed here, that we may learn to be better men and better women, to be more faithful than we have ever been before and finally may be saved in our Father's presence, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 