5
Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder Milton H. Welling.
78
17-19

None

None

(President of Bear River Stake.) 

The brother who offered the opening prayer, this morning, gave inspiration to an oft-repeated thought that is in the hearts of men and women in this Church, when they call upon their Father in heaven. It was a simple expression of gratitude to God for membership in this Church. I rejoice that I have membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I believe that is the reason that you are here today also. Not because you desired to be seen or heard of men, but simply because you were grateful to God the Eternal Father that you had a membership in His Church. I am indeed grateful for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I heard the same thought expressed over in my stake of Zion, the other day, by a little child, in a meeting where children had the privilege of participating, and the children gave the exercises of the afternoon. A little child, who was scarcely able to enunciate his words properly, stood up and said to the people with a spirit of simple dignity that touched my heart; "I am glad to have a membership in the Church of Christ."  
  
I believe, my brethren and sisters, that membership in this Church confers blessings and privileges, and power that men in all the world, if they but understood it, would be clamoring for. It does not matter whether one has money or not. It does not matter if we are compelled to get along without the wealth of the world. But we are here as members of this Church, expressing the gratitude that is in our hearts for simply belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ. I trust that, with the blessings that come with such membership, we Latter-day Saints realize that it has brought obligations to us as well, that membership in the Church is not a blessing that does not require that we who have it should pay for it, but that we should so live that our lives would make us worthy of membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
I have heard so often in my life the thought expressed that it would have been a magnificent thing to have lived in the past ages, to have lived and been able and willing to suffer, if need be, with those who have been martyred for the sake of righteousness and truth, from the time when the Savior lived upon the earth. We marvel today that men did not understand His ministry, that those who ought to have befriended Him rejected His testimony, and crucified the Christ. When the Prophet Joseph lived upon the earth, as has been very beautifully and strikingly expressed to us this morning by President Tolton, the people misunderstood his ministry, rejected his testimony, and killed the prophet of the living God. We who live today feel that it is a remarkable thing that those people did not better understand the significance of the ministry and work of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. I am one of those, my brethren and sisters, who believe that being a member of the Church today is fraught with just as great significance as it ever has been in the history of the past, and I believe that it is just as needful today for us to be absolutely faithful, and devoted to the teachings that we receive from the servants of God, as it has ever been in the past history of this Church, or of any church instituted for the worship of our Father in heaven, in any dispensation of the gospel. I sometimes think that our people in studying and contemplating the history of the past lose the proper significance of their relationship to the Church of Christ today.  
  
I wonder if, in hearing the splendid testimonies, and reading the splendid writings of these men who have lived and died for the interests of the Church, and the establishment of the Gospel in times past, if we feel that our lives and the lives of other men today are just as important in the work of God as any that have preceded them, humble though they be, I believe that the Lord requires of His children today a devotion and service in the interests of the Church that is just as binding upon us as it has ever been in times past. I cannot conceive of anything that we are doing, or trying to do, that would bring greater condemnation to us than a departure from the testimony and the faith that has been handed down to us from our fathers.  
  
I believe, as President Tolton has said, that it is a proper thing to contemplate the ministry of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and to learn therefrom the great lessons which he presented to the world. I believe that these young men and women that live today, and older men and women, have had made plain to them the necessity of conforming their lives to the lives of these great leaders of the Church in the past; if we do not conform our lives to their testimony and teachings we will be under the greater condemnation because of our knowledge in that respect.  
  
I have great pleasure in saying that I believe the young people in this Church at heart are true; but I wish that we could put away more of our indifference. I wish that we were more steadfast and more devoted in our attitude towards the servants of the Lord in this Church. I believe, if that was our attitude, we would be a better people than we are today, more worthy of the sacrifice that was made by the Prophet for the Church, more worthy of the sacrifice that was made, later on, by the indefatigable labor of our fathers, in conquering the desert for our sake. What condemnation could be greater today for us than to be unworthy of the men and women who have builded this great empire in the west?  
  
It is my firm conviction and belief that the young people of today will be worthy of their fathers and mothers, will be worthy of every sacrifice that has been made in order that we might establish ourselves here in the very choicest spot, apparently, that there is upon the face of the whole earth. How grateful we ought to be, how devoted our service to our Father in Heaven! I say, fervently today, I am grateful for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and being grateful, I desire to express that gratitude, that appreciation, in the service of the Church! I don't believe there ever was a time in the history of this organization, or ever will be, when service for the Church of Christ is more important than it is today, when men should be faithful and true to the obligations they have entered into in holy places, when men should honor the Priesthood of the living God, and when they should be willing to go and testify to the world that they know of a truth the divinity of the Gospel which they have espoused.  
  
I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that the Gospel is true, and I know that there is pleasure, satisfaction, and joy to those who devote themselves faithfully to the work of the Lord today.  
  
May God bless the hosts of Israel who have assembled here at this conference, and may His Spirit direct and overrule everything that is said and done here for our good, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 