51
Afternoon
06 10 1915
Elder Joseph R. Murdock.
84
123-124

None

None

(President of Wasatch Stake.)  
  
I feel rather timid in attempting to address so many as there are assembled together on this occasion, brethren and sisters that I know are well versed in the principles of the gospel, and have received a testimony of its truth as well as I have. Nevertheless, I feel to corroborate and add my testimony to those that have been rendered on this occasion by my brethren.  
  
I know that the principles of the gospel are true, and the teachings which I have heard from my infancy, or from my boyhood days to the present time, have been for my welfare and the welfare of my brethren and sisters, for our best interest in this life and in the eternal world. I rejoice in association with my brethren and sisters. I love my brethren; I court their acquaintance, and desire to be associated with them in whatever may come to this people. I love this land, and our homes in these valleys of the mountains. I feel, with all my heart, that God has brought us to these lands, and this is the place which God has provided for the gathering of His people.  
  
It was my pleasure to be associated with President Robinson, for a few days, in the Irrigation Congress, in our neighboring state upon the Pacific Coast. Truly they have a wonderful country there, a place desirable to men who are seeking aggrandizement, wealth and the honors of men, a state which, in the near future, if the suggestions of the Irrigation Congress are carried out, will become one of the greatest, if not the greatest, state in all the Union. But it does not compare for our purposes, for the Latter-day Saints, with these little vales in the tops of the mountains, the place God has appointed for His people to gather unto, that they might become united, and work hand in hand in carrying out the principles of the everlasting gospel, a condition which could not have possibly been developed in that great and glorious state of California.  
  
God bless California and the people. They, I believe, are friendly toward us; but they are seeking the things of the world. To those among us who want the things of this world and its pleasures, I would say go to California; but if you want' to serve God and keep His commandments, stay in these vales of the mountains, surrounded by brethren and sisters who are seeking God's truths, and desire to carry out His principles. I am assured that we will make much greater success in keeping God's commandments in the place which He has appointed. I thank our Father for these lofty hills and mountains, which gather the snows and make it possible for us to establish homes at their base, in our beautiful little valleys, just big enough for us, developing as we grow, and not attractive, particularly, to those who are seeking for the good things of the world, which is the case in great cities, and in the great state in the west at the shores of the sea.  
  
I feel that the Lord has been good to us to let us live in this dispensation, and given us inspired men to guide and direct us; and in revealing the everlasting gospel for our salvation. We should show our appreciation by keeping the commandments of God, for in doing so there is peace, happiness, and contentment of the mind, and eternal rest in the kingdom of our Father in heaven; which may God grant will be the lot and condition of every Latter-day Saint, and every honest-hearted man and woman throughout the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 