54
Afternoon
06 10 1915
Elder Edward P. Kimball.
118
127-129

None

None

(Assistant Organist) 
  
When President Smith called me over and whispered in my ear, I thought I was going to be sent on some errand, but when he said "Will you bear your testimony for five minutes?" my heart stopped. Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am grateful for this privilege.  
  
It is the rather unhappy lot of men associated with the musical profession to have to live down the fallacy that a man cannot be a latter-day Saint and be a professional musician. For one, I am doing my best to live down that untruth. I believe there is nothing in the Gospel of Jesus Christ that will act upon any man or woman in any other way, if he or she be engaged in an honorable, upright profession, than to make him or her excel in the line of work which they take up. I admire the physician or the surgeon who has courage enough to administer the ordinances of the Church to his patient before performing an operation, recognizing the hand of God and his own limitation, putting himself as a humble instrument in the hands of God for the cure which he hopes, through the power of God, to be instrumental in bringing to pass upon those to whom he is called to administer. I admire any man or woman engaged in any lawful pursuit who has the courage to stand up and bear testimony of his conviction.  
  
I hope you will pardon me for a few personal reminiscences. Some of you may not know, others may, that I was in Europe, in Berlin, at the time war broke out. I could see no reason for coming home. Friends were raised up to us on ever side, and we were not expecting to return home until we received the word from the president of the mission that President Joseph F. Smith had called the priesthood out of Germany. That was sufficient for us. We sold our household belongings and came home, broken-hearted, along with fifteen or sixteen other students who were continuing their studies in that country. I testify to you that there is not one of those students who had to return to the United States, as he believed without having completed his work, who has not been able to accomplish more in the eastern cities than had he remained in Europe under present conditions Now, to me that is a testimony that President Smith was inspired of God, and that no man or woman will ever lose anything by following the counsel of those who stand at the head of the priesthood in this world.  
  
I was compelled at one time to give up the dearest desire of my heart. I had the chance of entering a musical conservatory in the East. My brother was called upon a mission at the same time. It was a question of him remaining home or I. I was able to forego the privilege at the time and he went on a mission. Another time I thought the time was ripe for me to go, and I was called on a mission myself. I set my work aside and went into the missionary field as any other elder would do. Those who knew me as a missionary did not know, until weeks afterwards, that music was the profession of my life and the thing to which I hoped to devote my entire time. I put this aside, devoted myself according to my best ability, in weakness and humility, to the labor as a servant of the Lord in the missionary field. I testify to you that I am of the same opinion today, if the authorities of the Church should ask me to lay down my professon, which to me, next to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and my loved ones, is the dearest thing in the world, as I feel now, I would do it, to take up labor in any capacity to which I might be called.  
  
I take my work here in the tabernacle, as asistant organist in the Church, very seriously. There are preaching missionaries in the Church. I consider my work, and I consider the work of my associates here as that of playing missionaries of the Church. It is a matter of prayer with me. I remember not more than ten clays ago I had an extremely difficult program to render, and I bowed my knees in prayer, as I always do, to ask for the help of the Lord, that those people who heard my effort here might receive at least a comparative idea of the musical ability of our people, for such I consider the work which we render here gives. After I had finished I was told by one of the janitors in the east end of the building, that a couple had come to him and had made this statement: "I don't know who that young man is, but he surely is imbued with the Spirit of God." This was an answer to my prayer.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I hope that the time is coming when you, all of you, will recognize that a man or woman can follow any lawful occupation in the world and succeed, and still be even a better Latter-day Saint. I believe the Gospel with all my heart. I am proud of my lineage. The statement was made by Brother Seymour B. Young this morning that it was prophesied of this Church in the early days, by enemies of this people, that the third and fourth generation would leave the faith. I am of the third generation on the side of my father, and I am of the fourth generation on the side of mother, and I want to testify to you that the faith in the Gospel has not died out within my soul; there is no sacrifice which I would not make if called upon, providing I can keep the same spirit of humility and faith which I now have, and I intend to see to it that the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the testimony of the divinity of the work of Joseph Smith shall not die within the hearts of my children, if the Lord will permit me to give them the example which has been given to me by my parents and grandparents.  
  
I believe the most potent thing in the Church today is the bearing of testimony. I don't believe there is a servant of the Church who is so humble and who is so unlearned that, if he will put himself in condition arid bear the simplest testimony it will not have a tendency to increase the faith in the heart of some one. Now we who have been born in the Church have most of us had the testimony of the Gospel given to us by continuous hearing of the word, until the Lord has touched our souls; and I think that we should never stop bearing testimony. I am grateful that the authorities have seen fit to set me to work as a missionary here on the block. I have borne my testimony to more thousands here this summer than I did in the three years of my missionary experience in the world.  
  
Now, may the Lord bless you; may He preserve the lives of the older brethren and sisters who have made it possible to meet under such auspicious circumstances. May He preserve the life of His servant, President Smith, and his counselors, and the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, until they shall have fulfilled the work which God has outlined for them here.  
  
Once more my brethren and sisters, in my humble, weak way I bear to you the testimony that I know, so far as it is possible for a man in weak mortality to know, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. I don't know that South Africa exists, I don't know that there is such a place as South America except through the testimony of those who have been there and who do know it I don't know that God lives through having heard His voice or seen His face. I don't know that Joseph Smith received the visions which he did, through having come personally in contact with Him at the time, but the testimony of faith has been established within my soul through hearing the testimonies of those who do know, and I believe it is possible for every member of the Church of Jesus Christ to have not only the testimony of belief and of desire, but a testimony of positive knowledge. There will come a time when the hearts of every one of us will burn within us, as the Doctrine and Covenants says, if a man will know that a thing is right he can only know by the burning sensation which comes within the soul. . We all know that the things of this world, our occupations, fade into insignificance compared with the things we enjoy — compared with some of the rich outpourings of the Spirit in our priesthood meetings. What is the reason? Simply because we are in tune with the Infinite, and the things of the world disappear, and become as naught.  
  
I hope the Lord will give me long life, and allow me to devote my entire time in whatever capacity I may be called, to the promulgation, and the furtherance of His purposes, and that I may always allow the solemnities of eternity to rest upon my soul, that I may treasure up continually the word of the Lord, and that I may be ready at any time, wherever I may be, in any clime or under any conditions, to testify to the truth of the Gospel, as I really and sincerely feel it in my heart today. God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 