55
Afternoon
06 10 1915
Elder Tracy Y. Cannon.
152
130

None

None

(Assistant Organist.)  
  
My dear brethren and sisters, I am glad that I was called upon to speak, although I believe this is one of the most trying times of my whole life. But I have noticed this; that since I came from my mission, quite a number of years ago, I have been called upon, perhaps, only twice to administer the sacrament in our meetings, because I have always been busy with the choir or at the organ; and I have felt sometimes that the brethren forget that we musicians hold the priesthood, and that we want to exercise our rights therein. For this reason I am happy indeed, my brethren and sisters, to bear unto you the testimony which burns within my soul, for I have a testimony of this Gospel, that it is the work of God.  
  
I have traveled quite a good deal in my short life, and have studied somewhat concerning other faiths, and I have noticed that each particular faith that I have studied has its own peculiar spirit. There was a certain spirit attending me, it seemed, when I studied the beliefs of the great Catholic Church, and there was an entirely different spirit when I read somewhat concerning the Hindoo faiths; and I notice this, and always have noticed it, that when I have gone into one of our meetings or picked up one of our Church works, that there was an entirely different spirit from any one of them. A sweet, beautiful spirit came to my soul and testified that this was the greatest of all works among mankind, and so, my brethren and sisters, I am thankful, from bottom of my heart, to be a member of this Church.  
  
I am thankful for the opportunities that are presented, from day to day, for us to play to the thousands of people that come through here; because I know from experience, in speaking to the tourists, that their hearts are softened towards us, because of the beautiful music from this great and wonderful organ in this still greater and more wonderful building, thus preparing thousands of people to receive the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  
  
I know, my brethren and sisters, that this Gospel is true. I feel this testimony burning within my soul, and I know that when I am doing my full duty that the spirit is burning deepest in my heart. I feel to uphold President Smith, his counselors, and the Twelve, the missionaries and every man and woman who is working in this Church for the furtherance of truth; and I feel like Brother Kimball, and I know Brother McClellan feels the same, that I would be willing to lay down my professional work to go out as a humble elder, tracting from door to door. I have done it once, and it was really and truly a joy and power to me, even as is playing this wonderful organ; and you can imagine what a great joy and what a wonderful amount of satisfaction and happiness comes to one in having the great opportunity of playing to so many thousands of strangers.  
  
I pray God to bless you all, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 