7
Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder John G. M'Quarrie.
135
22-24

None

None

(Late President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Why, my brethren and sisters, should we be grateful for a standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? There is one reason why I am grateful, why I feel that it gives me strength and power; that is because I feel that I have a mission. I do not believe that any individual, or any nation, will ever accomplish anything great in the world until they feel that they have a mission, and until that mission is clearly defined in their minds.  
  
If we review the history of nations, we will realize that those nations that have been great, and strong and powerful, have been the nations that have felt that they had a mission, that they were to perform service not only for themselves but a service to the world. I do not believe that any individuals ever do anything very great, or make the most of all their powers until they love something, something bigger than themselves; I believe that our power is then increased to that degree that we feel the greatness of the cause with which we are associated. I was strongly reminded of this fact in listening to one of the beautiful songs that was sung here. The sister who led that song appeared one night in a great recital in New York City, in company with three other girls, and at the conclusion of their number they received a generous applause from the audience. Their instructor said to the audience, "It may be interesting to you to know that these three girls all come from far off Utah." Of course they had an impression that they were all "Mormon girls." It happened that this sister had another number to render later in the evening, and as she appeared before that audience she felt that she was not merely a student with this instructor, but that she then stood as the representative of a people, her people, and that their work would be judged somewhat by her ability and the way in which she rendered her part. Never before had she felt the necessity of using the gift that God had given her as she did on that occasion, and probably never before had she received such a tremendous applause as when she had finished that number. This may be considered only a little occasion, but I refer to it just to show what a power it gives to one to feel that he has a cause, that he is representing a people, and that he has a mission to perform in the world.  
  
In visiting the great fair at San Francisco, where we saw represented the accomplishments of men, and where they were trying to single out what men had really done, and honor those who had really blessed the world, I noticed it was not great scholars, only those that had been content to merely preach to a congregation, and have ease and comfort in a well provided home; it was not that class of men that received honor upon that occasion. It was not the men who had accumulated vast sums of money and great wealth that were honored and noticed; but old Ezra Meeker with his ox team, who blazed the trail across the continent, men who did something to build up this great empire of the west, they were the men who were honored, whose statues were placed on high. I was proud when Utah was celebrating her pioneer anniversary, proud of the honor that was done to her, to feel that Utah and her pioneers, the men who have done something and felt that they had a mission, that they were really coming into their own. Both the mayor of San Francisco and the man who represented the Governor of the State of California said "We gladly take off our hats to old Dad Utah and we humbly and freely acknowledge that had it not been for the pioneers of Utah the present greatness of California would have been impossible." The Mayor of San Francisco said: "We appreciate the wonderful work accomplished by the committee that has provided or reared these magnificent buildings. Their work is great; they have accomplished wonders, but it is nothing when compared with the wonderful work and great mission accomplished by the pioneers of Utah."  
  
If we receive any honor as the youth of Zion, boys and girls growing up in this great inter-mountain region, if any honor ever comes to us, if we have any real satisfaction when we have lived our lives, it will be because we have proven worthy, as has been stated, of the sacrifices that have been made for us by those who have gone before, and because we have builded wisely upon the broad and strong, and splendid foundation that they have laid.  
  
May God grant that we may never forget our obligations to God and to our fathers, and may He grant that we may never lose sight of the mission before us. May we feel that we have the greatest mission in the world, the mission of reechoing the voice of God, crying, "Come out of her, O ye my people." Come out of the old world and build Mine alters in the new. Men who have the mission of calling out of the world those who feel worldly, calling them out to assemble together with those who want to serve God, to learn of His ways and to walk in His paths, and to establish righteousness here upon the earth, and work for the accomplishment and the consummation of the purposes of God, until the kingdoms of this world shall become the king of our God; and I pray that we may be blessed in it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 