8
Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder John R. Barnes.
136
24-27

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters, this is indeed a surprise to me to be asked to address you this morning. I have listened with strict attention to the testimonies of my brethren who have preceded me, and I rejoice in the testimonies which they have borne. It is true they have been varied, but all lead in the same direction.  
  
As Brother Smith said, I received the Gospel in my youth, in my native land, a little more than sixty-seven years ago; and God in His mercy blessed me with a testimony prior to my entering into the Church. This may seem strange, but I fully understood that if I would ever attain to that glory and exaltation that is promised to the Saints, I must indeed obey the commandments of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ as they were taught by His humble elders in that day. Hence, in my fifteenth year, I obeyed the Gospel, and in due time received the priesthood, and later I gathered with the Saints to this valley. I have endeavored in a humble way to keep the commandments of God, although in my weakness I have made many mistakes. Today I rejoice in the testimony which God gave me in my youth, which has continued with me up to the present time.  
  
I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as my brethren who have preceded me have testified; and in my reflections I have long ago come to this conclusion that there was a necessity for God, the Eternal Father, and His Son Jesus Christ to manifest themselves to man upon the earth in this dispensation. When we look at the world and the condition in which mankind were, without a knowledge of God, no man, so far as I know, except only those who received the promise from the Savior that they should dwell upon the earth until His second coming, could arise and say that they knew that God lived. There was a great diversity of opinion as to what kind of being God was. Some believed that He was so big that He filled the whole earth, and others, that He was without body, parts or passions, and no man had authority to say that they knew that God lived and to give a description of His appearance and personage. Hence in order that this knowledge might be restored to men, in order to know God and His Son Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, it was necessary for the Father and the Son to appear to the Prophet Joseph.  
  
I rejoice in the character of the Prophet, believing and knowing that he, like Jeremiah of old ,was while yet in the spirit world, before he came to this stage of action, called to do this very work. And hence the Spirit of God moved upon that youth to heed the words which had been published to the world, that "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." He had faith in that divine promise, and in the humility of his soul he went before the Father, and there asked the question, "Which of all these conflicting sects are right?" He received the answer: "None of them, my son." What a wonderful word! Did he expect that answer? I do not think he did, but it was nevertheless true. Why were none of them of God? They were manmade creeds, man-made theories, adopted by men who were not inspired, and among them there was not existing a shadow of authority to administer the ordinances of God, as President Blood has shown when touching upon that principle. They were without that authority, and did not know God. No sooner had he received this divine testimony than the world, almost unanimously, arose against him and persecuted him from that hour on. The powers of darkness knew the importance of the mission that that boy was about to be entrusted with, and hence used all the efforts and powers of the adversary to destroy him, but God preserved him until he had accomplished his work, through the various scenes that have been referred to this morning, the various conditions in which he was placed, the various trials and tribulations, winding up with the sacrifice of his life.  
  
I rejoice in this testimony and the knowledge that the Lord has given me in reference to his Prophet Joseph. I know that the work in which we are engaged is true, and I reflect a great deal in regard to the conditions that surround us. Joseph fulfilled his great mission; and the others who have succeeded him as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have filled their missions, and today we have a prophet of God upon the earth inspired similarly to His Prophet Joseph Smith. Om present leaders are indeed inspired of God, and so far as we listen to them they will lead us in the path of rectitude, in the path that will lead us back into the presence of our Father and our God. Are we listening to their counsel? Are we giving heed to their advice? or, are we every one going his own way, seeking to follow his own will instead of seeking to follow the will of the Father? We can answer these questions for ourselves. I know that it is our duty and privilege to live before God so that we can have for ourselves the inspiration and comfort of the Holy Ghost, and it is our duty to constantly uphold and sustain those who are called upon to preside over us, whether in the stake or the ward, and those who preside over the Church. It is our duty to uphold them and sustain them, not only by our prayers but by our actions also. I claim that actions speak louder than words. It is our duty, my brethren and sisters, to so live before God that our example will become an ensample to the world, that they seeing our good works and our daily course of conduct will discern that there is something more in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than there is in the religions of the world.  
  
I presume that I am taking up more time than I ought. I thank God for the knowledge and testimony that He has given me, and while I live I hope to be able to bear this testimony. I have written this testimony and I want it to be read to those who shall attend my funeral, the testimony that God has given me in regard to this matter, for I know it is true.  
  
Persecution may rage, and I know that yet many times the Saints of God will be called to suffer before we triumph, before the Church of God finally triumphs over the world. There is no doubt in my mind that persecution will come again. Does persecution hurt us? I thought when the brother spoke of those who wished that they had lived in the days that are past, when persecution raged, they need not wish for that, for persecution will come quick enough; it will come severe enough; it will test the faith of those who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for if I am not mistaken the day will come when it will be all a man's life will be worth to testify as I am testifying this morning. How shall we be prepared for that day? By living near to God. Our daily lives must conform to the commandments which the Father has given. It is not enough that we attend conference. It is not enough that we attend our meetings; our daily lives must be pure, upright, honest before God, showing every man that we are indeed followers of the meek and lowly Jesus, that we have indeed a testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit of prophecy, and that we have within us a knowledge which will lead us to enter the temples of God and perform the ordinances that President Blood referred to, ordinances for the dead as well as the living.  
  
Is it of much importance to the young people that they go to the house of the Lord? Is it not just as well, some may ask, that they be married by this minister or the other minister? No; if you want the promises and blessings of God to follow you in the life that is to come you must obey the laws upon which those blessings are predicated. If our young people want the society of one another in the life to come, as husband and wife, they must enter the house of God, and there receive the blessings through the authority of those who have the power to give them. The world has no authority beyond this life. This life is of vast importance to us, but the days and hours are fast flitting by us, and it behoves us, you and me, to let not a day pass by without seeing to it that we are in fellowship with the Spirit of God; that we have within our bosom that knowledge and testimony that causes us to seek to our Father, that causes us to seek diligently to do His will and keep His commandments.  
  
I pray God ever to be with you. May His peace and blessings be with us, and with the youth of Zion. I claim that it is the duty of us of mature years to set examples before the young people of which we need not be ashamed that they can look upon us with respect and can hearken unto us, knowing that our desires and aims have been to do the will of God. May the blessings of God be with us all. Amen. 