9
Overflow
03 10 1915
Elder George A. Smith.
31
27-28

None

Blessings attending the inhabitants of Zion — Testimonies of missionaries bearing fruit — Importance of implanting faith in the hearts of the children — Peace in the souls of those who love God.  
  
Brethren and sisters, the Tabernacle is full, this, the Assembly Hall is full, and there are hundreds of people on the block who cannot get into the buildings. This is the Lord's day, and Sunday naturally affords the best opportunity for attendance at conference, but I hope that during the remainder of this conference the Latter-day Saints will avail themselves of the privilege of attending the meetings — at least that the Tabernacle may be filled at every session.  
  
I have enjoyed the testimonies of my brethren this morning and would be glad to hear from others if time permitted.  
  
The world is in turmoil. War is poured out on a large part of the earth. The selfishness of mankind in this life is apparent on all sides, and in the midst of it all I know of no people that are so contented with this life, or who have such an assurance of eternal life, as the Latter-day Saints. We are fortunate in having faith in God and His revelations to us and in having our feet planted on the land that He has said is choice above all other lands. This is Zion and will continue to be so unto the pure in heart. I am glad that so many of our Father's children are seeking to learn His will, and are conforming their lives to teachings which will eventually take them back into His presence. The Gospel is finding a response whereever it is preached. Hundreds of our representatives are in the field in all parts of the world proclaiming the truth. My eyes have been dimmed with tears when in other lands, and among the peoples of this nation, when I have seen your sons and daughters arise and bear witness, their hearts overflowing with Gratitude, that they did know that God had revealed His work in this latter day.  
  
There is no blessing that could come to me that would be more joyful than to have my children, who have been given to me by our Heavenly Father, blessed with a testimony of the truth and live in obedience to that testimony throughout their lives. If there are any of us who lack faith in this work it is because we have not kept the commandments of God. If there are any who do not know that this is the work of our Father, it is because they have not done their duty. I know as I know that I live that this is the Lord's work and that knowledge comes as a result of keeping His commandments. This latter-day gospel is finding its way among men, because of the strength that is in the truth revealed in this day, and its promulgation by your faithful sons and daughters. It is winning its way, and oh, how I rejoice when I see Latter-day Saint youths and maidens of this generation stand before congregations who have assembled to hear the Gospel, and testify of its truth, in humility and faith, and with a desire to bless their fellowmen! They may be seen upon the street corners of the great cities of the world, teaching the truth as God gives them power and opportunity to do, proclaiming the principles that are necessary for mankind to know for their eternal exaltation.  
  
This is our Father's work, and is not to be trifled with. It is of the utmost importance to us. Let us so order our lives that when the call comes we may answer, "Father, here am I," if need be to go to the ends of the earth. Let us have our houses in order, and endeavor to establish faith in our children, that they may be willing to respond to every call, and feel in the depths of their souls to say I am ready to go wherever my Heavenly Father desires me to go. Let us live so that the sweet influence enjoyed this morning may be ever with us. There is nothing that can compare with the joy that will be yours when, after keeping the faith, you are called home and permitted to meet with your loved ones in our Father's kingdom. Let us love and sustain each other, and sustain those who preside over us; honor the servants of the Lord as He has honored them.  
  
Though the world may be filled with distress, and the heavens gather blackness, and the vivid lightnings flash, and the earth quake from center to circumference, if we know that God lives, and our lives are righteous, we will be happy, there will be peace unspeakable because we know our Father approves our lives.  
  
May the Lord have us in His keeping; may we live worthy of His love day by day and overcome the temptations of life, and, when the time comes for us to go home, may we be gathered with our dear ones on the other side, and there receive the welcome plaudit from the Master of heaven and earth: Well done, my children, come home and enjoy eternal life and continued progress throughout all eternity. This is my prayer for all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 