Morning
05 04 1936

Sunday morning, April 5. 

As a prelude to the third session of the Conference a program of choral and organ music was rendered by the Tabernacle Chojr and Organ from 9 :30 to 10 :30 a. m., which program was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada over the Columbia Broadcasting System's network, originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City. 

As the time approached for commencing the broadcast every available seat and space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied, and in addition thousands of people assembled on the 

Temple Square and in the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, where, by means of amplifying equipment they listened to the musical program and the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The following program was broadcast : 

"The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning" (Phelps) — Choir. "Hymn" (Wely) — Organ. 

"O Thou from Whom all Blessings Come" (Tschaikowsky) — Choir. 

"The Holy City" (Adams)— Organ. 

"Say Watchmen, What of the Night" (Sullivan)— Choir. 

"Sweet is the Work" (McClellan)— Organ. 

"O Great is the Depth" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

"The Voice of God Again is Heard" (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Deep River" (arranged by Frank W. Asper) — Organ. 

"Holy Art Thou" (Handel)— Choir. 

"Pilgrim's Chorus" (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Home Sweet Home" (Bishop — arranged by J. Spencer Cornwall) — Choir. 

"Abide With Me" (arranged by Frank Asper) — Organ. "Rise Up, Arise" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. 

At the conclusion of the foregoing broadcast, at the request of President Heber J. Grant, the congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High." 

Elder Arthur Winter offered the invocation. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

It is a privilege and also a great opportunity to stand here before you and look at this vast audience, this mighty horde which has come from a very small beginning. God has directed and has chosen the men who should lead and guide this work up to the present and to this very day. 

In the conditions in which we find ourselves situated it is very fortunate at least that we can look back and trace with an honorable hand the advancement of our people from the beginning of this Church. No other spot on the earth has such religious gatherings as this. In no other place- may we find such a united, wonderful people. No place on this footstool of God are there hearts raised in praise to their Heavenly Father for the mercies and the blessings they receive, equal to the fervor and sincerity which we have here today among us. 

It is a strange thing that having come in poverty and toil and in trial into these valleys, our fathers, even as did the Lord Jesus Christ, passed through a period of suffering, trial, tribulation and preparation for the work which was to come to their children, even to us Even as Jesus Christ was forty days and forty nights in the wilderness without food, so did our fathers go many years in trial and anxiety to prepare that of which you and I are recipients and for which we stand ready to give our service, unto the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

You will recall that Moses, speaking to his people said : "And I have led you forty years in the wilderness; your clothes are not waxen old upon you and thy shoe is not waxen old upon thy foot." Even so today we can see by this great assembly that the truths of the teachings of Christ and the masterful things which have been given to us by our fathers have not waxed old upon us. 

There came to me a day or two ago a message from New Zealand, that land "way down under." I would like to read it to you because a cablegram from that people is rather a unique thing, particularly because I received it a clay before it was sent. They are just beyond the 180th meridian and about 38 degrees south of the equator. This cablegram was sent from Dannevirke, New Zealand, and says : 

"Conference assembled at Tahoriti. Huge concourse, both Maori and European send greetings. Wonderful spirit. (Signed) New Zealand Saints." 

This is the spirit which actuates all the people of the Church of Jesus Christ the world over, the spirit which is breathed everywhere by you. Your sons and your daughters have traveled the highways in all the principal cities of the world. They have acquired the culture, the art, and the refinement of all nations and all countries, bringing back with them as they do to this great hive of humanity, which we have here today, their knowledge and their power. 

It is plain to see that we as a people, blessed as we are by our Heavenly Father, should be the people to lead out in all noble, praiseworthy enterprises. We should be the people who can and will conquer depression. We should be by our faith and by our love and by our industry trained and taught to do those things that bring happiness and joy into the hearts of mankind. 

Just one thing more and I think my .ten minutes will be up. In a statement made by Herbert Kaufman he says : "The new era has cancelled the lie of vested right. Position and assured status can no longer be inherited. The millions have at last overtaken the thousands. The sons of service are standing shoulder to shoulder with the sons of privilege. The barrier is down, — this is the day of equal chance — when any man may have what he wills if he possesses the strength to reach it." 

God grant that we may possess that strength, that faith, to reach our own individual and collective ideals in the wonderful work in which we are engaged, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

At 10:50 a. m. Conference proceedings were interrupted to prepare for the Church of the Air broadcast which commenced promptly at 1 1 :00. This program, presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System's regularly scheduled Church of the Air series, was released by more than seventy important network stations throughout the United States and Canada and was carried by short wave to Europe and other countries. The radio announcer was Richard L. Evans. 

The program opened with the Choir and congregation joining in the singing of the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation." 

-PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

HAPPINESS AND STRENGTH OF CHARACTER FOUND IN LOSING SELF FOR THE GOOD OF OTHERS 

All mankind desire happiness. Many also strive sincerely to make the most and best of themselves. Surprisingly few, however, realize that a sure guide to such achievement may be found in the following declaration by Jesus of Nazareth: "Whosoever will save his life shall lose it : And whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it." 

A SIGNIFICANT PRINCIPLE 

This significant passage contains a secret more worthy of possession than fame or dominion, something more valuable than all the wealth of the world, 

It is a principle the application of which promises to supplant discouragement and gloom with hope and gladness; to fill life with contentment and peace everlasting. This being true its acceptance would indeed be a boon today to this distracted, depression-ridden world. Why, then, do men and nations ignore a thing so precious ? 

Is the truth in the paradoxical statement, losing one's life to find it, so elusive that mankind cannot grasp it? Or is it so in conflict with the struggle for existence that men consider it impractical? 

Even so, the fact remains that He who is "The Way, the Truth and the Life" has herein set forth an immutable law, obedience to which will ameliorate those social and economic conditions in which "Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn." 

Specifically stated, this law is, "We live our lives most completely when we strive to make the world better and. happier." The law of pure nature, survival of the fittest, is, self preservation at the sacrifice of all else; but in contrast to this the law of true spiritual life is, deny self for the good of others. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts as fundamental this law of life. Faithful members thereof are convinced that only in its application can true happiness be found or a truly great character be developed; and they believe with Emerson that "character is higher than intellect — a great soul will be fit to live as well as to think." To them, also, the safety and perpetuity of our nation depend upon the character-building, law-abiding individual. 

SERVICE TO OTHERS 

Therefore, in the heart of every true Latter-day Saint the voice of the Lord is ever whispering this recorded revelation : 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God;" 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy in the kingdom of my Father!" 

With this end in view, 50,000 men and women, serving willingly without salary, offer every week to over 500,000 children and youth instruction and guidance in character-building and spiritual growth. In addition to this army of officers and teachers, 185,000 men ordained to the priesthood have accepted the obligation to devote their time and talents as far as possible to the scattering of sunshine, joy, and peace among their fellowmen. 

In all such efforts these men and women are but actuated by the high ideals of the prophet of the 19th century who, exemplifying the teachings of Christ said, "If my life is of no value to my friends, it's of no value to me." 

Never was there a time in the history of the world when the application of this principle was more needed. Therefore, let sincere men and women the world over unite in earnest effort to supplant feelings of selfishness, hatred, animosity, greed, by the law of service to others, and thereby promote the peace and happiness of mankind. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

FAITH, BELIEF AND KNOWLEDGE OF THIS CHURCH CONCERNING 

JESUS CHRIST 

I wish to state the faith, the belief, and the knowledge of the Latterday Saints regarding Jesus of Nazareth. 

CHRIST, THE CREATOR OF THE WORLD 

We accept literally the words of John concerning the Christ : "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." The Christ has declared in our own day: "I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn." 

We also accept John's declaration that Jesus Christ was the Creator of the world, that "all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made." 

We believe that in a great council in heaven held before the world was, Satan proposed one plan for creating and ruling the world and its progeny, and that Christ proposed another; that Satan's plan was rejected, as taking away the agency of man, and Christ's was accepted as keeping man's agency. 

We believe that in obedience to the Plan, Christ created the world and all that in it is, first spiritually, then temporally, and that in this work of creation he acted as one of the Great Trinity of three distinct personages, the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. 

PERSONAL APPEARANCES TO MAN 

We believe that following this creation, the Lord from time to time showed himself to man, either in person or in vision, or dream, or by speech, beginning even with Adam, and later to Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Samuel, Daniel, and others on the Eastern hemisphere, and to many prophets on the Western continents; that on this hemisphere, in one of the most glorious theophanies of all time, the Lord showed himself, before his birth, to the brother of Jared, the man of greatest faith to his time, saying: "Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood." "Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." 

Christ's birth and atonement 

We believe that in the Meridian of Time, Mary the virgin gave birth to Jesus, the Only Begotten of the Father, in very deed and fact the Son of God; that Jesus was crucified upon the cross; that he was buried and lay in the tomb till the morning of the third day when he was verily resurrected from the dead — that is, his spirit and his body reunited and he rose from the tomb a perfect, glorified, living soul, that thus Christ atoned for Adam's fall from which man is so redeemed, and that all men will by reason of that atonement be resurrected — that is, the body and the spirit of every person born into the world will at some time after death, and in the due course of the Lord, be reunited, thus fulfilling Paul's saying : "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." 

We believe that except for this atonement of Christ for the fall of Adam, man would, through all the eternities, have remained under the penalty of the mortal and spiritual death brought upon the human family by Adam. 

We thus believe Christ to be in the full, true, and most literal sense, the Creator of the world, one of the Godhead, the Only Begotten of the Father, the Son of God, the promised Messiah, the first fruits of the resurrection, the Redeemer of the world. A GLORIOUS MANIFESTATION IN THIS DISPENSATION 

We believe that some eighteen hundred years after the Son's death and resurrection, the Father and the* Son, two glorified personages having human form, appeared to a boy fourteen years of age, even as the Lord came of old to the child Samuel in the Temple; that the Father, pointing to the Son said : "This is my beloved Son. Hear him;" and that the Son, responding to the lad's inquiry as to which of the many sectarian creeds were right, told the lad that none of them was right, and that he should join none of them. 

We believe that through the instrumentality of this same lad, Joseph Smith, grown to maturity, the Lord restored to earth the true Gospel and the priesthood of God which had been taken from the earth because of the transgressions of men. 

Hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints, living and dead, have proclaimed their absolute knowledge of the truth of every declaration I have made; some of them have sealed their testimonies with a martyr's blood. To the testimony of the humblest of all these, I wish in humility to add my own. 

A vocal solo, "The Seer," was sung by Harold H. Bennett. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

FUNDAMENTAL BELIEFS OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

In thinking seriously of the economic condition of the world, I am convinced without doubt, that a revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, known as the Word of Wisdom, given by the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth, to the Prophet Joseph Smith over one hundred years ago, would solve the economic problems not only of our country but of every other country, if it were obeyed by the people of the world. 

FOR OUR TEMPORAL SALVATION 

This Word of Wisdom teaches the Latter-day Saints to refrain from the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, and liquor, and part of it reads as follows : 

To be sent greeting: not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days —  

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you : In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation — 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass them by, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen. 

THE CONSTITUTION SHOULD BE MAINTAINED 

Another thing that is needed is to maintain the Constitution of our country, and I now have pleasure in reading a declaration by Joseph Smith regarding the Constitution: 

The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is, to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a weary and thirsty land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. 

GOVERNMENTS AND LAWS IN GENERAL 

I read from a declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, adopted by unanimous vote of a general assembly of the Church over one hundred years ago : 

We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied. 

THE PROPER EXERCISE OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

The leading officials of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been accused of exercising unrighteous dominion, because of the priesthood they hold. Joseph Smith was sentenced by a court martial to be shot the following morning, and General Alexander W. Doniphan refused to carry out the order of his commanding general, and said that it was cold-blooded murder. This frightened the general in command of the mob, who were expelling our people from the State of Missouri; so they imprisoned the prophet and others in Liberty jail, and while there he received from the Lord one of the most wonderful revelations ever given to our people, regarding the exercise of the Priesthood, and I have pleasure in quoting part of it : 

We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guileReproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity toward all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. 

QUOTES ARTICLES OF FAITH 

I quote the eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth articles of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints : 

We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul : We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy we seek after these things. 

I close my remarks by bearing my testimony to the world that I know, as I know that I live, that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the world, who came to the earth with a divinely appointed mission to die on the cross for the sins of mankind. And I bear my testimony that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. 

A duet, "An Angel from on High," was sung by Ida M. Hepworth and Claudius Doty, the Choir and congregation joining in the chorus. 

As the concluding number on the Church of the Air broadcast the congregation sang the hymn "Doxology," an invitation having first been_ extended by the announcer to any of the radio audience who cared to do so to join in the singing of this hymn. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been inspired, as I am sure you all have been this morning, in the privilege we have enjoyed in these two broadcasts and the messages  have been delivered. I most earnestly desire that I may continue in the same good spirit. 

FULL SIGNIFICANCE OF EVENTS NOT ALWAYS REALIZED 

I have been deeply impressed by reason of recent visits to some of the missions of the Church that we are making history fast. I am also impressed that we are often so close to great and important events we do not always realize their full significance. I have been further impressed that it is impossible for one generation to pass correct judgment upon men or measures, for one generation has often been wrong, has condemned the teachers of truth, whereas the generations that have followed afterwards have vindicated those who have been so condemned. I have discovered however in my study of the past that time is ever on the side of right and truth, and the judgment of time is always correct, for time dethrones error and falsehood, and time elevates to their right place truth and the teachers of truth. 

time's vindication of a courageous man 

Let me give you a few instances that have greatly impressed me. It was my privilege a few months ago to stand by a monument in Richmond, Missouri, erected by the State of Missouri to this distinguished gentleman to whom President Grant has referred — Colonel Alexander William Doniphan. It is true that an official of the State of Missouri, acting undoubtedly under the instruction of the Governor of that State, issued an order for the execution of the Mormon prophet, and it is also true that General Doniphan defied his superior officer and refused to execute the order, saying that it would be nothing short of cold-blooded murder, and that if anyone else undertook to execute that order he would be a witness against him in the courts of justice. 

I have searched the records and fail to find that General Doniphan was ever court-martialed for defying his superior. He espoused the cause of justice, and time has vindicated him, for the State of Missouri whom he defied has erected on the public square at Richmond a magnificent monument to General Doniphan, and upon it are written these words : 

Colonel Alexander William Doniphan was of immense stature, noble appearance, brilliant parts, fearless, of great moral courage, sanguine, faithful, just, poetic in temperament, a champion of the downtrodden, eloquent beyond description, and without doubt entitled to be classed among the great orators and lawyers that ever lived. 

Time vindicated him. 

time's judgment upon another 

What did it do to the man whom he opposed, who inspired this persecution and who ultimately signed the exterminating order that drove the entire membership of the Church in the State of Missouri out of the State itself ? You will find a marker erected over the grave of Lilburn W. Boggs, the man who lifted his hand against the Prophet and who drove the Church from the State of Missouri. It is erected in the little village of Napa, California, on an ill-kept and almost forgotten grave. In a small cemetery near the town of Napa, some forty-three miles north of Oakland, lie the remains of the Governor of Missouri who declared that the Mormons would perish on the plains, and naught but their bleaching bones would remain. He also in his exterminating order said : "The Mormons must be treated as enemies and must be exterminated and driven from the State, if necessary, for the public good." And time has passed judgment upon him, has relegated him into an almost unknown grave, and no honor or glory is attached to his name. 

THE CASE OF STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS 

I visited Springfield on a recent trip through the Northern States mission with President Bryant S. Hinckley, and was reminded again of the action of two of Illinois' famous sons. One of them while a candidate for the presidency of the United States was asked what he would do with the Mormon problem — for it was just at that time that the runaway judges from Utah had circulated their falsehoods and had stirred up prejudice against our people, which ultimately brought Johnston's army to Utah — and Stephen A. Douglas, the little giant of Illinois, said that if he became President of the United States he would "apply the knife to this pestiferous cancer on the body politic and cut it out to the very roots, and sear it over with a red-hot iron." 

He was reminded, when his speech reached Salt Lake City, of a conversation he had with Joseph Smith when Douglas was an almost unknown country lawyer, in which the Prophet told him that the time would come when he (Douglas) would be a candidate for the presidency of the United States, and he warned him that if at that time he lifted his hand against Joseph Smith or his people he would feel the hand of Almighty God; and he was warned to beware lest the judgments be fulfilled upon his head. But he did not desist. He went on in his own self-laid course to defeat, failing utterly. Though his own party's candidate for the presidency in the previous election had been eminently successful, Douglas was a miserable failure, and within a year died at the very prime of his life, a broken-hearted, disappointed man. 

I have failed to find in my search a conspicuous monument erected to Stephen A. Douglas. Time dealt with him. 

LINCOLN AND THE MORMON QUESTION 

His opponent was that wise, judicious, great patriot, Abraham Lincoln, who when asked "What would you do with this Mormon problem ?" is reported to have said : "When I find in the field a tough stump, instead of spending my time trying to remove it, I usually plow around it. That is what I will do with the Mormon problem. I will  plow around it." He went to victory, to honor, to fulfil his mission, and not only the State of Illinois, but the nation itself has erected to the great Lincoln the finest monument ever built to mortal man. 

TIME A FRIEND TO TRUTH, AN ENEMY TO FALSEHOOD 

If there were time sufficient I could tell you the story of others, not only from among those outside the Church, but those who apostatized and left it and lifted their hands against it. Not one of them has won honor and glory through his efforts, but time has leveled him to his proper place. I could tell you the story of countless thousands of humble men who lent their hands to the building of this, God's work, and have been lifted up beyond the plane on which they and their ancestors have traveled for generations, to a place of power and influence and intelligence and understanding that the generations before them never knew. 

This is true today as it was when uttered long ago, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is a savor of life unto life to all those who subscribe to it, and death unto death to all those who oppose it. If, therefore, the testimony of Joseph Smith and the testimony of his successors had not been the truth, it would have been discovered before now, for time is moving more rapidly than ever before to pass its judgment upon men — for we live in the age of the greatest light and learning and knowledge the world has ever known, and error is detected much easier and more quickly than ever before. If these declarations that we make were not true, time would have dissolved this church, and it would have passed away before this day. Time is vindicating misunderstood men; time is vindicating their teachings and supporting them. And that the life and practices of the people who subscribe to these teachings are rising and shining in such a way that they attract the attention of the world elsewhere makes my heart rejoice. 

THE COURSE WE SHOULD FOLLOW 

My brothers and sisters, in the light of all this, what shall our course be from here on ? There is a time in the life of every man, and nation, when we stand at the crossroads. We are today, many of us, uncertain where to go and what to do. My plea to every Latter-day Saint is : If you do not know it, get a knowledge and testimony in your heart that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God. There is ample evidence to satisfy any honest investigator; no one needs to say it cannot be demonstrated nor discovered. And then I plead with you to have patience with your problems whatever they are, economic or otherwise; be patient and be faithful, don't be swept off your feet by every wind of doctrine that would lead you hither and thither. Don't imagine that the schemes of men that hope and seek to solve the economic problems of the world are a substitute for that which God has given, for that which he has given this Church will stand when all the theories and schemes of men will fail. THE PATH TO GLORY AND EXALTATION 

I know as I know that I live that God is still with this work; that it is the truth; that the light is in the ship; that the pilot is not asleep. The dogs have barked, but the caravan, the Church of the living God, has gone forward in the past as it shall go in the future grandly on to its destiny. God help us to stay on the ship; God help us to do our part and to keep from everything that would lead us from the main path, which if we continue to travel in shall bring us to glory and exaltation, and make the ends of the earth come to learn of your ways and walk in your paths, for time's testimony and judgment having been pronounced upon this Church approves it, applauds it, and it shall stand. God help us to stay with it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Central States Mission 

I hope to be able to bring to you a brief report of some of the things that are occurring in the Central States mission. I am sure they will be interesting at least to the parents of the missionaries who are laboring there. 

We are in the center place of Zion — a land that was dedicated by the servants of the Lord for the gathering of his people and from which the word of the Lord should go forth to all the earth. However, in the process of time and because the people were not able to live up to their responsibilities, the Lord decreed that his word should go forth from some other place. Today it is going forth from this place. Nevertheless, in one sense, the word of the Lord is also going forth from the very center place of Zion in that literally millions of tracts and pamphlets are being sent from the Zion Printing Company to missions all over the world. 

The thought that I want to express, if I can, the Lord helping me, is this : That the great and marvelous work in which we are engaged, and which is characteristic of every mission of the Church and is not peculiar to any one mission, is the work of the Lord — and not of man. He indicated many years before he came in the flesh that in the latter days there should go forth a book, and that in that time he would perform a marvelous work and a wonder, because the wisdom of wise men should perish, and the understanding of prudent men should be hidden; but the Lord himself should be exalted. 

I mention this because I have great comfort in the thought that even as great as our responsibility is in our mission, as in all the missions, we are not depending upon our own wisdom or our own strength to accomplish the work to which we have been called. I believe the parents of the missionaries will be comforted in the thought that their sons and daughters who have given themselves to the ministry of the Church  out under his inspiration and his protecting care. There are so many instances that indicate that God overrules all things for their blessing and benefit that might be related, but time will not permit. 

Here is an interesting experience: One of our missionaries, Elder Howard Wardle, broadcasting from a radio station in a small town in Arkansas, left his program after it was finished, picked up his grip and started for his next destination. Coming out on the main highway, he was invited by a gentleman passing by to ride in his automobile. As soon as he took his seat in the automobile, the man said: "I have just enjoyed a very interesting experience. I have a radio in my car and I have listened to a broadcast by a young Mormon elder. It was one of the finest and most delightful programs I have ever listened to." And the missionary replied, "Well, I am the one who did the broadcasting." 

You can imagine the pleasure they had in the conversation that ensued. The Lord does bring about some very unique things which indicate that his power and his blessing are over his people. 

May I say just a word about a remarkable incident "pertaining to the Book of Mormon. This, I think, is typical of many. 

Recently in one of our small Sunday Schools, a little boy whose mother was not a member of the Church came to enjoy the school. When he returned home he looked up into the face of his mother and asked : "Mother, who is Jesus Christ ?" His mother was astonished and thought to herself, "Is it possible that I have never told my little boy who Jesus Christ is?" 

She asked : "Where did you hear about him ?" 

"At the Mormon Sunday School," he replied. 

She decided she would go to the Sunday School. During the course of the exercises she heard something about the Book of Mormon. She asked the elders, "What is this book?" and they told her. 

"Do you allow people to read it ?" 

"Yes, indeed, we welcome them to read it. Would you like to borrow one?" 

"Oh, I would like to," she said. 

She took the book home, read it and came back with this testimony : "I have never been able to understand the Bible and, therefore, have never been particularly interested in religion, but after reading the Book of Mormon carefully and prayerfully, I find that I understand the Bible." 

I have heard that testimony offered, in many forms, many times by different people — and so, my brethren and sisters, I have this thought to suggest to you: Read the Book of Mormon. You will enjoy the Bible more if you do. Let your neighbors read the Book of Mormon, and they will love the word of God. 

May the Lord bless you. He is greatly blessing us in the Central States mission. We are grateful for his watchful and protecting care, and we bear our testimonies with gratitude that we know this Church is the true Church of God and that the men who preside over it are his inspired servants and that we are, indeed, true messengers of his Church. 

God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I was playing golf with the son of the late Governor of the State of Missouri, Mr. Crittendon, and he gave me a pamphlet in which he marked the record of a certain battlefield near Kansas City, and he said to me: "Mr. Grant, it might interest you to know that you are playing on your own property; the title to this golf links is in the Presiding Bishop of the Mormon Church." 


TITLE BY ADVERSE POSSESSION 
TITLE BY ADVERSE POSSESSION 

I was in Kansas City at the time for the purpose of delivering a lecture before the Chamber of Commerce, and in my remarks I quoted the Articles of Faith of the Church, and I announced that I held the title — or at least the Presiding Bishop of the Mormon Church did — to a little more than one-half the entire city of Kansas City, but lo and behold, I could not get any of that property because there is a law to the effect that adverse possession gives title to the person having such possession. But they cannot get a good abstract, as the title traces back to the name of Edward Partridge, Presiding Bishop of the Mormon Church. 

Some day, perhaps, Uncle Sam, seeing that we paid our money for that land, may give us our money back, but I doubt it. 

The Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way," after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder George F. Whitehead, President of the St. George Temple. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


