Morning
04 04 1936

Conference reconvened at 2 o'clock p. m. 

The music for this session was furnished by the Hyrum Stake Choir, under the direction of W. H. Terry. 

The opening selection, a hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of -Salvation," was sung by the Choir and the congregation. 

Elder Fred G. Taylor, President of the New York Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "Invocation," (Moore), was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I crave at this time a portion of the Spirit of the Lord, that what I may say may be along the same lines, and that the same spirit may be manifest as in the first session of this conference. 

TEACHINGS OF THE MASTER NECESSARY 

I have been worried somewhat over the conditions existing in the world today, and particularly our own country. I am quite sure that the same feeling is in the hearts of many of the leading men of this country, and I do not want the people here to think that what I say or even intimate is directed by any other thought than with a hope that conditions will right themselves, not only in our own country, but in the world at large. As I think of them I pray to my Heavenly Father every day of my life that the teachings of the Master may enter the hearts of the people of the world, and that through the spirit of the Master they can conceive and understand the direction in which the world is going, and that the nations of the world may call a halt and return to first principles. May they realize that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and make as a basis of the thought and actions of the nations of the world the words that the Master gave to the world while here upon the earth. 

THE CRIME OF INDIFFERENCE 

In this connection I want to call attention to just a short statement in a speech that was made by Chauncey M. Depew, and this is what he said upon the occasion I refer to : 

One of the great crimes which shorten life is indifference. As one loses interest in his church, in his political party, in his club, in his friends, in his acquaintances, he dries up, and the grave claims one whom no one wants to eliminate. The two most fatal phrases and the most common are : "What is the use?" and "Why should I?" And when we or anyone else, be it an individual, a state, a country, comes to that position, we are in danger. 

FAITH LACKING 

And yet sometimes I think how can it be otherwise, for you go into every country now, including our own and you find great lack of faith in the true and living God; in fact a majority, I was going to say a great majority, of the people of our country have ceased offering supplications to our Heavenly Father. Very few attend services, and I was going to say the half that do go do so not particularly because they believe in the church, but because of their wife or associates. 

ILLITERACY IN AMERICA 

I picked up the American Scrap Book the other night, and I turned to page 107, and this is what I read — this in America : 

Dwelling within four hundred miles of our national capital are upwards of four million men, women, and children, of pre-Revolutionary American stock, the great majority of whom cannot name the President of the United States, and never heard of Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Henry Ford, John D. Rockefeller, General Pershing, or Charlie Chaplin, even. Nineteen in every one hundred Cumberland mountaineers are illiterate, equally ignorant of the railroad and the automobile. This is what an observer says about them after making an extensive trip through the mountainous section of the country, and, my brethren and sisters, I do not know that it is exaggerated, but I do know that it is of sufficient worth for the American people to take some notice of it. 

THE FREE AGENCY OF MAN 

I received yesterday morning the Millennial Star of March 19th, and in it under the title of "Britain's Task" I read the following: 

But if God lives and we are his children why does he permit war? This question is frequently asked. Its answer is that God has given man his free agency; hence he may do as he likes — choose to serve God and follow his plan or permit himself to become subject to the power of evil that is, Satan, a spiritual being engaged in the work of leading men to their destruction. He it is who is the champion of war and all other agencies that bring hate, misery and suffering to men. But with God's help man, if he wills, may overcome Satan. Hence the problems of war and peace are made by man himself and must be solved by him with God's help or Satan's, depending on the influence he chooses to govern him. 

That is true. And when I look over this vast audience I cannot help but feel that there is a power with the people that are gathered in this holy house at this time which if it were manifested in our daily lives, not in any dictatorial manner, but in the spirit of the Master, conditions in this State would be better, and it would preach the Gospel as no words perhaps could. 

AMERICA, THE LAND OF OPPORTUNITY 

I remember upon one occasion an address that was given by President Herbert Hoover, and I think perhaps a number of you heard it. Upon that occasion he said this: 

My country owes me nothing. It gave me, as it gives every boy and girl, a chance. It gave me schooling, independence of action, opportunity for service, and honor. In no other land could a boy from a country village, without inheritance or influential friends, look forward with unbounded hope. My whole life has taught me what America means. I am indebted to my country beyond my human power to repay. It conferred upon me the mission to administer America's response to the appeal of afflicted nations during the war. It has called me into the cabinets of two Presidents. By these experiences I have observed the burdens and responsibilities of the greatest office in the world. That office touches the happiness of every home. It deals with the peace of nations. No man could think of it except in terms of solemn consecration. 

LOYALTY TO NATION AND CHURCH 

My brethren and sisters, that is true as to our country, and I do not believe that there is a people on the earth that is more loyal to her laws than the Mormons. We believe that the Constitution of the United 

States was an inspired instrument of God. We have so declared, and though persecution came we never thought for a moment of laying it to the fundamental laws, the principles contained in that great instrument. 

I do hope and pray that we shall always be loyal and true to our country, devoted and sincere to our Church and to our God. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters this day that I know that this is God's work. I know that the Presidency of the Church are men whom God through his wisdom has selected, if I may say it, as leaders of his Church at this time. I support them with all my heart. Knowing the Gospel to be true, as I do, the balance of my life, be it short or long, I want to devote to the advancement of God's church, and I think that men holding the priesthood, and the young men and the young women of the Church, are now showing to the world an example of loyalty to God's laws, and they are just as loyal to this nation of ours. 

May God's blessings be with us, direct us in what we say, and protect us wherever we go, and may we never forget him as the giver of life and all that is worth while in this world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My brethren and sisters, I stand before you this afternoon with a good deal of trepidation and nervousness, and I trust that while I am here I may have your faith and prayers, that the time we are together may be spent to our mutual advantage. 

We are here as a representative body of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have come from all parts of the Church to listen to the instructions that fall from the lips of the presiding authorities of the Church in the hope that we may gain therefrom courage to carry us on and faith to buoy us up and strengthen us in the trials we have to face. We have desired comfort in the past, and we have always realized that hope and that faith; and I pray that we may be so blessed and benefitted today, that when the conference shall have passed it may, like its predecessors, be said to be the best ever. 

We have a faith in God our Father and in Jesus Christ his Son That faith to me is very fundamental. If I could not have it I would feel at a loss as to what to do and how to work. With that faith there is an anchor, a stone firmly set that seems to support and sustain me in all the things I have to encounter. God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son are to me realities. I believe that they are, as we teach them to be, real personages, personages who have interest in us and in our welfare. That faith carries me on through all the trials I have to undergo. 

They have given us a system that has many wonderful features in it, and not the least perhaps of the wonderful principles that we call the Gospel is our belief in a future life and in the power that is vested in us to carry on through that future life with greater accomplishments, with greater attainments than we have been able to accomplish here. We believe that in the future life the organization and the association and the attachments that we form here will carry on. Were it not for that there would be many, many very sad occasions, but because of that faith these sad and trying conditions become the stepping stones to greater hopes. Whenever I see winter come I am glad because I know there will be a spring. Whenever I lie down at night I am glad of the opportunity because I know there will be sunshine on the morrow. There is a faith and hope in every winter and in every night. There is a hope in every spring, because in that spring there is a planting, and we hope for a harvest in the fall. Likewise we hope and believe that the transition from this life to another is but a step in the greater progress, the eternal progress through all the ages that are to come. We believe that we were individual identities before we came here, that we go through this sphere as an educational process, and that we shall go on to another greater, more magnificent and more wonderful sphere, and that through all the eternities to come there will be no limit in the progress that our spirits may attain to. 

To me that is the most wonderful thing about the Gospel, it is one of the most fundamental things, and it becomes a possibility only when I place my faith in God the Father and Jesus Christ as his Son, as the personages that Joseph Smith taught us they are — real, virile, active personalities who have a concern in our welfare and in the welfare of this world. I believe that they overrule the destinies of this world for the good and advancement of those who are placed in it. "The glory of God is intelligence," and because of that and the faith that we have in a future of progress, we lay the foundations here for great and grand educational institutions which help us to acquire an understanding of our condition. Intelligence to me is not merely the cramming of my mind full of learning that I get from books. Schools are not the only media of acquiring knowledge, intelligence does not, perhaps, necessarily come from scholastic education. To me intelligence is the power to meet conditions and circumstances and overrule them for our mutual benefit and blessing. Many men have lived and died who never had the advantages of our schools and colleges, but who most certainly were among our most intelligent and useful men. 

I believe that those intelligences and those spirits, as well as yours and mine, shall carry on through all future time, with greater realization and greater accomplishments. That faith is what carries me on. That faith is what enables me to face the changing circumstances of life with a hope and a faith that the ultimate will be beneficial to us. I believe that God so loves us that he will overrule the world's activities for our good. When I say our good I do not limit that to those of us who are gathered here, I do not limit it to those who have joined the Church, but I include all our race, even those who are very much opposed to us in our present circumstances and in our belief. 

I pray that God may bless us all, that he will overrule the destinies of this nation, and that he will overrule the destinies of other nations of the earth, so that out of the chaos that seems apparent now good will come. We do not know what those changes may mean. They certainly  significant and have a meaning, and out of those changes will come advancement perhaps just such as we hope to obtain' individually through our experience here. The change will benefit and bless us even though the transitional period may be very trying. 

I do not feel like talking long this afternoon, but I wish to say this much, that this faith is what carries me on. If it does not just agree with your faith I trust that yours will be of as much service to you as mine is to me. But I believe that all of you who are here believe very much as I do, that we are here through the design of a loving, kind, and allwise Father, that he has planned this whole thing out, and that it will work very much according to his plan and to our ultimate good and blessing. 

I pray that we may carry on in faith, in sincerity of purpose, and do our portion, each and all of us, to roll this work on, that it may eventually fill the measure for which it was established in the earth in this the last dispensation; that the purposes that God had, when he visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and gave to him again the priesthood and the right to organize the Church, may not be hindered in any way by anything that any of us may do, but on the contrary, every act that we perform may be a beneficial one, and that we may push this work along so that ultimately we may realize our hopes and aspirations. God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I humbly pray that I may be aided by that good spirit which comes from on high. With you, my brethren and sisters, I believe that we are blessed with a religion that establishes our relationship to our Heavenly Father. 

A JUDGMENT TO COME 

Many thoughtful people believe that the appalling increase in crime is due, in part at least, to the fact that men are forgetting that they will be required to stand before the throne of God and give an account for the deeds done in the body. Young men rejoice in their youth but they should never forget that God will bring them into judgment for all the things they do that are contrary to his commandments. Old age does not make up for the deficiencies that are allowed to grow in the life of the youth. 

More thinking of the next world produces a restraining effect upon men whose inclinations urge them to sin. We should never cease to teach of a judgment to come, persuading men to work with a daily unceasing hope and an ambition to make their lives better. What a miserable state a man is in when the latter end of his days are the worst of his life. ASSISTING IN BRINGING PEOPLE TO GOD 

Jesus said, "And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me." Through virtue of this lifting up, through virtue of the sacrifice the Lord Jesus made for sin and through the atonement he made to win our redemption, this matchless Teacher, by his word and spirit, draws us unto God. It should be our aim to bring not only ourselves but other people nearer to the Lord; each man has a part to play in these dark days of trouble and woe. 

The poet said: 

God give us men; the time demands 

Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and willing hands. 

Men whom the lust of office does not kill, 

Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; 

Men who possess opinions and a will; 

Men who can stand before a demagogue 

And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking. 

Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog 

In public duty and in private thinking; 

For while the rabble with their thumb-worn creeds, 

Their large professions and their little deeds 

Mingle in selfish strife, Lo! Freedom weeps, 

Wrong rules the land and waiting Justice sleeps. 

Men with these qualities will cure the evils of the world — men, strong men. 

THE PRESENT A PART OF ETERNITY 

We love the Gospel because it teaches a continuing personality in the next life. We must not live for this life alone. And yet our present state is a part of eternity. 

John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States, when he was eighty years of age met a friend on a Boston street. "Good morning," said the friend, "and how is John Quincy Adams today?" "Thank you," was the ex-president's reply, "John Quincy Adams himself is well, quite well, I thank you. But the house in which he lives at present is becoming dilapidated. It is tottering upon its foundation. Time and the seasons have nearly destroyed it. Its roof is pretty well worn out. Its walls are much shattered and it trembles with every wind. The old tenement is becoming almost uninhabitable and I think John Quincy Adams will have to move out of it soon; but he himself is quite well, quite well." 

The immortal spirit of man lives, as a continuing personality, forever and forever. This is the hope implanted in our hearts by the Gospel; it is the destiny of mankind. God is the father of our spirits. 

CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT 

The thought of continual improvement is expressed in the following lines : 

Build thee more stately mansions, oh my soul, 

As the swift seasons roll 

Leave thy low-vaulted past. 

Let each new temple nobler than the last 

Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, 

Till thou at length art free, 

Leaving thine outgrown shell 

By life's unresting sea. 

It should be the ideal of Latter-day Saints to be at the close of each day one step nearer heaven. They should have in mind the building of more stately mansions, mansions of character, of patriotism, of thrift, of morality. We do not liye for ourselves. Every man can wield a tremendous influence for good, more than he thinks. 

Benjamin Franklin wrote his own epitaph. This is it : 

Like the cover of an old book, its contents torn out and stripped of its lettering and gilding, lies here food for worms. But the work shall not be lost, for it will, as he believes, appear once more in a new and more elegant edition, revised and corrected by the author. 

THE RESURRECTION OF THE JUST 

We believe in the glorious resurrection of the just. The Apostle Paul declares this heavenly truth : 

For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them alsowhich sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. 

For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive, and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. 

For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first: 

Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. 

'Wherefore comfort one another with these words. (I Thess. 4:14-18.) 

This is an ideal, this is a stately mansion which we can visualize because we know the hope and the comfort the Gospel brings to our souls that our lives are going to continue in that eternal world where every power shall find sweet employ. A glorious resurrection, my brethren and sisters, is the chief gift among the unsearchable riches of Jesus Christ. 

God help us all to attain that, I humbly pray in the name of the Savior. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

 In the prayer that was offered this afternoon, mention was made of the temptations that come to us through the amusements and the entertainments that enter into the lives of men and women and cause them to disregard the commandments of the Lord. Those words brought to my mind this thought about the Sabbath day. This day which has been given to us as a day of worship, a day when we shall enter into the house of the Lord and there offer up our prayers and our sacraments, is at the present time more loosely regarded by members of the Church than at any other time in our history. I know that we can not go into very definite detail about some of the minor things and say, this is right and this is wrong on the Sabbath day. As soon as we get very technical we immediately become mixed up and we arrive at general conclusions that are in opposition to each other and to the word of the Lord. 

However, there should be some standard fixed by revelation and so encouraged by those in leadership that there would be no debate or argument as to whether certain things are right or whether they are wrong. In the days of Moses, when the law was given in the Ten Commandments, the Lord said we should "remember the Sabbath 1 day to keep it holy." Because some of the people did not regard the Sabbath day just as they should have done the Lord caused certain retributions to come upon them and they were severely punished. In our day many people feel that the punishment was too severe. Those who do not believe in the Lord will bring this severity up as an argument against our scripture and against God. 

In the days of the Puritans their law regarding the Sabbath was severe and very few things could be done on that day. If one whistled or 'one played music or any similar thing, there was some penalty attached. The very strictness of the laws governing the Sabbath in the past is now being used as an argument in favor of making the present observance so open and so loose that we can do almost anything. Therefore, on our Sabbath day we have practically everything being done. If a man or a girl is an athlete and they are in any way capable of reaching the higher levels in competition, it almost necessitates playing at least the finals upon the Sabbath day. If they are not willing to do this, they are just naturally eliminated from participation in things that are usually desired by young people. 

In our Church, in a way we have encouraged certain things on the Sabbath. Perhaps at times we have overdone our Fathers' and Sons' Outing on this day. 

Picture shows occur on the Sabbath day. Whether we should say we should or shouldn't attend is quite a debatable question among many people. The general argument is that if we go to our places of worship on the Sabbath day we are justified in going to picture shows or places of athletic amusements the rest of the day. 

When we get to looking at it from every angle we find we are losing out by using such arguments. The attitude that if we do a few things that are right on the Sabbath day it makes the others all right only confuses the question and hurts us. Such an attitude places no restriction on what we as a people shall do on the Sabbath provided we have been to meeting. 

Now, just this thought. Though we can not tell about all the details, there are enough landmarks, large landmarks, that we could at least hew  and hold to, and if we would do that, it would enable us to pass over some of the minor things that are now affecting us in our lives. It isn't a matter of conscience entirely as to what we shall do on the Sabbath day. It may be to the individual. He or she decides what they shall do. But the things that individuals do collectively does not necessarily reflect the conscience of the Church or its attitude in regard to right or wrong. 

We are given a revelation in the 59th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. There the Lord speaks of various commandments and then he reiterates that one commandment about worshipping the Lord on the Sabbath day and going to his house to partake of the sacrament and to offer up our prayers. 

To me it seems that attending the sacrament meeting is one thing that the Latter-day Saints should do if they shall in any way feel that they are worshipping God Almighty on the Sabbath day and are remembering the day to keep it holy. This thing we can do, and there is no argument, there is no reason, there is no way of getting away from this commandment. In order to do one thing in the worship of God "with a broken heart and a contrite spirit" we ought to attend our sacrament meeting. 

In conclusion may I mention just this one thing. I hope I am understood in it. There are certain people who use some of the fine things we have in the Church for eliminating other things that we have in the Church. For example, we have wonderful Sunday Schools, — something we couldn't do without, the backbone of religious training and worship for our young people. But because of the sacrament being administered in our Sunday Schools there is a sentiment among our people that if they go to Sunday School that takes care of the sacrament and they feel no obligation to attend the sacrament meeting, which is presided over by the priesthood of the Lord and which the Lord has specified as one of the meetings his saints should attend. 

In the abundance of our auxiliary meetings on the Sabbath day, one after another, even in the cause of righteousness, we become tired and weary with the day's labor and at the end of the day we fail to worship the Lord in the meeting that he has specified as one way of honoring the Sabbath day and keeping it holy. 

May the Lord bless us and guide us and help us to live finer and better lives and to understand more clearly what we should do to worship him in spirit and in truth, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "O Say, What is Truth?" after which the Choir sang an anthem, "The King of Glory," (Parks). 

ELDER JOSEPH J. DAYNES 

President of the Western States Mission 

I should like to express a word of appreciation to this marvelous musical organization. The rendition of the various numbers has been beautiful. I extend my compliments to the director, organist, and members; and likewise to those who have prepared the various numbers. 

The sight of this vast audience is indeed an inspiration, something which we do not experience in the mission field. I bring you greetings from the Western States mission, a very delightful place. For the benefit of those who know not the territory of which it is composed, may I say that it includes the states of Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, the major part of Wyoming, the Black Hills of South Dakota, and Council Bluffs, Iowa. Unlike some of the other eastern missions, we have but three million people in our territory, but in area it covers a vast field. A tour of the mission, which contemplates visiting each of the various branches and districts, would represent approximately ten thousand miles of travel. We have eighty-three missionaries at the present time, and I am happy to bring word that they are all well, and each and every one doing his full duty. We feel very proud at the reception that is extended us by the people living in those various states. Very little prejudice is found, but the glad hand is extended and we feel greatly comforted at the progress that is being made. 

May I say that we are keeping in close touch with the labors and activities of our missionaries, and rejoice in the splendid record of last year, showing an average daily service in the ministry, of twelve and one-half hours every day for every one of our missionaries. Our baptisms for last year were very encouraging. In fact, from what I have learned, we had the largest number of baptisms ever recorded in any one year since that mission was organized. Our tithes show a substantial increase. The faith and devotion of the people are marvelous and beautiful. We have eleven full-term missionaries out in the mission field. There are several others who are getting ready, and we feel comforted in the fact that the parents in our mission are able to provide this education for their boys and girls. We have had many unusual faith-promoting incidents. The sick, nigh unto death in many cases, have been marvelously healed. We have seen the casting out of devils on more than one occasion. The power of God has attended the ministry of the elders, who are doing their part to promote the glorious doctrines of Jesus Christ. As I think of this Church and its ideals and its accomplishments, it is nothing short of marvelous. To me, the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are one and the same, inseparable, indivisible, working hand in hand together. The people of the world today, many of them, are crying out aloud as they did on the day of Pentecost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved ?" 

The Gospel affords a happy retreat. It is the place where men and women can be comforted and their souls can be built up, where they can receive the manifestations of God Almighty. I thank my Father in heaven for this knowledge, limited though it may be,  the great truths as found in this Church. I know that God lives, and I know that Je'sus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, and may I say, I know that Heber J. Grant likewise is a prophet. 

There has never been a moment of time since this Church was organized, on April the 6th, 1830, that the power and the authority of the Presidency and the right to direct this great latter-day dispensation has not been with this Church. It has not been broken up. It has not been changed. It has been continuous. And it offers to the world today that same power, that same glory, and those beautiful privileges that were extended during the life of the Prophet. 

I want to tell you the people of the world are beginning to appreciate the fact that there is something to that Church called "Mormon;" in fact, the badge of Mormonism today is as the stamp of sterling upon silver. The word "Mormon" on our business cards is sufficient to give us entree into the highest circles of citizenship. 

Last Sunday, as has been reported by President Grant, there was dedicated at Laramie, Wyoming, a very wonderful and beautifully constructed building to be used for the education of the young people of the Church. The building was crowded, both morning and afternoon sessions. I was very much impressed with the remarks made by Dr. Crane, the President of the University. He made one statement that profoundly interested me. He said that he had been the president of that university for sixteen years, and during that time he had never had one Latter-day Saint boy or girl come before him for reprimand. There are three thousand students enrolled in that university, one hundred and twenty-five of whom are Latter-day Saints. We feel that with the completion of that building many more of our young people who are at the present time going to other places for education will remain in their own state. 

We have in our mission twenty-eight branches, and may I say that recently while in the southwestern part of Colorado, in one of these small branches in which we have fifty-five members enrolled, I was thrilled at the spirituality found. Of that number there are twenty-two male members over twelve years of age. Every one of them observes the Word of Wisdom. Not one of them uses profanity. Every one of them pays a tithe, — that is, those who are old enough and who earn money. Recently in making a survey for possible part-time missionary material in this small branch we found that of the twenty-one male members there were twelve who volunteered to do missionary work, among them the president, his two counselors and the branch clerk, the presidency and secretary of the Mutual Improvement Association, the Sunday School superintendent, one counselor and the secretary and two priests. The balance of the twenty-one were deacons. It is an indication that there is faith out in the mission fields. And when I go down there to visit these wonderful people I see instead of ten per cent or fifteen per cent, or twenty per cent of the population of that branch in attendance, one hundred and fifty per cent. They bring in their neighbors and friends, and they glory in the opportunity of hearing the truths as explained by the servants of the Lord. 

I love my work, my brothers and sisters. My life has been spent for many years in the commercial field, but with it I have undertaken to be active in the Church. Never have I experienced any activity in my life comparable with this call that has come, to preach the Gospel and to bring souls unto repentance. It is glorious and beautiful. And I thank my Heavenly Father that I have thus been counted worthy. 

I want to say to the parents and the bishops of any of our missionaries who may be here, that they send you their love. May I suggest to you bishops if you could occasionally write a letter to any of them, it would give them great comfort and joy. One of our elders who has been in the field nearly two years said, "I have had one letter from my bishop, and oh, how I prized it. If I could have had more I am sure I would have thought that he was more interested in my work." These elders and these lady missionaries, God bless them, are doing a marvelous and a wonderful work, and we are undertaking in our humble way to teach them true character and glorious ideals. 

Sister Daynes is doing a marvelous work with our Relief Society sisters. We have some six hundred women of the Church who are industriously undertaking to follow the ideals of the Relief Society work. When Sister Daynes goes into their midst she goes like an angel of peace, carrying her message of love and stimulation that builds faith and helps glorious motherhood. 

May God bless you all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

It is never a commonplace task to speak in this historic house. I have spoken here before, but not as a missionary; perhaps my brief experience would not entitle me to speak as such now. Going away has given me a better appreciation of some things than I had before. 

During my brief absence I have seen thousands of people but I have never met any people who seemed quite so satisfied with their surroundings, with their homes, with their religion, as you seem to be. 

I have always been interested in missionary work. My interest in the past has been focused largely upon the effect this work has upon young people. In common with you I have seen a great many young men, undeveloped and inexperienced, untouched with the refining influence of the truth, go on missions, and return with a new light shining in their eyes, radiating a new influence, with something working in their hearts which has brought about a marvelous transformation in their lives. Missionary experience makes a contribution to a boy's character, to his faith, to his development, that nothing else seems to make. The ingenuity of man never devised a plan for the development of young  and women quite comparable to the missionary work of the Church. I doubt if the Church engages in any other activity that brings to it such a constant vitalization as the missionary work does. 

The Northern States Mission is made up of a section of the United States that is both rich and populous. The Church in its infancy was cradled in these states. The cradle was rocked so violently that only the hand of providence saved it. It is gratifying to know that the weary feet of our people never rested upon a spot that was not made greener thereby. 

One of the fundamental obligations resting upon this Church is to preach the Gospel to the world. This is indeed a high commission, a great and exalted calling, but the second obligation, that of living our religion, is still higher and greater. I recently heard a young missionary in one of the large cities of the East sketch in outline the organization of the Church, its plan for solving the social and economic problems that vex and distress the world. At the conclusion of the meeting a man said to me, "How does it work out? You must live in a marvelous community." That is the test to which the Church must be subjected. How does it work out? My brethren and sisters, if we have faith enough to live the plain principles of our religion, to practice what we have been taught all our days, we are destined to become the pride and glory of the earth. If we care for our poor a little better than othef churches do; if the youth of this Church enjoy greater opportunities, if they grow up untouched by sin, uncontaminated with the wickedness of the world; if we are distinguished for our honesty, our sobriety, our industry; if we do actually live a little longer; if our lives are a little happier — then we have no need to fear! No bigotry can defeat us, no malice can stay our progress, no hatred can destroy us. Philosophers, educators, statesmen, and thinkers will come from afar to see how we do it. This is the day of demonstration. 1700 missionaries may preach this Gospel loud and long, far and near, but they can never preach it with the convincing power that we can do by living it. We belong to a great Church. God help us to honor it, to declare its message to the world and to vindicate in our daily lives its advantages, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

What a blessed thing it is to live in this beautiful world! I wonder how well we appreciate the great privilege that is given to us in the span of human life. What an opportunity it affords to every one to accomplish something that will be for our eternal welfare! God has ordained that we should have this earth-life experience. What a beautiful world he has made for us in which to dwell! How grateful we ought to be! When we contemplate the beauties of it and look out into the world, and especially at this time of the year, when the springtime is approaching and the buds begin to swell, and leaves to unfold, how my heart thrills with the beauty of this natural world in which we live, and my heart goes out in gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the span of human life. He has been good to me and extended the years of my life very greatly. 

My father used to say, when he had attained the ripe old age of seventy years, "Now I have attained the allotted age of man, three score years and ten, what years I may yet live are borrowed time." From that we might suppose, from a life insurance point of view, that it would be lopped off from somebody else's life. He lived some six or seven years after that allotted time. It has been my privilege to go nearly twelve years already beyond the allotted age of man, and I feel grateful, and I have the hope in my heart that I may devote the years that I may yet live in the service of God, in the building up of his kingdom here upon the earth, this beautiful earth, this beautiful world in which we live, and that I may be full of admiration and gratitude for the beautiful home which God has made for us. 

I am not blind to the fact that there are some things which greatly mar the beauty of the world in which we live, and that mar our happiness, not coming from God, however, but from those who inhabit this beautiful world. We read in the newspapers of the terrible crimes that are being committed, executions of judgment for heinous crimes. We read of the terrible things that are happening all around us — murders, robberies and other offenses; of wars, and rumors of wars. We read of the great nations on the verge of war. What is the reason, and why should these things be in this beautiful world? Why cannot the children of God dwell on it in peace and in harmony, and enjoy the great privileges and the great blessings which God gave to us when he made this world to become our habitation for the span of human life, during which period we are to be tried? 

The Lord purposes that we should be tried, and therefore it has become necessary in order to bring about the purposes of the Almighty that there shall be opposition to the will of God. God wills that we shall do right, that we shall live in peace and harmony together. God wills that we shall live righteous lives, that we shall love him and keep his commandments. But the devil came also, and he was permitted to come, and he exercises an influence upon the children of God, and leads them away from God; hence the confusion, hence the wickedness, hence the strife, the wars, and rumors of wars, and all the wickedness that we see round about us. Does the Lord will that, or does he not? What is the occasion of this life, and why are we subjected and placed in a position where we have to witness these things, and hear of them, and where we have to come under the temptations? Because the Lord deemed it necessary that there should be opposition in all things in order that we might be tried.  

When he placed our first parents in the Garden of Eden he planted in the east of Eden a wonderful garden, with wonderful trees  there, and he took the man that he had made out of the dust of the ground and placed him in this garden. He saw that it was not good for the man to be alone, and so he made a helpmate for him and placed them in this garden in which these wonderful trees had been planted, that would supply all their bodily requirements; all that they had to do was to stretch forth their hands and obtain the things that were needful for their welfare. In the midst of that garden God planted also two very marvelous trees, the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil and the Tree of Life. They were somewhat different in their nature from other trees. I do not know just what fruit was being yielded upon those other trees. There may have been pear trees, apple trees, etc., but one thing we are quite sure about, there must have been a fig tree, as we read further in regard to the products of that tree. But the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil was something different, not like the apple or the pear, it doesn't partake of that nature at all. 

Just as a pear is the fruit of a pear tree, or the peach or the apple is the fruit of the peach or the apple tree, so too is Knowledge of Good and Evil the fruit of the tree that bears that name. And Life, by which I mean eternal life, is the fruit of the Tree of Life. A tree is known by the fruit it bears, and "by their fruits ye shall know them." That is the nature of every plant that grows. 

And now then, this wonderful tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. Why should there be opposition to the will of God? Because light has come into the world and with that light comes responsibility, the free agency of man, because we had to choose between good and evil, having partaken of the fruit of the tree that bears that name. How could Ave choose between good and evil if it were all good? Hence the necessity for opposition to the will of God, and the devil came also and lured them away from God, and they broke the law of heaven. 

What is the law of heaven? Obedience to the will of God, for "man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." Obedience, then, is the first law of heaven. Partaking of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil of course was forbidden, not because it was undesirable, not because there was anything in it of itself that was wicked, not by any manner of means. For how could we be saved unless we had that knowledge of good and evil? How could we choose between the two? Impossible. Therefore the opposition came and we must be proven as to whether we would do all things whatsoever the Lord God should command us to do. Obedience to the law of heaven is an essential condition of salvation, and an essential condition in heaven. 

I sometimes think of this world and compare it with what it was before the curse of the Almighty came upon it in the Garden of Eden, where everything was beautiful and everything was peace and tranquility, the lion and the lamb lying down together, and all was harmony. It must have been beautiful indeed. It is referred to in the scripture as "the garden of the Lord." Isaiah tells us : "For the Lord shall comfort Zion; he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." (Isa. 51 :3.) Surely then the Garden of Eden must have been beautiful, a little heaven on earth. It was Paradise. 

Adam and Eve violated the law of heaven by breaking God's commandment and hearkening to the devil, and therefore they were driven out of Eden. Shall the devil rule in heaven? Why did the Savior teach us to pray : "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven"? Whom shall we obey? God or the devil. Whomsoever ye list to obey his servant ye are. Such then was the Garden of Eden. But on account of disobedience the Lord cursed the earth — not Adam and Eve — he cursed the earth for their sakes. No longer could they stretch forth their hands and get without effort the things that they needed. No, they must earn their living by the sweat of their brow. There were no thorns or thistles there at the beginning. Now Adam must earn a livelihood on this earth under the curse that was placed upon it, with thorns and thistles to contend with, and many other things that they had to contend with under the curse which God had put upon the earth for their sakes. 

Are we to regard this early episode in the history of our race as a calamity ? No! indeed! Was the fall of Adam in reality a misfortune? Again no, indeed! For, as we read in the Book of Mormon, if Adam and Eve had not transgressed there would have been no progress but they would have remained forever in the same state in which they were then first created — in a perfect state of innocence, "having no joy, for they knew no misery, doing no good, for they knew no sin." Therefore to bring about the eternal purposes of God in the end of man it was found necessary that there should be opposition. And furthermore there would have been no children and hence we would have been deprived of our golden opportunity of living upon this beautiful earth, this probationary period, the span of human life. But the Lord desires that our eyes shall be open, that we shall have knowledge of good and evil, and therefore we are exposed to them, and blessed are we if we will choose the good and reject the evil. We do not have to, do the wrong; we should do the right, and if we do the Lord is bound, under the covenant that he has made with us. If we shall do all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us, there shall be glory added upon our heads forever and ever. That is the promise; it is God's covenant. We are a covenant people, and that covenant has been restored to the earth with the restoration of the glorious Gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord, and all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us are embodied in that glorious Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Obedience, then, to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ will  us to eternal glory, worlds without end. That is the promise. The Lord keeps his covenants. Men do not always keep their covenants. What a wonderful thing this covenant is that the Lord has made with us! 

What is a covenant ? If you will look at your dictionary you will find that it is defined as an agreement between two persons or parties. Sometimes those agreements are made between nations, and then they are called treaties, and they are usually entered into by being signed by the executive heads of those nations or governments and then ratified by their legislative bodies. Such are the treaties that are made with the nations. They are intended to be solemn pledges whereby they bind themselves with one another to make good the agreements they enter into with each other. What a terrible shock it was during the World War to hear the ruler of one great nation refer to his solemn treaty as "a mere scrap of paper," but in these later days we are getting used to that, and these dictatorial rulers of many great and wonderful nations are treating their solemn treaties like mere scraps of paper; but they should not be so treated, they should be solemnly and truthfully and faithfully kept. Between individuals we draw up an instrument and we sign it, and have it signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of witnesses, and then go before a notary public or a justice of the peace and make oath in order to make it binding, and in order that it may be still more so, laws are passed imposing penalties for breach of contract. These are in the nature of covenants which men make with their fellow men. 

What must we then think of a covenant where God himself is the party of the first part? Such a covenant God has made with every one of us. He has entered into an agreement with us. If you will do all things which the Lord your God shall command you; if you will do his will, you shall have glory added upon your heads forever and ever. That is the pledge, and God keeps his covenant and we should do the same. 

How do we enter into that covenant? Not by signing a written instrument. True. But in a most impressive manner and a most authoritative manner. The Lord commissions his servants, bestows upon them his priesthood and authorizes them to perform sacred ordinances, the same as if he had signed it in person. They call attention to the necessity of following the Lord Jesus Christ and obeying his Gospel, doing all things whatsoever the Lord shall command us. That is the contract, and we enter into it in a most solemn way. What is the formality of it, if not by writing with pen and ink? It is by baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. What a wonderful and impressive formality! Could anything be more so ? In baptism by immersion we symbolize both death and life, for as the Apostle Paul explains : "We are buried with Christ by baptism into death and brought forth out of the watery grave in likeness of his glorious resurrection. This is also symbolized in the story of the Garden of Eden and the two marvelous trees that were planted in the midst of the garden — the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil concerning which God commanded "Thou shalt not eat of it, in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." Therefore, for sin, death. The other tree — the Tree of Life — eternal life, God's greatest gift to man, which will come to those who do his will. Again as the Apostle Paul tells us : "For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." (Rom. 6:23.) All this is symbolized in the holy ordinance of "baptism by immersion for the remission of sins," and this is valid only when performed by one who has been duly commissioned of Jesus Christ the Lord. After this it is ratified by "the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost" by one having authority, just as Peter declared on the day of Pentecost: "For the promise is unto you and to your children and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." This is the seal of the covenant by which it is ratified and those receiving it are confirmed members of his church. 

May the Lord help us to be true to the covenants we have made with him in the waters of baptism, and so to live that we may have those glorious blessings in this beautiful world, when it shall be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish again to thank this wonderful choir for being here and for so thoroughly inspiring us with their music. 

An anthem, "The Heavens are Telling," (Haydn), was sung by the Choir. 

Elder Danford M. Bickmore, President of the Hyrum Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday, April 5, 9 :30 a. m. 


