Afternoon
05 04 1936

The fourth session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, April 5. 

As was the case at the previous session, the Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were crowded to capacity, and thousands of people congregated in the Assembly Hall to the south of the Tabernacle, and on the Temple Block, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of J . Spencer Cornwall, conductor, furnished the music for this session. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 57 

The Choir and congregation joined in the singing of the hymn, "Come, Come, ye Saints." 

Elder David H. Cannon, President of the Hollywood Stake, offered the invocation. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have received the following telegrams: 

"Des Moines, Iowa. Saints here enjoyed perfect reception of wonderful message in broadcast. 

Mark Petersen." 

(A member of the Board of the Genelogical Society of Utah.) 

"New York City. Stirring broadcast, unusual clarity, excellent quality. Congregation listened in Manhattan Chapel. 

Roscoe A. Grover." 

An anthem, "The Lord is my Refuge," was sung by the Choir. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. (Psalms 31:24.) 

A FAR-REACHING BROADCAST 

Before commenting upon the admonition expressed in this text, I desire to make brief reference to the Church-of-the-Air program rendered this morning. 

The first time that it was my privilege to stand on the brink of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, I was overwhelmed with a sense that I was not comprehending the magnitude of that great gorge. I had learned that it was over a mile down to what appeared to be a little windingstream, the mighty Colorado, and that the opposite wall was said to be 13 miles away, but I could not comprehend the majesty and sublimity of that mighty chasm. I think I had a similar feeling this morning when I saw over 10,000 people participate in the Church of the Air. I tried to visualize the potential audience that listened to your congregational singing, for there were probably ten million people in that potential audience. I am sure I cannot comprehend the significance of that great service. One thing though is clearly defined in my mind, and that is this : That we have greater responsibility than ever to learn and to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have greater tasks before us. The final work is not all done yet. You and I have the responsibility of taking advantage of these new and great opportunities to preach the Gospel, of making real new visions, and of bringing into the lives of Latter-day Saints and members of the world more blessed opportunities to know the way of truth. 

COURAGE GIVES STRENGTH 

We need courage to enter into those new realms; we need courage to meet our present situations and conditions, and that is why I have chosen the text, "Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord." 

In this promise are two principles that should be cherished by every truly religious man— faith and courage. What is implied in this text? We know with assurance that the Lord is keeping faith with his people; therefore, let none despair, but take courage and their hope shall not be in vain. Faith in God, trust, confidence in our fellowmen, the courage of our convictions, will enable us eventually to achieve any righteous cause. Courage is that quality of the mind which meets danger or opposition with calmness and firmness, which enables a man to face difficulties that lie in his pathway to righteous achievement. It is different from fortitude. Fortitude enables us to bear, endure; fortitude is more of a feminine quality. Courage implies facing difficulties and overcoming them. He who is or should be the guide of our lives was the most courageous of all men. "In Jesus we find bravery at the best; courage at its loftiest; heroism at its climax." True heroism defends the right and faces disaster without cringing. In this regard the Savior was the personification of true courage and heroism. Illustrative of this I need only mention the cleansing of the temple; or his fearlessly speaking the truth when his home folk turned him from Nazareth; or when the five thousand in Capernaum was reduced to only twelve to whom he turned and said, "Will ye also go away?" Never once, however, did the Master despair or turn from his destined course. This is the kind of courage we need in the world today 

A CRITICAL PERIOD 

During the last few years practically all the world has been passing through a critical period of depression. People in this intermountain region have been hit, in some respects, more severely than others. Mining, farming, and stock-raising are our principal industries. When the mines closed, many men were thrown out of employment. When the springs and rivers dried, products of farms shriveled and died. Price of cattle dropped below the cost of raising them. As a result many people are worried and disheartened. They have lost not only their farms or business interests, but their homes. Day by day men have vainly searched for honest work. After fruitless searching and inquiry, they  home almost with bitterness in their hearts. Wives with a fortitude sublime encourage their husbands even though it is more difficult for wives to struggle continually to keep up appearances, and to supply food and nourishment for their children. It is embarrassing to such men and women, accustomed to independence, comfortable living and even opulence, to accept help either from the government or the church. What, then, shall we do? 

A RETURN TO THE FARM ADVISED 

With resolute hearts, with courage to meet disaster with a smile, let us accept conditions as they are, rebuild, and with united effort regain financial and economic independence. A recent survey of the conditions in the Church indicates that 3,200 farms have been abandoned within the last few years. That means that thousands of people have been deprived of that source of income and sustenance. With promise of ample water for the coming year, let us go back to these farms, retill them, and at least produce sufficient for our own needs. I know what some of you are thinking — that you cannot make farms pay, that you left them because you got only 4c a gallon for your milk, 50c a hundred for your potatoes, 60c a hundred for your wheat, and so on to a discouraging limit. 

Well we cannot go on this way always. Dr. Widtsoe expressed a profound truth last night in the Priesthood meeting when he said, "No country can prosper unless the men who till the soil succeed." I do not know of anything else that we can do. We haven't sufficient factories to employ people who are out of work, the mines are not running to capacity. We can go back and with help to buy a few cattle and some horses, we can retill our farms. Here in this intermountain country we have a great obligation. The eyes of the world are turned toward us, not only because of the message we have, but because there are scenic wonders here which attract men from far and near. When they drive past our farms and our houses, they should see the houses painted, the farms properly tilled and the weeds along the road cut. In this we have a bounden duty that travelers might see evidence of neatness, thrift and industry, fundamental principles of the Latter-day Saints. In these efforts toward rehabilitation all must cooperate. Let the amount of money that is being given as a dole apply on the purchase of a team, a cow, chickens or implements, and thus enable men and women to get back to a life of independence. Here is one field of endeavor in which I think our hearts need strengthening, and in which we can manifest that courage and quality of mind which will enable us to meet difficulties that are ahead. 

FAITHFULNESS TO DUTY 

Another way in which we can manifest true courage, and thus bring the blessing of God upon us, is in the faithful performance of duty. This is one of the best ways for a Latter-day Saint to keep his soul sweet. No matter where, let him perform his duty honestly, conscientiously. 

Do your duty, that is best, Leave unto the Lord the rest. 

STEADYING THE ARK 

In so doing, let us not interfere with another who is doing something in a different place. It is a little dangerous for us to go out of our own sphere and try unauthoritatively to direct the efforts of a brother. You remember the case of Uzzah who stretched forth his hand to steady the ark. He seemed justified when the oxen stumbled in putting forth his hand to steady that symbol of the covenant. We today think his punishment was very severe. Be that as it may, the incident conveys a lesson of life. Let us look around us and see how quickly men who attempt unauthoritatively to steady the ark die spiritually. Their souls become embittered, their minds distorted, their judgment faulty, and their spirit depressed. Such is the pitiable condition of men who, neglecting their own responsibilities, spend their time in finding fault with others. The truly courageous heart will say: 

Let me but do my work from day to day, In field or forest, at the desk or loom; In roaring market place or tranquil room; Let me but find it in my heart to say. When vagrant wishes beckon me astray, "This is my work; my blessing, not my doom. Of all who live, I am the one by whom This work can best be done in the right way." Then shall I see it not too great nor small, To suit my spirit and to prove my powers; Then shall I cheerful greet the laboring hours, And cheerful turn when the long shadows fall At eventide, to play and love and rest, Because I know for me my work is best. 

I am referring to the work in the Church, not one member of which who hasn't something to do even though it be only to attend to his quorum, auxiliary, and sacrament meetings. Whatever the duty let us do it faithfully and well. 

MAINTAINING IDEALS 

Courage to maintain our ideals is another field in which we can manifest courage, and merit the approval of God in whom we trust. These are times when men should keep their heads, and not be swept from their moorings by every will-o'-the-wisp theory that is offered as a panacea of our present ills. The times call for courageous youth to hold aloft the moral standard. In that field we can find the truest moral courage. It is said that heroism is concentrated courage. Well our greatest heroes are not always found on the battle field. I think we find them also among our youth. Young men and young women who,  put in social groups, will stand up fearlessly and denounce those things which we know sap the character, the very life energy of youth. "Never was there a time in the history of the world," says Mark Hopkins, "when moral heroes were more needed. The world waits for such. The providence of God has commanded science to labor and prepare the way for such. For them she is laying her iron tracks, and stretching her wires, and bridging the oceans. But where are they ? Who shall breathe into our civil and political relations the breath of a higher life ?" "The most important thing in the world," says a great scientist, "is not the discovery of Galileo, Faraday, and others, but a belief in the reality of moral and spiritual values." I appeal to youth to be courageous in maintaining the moral and spiritual values of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. After all, "What is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul ? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul ?" 

COURAGE IN FACING DIFFICULTIES 

With faith in an over-ruling power, in the personal, intimate protection of our Father — and we like to consider him such, a loving Father — let us face our difficulties with courage. 

We are not here to play, to dream, to drift, We have hard work to do, and loads to lift, Shun not the struggle; face it. 'Tis God's gift. 

Say not the days are evil — who's to blame? And fold the hands and acquiesce — O shame! 

Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in God's name! Be Strong! 

It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong, How hard the battle goes, the day, how long. Faint not, fight on! Tomorrow Comes the song. 

Brethren and sisters, "be of good courage, and he will strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord." God give us power so to do, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, I stand before you again, requesting that while I am before you I may have your faith and your prayers in my behalf, that I may be able to say something which shall be encouraging and comforting. 

I hope the choir will pardon me if I again tell them how much I have enjoyed their music; likewise the wonderful choir from Hyrum yesterday. AN IMPORTANT LESSON EXEMPLIFIED 

It seems to me I see improvement from time to time in the work of our own choir. I think I have never heard a better chorus, to my untrained ear, than they gave us this morning in : "Say Watchman, What of the Night?" 

I look at the choir as the Tabernacle Choir mission, and I enjoy meeting with them on these occasions semi-annually. The concerts which they give Sunday mornings, the broadcasts, are a real lesson to the whole Church, a lesson in precision, in punctuality, in devotion, a lesson in achievement. With them there can be no such false doctrine as, "Well, this isn't so very good, but it will do." 

The only way in which any of us can live in accordance with the commandments of the Lord and do our duty as it should be done is this : Every task that comes to us, no matter how little or how great it may seem to be, calls for — demands — the best effort which it is possible for us to exert. Every one, no matter who he may be, who works on the theory that there are some things in life that are not worth his best effort, and who accordingly slights his work, will never be truly successful. So this choir gives to us a great lesson — to the Church, and to every other mission of the Church. 

Christ's message a spiritual one 

Today is the conventional anniversary of the day on which the Savior, beginning the last week of his mortal life, entered Jerusalem and was proclaimed king of the Jews. This is Palm Sunday. 

When the Savior came in through the gates of Jerusalem and moved on, on the lowly ass, to the temple, people looked to him and expected from him an announcement that he was the promised king for whom the Jews were looking. They expected him to proclaim himself a political power. I assume they did not know that more than three years before this time Satan himself had taken Christ upon the high mountain and had offered to him the kingdoms of the world if he would bow down and worship Satan, and that the Savior pushed this crown aside. The Jews, groaning under oppression, smarting under political suppression, thought that he came to give them a political life. 

But such was not his mission. And as the week wore away and he finished his earthly mission, there came unto the multitudes of Jerusalem a feeling that they had been disappointed, perhaps misled. The Savior's entire mission — read it, brothers and sisters, with care — was devoted to the spiritual side of life and to the relieving of human suffering, physical and mental. Only on three occasions did the Savior ever furnish food : once to the multitude of five thousand; a very short time thereafter to the multitude of four thousand; and lastly, after his resurrection he fed the Apostles on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. His message, my brothers and sisters, is a spiritual message. It is a message for the relief of human suffering, for the comfort, the consolation, and the exaltation of the human soul. COMFORT IN DISTRESS THROUGH SPIRITUAL ENRICHMENT 

And that message, as Isaiah said, is so simple that "the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein." It is so simple, so easy to understand, that the poorest of us may have a complete comprehension of all that is necessary for our spiritual welfare. 

It is in this message, and from the Savior himself, that we are to get comfort and consolation in these times of stress. If we who are spiritually poor were given of the abundance of life, we still, in these times, should be dissatisfied, because greed would still gnaw at our hearts. We should still be seeking after the things of the world. We should still be ambitious and thirsting for power; and wherever those base qualities enter into the minds and the hearts of men, they bring grief and sorrow. They do not ennoble; they do not bring satisfaction and contentment; nor do they bring to us joy. 

SEEK AFTER THE ERRING ONES 

There are among us, my brothers and sisters, men and women who have become discouraged, men and women who are straying away from the paths of truth. They need your help and mine. We may not simply sit idle and say: "Here are the principles, take them or leave them." It is the duty of each and every one of us, wherever we find the brother or the sister wandering aside from the straight and the narrow road, to go to that brother and that sister, and in humility, unselfishness, and righteousness try to bring him or her back into the fold. 

There are a number of heresies which today are abroad in the land. Mind they do not mislead you. When I say heresies, I am speaking of heresies in the matter of the Church, its doctrine and its government. Where you find brothers and sisters not understanding the true order, seek kindly and in a brotherly way to explain it to them and bring them back into the right path. If they are falsifying, teach them the error of their falsehood. Try to make them see that falsehood comes from the evil one. 

FALSEHOOD AND DECEPTION FROM THE EVIL ONE 

The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph, in connection with the revelation given after the loss of the manuscript by Martin Harris, principles regarding falsehoods and falsifying which are applicable at all times. 

I am reading from Section 10 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Yea, he saith unto them: Deceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy; behold, this is no harm. . . . 

You see, he is giving us the representations which Satan makes to the people 

And thus he flattereth them, (that is Satan) 

. . . and telleth them that it is no sin to lie that they may catch a man in a lie, that they may destroy him. 

And thus he flattereth them, and leadeth them along until he draggeth their souls down to hell; and thus he causeth them to catch themselves in their own snare. 

And thus he goeth up and down, to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, wo be unto him that lieth to deceive because he supposeth that another lieth to deceive, for such are not exempt from the justice of God. 

LAWS OF THE LAND SHOULD BE OBEYED 

Another heresy that is among the people has to do with obedience to the law of the land. And I read from Section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. 

Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet. 

DAILY REVELATIONS NOT NECESSARY 

Another heresy to which I wish to refer. Some of us sometimes appear to look for daily revelations to teach us how and what to do. This was so in the early days of the Church. When the Lord placed man upon the earth he set up certain general laws, fundamental principles, and then permitted man to develop himself within those laws and those principles. If he undertook to tell us each time what we were to do in every detail — and the saints of the early days of the Church thought, as I have stated, that he should do so, and the Lord reproved them for it — two things would happen. In the first place we would virtually destroy the free agency of man, the foundation stone upon which all of our existence is built. And in the second place we should be under great condemnation if the Lord had to reveal to us his will and then we failed to follow it. 

Quoting again from Section 58, the Lord said : 

For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? 

Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled ? 

I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. 

Then they say in their hearts : This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath; and not from above. 

"love thy neighbor" 

It is the duty of each Latter-day Saint living his religion and observing the laws of the Lord, living the principles of the Gospel, to try to lead back into the ways of righteousness and life those who for the moment have permitted the light to burn low, so low that they stumble in the way, not seeing the pitfalls that are ahead of them. 

We may not, my brothers and sisters, think that merely by ourselves living we are doing our full duty. We must go beyond this. We must help our brother. "Love thy neighbor as thyself," the Lord said was one of the great commandments. 

May the Lord give us his blessing, enable us to understand his will, enable us to live as we should live, strengthen our testimony, give us the spirit of forgiveness, the spirit of truth, that we may not only save ourselves but help to save others, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man who Communed with Jehovah," after which the Choir sang an anthem, "Like a Choir of Mighty Angels." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I wish to take for my text this afternoon, the words of the prophet Isaiah, wherein he says : 

For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations. 

The ancient prophet of Israel was undoubtedly looking toward the future of his own people when he uttered these words; he was also noting the righteousness of all nations of the future as they looked to God for wisdom and divine direction. His words may be well listened to today by the people of our own nation, for the Lord will yet cause righteousness to spring forth in this our land. 

The government of the United States has passed through many crises since the adoption of the Constitution in 1787. The one hundred and forty-seven years of our national existence have witnessed times of serious political struggles; periods of social and economic strife and unrest. The World War left the nations of the world with intricate problems. The largest armies of all history had marched to battle, and nations were put to the test of preserving their integrity. Kings and emperors were dethroned; governments were overthrown, and political life came to be anything but the thoughtful study of the science of government. In our own country particularly, laws have been enacted by state legislatures and Congress that have little bearing on the economic and social questions of the day, and as a result, we are lost in a veritable chaos of laws that are never enforced, and which have helped to bring about a disregard for law and order. 

The present hour witnesses a crisis, the like of which we have never known before in our history. The fine morale of the nation has been broken, and this has brought about a condition of bitterness and hate, for people have lost their regard for the power of government and for the sanctity of the law. Envy and jealousy, and hate of neighbor for neighbor have crowded out our nobler altruistic feelings. Groups of men, unmindful of human rights, are clamoring for changes in our government. Our resources are being wasted. The looting of the public wealth has become a recognized industry, and the men who practice it are as highly trained as men in the skilled employments and professions. The sorrowful thing is that these men are entrenched behind the walls of political trickery. One of the greatest plagues today is the disregard for authority and law in government, and there is growing up in our social world an aversion toward hard work. Can it be that modern thought is discarding the influence of Providence in the affairs of men? The truth that government is instituted by the hand of God was uppermost in the minds of our forebears when the Constitution was formulated; this thought inspired the very lives of Washington and Lincoln; and Jesus Christ our Lord taught us that governments without the spirit of humble faith in the Master, cannot live. 

The Declaration of Independence expresses the power of the Creator in three different places, and in words that speak of the divine in man. It says : 

We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 

This document and the -Constitution of our country in their very spirit recognize the divine truth that government should be the expression of all that is noblest and true in the life of man. In the settlements of the frontiers of America, groups of religious men carried the spirit of religion into  the unconquered lands, and the very fabric of our government was made up of many beliefs in the ways of providence. America for this reason has a rich background of the ideals of human liberty. All through our history the people have held to the belief in the divine guidance of the Master. Yet when we weigh the influence of social conditions today, we may well fear that we are slowly discarding our faith in the directive hand of an all-wise providence. Can there be any nobler truth than that the Lord does rule in the affairs of men? Is his power not seen in the onward march of civilization? Yet are we  to the destructive belief that man and not God must ultimately rule in the affairs of man. Is the wisdom of man the only power that will solve our problems ? At times, such a thought was prevalent in the days of ancient Israel, but the Lord through his prophets guided Israel, and we have Isaiah saying: 

For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations. 

The question, then: "Whither are we going?" is a reasonable one. 

Many of the panaceas that we hear of on every hand will not solve our problems. Would that we might have some of the old time religious strength back again! The old Puritan idealism of our pioneer parents was hard and stern at times, but those men and women of early days knew that they must not waste their vital, energies on profitless adventures. They were men of self-discipline, and they taught their children to hold themselves aloof from the moral degenerations that would sap the strength of life. 

The youth of today have a magnificent vitality, but Dr. Glen Frank has pointed out that "if there is a central weakness at the heart of this vitality, it is that youth is blind to the necessity of conserving its vital energies." What the youth of America needs is the husbanding of vital energies by the cultivation of clean habits, which alone "make intelligence and intensity of application possible and productive." All this is another way of saying that "education rightly conceived contributes to a religion of maturity. While it is vital that we keep Church and State apart, a divorce between education and religion will be fatal to our national life." 

We all must discover the beauties of the inner light, which is the divine gift of God to man. It is the divine spirit that really makes life fine and noble. Our government can only live as it produces good citizens who know that the Golden Rule is still golden, and that the Sermon on the Mount and the Ten Commandments are still the guiding forces of morality both for the individual and for society. Robert Louis Stevenson uses an expression in one of his essays that has a forceful meaning. He says that we must put into our thinking more of what he calls the "purple." To solve our problems, we must have that fine discernment of issues that give us simplicity instead of confusion. What care we if that solution comes by way of the street or the school. "Wisdom is justified of all of her children." The home, the church, and the state must teach the greater sacrifice and the higher laws. So let the search for truth go on, but let brotherly righteousness have its day among us as we search for truth. 

Every reform must be vested with sacredness, and a nation that is great is not incompatible with righteousness. The spirit of progress and nationality must be related to the divine purposes. There is a call of God to the nations as well as there is to men. The nation which has the bravest, the most trustworthy, the most thoroughly developed conscience will have the right of way in the onward march of civilization. "Open ye the gates," runs a joyous prophecy, "that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in." How majestically true is one of our teachings as we have it from the prophet Joseph Smith, when he wrote: 

We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

The tendency to rule God out of the affairs of life is a tragic thing. Why should he not make his habitation wherever men build their homes, and do their work, and fight their battles? The American people in the beginning stood committed to a serious business, and that was to establish a free government among all its citizenry. This ideal had deep meaning. It was the greatest experiment in government in all history, and the basis of it was the Constitution of the United States. It made of our nation the keeper and exponent of the great ideas and ideals of the world. Thus America has contributed mightily to the spiritual forces of the world, and it has given a new conception to all peoples of Christ and his mission. It has said to every man and woman: "You are a child of God. Enter. We will do our best. There shall be no king. There shall be no subject. There shall be no master. There shall be no slave." This is one of the gifts of the Father of us all. It is not gold, nor silver, nor fame which makes success. "It is truth, honor, and justice. It is faith, hope, and love." "It is," as an old French writer once said, "on the virtues of mankind and the freedom of mankind that the future of mankind is to be builded." 

What we need today is a group of high-souled men, men of vision and high morals, to put our nation in order, and to bring back that old-fashioned conscience of the nation, which recognizes the fact that the highest laws are the laws of God. Every man should put himself clearly and openly into some relationship of responsibility, for we are today beset with the mob spirit, which always acts apart from the organization of government. This is why the mob spirit is wrong. We should honor our past in the present; our dead in the living. What I want to hold up before us all is the conscience of our nation and government. Moral integrity, moral purposes, moral restraint are the necessities of the hour. If these things can be brought about, the nations of the world will have this to say of us: "Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people." Ideals must be established in the minds of the rising generation. While we realize that the age in which we live is new, the youth will never find anything more true and noble than the spirit of pioneer America, when the first impulse was the joy of enterprise, initiative, and newly awakened powers. Honesty of purpose must be re-established; honesty of endeavor, honesty of word, honesty in our relationship with our fellow-men. "Look unto the rock, whence ye are hewn," wrote Isaiah of old; and Solomon in his wisdom : "Remove not the ancient land-mark, which thy fathers have set." 

We must hark back to the finer fundamentals of life, we must make every law and principle of right effective in our very lives. The end of the State is not to live, but to live nobly, and this can only be done as we realize the truth of truths, that the teachings of the Master must become the guiding stars of our lives. "For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations." 

I pray that we American people may see anew the importance of justice and truth, and that we may rise above the ignorance and degraded politics of the present, and come into the light of the new day; andi dedicate our lives to more glorious purposes : to the will of the Master, to the purposes of our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, a feeling akin to awe comes today as never before in the history of the world to any person who occupies this position. He speaks to thousands of his fellowmen, facing them; he speaks to thousands who listen in on the radio; he speaks into space, for the radio waves never die — they enter the remotest corner of the universe — they speak to eternity. That is a solemn thought. 

IN FULFILMENT OF ANCIENT PROPHECY 

I suppose we all had that thought this forenoon when we were listening to the wonderful broadcast of the Presidency to all the world. With the coming of television, with the possession of radio, it seems that the fulfilment of the prophecy of old is near at hand: "There is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated." 

I enjoyed the message of our President yesterday, a message of gratitude because of the growth of the Church. Zion is growing, he said, and we all rejoice. It is not a selfish joy, for while we rejoice that we are spreading abroad and succeeding, we rejoice more that because of that spreading we shall be able to serve better our fellowman. This great Latter-day cause is not for us alone. Our mission is to all the world. And every gain that we make must be used for the benefit of our fellowman. 

A COURAGEOUS EXPERIMENT 

May I for a few moments direct your minds to some thoughts of mine in connection with the work that I have been doing the last few months? I have been engaged in a direct, positive experiment to solve some of the social and economic ills that have been talked about today and yesterday in this conference. I have had the privilege of teaching Mormonism, the principles, practice, and history of it, to university classes for university credit — as if the subject were one of the recognized university subjects. It has been a rare opportunity. Four other churches have had the same privilege. It is a courageous experiment undertaken by the University of Southern California. The reason for undertaking this experiment is simple enough. Thinking men have come to the conclusion that there is only one way out of our difficulties in this country and throughout the world. No plan made by congress or by private individuals for economic and social recovery will succeed except upon the basis of the acceptance of religion. By the acceptance and practice of spiritual truth alone shall we find our way back to economic stability and social happiness. 

TEACHING RELIGION IN THE SCHOOLS 

We have attempted at the University of Southern California this winter to teach religion, living religion, followed by large groups of living people, to those who have cared to listen, in the hope that thereby they might be made better citizens than they otherwise could be and that they would go out to contribute to the solution of our national and international difficulties. Our nation, as we know, is today a school-made nation. The schools are making our citizens. The school has made most of us who are here today. The schools are training our children for life's activities; and as the schools teach, as the schools direct the thinking of our young people, so our nation will become, indeed has become. 

It is a curious fact that a child, an American child, may go through the elementary schools, compelled to do so by the law, may go through high school, may go through the state college and university and never hear the name of God mentioned nor take any subject of study telling him how he shall conduct himself in life. Character — we all admit the importance of it — is practically forgotten in the curriculum of the schools of the United States. Thinkers talk about it, there is much said about it on the public platform, but little is done about it. 

THE PLACE OF CHARACTER IN EDUCATION 

It is for that reason that the university with which I have been associated the last few months has had the courage to say, "We will raise religion to academic dignity. We will give it a place in the sun, in the educational sun, that thereby we may help change the thinking and improve the conscience, as Professor Young has just said, of the people of this great country. It has been said that there is no substitute for character. Character is the thing that makes us do certain things. Our conduct depends upon our character. Nevertheless, one great university president, the president of one of the great universities of America, said at a public meeting in my hearing, and later published the statement in pamphlet form, that the purpose of a university is to train 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 71 

men and women mentally and that character must be a by-product of education. We Latter-day Saints take just the opposite view, that the direct purpose of all life, of every life activity, of our schools in particular, of all training and teaching institutions, must be the formation and development of a proper character. We do not accept the doctrine that character is a by-product of education. That doctrine, intolerable to Latter-day Saint understanding, has much to do with the social and economic chaos in which we find ourselves in this country at the present time. 

GOD AND MAN WHAT THEY ARE 

That is not all. Character may be built on ethics, on simple laws of human conduct to avoid offending our neighbor. We believe that an acceptable character must include, as Professor Young has stated, belief in the living God, a God of whose race we are. Here, again, we find a difficulty to be considered, at least by Latter-day Saints. I heard the leader of one of the greatest divinity schools in America, the trainer for a generation of time of the ministers of churches in America, say in so many words that man is but the product of cosmic forces, unknown forces, and that the word God is but a name for those cosmic forces, and nothing more. To Latter-day Saints God is a personage, the greatest intelligence in the universe, our spiritual Father. We are of his kind and we may approach nearer and nearer his likeness, if with all our might we live righteously throughout our eternal life. 

THE KIND OF CONCEPTS NEEDED TODAY 

We need to teach the youth of our Church and of the world the reality of the living God. Not only that, but that God lives in the unseen world, and that the unseen world is real. Into that unseen world we shall go some day, and there we shall find those who have gone before us. In course of time there will be a resurrection of the body, a reunion of the spirit and the body. There will come a judgment based upon our deeds. These are real concepts that America needs to understand and to accept and must understand and accept before peace can be fully restored in our economic and social life. The whole program of life is governed by law, according to a great plan in the mind of the Creator. He governs and directs all that happens on this earth. We can not defeat the purposes of the Almighty, though we may delay them through our stubbornness. A plan for human salvation has been laid out, and somehow the Lord through his power will see to it that his purposes fail not. "The God of Israel, he slumbers not nor sleeps." 

We need today to have the conception of God and the things of God that were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery one hundred years ago last Friday, — I need not take the time to read it, but do ask you to read in Section 1 10 of the Doctrine and Covenants the description of God as given in poor human words by Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. They tried to describe the glory of the personage who stood before them — not a cosmic force, but a living being — who spoke to them with a voice like thunder. After he had gone others came, beings of the unseen world who had been upon this earth, who had lived here, who had gone into the spirit world and now were commissioned to come back to perform certain important tasks. They unrolled, as it were, the plan and purpose of human existence. 

That is the type of faith, with its applications to human conduct, that we try to teach to these special classes, in living religions, so far as I am able, at the University of Southern California. I think my colleagues serving other churches are doing the same as best they can. Our country needs that kind of instruction. 

OUR CHARACTER-TRAINING ORGANIZATIONS 

I trust that we Latter-day Saints are making good use of our Sunday Schools, Primaries, Mutual Improvement Associations, seminaries and institutes, since our public schools are not yet ready to give us the character training that we need. Dare we, fathers and mothers, withhold such training from our children? And dare you, young people who are assembled here this afternoon, dare you avoid and deny yourselves the kind of training which in the end will determine your true success? 

God be with us, bless us in our attempts to bring righteousness into our lives and to serve God as he would desire us to serve him, I pray in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I trust that I may be permitted also to express my appreciation and gratitude for the services held here this morning. 

BEYOND COMPREHENSION 

I have been thinking of a remark made by an ancient prophet when he considered the great works of the Lord. He said : "Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high. I cannot attain unto it." The broadcast we heard this morning is too wonderful for me. I do not comprehend it. Forty years ago I heard one of the members of the Council of the Twelve say the time would come when men would be able to converse from city to city without the aid of telephone wires. I believed him, but I looked upon that as something that was going to come in some future time, that I would not live to see. But I have seen it; it is marvelous. I do not comprehend it, you do not, but thd virtue in it, the power and the force that may be used in the preaching of the Gospel and bringing to pass the purposes of the Lord are wonderful and also beyond our comprehension. 

The Lord declared that he would cut short his work in righteousness, and I can understand how that can be brought about. I want to thank this choir for their integrity and faithfulness, their devotion to this cause. 

AN EVENT OF GREAT SIGNIFICANCE 

And now I would like to enlarge somewhat upon a statement made by Elder Widtsoe, but mentioned by him incidentally. We witnessed this morning a demonstration as wonderful as anything we have ever seen. One hundred years ago last Friday there occurred another most wonderful event, the effects of which are being felt in every nation upon the face of the earth today. It was not a broadcast, no one knew of it except two men who stood, as we have heard, before the pulpit in the House of the Lord in the presence of the Son of God as he spoke! to them. I am going to read one or two verses that he declared unto them on that occasion. 

For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house. 

Yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house. 

Yea, the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house. 

And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen. (Doctrine and Covenants, 110:7-10.) 

That which took place on the third day of April in the year 1836 has spread forth to all lands. Thousands and tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands have been blessed because of what took place upon that occasion. Not only the thousands in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but thousands upon thousands who are not members of the Church have partaken of the blessings which came at that time and which have spread forth throughout the earth. And while they may not know it, they have been influenced, and have many of them performed a wonderful work because of the things that took place, and because of the fulfilment of this prediction made by the Son of God. 

KEYS OF GATHERING BESTOWED 

After this vision closed, we are informed that there was another vision. 

* * * the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. (Id. 110:11.) 

Through the bestowal of those keys which were held by Moses and which were essential to the salvation of men and the success of the work of the Lord in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times in which we live, you people, who are here assembled, have been gathered. The word of the Lord has been carried to the nations, many of the honest have been gathered out and have come with their songs of everlasting joy to the House of the Lord and to Zion, to learn of his ways; and that, if you please, through the restoration of the Gospel and the restoration of the keys held by the ancient prophet who held the keys of the Gathering of Israel. 

ELIAS AND HIS MISSION 

Then when this vision closed, another vision burst upon them : 

After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. (Id. 110:12.) 

This Elias was a prophet who lived in the days of Abraham and who held the keys of that dispensation. He came and bestowed the gifts and the blessings that were pronounced upon Abraham's head, and his posterity after him, and all that pertained to that dispensation, for in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times in which we live, all dispensations had to be revealed, all keys had to be restored, and hence the prophets of old, having the keys of dispensations had to come declaring their honors, their authority, the power of their priesthood. 

IN FULFILMENT OF PREDICTION 

Then came another glorious manifestation in fulfilment of the prediction made by the prophet Malachi some four hundred years before the birth of Christ. We read again: 

.... Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting 

death, stood before us, and said : 

Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth 

of Malachi — testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent before the great 

and dreadful day of the Lord comeTo turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children 

to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse —  

Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your 

hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the 

Lord is near, even at the doors. (Doctrine and Covenants 110:13-16.) 

Since the bestowal of these keys the work of salvation for the dead has been proclaimed, has taken hold of the hearts of the children of men, I say, both in the Church and out of it. There are thousands who are working in the gathering of the records of the dead, and why they do it they do not know. 

I asked one man in the city of Salem, Massachusetts, in the year 1902 why he was gathering the records of the dead. He was undertaking a marvelous work. He said to me : "I do not know, but I got started and I cannot quit." I know why. JEWISH TRADITION REGARDING THE PASCHAL SEASON 

I want to call your attention to an incident which I think is of some importance. I am going to read to you a statement from Alfred Edersheim in his work "The Temple." Speaking of "The Paschal Feast and the Lord's Supper," he says : 

Jewish tradition has this curious conceit: that the most important events in Israel's history were connected with the Paschal season. Thus it is said to have been on the present Paschal night that, after his sacrifice, the "horror of darkness" fell upon Abraham when God revealed to him the future of his race. Similarly, it is supposed to have been at Passover time that the patriarch entertained his heavenly guests, that Sodom was destroyed and Lot escaped, and that the walls of Jericho fell before the Lord. More than that — the "cake of barley bread" seen in the dream which led to the destruction of Midian's hosts, had been prepared from the Omer, presented on the second day of the feast of unleavened bread; just as at a later period alike the captains of Sennacherib and the king of Assyria, who tarried at Nob, were overtaken by the hand of God at the Passover season. It was at the Paschal time also that the mysterious handwriting appeared on the wall to declare Babylon's doom, and again at the Passover that Esther and the Jews fasted, and that wicked Haman perished. 

Now here is something of great significance : 

And so also in the last days it would be the Paschal night when the final judgment should come upon "Edom," and the glorious deliverance of Israel take place. Hence to this day, in every Jewish home, at a certain part of the Paschal service — the door is opened to admit Elijah the prophet as forerunner of the Messiah, while appropriate passages are at the same time read which foretell the destruction of all heathen nations. It is a remarkable coincidence that, in instituting his own Supper, the Lord Jesus connected the symbol, not of judgment, but of his dying love, with his "third cup." 

THE COMING OF ELIJAH 

It was, I am informed, on the third day of April, 1836, that the Jews, in their homes at the Paschal feast, opened their doors for Elijah to enter. On that very day Elijah did enter — not in the home of the Jews to partake of the Passover with them, but he appeared in the House of the Lord, erected to his name and received by the Lord in Kirtland, and there bestowed his keys to bring to pass the very things for which these Jews, assembled in their homes, were seeking. 

THE COMING OF THE LORD IS NEAR 

The day of the coming of the Lord is near. I do not know when. I am not looking, however, upon the coming of the Son of Man as I looked once upon the day when men would speak from city to city and throughout the land without the aid of wires, and would be heard, as something that may come in some far distant time, because I sincerely believe it will come in the very, day when some of us who are here today will be living upon the face of the earth. That day is close at hand. It behooves us as Latter-day Saints to set our houses in order, to keep the commandments of God, to turn from evil to righteousness if it is necessary, and serve the Lord in humility and faith and prayer. 

So I pray that we may do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

THE PASSING OF JOHN W. HART 

Word has come to me that this morning at about 5 o'clock President John W. Hart of the Rigby Stake of Zion, and for many years a member of the Auditing Committee of the Church, passed away due to a heart attack. 

Brother Hart was true, faithful and diligent from his youth to the time of his death. He was a pioneer in Idaho in early days when there was little but sagebrush to be seen as far as the eye could reach. He lived to erect one of our largest and finest stake houses, and was faithful to every duty and responsibility that rested upon him. 

When the fearful hardships of the depression came and the bank of which he was the president failed, he gave practically everything he had that the depositors should lose nothing. He was a God-fearing, faithful, true man. 

I want to endorse all the good things that have been said about the singing during this conference. 

The Choir sang The Hallelujah Chorus, from the "Messiah" (Handel). 

Elder Archie R. Boyack, President of the Big Horn Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 :00 o'clock Monday morning, April 6. 

THIRD DAY 


