Morning
06 04 1936

Conference reconvened Monday morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett, furnished the music for this session of the Conference. 

President Grant opened the meeting by announcing that the Choir and congregation would join in singing the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Heber C. Williams, President of the North Sevier Stake. The Choir sang, "The Lord is My Shepherd." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Notwithstanding the anxiety I felt in having to address this large congregation, I am very happy today; happy in my religion, having an absolute assurance of its truth, without any harassing doubts or fears. For this assurance and testimony, I am grateful beyond my power to express. 

"doers of the word, not hearers only" 

I should like, if possible, to say something on this occasion, in a very brief talk, that would stimulate faith and religious activity to some degree in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. As a people we are well taught in matters pertaining to our religion. What we most need is to be impressed with the necessity of doing as well as we know, of being "doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving ourselves." If we were to do as well as we know, our salvation would be secure. I desire particularly at this time to emphasize the importance of observing the law of tithing, and the generous giving of fast offerings, as a potent factor in the scheme of man's salvation, and in support of the Church, and the work it is designed to accomplish. There is today an emergency in the land, a wide spread financial depression; and the Church feels it keenly. Many of its members are without employment or other means of support and are dependent upon the Government, the Church, or other charitable institutions for a subsistence for themselves and their families. The Church Authorities are concerned over this unfortunate condition. They would like to care for the faithful members who are in need of financial assistance; but how this may be accomplished is a question which is giving them no little anxiety. 

The Lord has made provision in his Church to meet every emergency that might arise, provided, the members will do their part. If all the members had paid their fast offerings and their tithes in full since becoming members of the Church, there would have been sufficient means in the storehouse of the Lord to meet this oppressive emergency. 

AN EXAMPLE OF LOYALTY AND FAITHFULNESS 

 There was a serious emergency, of a financial character, existing in the Church when Lorenzo Snow came to be its president. The properties and moneys of the Church had been escheated and taken over by the United States Government, making it necessary for the Church to borrow large sums of money, and later to bond the Church for means with which to carry on its current work. In due time these obligations had to be met. President Snow, acting under the inspiration of the Lord, and of his high calling, took with him certain members of the First Presidency and of the Twelve and, by team, went to St. George, and from there traveled north through Utah and into Idaho, holding meetings in the settlements on the way, appealing to the Saints to come to the relief of the Church in its time of financial distress by the faithful payment of their tithes and offerings. The people responded to the appeal to that extent that the bonds and other indebtedness of the Church were soon paid off and the Church was once more free from debt. 

OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO THE LORD 

If all the Saints of today were to pay a just and full tithe of their increase, and be liberal in the payment of their fast offerings, which we plead with them to do, the Church would be able to care for its needy members, that none would have to suffer. 

The Saints living in the days of President Snow set a good example of loyalty to Church authority and of obedience to the law of tithing. We should be as loyal and as faithful as were our forebears. Such faithfulness makes for individual salvation and the welfare and progress of the work of the Lord. 

The Lord expects every member of his Church to do and to give for the carrying on of his work, according to the individual's ability and his means. Those who neglect to do their part will meet with serious disappointment in the end. 

A record of what tithing we have paid is kept in heaven, also of what we should have paid. The difference represents our indebtedness to the Lord. We should make the ledger to balance before finishing this life's labors. 

WORKING FOR THE LORD 

There are in the Church many business men and men of professions who have become spiritually inactive, their entire time being devoted to their business or profession. They could pay their tithing and by so doing be rendering valuable aid to every division of the work for which tithing is used. 

The Lord needs us in his work, and he needs our tithes and offerings; and we need him every hour. 

The Lord had a job for me 

But I had so much to do 

I said, You get somebody else 

Or wait till I get through. 

I don't know how the Lord came out, 

No doubt he got along 

But I felt rather sneaking like, 

1 knew I'd done God wrong. 

One day I needed the Lord — Needed him right away; But he never answered me at all, And I could hear him saying Down in my accusing heart, Child, I've too much to do. You get somebody else, Or wait till I get through. 

Now when the Lord has a job for me, 

I never try to shirk, 

I drop what I have in hand, 

And do the Lord's good work. 

And my affairs may run along 

Or wait till I get through. 

Nobody else can do the work 

God has laid out for you. 

WE ARE HERE FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE 

A story is told of a young man who was very desirous of getting an education. His parents were unable to send him to college, so he walked to the college city, and, after diligent inquiry, succeeded in finding a place where by chopping wood he could pay his board and lodgings. Later one of the college professors gave him a job cutting wood to pay for his tuition. Others, learning of his success as a wood chopper, employed him to chop wood for them. He soon found that he had no time to go to college, and he became content with his success as a wood chopper. This represents a condition which obtains with many of us. 

We came to earth for a specific purpose — that of working out our own salvation, or in other words to prepare for the life which is to come, which is everlasting. Some of us seem to have forgotten the purpose we had in view, and to have become content with our search for the wealth and fame this life affords, — in other words, content with "chopping wood." 

FOR THE SALVATION OF MEN 

One might ask : Why all the activity we see .in the Church, in the ministry abroad, in the ministry at home, in the stakes and wards, in the priesthood quorums and auxiliary associations, in genealogy and temple work, in Church school and seminary work, etc. ? The answer might be briefly given thus: The salvation of man depends upon it. It is the work and glory of God to accomplish the salvation of his children, by the plan of the Gospel which he has revealed. The religious activities seen in the Church and in which we are engaged are for the purpose, and are assisting the Lord in the noblest work, the most important service in which man may be engaged. If we be not called officially into the service, there are many things we can do of our own volition which will contribute to our own happiness and salvation and to the happiness and salvation of others. Napoleon Hill says : "Render some useful service each day, for which you do not expect any pay. This will bring you happiness such as people who work for pay only, never enjoy." 

A FULNESS OF JOY 

In II Nephi 2 :25 we read, "Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." To receive a fulness of joy here and hereafter, as intended of the Lord, we must live the righteous Christ-like life; and render effectual service to God and to our fellow men. The righteous life inspires love of God and of fellow men and opens the avenue of communication and help from the Lord, which is so necessary to success in effectual service. 

HAPPINESS THROUGH OBEDIENCE TO GOD'S WORD 

Another potent means of assisting the Church and the work of the Lord, and which is conducive to individual happiness and salvation, is to obey the word of the Lord wherein he has expressed his will by direct revelation, that we abstain from the excessive use of meat, and from the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and all intoxicating drinks. If the Latter-day Saints were to strictly observe this one revelation, as interpreted by the Church authorities, they would be a healthier, happier, and a more prosperous people than they are today. They would have more money with which to pay their debts, and for tithes and offerings. The money paid for tea, coffee, tobacco and liquors goes, for the most part, out of the country I understand; and it means a tremendous drain which is felt directly or indirectly by a large percentage of the people. From every viewpoint it is unprofitable to violate the Word of Wisdom or any other word of the Lord. "Obedience is better than sacrifice; to hearken than the fat of rams." 

I have tried in a brief way to emphasize the importance of paying an honest tithing and of being liberal in the giving of our offerings; also, of rendering acceptable service to God and to our fellowmen. It is important, also that we keep all the commandments of the Lord, and faithfully do his will in all things. May the Lord help us so to do. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Yesterday we listened to the members of the Presidency of the Church preaching, over a great broadcast, the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the children of men. The extent to which their words reached I am not prepared to say, but as far as the broadcasting system carried, those who were able to listen heard the Gospel message. To me it was a wonderful thing and I am sure that all those who are here attending this conference must have been convinced that the Lord is continuing to build constructively in the earth and that his Church is making progress and is growing rapidly. 

I think that not before have the songs of Zion been sung by the entire congregation from this building over the broadcasting system of the nation. This Tabernacle is naturally made for such an event. I almost wish that I could have heard the rendition from some far distant point, for the thousands of voices must have gone over the air with fine effect. 

When Brigham Young, under the direction of the Lord, planned this , I am sure he thought little about such a feature as we have just witnessed. It is doubtful if he could see at that time what might and would happen, how the word of the Lord could be preached from these mountains to all parts of the world. 

I wonder if those men who so carefully laid the great Gospel plan in foreign lands had a vision of such things in the beginning of their work. My mind recalls an experience that we are told President Wilf ord Woodruff had when he was in England, preaching the Gospel, building up the Church, and gathering members to this country. He listened constantly to the Spirit of the Lord. A great missionary was he, as we all know from reading his history. One day he felt impressed to go south, and it is said that he boarded a conveyance and rode south eighty miles, when he felt impressed to stop. He got off the conveyance and began to work in that vicinity, and as a result he gathered some eight hundred members of the Church in that part of England. Practically all of them came to Zion. 

Thus were his labors and the labors of others of the early missionaries mightily blessed. Through their preaching they reaped a rich harvest of souls. Today the elders in the field are giving just as faithful service and bearing just as fervent testimonies, but new methods are employed and new agencies are introduced to carry the Gospel to the nations. 

The Lord can do his work only as men and women will apply themselves; he does it through his servants in the earth; he directs his work through all the members of the Church who are willing to serve. If President Wilford Woodruff had not been listening, if his mind had not been in tune with the Lord, he never would have heard the whisper that came to him to go south to a certain place where he was told to get! off the stage and begin his work. His heart was in tune with God. 

Brigham Young's heart was in tune with God when he built this building and laid plans for one of the greatest things the world has ever seen. 

We read in the scriptures about the prophets of old who spoke ofthe Gospel being preached from the mountain-tops, that the word of the Lord would go forth from there. How fully that prediction may yet be fulfilled! No one can realize yet what may come as a result of it, how far-reaching it may be. A few years ago no one heard of the great broadcasting system that we have now among us. It was not even dreamed of. Yet how simple and easy it appears to be. 

The President of the Church, the Prophet of the Lord, the leader of Latter-day Israel and those who are associated with him, can now send the Gospel out over the world, telling it to the people, telling men and women of the beauty of it, of the great plan of our Father which was instituted for the purpose of reaching the hearts of the children of men. I do not know how others feel, but to me this experience was the greatest I have ever had — to hear the singing and the preaching, and to know that it was going, perhaps, to the farther ends of the earth. 

I was greatly impressed by that fine address by President Grant in the first session of this conference. It indicated the progress being made by the Church — a progress which has been marked from the beginning, so far as I am able to observe from reading and from personally witnessing events. 

There has always been the call of the President, the preaching of the Gospel, the voice of the Lord unto the children of men. The Lord pleads with men, does everything under the shining sun to get men to believe. He calls men to preach the words that he gave while he was in the earth. He said upon one occasion : "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." That was the word of the Lord, given by him as it came from his Father. He also said : 

Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock : 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not : for it was founded upon a rock. 

And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand : 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell : and great was the fall of it. 

The Savior laid the plan of life and salvation in the earth. He taught it unto the children of men, and he gave his life for it. He revealed it anew in your day and mine; he came unto the Prophet Joseph! Smith, and spoke unto him as one man speaks unto another. God our Eternal Father introduced the Son, and he laid the foundation upon which the children of men may build, upon which they may know whether this is the work of God or the work of men. He has given his word by prophets from then until now; and especially during the past hundred years, has the Lord specifically spoken to men. What a marvelous thing is the history of this Church. 

There is no other such gathering in the earth as this assembly, there is no such relationship among men and women, as exists among Latterday Saints, no such an organization far or near. And now, through the providence of God our Father, thousands of people who are not able to come here may hear the voices of the servants of the living God, and may know the powerful message that comes from those who are endowed from on high to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the people of God in the earth. 

When we think of the example that has been set by the leadership of this Church, the plan of government that has existed from the beginning, we cannot but appreciate the hand of the Lord in these things. The foundation that was laid by the Prophet and his associates has led thousands of others to build upon that same foundation. They are not swerved from their path; they know the voice of the risen Redeemer, and they obey it. 

The establishment of the people in these mountains, the organizations of the Church in the stakes and wards, presided over by men of 

God, constitute the Church that our Eternal Father had in mind when his Son preached that it should be built upon a rock. These men are not swerved when the winds of adversity blow; they know how to weather the storm. We find them always solidly and squarely established in the revelations of God our Father; while, on the other hand, those who yield to temptation, who will not keep the commandments of God, are shaken as a reed in water, and many fall, because their foundation is not secure. 

This conference will be a great epoch in the history of this Church. The great anniversary today of the organization of the Church, the experiences of yesterday, and the inspirational sessions on Saturday add another great chapter to the program of God our Father by which men and women may know that those who are appointed to direct his affairs on the earth are at the helm, that they are watching over the flock, that they are constantly building and keeping in harmony and in tune with the work that has been established by our Father through the Prophet Joseph, who is a prophet of the living God, and was, and always will be. Those who have succeeded him were and are likewise prophets of God. 

May we remember the words we hear and carry them back to our people, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I hope the Lord will give me words to express what is in my heart to say to you this morning. I desire to call your attention to the parable of the Master called the "Lost Sheep," which is recorded in the 15th Chapter of Luke. The chapter commences with the following words: 

Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. 

And he spake this parable unto them, saying, 

What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? 

And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. 

I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. 

The sinners, and the publicans who were largely the officials of the Roman government and mostly tax gatherers, did not live up to the strict interpretation of the doctrines of the Pharisees. In my opinion, the Master in giving this parable to the scribes and Pharisees intended to impress them with the necessity of looking after their lost sheep, the publicans and sinners. 

The use of parables was common among Jewish teachers. Jesus was but following the custom of the time in using a descriptive allegory founded on a real scene or event such as occurs in nature and human life, with a moral or religious application. The Master's parables were simple and effective. He talked in the language of the people. When in wheat fields he spoke of wheat and tares and the mustard seed. When on the shores of the sea of Galilee, he spoke of fish. When in Judea he spoke of sheep. 

A flock of sheep usually numbered one hundred. The shepherd is portrayed as leaving the ninety and nine, safely in the fold, while he went in search of the one that had strayed. He rejoiced in finding it. When he returned home, he called together his friends and neighbors, and asked them to rejoice with him, for he had found his sheep which was lost. 

The Master discloses the real purpose of this parable when he said : "And I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth." He brings to our attention the duty of servants of the Master in all ages. The Master deemed it of great importance to go after those who had strayed from the fold of Christ. There is need for the application of this parable in our day. 

One of the objectives of the Church is to perfect the lives of those who have accepted the truth. This is a great responsibility. There are among us in every ward and stake in the Church, members who have become indifferent to the teachings of the Gospel and who for one reason or another absent themselves from quorum and sacrament meetings. Recently I examined the records of the Church and was alarmed to find that these missing sheep had increased by 5000 last year. It is our duty to do everything possible to bring them back into active participation in the Church. We are our "brother's keeper" and should feel keenly this trust. These neglectful members should be visited and labored with, with all diligence and with patience. They should be encouraged and again brought to see and understand the beauties of the Gospel and the benefits of active Church membership. 

I recently heard of an individual who was indignant when asked some questions about his salvation. He had not objected to the brakeman on the train asking where he was going. He felt the brakeman inquired of him in order to save him from a possible mistake. The man who asked about his salvation had the same motive, only the case was a great deal more serious. Yes, some you will visit will not take kindly at first to your interest in them, but if labored with perseveringly and in all meekness, they will later call you blessed. 

A mother of several boys had difficulty in getting her boys to keep neat and tidy and she had to give them personal inspection before they left for school. She realized that they had neglected to look at themselves in the mirror. She hung a beautiful mirror in the front hall, where they could not help but note their appearance. She now has no need to inspect them, for the glass tells them how they look. For after all, the mother added sagely, "I think one of the principal steps toward reforming people is to get them to look at themselves." With tact and understanding, can we help these indifferent members to see themselves  others see them and through our earnest efforts and kindliness bring them back into service in the Church? 

Are we as officers of the priesthood quorums of the Church doing our full duty in encouraging neglectful members to attend their meetings ? Are ward teachers taking their responsibility seriously and with kindness and tact endeavoring to bring disinterested members back to activity in the Church? As Bishops who preside over the Aaronic Priesthood of the wards, are you watching so carefully over your flock that none in the future will be lost or go astray ? Are you making a conscientious effort to bring back those men and boys holding an office in the Aaronic Priesthood, who because of indifference, lack of home training or the allurements of the world, have drifted away? It is our duty to labor with them persistently and bring them back into the fold. Are the auxiliary officers of the Church giving attention to those who should be enrolled as members of their organizations? As individuals, are we taking a brotherly, sisterly or neighborly interest in those about us who do not enjoy the full benefits and blessings which the Church extends to its active and faithful members? 

Are these members grateful for your interest in them? Let me cite to you some cases which have come to my personal attention. To my office came a man, who for twenty years had done nothing in the Church. Through the missionary work of the Bishop of that ward, this man was brought back to service in the Church. He realized the many years he had lost. As he stood outside the Logan Temple, with his wife and children, having had them sealed to him that day, he said, his heart full to overflowing: "I wish my Bishop had given a little attention to me when I was a lad." 

I was deeply impressed with the story of a man in one of the stakes of Zion at a stake conference. He stated that through the insistence of the members of his quorum, he was urged to attend his meetings. At first he was reluctant. Then, since they wanted him to come so much, he decided to please them. He became interested and active, and now has a renewal of his testimony of the Gospel. He has taken his wife and children to the temple. His heart is filled with gratitude because the members of his quorum had interested themselves in him and labored with him and brought him back into church activity. There were tears in his eyes as he told of his joy. 

The Master said there was great rejoicing over one who repenteth. There are three who rejoice, when, figuratively speaking, a sheep which has strayed is brought back to the fold : the individual who has strayed away, he who is responsible for his reclamation and "likewise there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth." 

In this day, hear the word of the Lord regarding the worth of souls, and the joy of bringing souls unto him; as recorded in the 18th Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and which was mentioned by President Grant in his opening address : 

Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

And he hath risen from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! 

I sincerely plead with you to give this matter of the indifferent members of the Church serious reflection and attention. Whether it be friend, neighbor or relative, by long-suffering, meekness and patience, win their respect and love and help them to again see the beauties of the Gospel. Bring them back into the fold that they might again enjoy the blessings of the Gospel and be numbered actively with the Church of Christ. 

To those of you who are within the sound of my voice who may have become indifferent to the teachings of the Church, I urge you to take inventory of yourselves this day. Consider where your course in life is taking you. Is it bringing you happiness and contentment and peace of soul such as does the Gospel of Jesus Christ, or is it bringing you only passing pleasures? Are your hearts set upon the things of this world, the money, position, good times which it brings, or upon the Kingdom of Heaven with its rich treasures? 

I personally know the joy and satisfaction which conies in this missionary labor; the joy of seeing friend and relative become active and useful in the Church, after years of indifference, and I rejoice with them in their blessings. My testimony is that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is found the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that the Gospel is the plan of life and salvation unto all who accept it and are faithful and obedient. May we live the Gospel and may we ever be diligent in teaching it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and the congregation joined in the singing of the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

"A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief," was sung by the Choir, solo by Emma Lucy Gates Bowen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It may be of interest to those who do not already know it that this song of fourteen verses, by Montgomery, was sung in Carthage Jail by John Taylor; after he had finished singing it he was asked to sing it again. He replied that he did not feel like singing, he was oppressed  a sense of coming disaster; but at Hyrum's request he sang the hymn again. 

Soon after he was through singing it the second time, the shooting started that ended in the death of the Prophet and the Patriarch, and the wounding of President Taylor. 

ELDER REINHOLD STOOF 

Former President of the South American Mission 

My brethren and sisters, you will kindly excuse the poor English of a foreigner. Members and friends of the far countries under the Southern Cross in Argentine and Brazil extend to you their heartiest greetings. They rejoice in the light that went out from Zion and came to them; and you in Zion can be proud of your faithful members in the far southern countries. There has not been a missionary in South America who has not appreciated the interesting pioneer labor among the Latin-American people in Argentine and among the Brazilian colonies of German blood. 

Several missionaries who have labored in South America have told me that if circumstances would allow the Church to establish a mission in Italy or Spain they would gladly go there and preach the Gospel to the fine people of those countries. 

Argentine, like the United States, is a melting-pot for the nations. The majority of those who emigrated into South America are from the southern countries of Europe — Italy and Spain — so that the character of the Argentines is that of a real Latin people. The majority of our members in Argentine are Italians and Spaniards. We have a few Germans also there. 

Our experiences with the Latin- American people with regard to teaching the Gospel are very encouraging. There may be some who think that the ideal field of labor in which to find the scattered blood of Israel is the northern countries. For them it may be a consolation to know that a few centuries after Christ's birth tribes from the north invaded Spain and Italy, and it may be that their remnants are the ones who today follow the voice of the Good Shepherd. The fact remains that a great harvest will be brought in in Argentine among the Latin-American people. I have no doubt in my mind about that. 

I am very glad that the leading brethren of the Church have sent to South America two very fine men to preside over the two missions there; and I am sure that they will spread the Gospel in a most wonderful way in those countries. 

It was my good fortune to be blessed and sustained by the help of very faithful and capable missionaries, and this same blessing will be enjoyed by my two successors in South America. The people in South America are surely a wonderful people. The example of the missionaries has exerted a wonderful influence in the conversion of people to the Gospel. We had several friends who could neither read nor write; they could not prove the truthfulness of our message by studying the scriptures as they could not read them, but the example of the missionaries gave them conviction, and above all, these people lived the Gospel before their baptism. 

Weeks and months before their baptism they kept the Word of Wisdom, they even paid their tithing honestly without being urged to do so, and by living the Gospel they received a strong testimony, were converted and were baptized, and are some of our most wonderful members in the Argentine. 

It is my opinion that because of the integrity and faithfulness of those members, the Lord has blessed them with many manifestations. 

I testify unto you that I have never seen in my life before the power of the priesthood manifested in such a marvelous way as in South America. I testify unto you that I witnessed the gift of interpretation of tongues, and the gift of healing the sick in cases where doctors could not help them. I can testify that the eyesight was restored to a blind young Portuguese. I have a written statement in my possession in which that young Portuguese said : "I was willing to throw myself before the wheels of a wagon in the street to be killed, the doctors could not give me any hope." But the power of the priesthood restored his sight. 

I never shall forget that evening when we were called to the home of an Italian family whose daughter was very sick; that family had fasted and prayed an entire day, following the advice of a good Italian member of the Church. It was a strange sickness that had overcome the daughter. She slept for four days and could not eat nor speak, and then, after a day of fasting and prayer, the parents called the elders to administer to her. When we entered the room the daughter opened her lips for the first time for days, her eyes being closed, and she said in a low but distinct voice : "A supreme being has entered." 

The young elder, a very ambitious, fine Idaho boy, was called to anoint her, and he was so much astounded when he heard those words that he forgot the name of the young lady and it had to be repeated to him. We pronounced a blessing upon the head of that girl and rebuked the power of the Destroyer. We spoke comfort to her parents, and according to the promise given by the servants of the Lord through the power of the priesthood, her full health was restored. She did not remember anything that had happened to her. I do not know what her spiritual eyes had beheld, what supreme being had entered with us,- — no missionary is a supreme being, we know that, but we cannot say who was at our side. We have no doubt that a heavenly being was there to give strength and testimony to the parents. The power of the Lord is upon the earth, the power of the priesthood is here, and that power calls to its aid even heavenly beings when necessary. 

I am thankful for the testimony that I have received, and that others have seen the power of the priesthood manifest in such a marvelous way, and I am glad that these blessings have been given unto those wonderful people in Argentine and Brazil. They are faithful and strong. 

I remember one fine missionary, a very capable young man, who was about to leave his mission field because of the lack of finances, but it was not necessary for him to leave, a little Italian couple took care of everything. They gave him shelter, they gave him to eat, and provided everything for him. Later this same faithfulness was manifested in their contribution of a house and lot in Buenos Aires to the Church for use as a chapel. This is one of the evidences of the faithfulness of those people. The servants of the Lord can preach without hindrance in those countries of South America. The cry of Freedom, Freedom, Freedom, rings throughout the wonderful nation of Argentine. Those people love freedom, they grant freedom to everyone, and so it is in all the republics of South America. In my opinion it is a wonderful field of labor for the people. 

A great harvest is waiting for the Church in South America. I have no doubt in my mind regarding that. The Lord gives me that testimony. God bless those far countries in the south — the home country of my children. God bless my South America, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES M. KIRKHAM 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I pray for divine help while I shall stand before you. 

I am glad to bring to you greetings from the East Central States mission. I can honestly say in reporting our mission to you that what this good brother has just said about South America has been repeated many times during the past winter among the young missionaries who are laboring in our mission field. God has manifested his power, and many are the blessings that have come to our good people through the priesthood and the faith of the elders and the members of the Church 

We are living in an unusual day; in a day when the Lord is making evident his power. In the mission where I live, we are at the present time experiencing unusual conditions, particularly in regard to the great floods that have come from the Ohio river and many of the other rivers that empty into this great stream. Because of the high waters of the Ohio the streams that enter into it back up, and as a result great areas of land are flooded. It is interesting, I am sure, to know that river boats have gone up the streets of Cincinnati, that in man)' places the water was six and eight feet above normal conditions, — I mean that over the main highways in some parts of that country there was that depth of water. However, I do not know of any serious handicap to any of our members except the loss, possibly, of some of their property. I recall that the day we left to come here one of the elders said, "I am mailing you this letter by way of rowboat from the second story of the building. We have been in here for three days." I have been greatly impressed by these conditions and I would like you people to read the sixty-first section of the Doctrine and Covenants and make your own deductions as to the curse that was placed upon the waters. Not only have we been troubled with waters but we have had tornadoes. And as we came here we passed through a great dust storm. It seems to me that we are living in an unusual day. 

I would like to tell you something in regard to this wonderful experience that we had yesterday. Immediately upon receipt of information about this broadcast we sent word to every branch, to every elder in our mission, suggesting to them that they provide some way so all could listen in. Saturday there came to me a letter that had been forwarded from a little town in the hills of Tennessee, telling me that they had borrowed a radio to install in their little church, which is about twenty-four by thirty-two feet in size, and they planned to gather there that day so they could listen to the prophets of the Lord when they spoke. 

We are making a great number of friends in unusual ways. I would like to refer to one case, emphasizing what has been said in regard to the spirit and power that is manifest by our beloved president. President Grant with Brother George Albert Smith visited Louisville a short time ago, and while there they visited that modern institution, the American Printing House for the Blind, where the Book of Mormon was printed in Braille. I visted this same place about the second or third day after they had been there, and I was pleased at the influence, the most favorable impression that had been left with those people during the visit of President Grant and Brother Smith. There is something about these brethren that no matter where they go they leave their impression and they leave something that is outstanding and unusual. 

I would like to express to you my testimony in regard to the Book of Mormon. It is one of the most wonderful books that we have in the world today. If I were bold enough I might say to you that I think many of us are not reading it just as often as we should. I know it is taught in our Sunday Schools and Seminary classes and in other such ways; but I am thinking of that busy mother and that hurried father in their labors. I fear that they do not read the Book of Mormon as often as they should do. My testimony to you is this, that it is divine and it comes from God, that it is one of the greatest witnesses that we have of the divinity of this work and of the Prophet Joseph Smith. If you want to know where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going, no book that I know of will tell you in such plainness as does the Book of Mormon. We should read it more often. I am sure that the promise which is given in it will be fulfilled, namely, that those who ask God with a prayerful heart if the things therein written are true, he will manifest the truth of it unto them. It has been made manifest to a number of people in our mission during the past winter. 

Oh, I could tell you testimonies that have come to us this winter of young people and older ones who have had that promise fulfilled to them, and their hearts have swelled with joy because of the testimony of the Book of Mormon that has come to them. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you, and that we will live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I bear testimony to you that the lives of our young men and women are teaching the Gospel just as much as their words. When someone was talking the other day about living this Gospel, I thought of five different places where the missionaries were living this winter. There will be from one to several members of the families baptized because of the lives, because of the actions, because of the teachings of these young missionaries in the homes where they have been living. We suggest to them not to live in a boarding-house, but to find lodging with some family of prominence. They are living in the homes of judges, of postmasters, and of dentists. We are encouraging them to go into such places, because in so doing they have a most wonderful opportunity of preaching the Gospel; and by their lives and by their actions they are doing it. 

The Lord is blessing us. We need your prayers. We need your support. We need your blessings. And may the Lord magnify us in our work in the eyes of the people of the world, that we may bring souls to Christ, that we may fulfil the responsibility that is given to us to preach the Gospel in all the world. 

May the Lord help us to do this I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 

President of North Central States Mission 

The music of this conference has been an inspiration to all. The work of our great Tabernacle Choir, the Hyrum Stake Choir Saturday, and the Singing Mothers today have all been a blessing to us. 

We often find ourselves in the position of children, seeing about us the many activities and movements of life, but failing to recognize the full significance of such forces and movements. During this conference I have been struggling to comprehend the value and power of this great cause as it affects us and the people of the world. 

For generations people have taken an interest in keeping close to certain anniversaries. In private life we commemorate births, marriages and other important dates. In public and social life we have our Fourth of July, Armistice Day, Memorial Day and many others of general and local interest. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints remembers proudly a number of events which cluster around this season of the year. It was in the spring of 1820, one hundred sixteen years ago, that the first vision of this dispensation occurred. On May 15, 1829, one hundred seven years ago, the Prophet, John the Baptist, appeared in answer to prayer and restored the Aaronic Priesthood. It was but a short time following this that the personal associates of the Master himself, Peter, James and John, appeared and restored the Melchizedek priesthood. It was on March 27, 1836, that the Kirtland Temple was dedicated, and a week later, on April 3, when those great experiences recorded in Section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants occurred, when the Savior himself, together with Moses, Elias and Elijah, appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associate, Oliver Cowdery, and left their particular authority and blessings. 

On March 17, 1842, the great woman's organization of the Church came into being. It was at this time that the Prophet of this dispensation turned the key for women in all the world. 

One hundred and six years ago today, April 6, 1830, under humble conditions in Western New York this Church was officially organized. Add to these more recent events the birth of our Savior and his resurrection some nineteen hundred years ago and we have a collection of significant anniversaries associated with this season of the year that are most challenging, thought provoking, and fundamental. 

As missionaries in the world, our responsibility is largely one of teaching the significance of these events, for therein is contained the message and authority of the Gospel. The missionaries of the North Central States mission are attempting to do this. They have the testimony, the energy and desire to do it well. We are proud of them and of their parents, priesthood quorums, and others who sustain them. 

Our reports for 1935 indicate an improvement in every item upon which reports are made. The spirit which permeates all this work is difficult to read into the reports but we feel it, rejoice in it, and know that it is of a divine source. Literally thousands of people have heard the Gospel message. Friends are being raised up, and many are seeking us out on their own initiative. The lump is gradually being leavened. The missionaries of our mission are indeed proud to be entrusted with responsibilities in connection with this mighty work. 

The Saints, as members of the mission, are also increasing in devotion and energy. They are growing in power to live and appreciate the Gospel. Their activities have increased and broadened. They, with you, are trying to be worthy of this Church and its blessings. 

We have discovered that the truth, in being taught, must be reflected through the teacher. We must teach the Gospel in terms of every day life and in the language of the people. If this were not true the mere distribution of our literature would be sufficient. Testimony, with the warmth of soul that comes from one who lives the truth, is a mighty force. The missionaries never cease to attract attention because of their clean, wholesome, radiant lives. The truths of the Gospel shine through them and their experiences. Perhaps a personal incident will illustrate this: 

Upon one occasion I was bearing my testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel. The man to whom I spoke said, "I don't believe a word of it." I asked him if he had ever experienced the effect of an anaesthetic. 

"Yes," he replied and then described his feelings to me. At the conclusion of his description I gave back to him his own answer to my testimony by saying, "I don't believe a word of it." This rather startled him but at the same time presented the point of view that each of us was speaking out of our own personal experience. Since I had had no anaesthetic experience I could not appreciate and understand his, and was perhaps just as much justified in denouncing it as he was in refusing to give credence to my testimony which had arisen out of my personal experiences, the likeness of which he had never felt. The incident led to an open door and an invitation to discuss at some length the principles of religion. 

The past winter in our section of the country has been the most severe in history. Under such conditions we have found it necessary to develop new and varied ways of doing our work. We have been forced to substitute a variety of methods for those usually employed. The missionaries have been equal to the emergency, however, and have made real contributions to the service even under these trying conditions. 

The headquarters of our mission is located in Minneapolis, a Christian community with many churches and many wonderful people. Many of these people being of Scandinavian descent, we feel that there is much of the blood of. Israel there which should respond to the Gospel. We have been interested in several very distinctive contributions to Christian conduct and leadership that come out of our community life. You may be interested to know that a large retail store which' employs some three thousand workers will not advertise in a Sunday newspaper, nor illuminate its windows on Sunday to display its wares; nor require labor of its workmen except in the very minimum service of guarding and protecting the property. A popular newspaper with a circulation of more than 115,000 copies daily refuses to carry any kind of advertising which relates to liquor or strong drink. The thing that has interested us in these cases is the fact that the public in the main admire the practices referred to and reward them with a good business and a growing sentiment of approval. 

We are grateful for the visit of Elder George Albert Smith in our mission since it was my privilege last to report. He left his faith, love and testimony there in full measure. He did us much good as he mingled with the missionaries and the local members of the Church. Many friends came to our meetings to hear him and went away rejoicing in their privilege and opportunity. 

We are looking forward to another visit from the General Authorities of the Church this season. 

It is a joy to bring to you parents the love and greetings of your missionaries. It is in like manner a privileged opportunity to bring a pledge of loyalty, support, and allegiance to President Grant and the General Authorities of the Church who have sent us out into the service. 

We of the North Central States mission are grateful for your confidence and trust. We desire most earnestly that the Lord will assist us to the extent that we may properly honor and respond to it, and that our work and responsibility may be met with, "an eye single to the glory of God." Personally I am very grateful for the Gospel, my heritage, and my family, and the missionaries with their cooperation and service in this work of the Lord. 

In all sincerity and humility I desire to add my testimony to those borne before me in this conference and I do it in the name of Jesus our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am grateful, beyond my power to say, for the privilege of laboring in the ministry of God, associating myself with fine young men and women who are doing their utmost to deliver the message that has been vouchsafed to them. 

I believe that one of the delightful things of mission life is to see the development and growth that takes place in the minds and hearts of these young men and women. They appreciate beyond measure the help they are receiving from their parents and their friends in maintaining them during their stay in the mission fields. They are meeting with success and are enjoying at the present time health and strength, for which we are very thankful. We have eighty-four missionaries, — sixty elders and twenty-four young women. We have some from the Central States mission, some from California, some from Arizona, some from Alberta, and the rest are from Utah and from Idaho. 

I believe that the greatest way in which to present this message of truth is through the power of example. I should like to take this opportunity of saying just exactly what it means to live upright and good lives. You and I very frequently are invited to banquets and balls, not only in the regularly organized stakes of Zion, but also in the mission fields. About six weeks ago arrangements were made by one of our very fine young women to hold one of these banquets and balls, and in making the arrangements with the hotel management in whose hotel this affair was to be held, she said, "It will not be necessary for you to serve tea or coffee. The one hundred and sixty-five young men and women who will gather here tonight do not drink tea or coffee." It was then suggested that he arrange the card tables and cigarette trays in one of the adjacent rooms so that at intervals these young people could go in and spend a little time in recreation, — that kind of recreation. This fine, upstanding young woman said, "These hundred and sixty-five young men and women do not smoke cigarettes nor do they play cards, nor do they drink wine or liquor or beer; so it will not be necessary to make preparations along this line. However," she said, "It might be well for you to order one hundred and sixty-five bottles of milk" — which was done. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 95 

The power of example — I am beginning to feel that the strength of this mighty Church is certainly based upon the power of example. 

I clipped out of one of our magazines the other day this fine, brief statement written not so long ago by our beloved President Grant; in its brevity there is such a volume of truth so fine and splendid that I believe it would be good in referring to it to read it. "Let us get faith as a people. Let us so order our lives that we are entitled to an increase of that faith. I am thankful that I know of no man or woman who ever joined this church and attended his or her sacrament meetings, partaking of the sacrament in remembrance of the suffering of our Savior and his death, who was honest in the payment of his or her tithing, who divided with the Lord as perfectly as he would ask the Lord to divide with him if he were making up an account, who has kept the Word of Wisdom, I have never known such a person to lose his or her faith." I believe that the fundamentals of this great Church are based upon those very principles. In order for you and me to carry that power with us in our ministry it seems to me that we must comply with these fundamentals of truth. In order to understand perfectly this work it is necessary that we be clean in habit and in thought, to have the light of truth we must live the truth. 

I am glad to report to you that so far as my knowledge is concerned, these young men and women are preaching this Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ by the power of example, which I am convinced is the way in which the Spirit of God can operate upon their minds and upon their hearts so that people will naturally gravitate to them because of the quality of truth that they are carrying in their example. 

Recently it was said by Brother Stephen L. Richards, "No man can be respectful of Deity and have in his heart an improper attitude towards the creations of Deity. The man who properly understands his relationship to God and the endowments which he has received from the Creator will be filled with reverence and thanksgiving." How true is this philosophy! 

We are told, my dear brethren and sisters, that the power of truth in its highest, purest and most exalted phases stands squarely upon four basic lines of thought : First, the love for truth; secondly, the search for truth; thirdly, faith in truth; and fourthly, the work for truth. 

Here is a combination of facts that brings you and me, when we study these truths, into transforming fellowship with God, our eternal Father. They provide for finer interpretations upon the different phases of this great latter-day work. It is said, "The path of truth, higher living, truer development in every phase of life, is never shut from the individual until he closes it himself. Let man feel this, believe it, and make this fact a real and living factor in his life and there are no limits to his progress. He has but to live his best at all times and rest calm and untroubled no matter what results come from his efforts. 

"No rule for higher living will help a man in the slightest till he reach out and appropriate it for himself, until 'he make it practical in his daily life. The man who is seeking ever to do his best is the man who is keen, active, wide awake, and aggressive." 

As long as you and I are ever striving to do our best in living the great truths of the Gospel we are entitled always to the light of truth. 

In conclusion I wish to leave with you my humble testimony concerning the divinity of this work. I know that God lives. I know that Joseph Smith was the instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the saving graces of the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. I pray that He will keep us firm and steadfast in the faith, and that our power of example will be beyond reproach, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An anthem, "Nazareth," (Gounod), was sung by the Choir (The Relief Society Singing Mothers). 

Elder Joseph Anderson, the Clerk of the Conference, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

THIRD DAY 


