13
Afternoon
05 10 1912 
Elder Reed Smoot.
39
50-54

None

None

Great influence of music in religious and secular affairs. — Remarkable effects of the hymn, "O, My Father." — Advice to shun all get-rich-quick propositions. — Smokers, drinkers, and immoral men unfit for responsible positions.  
  
In a revelation given through the Prophet. Joseph Smith in July, 1830, the Lord, in speaking to Joseph's wife, Emma, said: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."  
  
I could not help but think of this part of the revelation in listening to the beautiful hymns that have been sung during this conference. I believe that we can worship in song as acceptably to Him as in any other way. In reading the history of the world we find that music has been conspicuous, in all ages and among all nations. There are but few religious denominations that do not avail themselves of the sweet influence of music. It is not only a custom to worship God by singing His praises in song, but we find the power of music manifest in almost all the great affairs in life. It is made use of to encourage and inspire men in battle. It is depended upon on occasions when there is necessity for inspiring in the hearts of men enthusiasm or loyalty. The history of nations is, in part, told in song. I know of no people on earth who have written into their songs the principles of the gospel they believe in more than have the Latter-day Saints. It is true there are many beautiful hymns written by men that all Christians love to sing, and we sing them in devotion to our Maker. We often sing the hymn composed by Charles Wesley entitled, "Jesus Lover of My Soul." It is said that Charles Wesley was inspired to write this greatest of his hymns by a bird, frightened by a thunder storm, flying into his room, preferring to risk its life indoors with him than outside where the elements were disturbed. As it sat quivering on his mantel, frightened nearly to death, Wesley was inspired to write that hymn. Henry Ward Beecher, speaking at his father's funeral, referred to the hymn that had been composed by Charles Wesley, "Jesus Lover of My Soul," and made the statement that he would rather have been the author of that song than to have the wealth of the greatest millionaire, for in it was inspiration, in it was power. While wealth would perish and its possessor be forgotten, the memory of Wesley would live for ages to come, because the words of the song would be perpetuated. The opening hymn of this conference,  
  
"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear,  
 
But with joy wend your way.  
 
Though hard to you this journey may appear,  
  
Grace shall be as your day,"  
  
is filled with inspiration. Brother William Clayton, the author of this song, was inspired to write it, at a time when the people were crossing the plains, careworn, disheartened and in need of encouragement. President Young realized their condition and knew that music would inspire them to renewed energy. He therefore asked William Clayton to write a hymn suitable to the conditions, and the result was the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." It was inspired by God, and it has been an inspiration to God's people ever since.  
  
I believe that Sister Snow, when she composed that immortalized song, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest in the high and glorious place," was inspired of God the Eternal Father. The idea that we had a Mother, as well as a Father, in Heaven was first taught in this dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister Snow was convinced that he was right in so teaching, and embodied that principle of the Gospel in the song. I believe that hymn, "O My Father," has been the means of causing thousands of the people of the world to investigate "Mormonism." When I heard our choir sing it in the Capital of this nation I noticed many a wet eye. It seemd to me that it had the effect of a testimony to the people present; it certainly was listened to in song more intently than it would have been by word of mouth.  
  
The closing song of the first day's session of this conference, the hymn that President Woodruff loved so well,  
  
"God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform,  
 
He plants his footsteps in the sea And rides upon the storm,"  
  
will live forever. It is said that Cowper, the author, was inspired to write it after he had made up his mind that life was not worth living. The story is that he called a London cabby and asked him to drive to London Bridge, with the avowed purpose of throwing himself in the Thames river and ending his life. It is reported that the cabby, driving around the city, landed at last before the door of the house where he took the poet from. Cowper got out of the cab and went to the room which he had left a short time before for the purpose of ending his life. While contemplating the circumstance, the inspiration came to him and he wrote the song, "God moves in a mysterious way."  
  
There is one thing known to the people of all countries, whether they approve of our religion or not, that is the remarkable musical ability of the "Mormon" people. People, in general, appreciate the songs our missionaries sing, and the spirit with which they are sung. I have met many men in my travels, and in conversation some have said, "Yes, I remember hearing your elders sing upon the street corners of England, or in America, or in some other place as the case might be. In some cases Elders had visited a gentleman's home and had sung our gospel hymns. They pleased him, and impressed him with the thought that our songs carried with them the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am always proud, and it gives me joy to be able to testify to the world that the "Mormon" people as a whole are lovers of music, and that we have talented students in many of the musical academies of the world.  
  
In connection with the brethren, I have rejoiced exceedingly in the proceedings of this conference. There is one subject, my brethren and sisters, that I wish to call your attention to today. Perhaps some will think that it is out of place at a general conference, but I don't believe that it is. I speak of it now as this may be the only chance I will have. I notice in a report made by our government, through the post office department, that there was over $120,000,000 lost to the American people last year, through frauds carried on through the mails, by persons and companies formed for the purpose of fleecing the people of the United States. I want to say that I was sorry to find that tens of thousands of dollars of this vast amount had been secured from the people of this state. I want to advise the people attending this conference, and all the people of Utah, that whenever circular letters come to you, from unknown companies, with a promise that you can be made rich quick, such letters and promises should be given the most thorough investigation, for nine hundred and ninety-nine times out of one thousand they are frauds. I have received letters from all parts of this state, from men whom I was dumbfounded to learn had been influenced by unreasonable propositions, and invested in them. I call to mind a real estate firm, whose land was supposed to be near the city of Washington, D. C, selling building lots with a promise of enormous profits, and upon investigation as to the location of its land, I found that it was many miles from Washington. One might just as well put his money in a sand hill in the desert as to buy the lands which were described in the firm's circulars. Many, no doubt, receive circulars from all over the United States asking you to subscribe for stock in companies whose future success depends upon some patent, or supposed patent, that may be issued to some individual, which, if investigated, would probably be found worthless. I say to the good people of Utah that there are plenty of opportunities for good investments in this state, and it is far better to invest in them than to send your hard earned money abroad, and virtually give it to a lot of crooks who are living on their wits, and robbing the people of the United States.  
  
I rejoice in the fact that there is a compensation in living the laws of God, not for the world to come only, but in this life, and the world will sooner or later acknowledge it. Business men are beginning to understand it, especially men who require the full strength and faculties of their employees. Responsible positions require not only physical, but intellectual strength, and many employers are demanding that neither be impaired by the use of liquor or tobacco. Managers in the American baseball league will not select a player who has acquired the habit of liquor drinking. Every player is closely examined as to his moral habits. I have heard it stated that Walter Johnson, the swiftest and best pitcher in the American League, can always be depended upon as he is free from all bad habits. The mountain air of Idaho gave him a splendid constitution, and it has not been destroyed by the use of liquor; he lives a clean life. The managers of the great railroads are not employing men who drink and smoke. They have learned through experience that the engineers, who have in their hands the lives of millions of people, cannot be trusted with that great responsibility if they dull their intellect by the use of tobacco or liquor. This is going to be the rule not only with the great railroads, but with many of the great business concerns requiring men of ability in responsible positions. I could not help but think of similar cases when Brother Wells was speaking of the boy who could not refuse to drink with his companions, and did not have the moral strength to withstand temptation. I never lost a thing in this world, not even the respect of a single person that I know of, by refusing to smoke or drink upon any occasion; and I know that I have won the respect and confidence of thousands by refusing to do so, and by living up to what I profess. I don't care where tobacco or liquors are offered or served, whether it be at a dinner, or a gathering of any kind, they have been no temptation to me. The oftener you refuse the easier it is to do so. My Father in heaven has given me strength to do so. My mother taught me in my young days the evils that would follow any man who did not have the strength to resist temptation. When I was eighteen years of age I was manager of the Provo Co-operative Institution and I was thrown in the company of all classes of men. During that time I visited nearly every state in the Union on business, and I testify to you that I never lost one thing by refusing to drink, smoke, or to follow those inclined to evil habits. On the contrary I won their respect, and I have heard them so testify. So I say again, we are compensated in this life for obeying the temporal laws of God.  
  
I want to add my testimony that this is the work of God, and I know that He doth live, and that Jesus is the Christ. I have confidence in the predictions of the prophets of God; I know that this is His Church and that it will do all that He intends it to accomplish; and that we may be successful, and be loyal to it as long as we live, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
