19
Overflow
06 10 1912 
Elder Ben E. Rich. 
54
82-84

None

None

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I realize that the time is growing short, and there is another speaker to follow me, hence the necessity of being as brief as possible in the remarks that I may make.  
  
In this congregation, I see a number of young men who have labored under my direction as missionaries during the past fourteen and a half years, and I have received the consent of Brother Joseph F. Smith, Jr., who presides over this meeting, to call here to my side, if they are present in the congregation, Elders W. A. Casper and Ray Gardner. If those two young men are here I desire them to come forward at once, and stand by my side for a few moments. I want to introduce to you these two young men, and make a few remarks. (A young man came forward and stood beside the speaker.) This is Elder Ray Gardner; I suppose that Elder Casper is in the Tabernacle.  
  
These two young men that I have named have been very faithful missionaries, in the Eastern States Mission. From time to time we transferred them from one conference to another, and quite usually we allowed them to walk to their new fields of labor. A little over six months ago these two young men were transferred from the conference in which they were then laboring, in West Virginia, and were instructed to travel to Salt Lake City without purse or scrip, and to report to me at this conference. Six months ago yesterday, they took their grips, and set their faces toward the setting sun, and traveled toward Zion. They reached here yesterday. They made the journey on foot. They have made their reports to the Eastern States mission, like other missionaries do, once a week. They have preached the gospel, and sought food and shelter while on their way, and during that six months traveling, without purse or scrip, ordering their literature from the mission headquarters, in New York City, they have slept out, or failed to receive entertainment only four nights. They have had occasion to spend less money in their travel homeward than they have done in any other portion of their missionary experience. Their missionary trail carried them to Kirtland, Ohio, to Nauvoo, and through other places where our fathers and mothers dwelt. They sought entertainment at the place where the Prophet and Patriarch were murdered; and in all of those places they met with a hearty welcome. During these six months they have been energetic in preaching the gospel in the open air, and at the firesides of the people. They have been treated well. Of the thousands of missionaries that it has been my privilege to give an honorable release to, it is the first time that I have had the privilege of honorably releasing Elder's while here at a general conference. These young men are willing to take their grips and go back again, and report once more in their former field of labor. I thought I would like you brethren and sisters to see a living evidence of the simple energy, the faithfulness, the enthusiasm that dwells, generally, in the heart of a missionary. The missionaries are willing, any of them, to do as these young men have done. Sometimes I have thought that if more of them were directed to travel homeward, as these two young men have done, it would help to scatter the seeds of the gospel, and create even more energy in the hearts of the young men of Zion, and thus more might be accomplished in spreading a knowledge of the gospel that has done so much for us.  
  
In listening to the words of President Robinson, I was reminded of the gospel sermons that were given in the missionary field, and that were common in the early days of this Church, when the Elders in the Church opened the scriptures and spoke of this great latter-day work as simply being the fulfillment of what God has declared through the mouths of His servants who have lived in different dispensations of this world's history. I was specially interested from the fact that, in the missionary labors of Brother Robinson, I have learned to love him for his integrity, for the great work that he is accomplishing in the missionary field, and for the good that I myself have witnessed he has done among great and prominent men with whom he has labored. I have heard him preach when the Spirit of God has thrilled my system, and every fiber felt the testimony that God is with Elder Robinson when he bears witness to the work that God Almighty is doing in the day and age in which we live.  
  
It has been my privilege, recently, to have a remarkable experience, one that I have often dreamed might come to me, but it has always appeared to me to be among the impossibilities. Within the last three months, I have had the privilege of visiting my old field of labor, where I labored in the midland counties of England as a boy missionary, places where I was mobbed. I have had the chance of holding open air meetings, and speaking to thousands, not only in open air meetings but in hall meetings. I have had the privilege, recently also, of speaking in the open air upon the soil from which my grandmother came. I have stood in Dublin, Ireland, with a minister forty feet away holding an anti-" Mormon" meeting, and felt to rejoice that the Spirit of God moved upon the parents of Nancy O'Neil, and brought them to this land, where she became acquainted with the principles of the gospel. One of the individuals at that meeting, filled with rage, shook his fist in my face and said I had no right there. I asked the crowd to show me the color of an Irishman's hair who would say that a grandson of Nancy O'Neil had no right to speak upon the old sod. One fellow yelled out, and said: "Let him alone, he has got a good Irish tongue in his head;" and I made friends. I felt the spirit of my old missionary days as I spoke in the streets of Glasgow, Scotland, and in London, and as I continued my journey down through France, and met with the Saints of the Swiss and German Mission. I felt there, although they could not understand me, only by means of an interpreter, that the Spirit of God burned in the breasts of all nationalities when they are baptized into our faith, serving one Lord, receiving one baptism.  
  
It was my privilege to visit Rome, and as I stood in the ruins of the Coliseum, I remembered the history of the faithful former-day Saints who, refusing to deny the faith, stood there in the arena where the Romans opened the cages of the wild beasts that had purposely been starved for several days, and turned them loose upon those Christians who would not deny the faith. As I looked upon the ruins of that ancient city, I could perceive that the wrath of God had been poured forth upon that nation who had caused His saints to suffer so much, and who had, under their laws, crucified the Redeemer of mankind. I wondered if the blood of the proud Romans could be found now in the places where, so few centuries ago, it was said "To be a Roman is greater than to be a king." You have to search today among the lowest of "dagos" to find the blood of the proud Roman. I felt in my heart that it is not a prosperous thing to disobey or to fight against God Almighty. I went farther south, and walked for hours through the streets of the City of Pompeii that, on account of wickedness, had been covered up by a terrible catastrophe, 79 years after Christ. But two-thirds of it is yet excavated. When I looked at the beautiful streets, and saw the grooves that had been worn in the rocks by the wheels of the vehicles, and looked upon the beautiful pictures upon the walls, and noted the wonderful manner in which the colors had been preserved, then again I thought, here is another city that has suffered the wrath of God.  
  
When I listened to the words of President Robinson, concerning the trials and tribulations that the mothers and children, and men have passed through in Mexico, and thought of the trials of our fathers and mothers in coming here, I wondered in my soul if there was one person in this congregation that would not be willing to do anything, suffer anything, to perpetuate the faith of these great men and women, who were our fathers and mothers, and who brought us here to this goodly land.  
  
I pray God Almighty to bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
