21
Overflow
06 10 1912 
Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 
37
87-88

None

Prophecies fulfilled in Saints locating in the Rocky Mountain region.  
  
I trust that our brethren and sisters will bear with us for just a moment longer.  
  
I have been pleased with the testimonies of the brethren. I desire to add one quotation in connection with that which was given by Brother Robinson, concerning the gathering of the Latter-day Saints in these valleys of the Rocky Mountains. The Lord says:  
  
"Wherefore, be not deceived, but continue in steadfastness, looking forth for the heavens to be shaken, and the earth to tremble and to reel to and fro as a drunken man, for the valleys to be exalted, and for the mountains to be made low, and for the rough places to become smooth; and all this when the angel shall sound his trump. But before the great day of the Lord shall come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose Zion shall flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed."  
  
In my travels among the people, I have seen, in part at least, the fulfillment of the words of the Lord. I have seen where the water has been increased, where the deserts have been made to blossom; pools of water have sprung forth, and barren places had become fruitful fields. This has been through the activity and industry of the Latter-day Saints and the blessings of the Lord which have attended them. I feel that we should honor the Lord, and sing praises unto him, be true and faithful to our covenants, honor the priesthood, love the Lord our God. and seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, giving him all the honor the praise and the glory for the blessings he has poured out upon us as Latter-day Saints; for they are many, and will be continued, as we know, from day to day if we are faithful. The Lord will bless us abundantly, granting us all things we need, and in His own due time rightousness shall prevail upon the earth, truth spread among the people, wickedness shall not be found,and the righteous shall inherit the earth. May we go home from the Conference with renewed energy and determination to serve the Lord, which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 