23
Second Overflow
06 10 1912 
Elder Charles A. Callis. 
3
92-94

None

None

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

Many times when we are preaching in the mission fields, well meaning and good people say: "Why do you 'Mormons' give a place to Joseph Smith as one of the Prophets of God?" And we answer, we do not do that; God gave Joseph Smith his place, and he is just as indispensable as an instrument in the hands of God to execute the purposes of the Almighty as Adam, Moses, Abraham, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Peter or Paul. You know, the very first words that the Angel Moroni said to Joseph Smith were these, "God has a work for you to do;" and in that work we are associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with him, as the Apostle Paul declares, we are "fellow workers with the Lord." What a glorious comfort, what a splendid privilege! A historian declared that "unless something new is born in America with power to save, that America will differ but little from the other parts of Christendom." That something new has been born; the gospel, which is new to this dispensation, but which is the ancient everlasting gospel, hath been restored, and it is the "power of God unto salvation" to every man and woman.  
  
A great preacher was asked the other day these questions: "Do you believe that God is a personal being? Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ?" And the great preacher declared that if he should answer "yes" to these questions that his answer might be taken in a dozen different ways. Has it come to that, that the people have been spoiled by vain philosophy, that a preacher cannot answer in the words of Peter, "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God"? Joseph Smith received that glorious vision, in which were shown to him the Father and the Son, whom to know is life eternal, the greatest gift that God can give to man. And it was his work, the work of that prophet, to declare the great truth to the world, that men were made in the image of God, and they are His children. This same preacher declared that the belief that "there is no hope beyond the grave" is a mistake, that he believed in it, that there is hope beyond the grave. Since when did this people that sit in darkness see a great light? Why, since in that stand in Kirtland, the Prophet Elijah, in fulfillment of prophecy, appeared to Joseph Smith and conferred upon him the Priesthood and the power to administer ordinances to save the souls of those who have separated from the body and gone into the world beyond. This meant, you know, that there is hope beyond the grave; but that is as far as that minister can go. Where is the power to put this belief into practice?  
  
Items of truth there are in every creed, but Joseph Smith came with the bow that shot the apple to its core. He came with the power, with the Priesthood, with the means. God had made and designed in the heavens, by which the dead could be saved, and through which they with us can be made perfect in the kingdom of our Father. And so God revealed to his prophets that, in the temples of God, sacred ordinances could be performed which would save our dead, and in which holy places we could be united to our loved ones for time and all eternity. This is the distinction, apparent to me, of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He came not only to tell the truth, to announce God's word, but he came with the power, with the authority to put it into effect, and to give inspiration to all the commandments of God.  
  
One of the happiest moments I ever spent in my life, one of the greatest privileges I ever had, was to sit in that big Tabernacle and hear the Prophet of God announce that it was deemed advisable to build another temple. I say when he announced that, and asked for the vote of the Priesthood of the Church to sustain him and the Church authorities in that undertaking, and in that splendid work, I say it was one of the happiest moments of my life to raise my hand to sustain the Prophet and his brethren in the accomplishment of that splendid work. Let the world say what it may of Joseph Smith, he was a Prophet of God.  
  
"He gazed on the past, the present too, And opened the heavenly worlds to view."  
  
He came as God's ambassador. He did this work well, and in that work God grant that you and I may ever be with him, and with our leaders be blessed thereby. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
