25
Second Overflow
06 10 1912
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
98-99

None

None

(President of Central States Mission.)  
  
I realize that our time is pretty well spent, so I shall be brief in my remarks.  
  
One thought expressed by Brother David H. Cannon has impressed me very much. There will not be many years pass until such men as Brother Cannon will not be upon this earth among us. He has lived about seventy-five years, and as a boy he knew the Prophet Joseph Smith. Such a testimony as this will not be given many more years by persons who knew Joseph Smith, for it will not be long until all those brethren and sisters who are among us now shall no longer be with us, and we shall have to take the words of men who have listened to them. I never saw the Prophet Joseph Smith, but I believe, my brethren and sisters, with all my heart, in fact I know, that there was a Prophet by the name of Joseph Smith who lived in this day and dispensation, and I know that the same testimony that I have, which was given to me by the Holy Spirit, I might say was inherited by me, undoubtedly will be obtained by millions in this world. I believe that same testimony shall be declared to every nation in all the world, until all shall have a chance to receive or reject the testimony of Jesus.  
  
The Savior said that the gospel should be preached unto every creature under heaven. I believe that He meant just exactly what He said, and that men or women, whether in the flesh or out of the flesh, in this world or out of it, before they shall be judged and called to give an account of the deeds done in the body, that this gospel, the law of liberty, the principles which govern and control men upon the earth or anywhere, shall be made manifest unto them. The Lord shall never pass judgment upon a man until he shall be given an opportunity to fully understand the gospel of the Redeemer of the world, and unto this end the gospel shall be proclaimed unto men that they may become partakers of its blessings. Men may be led to investigate the gospel, through the influence of an elder traveling in their midst; or by some other agency. Individuals may hear a "Mormon" Elder preach, and receive some of the literature that we are delivering from day to day, by the thousands of pages. Every man and woman may not have the opportunity to hear, in the flesh, the testimony of men, but they have the privilege of reading the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. I believe that this message will be carried to the sons and daughters of men in many ways; they shall be warned through their neighbors, and when one is warned he shall in turn warn his neighbor, Joseph Smith received divine light, divine principles of truth and of justice, and these shall enter into the hearts of men and the truth shall make them free. Men who preach perverse doctrine shall be driven from the pulpit, and stand on common grounds with others; they shall have to abide the truth, confess that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living Lord. The work called "Mormonism" is true, and these principles of truth, revealed just as we have them today, shall make free all men and women who obey them, and shall release captives from the captivity of death. Men shall come to an understanding that the work of God, the Eternal Father, is everlasting, and that it shall never cease until every son and daughter of His shall have the privilege of saying, "Yes, I will serve Thee," or "I will not serve Thee." All men and women have free agency, and the power of intelligence, and they may know for themselves what they are doing. The Lord shall never take "snap judgment" upon His, sons and daughters, for He loves them. The testimony that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet, that the work called "Mormonism" is true, shall continue to go into the world until the sons and daughters of men shall yield obedience, or shall say, "We do not desire to obey."  
  
I pray God to bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the people who come to conference and those that do not, that you may be able to send your sons and daughters into the mission field, not only for the testimony that they shall bear but for the good that it shall do them. That this work may grow, and that this people residing in the valleys of the mountains, who have been led here by the hand of the living God, shall be the power which shall take into the world the leaven which shall "leaven the whole lump," and bring joy, happiness and eternal life unto the sons and daughters of God who are yet in darkness, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen.  