26
Second Overflow
06 10 1912 
Elder Anthony W, Ivins. 
13
99-101

None

Signs of present times foretold by the Savior. — Endless progression result of obedience to Eternal laws. — Fundamental doctrines of United States Government divine and everlasting.  
  
The time has come, my brethren and sisters, when we are to adjourn this conference for another six months, to go to our homes and assume the responsibilities which devolve upon us in magnifying our calling in the Church, and performing the duties that devolve upon us as citizens of this Republic. I can think of no word of admonition or counsel that I could more profitably call your attention to before we dismiss than the words of the Savior which He spoke to His disciples just before His crucifixion. He was talking to them of the latter days. He was talking to them of us, who are assembled here this afternoon. He was talking of the time when He should come in the clouds of heaven to reign in power and dominion on the earth. And when they asked Him to give them a sign by which they might know that this period was near, He warned them, among other things, that those times would be perilous, that it would be a period when there would be wars and rumors of wars, when there would be confusion; but more than that, when many men would come in His name and would deceive many, when some would cry, Lo here, and others Lo there, false prophets would arise, and false . Christs, and their works would be so convincing that they would deceive, if possible, the very elect. He warned the people to stand fast to the doctrines which He had taught. And in emphasizing this, the Apostle Paul in his Epistle to the Ephesians warned them to be "not like children, moved hither and thither by every wind of doctrine" that blew, but to stand fast in the doctrines which had been taught to them.  
  
That doctrine, briefly stated, was faith in God, our Eternal Father. It was that Jesus Christ of whom they bore witness, was the Son of God; that he was God manifest in the flesh, that He was the Redeemer of the world, and had been crucified for the sins of the world; that He had been raised from the dead, being "the first fruits of the resurrection," and that in time, to come He should reign in power and dominion over this earth, and His kingdom become supreme. Christ Himself declared, and His disciples taught, that this gospel of the kingdom must of necessity first "be preached as a witness" unto the inhabitants of the earth before that time should come.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I do not need to enter into any argument to convince you that we are living in these very times. Go out on to the corners of these streets tonight, or if you were there last night, you would have heard doctrines of every shade and color, plans of redemption that probably would appeal to some, which promise great blessing to human kind. It is a day of confusion, a day of religious unbelief. It is a day when demagogues seek to lead you into strange paths in civil and political economy. All I have to say to you is that we believe in progression, we are a progressive people, and we believe that there will never be an end to it, that we shall continue, and must continue, in this life and in the life to come, to go forward, for water that stands still of necessity becomes stagnant; but as we progress this one fact we must recognize, that there is no progression from these fundamental principles of truth upon which this Church is builded. The "Law of Carnal Commandments" was completed, was done away with in the coming of Christ. It was no longer necessary to slay the male lamb without blemish and offer up living things as a sacrifice to God in similitude of the Only Begotten of the Father. But in doing away with that ordinance there was no change to that commandment of God which had been given to His children in the very beginning, that they should not lie, that they should not steal, that they should not commit adultery. These truths are eternal. These doctrines of morality last forever. They will always be in the Church. That doctrine which seeks to lead us away from it beware of, for God will have us do just as He did at that time. Jesus is the Redeemer of the world just as He was at that time. He is God made manifest in the flesh. He has opened this gospel dispensation. Joseph Smith, through His instrumentality, established this work. Authority came to the earth, through the message of John the Baptist and the disciples of Jesus Christ, to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. Those are the fundamentals; those are the essentials. Those are the truths upon which this Church is builded, and we never can progress away from them, because they will stand forever, just as they were in the beginning. I am wedded to them. My conscience is a captive to them. I know them to be true. I know them to be essential to the welfare of this congregation of Latter-day Saints. So I admonish you that you hold fast to them, let come what may.  
  
Just as I believe in these doctrines, so in my heart and soul I believe in the fundamental doctrines of civil government, which were given to us by the fathers of our country that before God men are created equal, that governments are instituted among men for their protection and happiness, and that all just governments must derive their powers from the consent of the governed. The government belongs to us; it is ours. Now there may be differences of opinion as to the best methods of administering it. We may not always adhere just to the policy of the fathers, because, as conditions change different policies are necessary. But these fundamental doctrines to which I refer are just as true to us, they are just as true as are the fundamental doctrines of the gospel, because they are eternal, and there can be no government except they are based upon these principles. If you will remember that, keep it in mind, and live close to those divine doctrines of civil government, the Latter-day Saints will be the men and women that God wants us to be.  
  
I am reminded of the words of J. G. Holland, who spoke them a long time ago, but it seems to me there never was a time when they were more applicable:  
  
"God give us men. A time like this requires great minds,  
  
Strong hearts, true faith, and ready hands;  
  
Men whom the lust of office does not kill;  
  
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;  
  
Men who are honest, men who will not lie;  
  
Men who can stand before a demagogue, And damn his flattering treachery  
  
without winking;  
 
Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog;  
  
In public duty and in private thinking,  
 
For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds,  
 
Their large pretensions and their little deeds  
  
Mingle in selfish strife, lo! Freedom weeps,  
  
Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice sleeps."  
  
If we will adhere to these principles, my brethren and sisters, to which I have referred, every man and woman in the Church will be that kind of man and woman. That is what the gospel has done for us, that is what every one needs, and must have, that shall ever be redeemed and saved from the perils which are impending — that kind of men and women.  
  
The Lord help us to be faithful, keep us in the truth, lead us back, eventually, into His presence, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 
