27
Outdoor
06 10 1912 
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
102-103

None

None

(Supt. Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren and Sisters, we are very gratified and pleased to welcome such a large number to our open-air meeting, and we trust that you will give the same attention and observe the same order that is expected to prevail in the Tabernacle.  
  
We regret very much that our buildings are not large enough, but I venture to say that when the Tabernacle was built, those who planned it did not realize that the time would come when it would not accommodate the people. Today, however, we need several such Tabernacles at conference time as the one that is now crowded to its utmost capacity. I surmise that in the Tabernacle now, standing and seated, there must be nearly 11,000 people. Our Assembly Hall is filled to overflowing, and still the people are coming.  
  
It must be an impressive sight, it must be a matter for rejoicing among the Latter-day Saints that this condition prevails, and that each conference indicates the increased growth and development of the work of God. I believe that you all feel to rejoice over this fact. I do not know of anything that has given me more pleasure at this conference than to observe the evident growth of the Church. The decision at the General Priesthood Meeting, in response to the pleas of the people, that a Temple to the Most High God should be built in Canada, indicates how the people are craving for blessings, for the true path of life and salvation, and I trust that this spirit will continue to increase.  
  
Our Church members have been recognized as builders from the beginning. No sooner had the Church been organized than the men and women of the Church commenced to build upon that sure foundation. In Kirtland the Saints were builders. They endeavored to establish themselves there where a Holy Temple was built, and they helped to bring together the honest in heart, though few in number at that time, but they were willing to gather and help build up the Church of God. Subsequently the Saints went to Independence, Mo., and from thence to Nauvoo where, in a beautiful location on the Mississippi, they built up a new city.  
  
When driven from Nauvoo by mob violence, they crossed the plains and the Rockies, and no sooner had they arrived in these valleys than they commenced to work. They plowed the barren land, they planted seed, they built their houses, and commenced to erect school houses and churches throughout the land. And now our magnificent Temples here and in the north and south, indicate to all people that the Latter-day Saints are builders. They are workers, the Saints are glad to be thus engaged.  
  
There are those who come among us sometimes whose delight it is to attempt to tear down. You find them on the street corners, at times they come upon this block, they enter our Tabernacle and their sole purpose in life appears to be to destroy or ridicule the Word of God. Call them what you please, they are not worthy of the name "Joseph," for Joseph was the Founder of the Church and a true prophet of the Lord.  
  
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints may be judged by its fruits, and by their works may the people be judged. We hope to continue in this work until the admiration of the world is called forth by the earnest labors of the people.  
  
We welcome you again to this meeting. I have the honor to announce that brethren have been called to whom you will be pleased to listen. Elder Melvin J. Ballard, President of the North Western States Mission; Elder John L. Herrick, formerly of Ogden, an energetic worker and President of the Western States Mission; the President of Pioneer Stake, in this city, who has always been a valiant, true member of the Church, William McLachlan; also the ex-President of the Scandinavian Mission, and Assistant Historian, Andrew Jenson. I know you will be glad to hear them all and I bespeak for them your faith, your prayers, and your best attention.  
