29
Outdoor
06 10 1912 
Elder William M'Lachlan. 
80
109-111

None

None

(President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am here this afternoon in obedience to call, not with a desire to talk, for I feel incompetent and unable to do so. I want to tell you, after an experience of between fifty and sixty years in the Church, I enjoy a confidence and satisfaction in relation to the truth of this work that gives me a great deal of joy. Each year adds to my confidence in the truth of this work. The knowledge of it gradually grows upon the mind through obedience to God's law, and in obedience to the counsels and instructions of His servants that preside over us. I am glad to have the confidence of our people, my brethren and sisters, with whom I labor and associate from day to day, and from year to year. Ninety-two years ago our Savior, accompanied by His Father, came to earth, in compliance with the earnest prayer of Joseph Smith, then a boy of fourteen and a half years of age, in the Springtime of the year 1820. A true knowledge of God was not on the earth, and had been absent for generations in the past, but on that occasion, the commencement of this great and glorious work in which we are engaged was inaugurated, although the Church was not organized until ten years later. This was the commencement of a great and glorious work, that could not be established without a perfect knowledge of the true character of God, the Eternal Father, and of the Redeemer who made atonement for the children of men. Joseph Smith on that occasion asked the question, which one of all the religious sects was right. It had never dawned on his mind that they were all wrong. I will read from the Pearl of Great Price just one section in relation to the purpose for which he went to ask the Lord:  
  
"My object in going to inquire of the Lord, was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right (for at this time it had never entered into my heart that all were wrong), and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong, and the personage who addressed me said That all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt, They draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but thy deny the power thereof."  
  
Is it intolerant, is it uncharitable to declare to the people of the world the word of God, as it was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1820? I say no, but the opinion of the world is very different. When we go into a Christian community and tell them the experience of Joseph Smith in going into the woods to pray, and the announcement that the Son of God made to him when he asked the question which he should join, I know that you, my brethren and sisters, feel like I do, that it is not intolerence, that it is not uncharitable to tell the people the truth as it has been given to us in the day in which we live.  
  
I believe in being obedient to the word of the Lord. I believe in giving heed to the man who stands at the head of this Church today, who, if he sees danger ahead and fails to warn the people of it, comes under condemnation. But, when he warns the people, and gives them time to change their course, and turn away from the evil that is approaching, then if the people do not give heed to his word, they are under condemnation, and his skirts are clear. Some of the people of the world, many of our outside friends, say "You have no mind of your own; you are willing to be led by somebody else." Well, I want any man who thinks so to try me and see if he can lead me. I know what is good for me. I have the right to judge. I have my agency, and I intend to exercise it. I have found it profitable all through my life to give heed to that man who stands at the head, and, so far as God will give me help in the furture, I want to be found true to God, true to His work and to all the interests thereof, and to His people, men, women and children.  
  
I know that in "Mormonism" there is life eternal for every man and woman that will embrace it, and conform to it in their daily lives. Even boys and girls who have been properly taught in the homes, at the age of eight, when they are baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, are entitled to a testimony and knowledge of the truth of this work, just as much as I was at the age of 18 or 19 years, because they are innocent, pure and clean before God, far better than the great majority of men and women that enter into the Church through repentance and baptism. I contend that if the boys and girls are properly taught in the home they can have a knowledge of the truth of this work before their baptism; I have known boys less than eight years of age who have testified that they knew that this was the work of God.  
  
Brethren and sisters, let us try and reflect the truth in our lives, and live it in the home, that our sons and daughters may get the benefit of our example and teaching in their youth, and grow up full of faith, virtue, energy and power to serve the Lord and keep His commandments, and our Father will be delighted with our work.  
  
May God bless the people of the Latter-day Saints. I love men and women that are true. I respect them with all my soul, because of their integrity and devotion to this great and glorious truth that our Father in heaven has revealed. May His blessing and peace be upon the Latter-day Saints in all their dwelling places, in all their settlements and abiding places, that they may be true to God, our heavenly Father and His Son Jesus Christ. Amen. 