30
Outdoor
06 10 1912 
Elder Andrew Jenson. 
83
111-116

None

None

(Late President of Scandinavian Mission.) 

I have been away from this beautiful land for over three years and a half, and during that time I have sojourned in Europe, mostly in the Scandinavian countries. I have also, during my absence, visited Germany a number of times, made one visit to France, Holland and Belgium, and have gone as far north as Iceland, near the Arctic circle. In returning home, I had occasion to go over the Trans-Siberian railway, and I imagine that I and my traveling companion were the first Mormon Elders who ever traveled home from Europe that way. On my return trip I had the privilege of seeing Siberia, visiting part of China, passing through Japan and visiting also, for the second time in my life, the beautiful Hawaiian Islands.  
  
During my absence abroad I have tried my best to be diligent and faithful. I have endeavored to labor with those talents and that physical and mental strength which God has given me for the advancement of the work of the Lord, and, in doing so, together with my brethren, who have stood faithful by my side, we have seen good fruits of our labors in those northern countries, and it gives me great satisfaction to say that during the three and a half years that I labored there we added about thirteen hundred persons to the Church by baptism. During the same length of time we distributed about two and a half millions of books and tracts.  
  
To show what diligence can do, by the assistance of God, (who will always sustain those who will do His will and keep His commandments,) I may add that I traveled nearly one hundred thousand miles while on my late mission, and I delivered something like eleven hundred sermons or public addresses, including nearly one hundred illustrated lectures. We had considerible opposition in both Denmark and Norway, though there is religious liberty in the northern countries. Next to America and England, we think that in Scandinavia we have the most liberal insitutions and the greatest individual freedom; and when I say Scandinavia in this connection, I speak of Denmark, Sweden and Norway. The mission that I presided over, however, does not include Sweden at the present time, but only Denmark and Norway; hence, when I speak of the additions to the Church, as I have done, it means only Denmark and Norway. Sweden is not included.  
  
The opposition that we met with in those lands was mostly on the ground of our bearing testimony of new revelation. In our preaching we can not refrain from speaking plainly about the revelation of God, given in these the last days to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The people in Scandinavia are like the people in nearly all other parts of the so called Christian world: they will believe in old revelations, though they do not make effort to live according to them, but they will almost invariably reject new revelation. The moment we tell them that God has spoken in our day, they will harden their hearts and exclaim: "Say anything but that; preach about Christ and Him crucified, but don't mention Joseph Smith; don't mention the Book of Mormon; don't mention the fact that angels have visited the earth in this day, for we will not believe it." On that ground we have met most bitter opposition, and we have had to contend hard against many odds in order to make headway, and in trying to break down superstition and to counteract the many accusations and lies that have been circulated against us in these lands of the North. We have ever been subject to such opposition from the begining, and up to the present time.  
  
My brethren, and sisters and friends, I have a word to say on this occasion in regard to revelation. I have traveled and preached somewhat extensively in my life time, and if there is one thing that I like to speak about especially, it is the necessity of revelation. Here we stand under the great canopy of heaven, and in looking up toward the blue sky, we feel as though heaven was near above, that God is above and that He looks down upon us, and He is truly our God and our Father. He loves His children. It was said by the Prophet Isaiah, "Though a woman may forget her suckling child, yet God will not forget His people," addressing Himself to Zion, the chosen people in olden times, as well as in our own day. Now I am a strong believer in revelation from God. I feel that I cannot prosper or be safe without it. There is nothing in the world, in the shape of religion, that I can cleave to execpt that which comes from God.  
  
A few years ago I traveled considerably in the southeastern part of Utah and also through parts of New Mexico and Arizona. I passed through the canyons and defiles along the San Juan river and other mountain streams. I saw, high up on the cliffs, the remnants of the old cliff dwellers, and I saw many peculiar inscriptions on the walls. The question naturally arose, "Who made those figures on the walls? Who were the people that lived there in days gone by?" The voices of those who once inhabited those regions are no more to be heard among the children of men; but there is a God in heaven who has revealed something in regard to those people, and that is contained in the Book of Mormon. But the Book of Mormon does not do full justice to the history of those people. It does not tell all about them that we would like to know, hence, we want more revelation concerning them.  
  
I went down on the Tongan islands, some years ago, and in going through those islands, I discovered that the natives there knew something about the Law of Moses. In fact they kept the Law of Moses in their way; and the question naturally arose in my mind: How did those people learn anything about the Law given on Mount Sinai. The learned men of the world do not know anything about it, and there is no man upon the earth that can tell by the aid of mere human learning. The Rev. William West, who wrote a book entitled, "Twenty Years in Polynesia," could not solve the problem. He was at a loss to understand, and he says, "We must have some more intelligence before we can believe that these people are of Israelitish origin." But new revelation states in part who the Tongans are, and again, the Book of Mormon help us out; yet we want more revelation before we can fully understand who the Tongans, the Maoris, and kindred peoples are. We have an idea or a theory concerning them, and it is no doubt a correct one, to the effect, that they came from the land of America. But the full history of those people can only become known by new revelation.  
  
Years ago I visited the Great Pyramid of Egypt, that grand stone structure standing so bold and beautiful in the Valley of the Nile, and as I stood upon that great structure, looked clown upon the site of the ancient city of Memphis, and took in the view up and down the Nile valley, these thoughts came to me. "Who built these great pyramids? Who were the first people in this land?" The Pearl of Great Price tells us a little in regard to this matter, but not enough. We want more revelation before we can know who built the Great Pyramid of Egypt. Learned men may write books like the "Miracle in Stone," but it is not sufficient; God shall in His own due time open the heavens and tell us more about it. At present we are at sea, figuratively speaking.  
  
I sojourned for a short time in Jerusalem in 1896. I also went up on the Mount of Olives, journeyed up and down the River Jordan and the Dead Sea, visited the Sea of Galilee, and saw many of those places that are mentioned in the history of generations gone by. But what do we know about these places and the scenes enacted there? Very little. New revelation however can clear up the mystery, and to some extent it has done so; but we look for more revelation to come.  
  
I traveled further and came over to Italy. I went to Rome, that "Eternal City," where I visited the greatest church building in the whole world — the magnificent St. Peters. I saw many people worshiping in there, but their mode of worship did not please me. I thought I beheld more fanaticism there than real worship, and I believe that the people of Rome, the Roman Catholics, sincere as some of them may be, do not know how to worship God, nor how to pray to Jesus Christ in that great church in a way that is acceptable to our Heavenly Father. What do the people need? They want revelation. One word from God would be worth more to mankind than all the bishops and popes of Rome have said for the last sixteen hundred years.  
  
In passing through Siberia and Russia I noticed an unusual number of fine churches and chapels, and while the Saints in Utah deserve a great deal of praise for erecting four beautiful temples, a number of large tabernacles, and about seven hundred beautiful meeting houses or churches — and we certainly have done well in erecting so many houses of worship, and they are an honor to us — yet in passing through Russia, I found in the great cities of St. Petersburgh, and Moscow, thousands of fine church buildings erected for the worship of the Greek Catholics. In the city of Moscow alone there are nearly one thousand churches, including cathedrals, chapels, monasteries and smaller houses of worship; most of them are beautiful structures, with gilded spires and costly ornamentation, both inside and outside. Yet what are the people of Russia? What do they know about true worship? They only know what their priests have told them for many generations, and that which the Czar of Russia compels them to believe, or at least accept openly. One word from God, or a few sections such as those that have been read to us this afternoon, would be worth more than all the Patriarchs of Constantinople and all the Czars of Russia have said from the beginning down to the present time. We want revelation, the only thing that can make the people wise unto salvation, and tell them about the true worship of God.  
  
I visited the Parliament of Religions in Chicago, when the Tabernacle Choir first went there in 1893, and I saw and listened day after day to the learned theologians of the world. There was gathered on that occasion the cream of the whole earth, because that Parliament of Religions had invited, so to speak, all the learned men of the world to participate in its deliberations; every denomination, save the denomination known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was given access to that Parliament of Religions, and I think I can safely say that all who attended the meetings of that Parliament listened with the greatest interest to the reading of the many well prepared documents that were presented; but what were my feelings when I sat in the midst of that august body of learned men. "O! I thought, if God would only open the heavens and speak to those people five minutes, He would tell them more truths during those five minutes, and convey more intelligence leading toward the right worship of God, than all those learned men did in the three weeks' meetings held day after day at that great Chicago gathering.  
  
These are still my convictions, my brethren and sisters. I believe in revelation from on high. I firmly believe that in the acceptance of old and new revelations lies the only safety for us, the children of God; and I believe that God, our heavenly Father, is kind enough, and good enough, and loves us enough to answer our prayers and petitions, if we only seek Him in faith and sincerity. The Son of God said, "He that will do the will of my Father shall know whether the doctrine is of God, or whether I speak of myself." I want to bear this testimony to you, that in my travels abroad, and also in my associations with my brethren and sisters here at home, and particularly in associating with my brethren of the Priesthood, I have always been able to receive revelations from God.  
  
It has been said in this conference that every member of the Church is entitled to revelation. I want to testify to you, that I have repeatedly sought God in the woods and hills of Scandinavia, in the wilds of Asia and Africa, upon the high seas, and in many places when I have been far away from my brethren who were entitled to give me advice; and I have always received sufficient revelation in answer to my prayers to lead, guide and direct me in my movements, and I have never been led astray when I have sought God in the proper way. This is my testimony. Even in the midst of political revolutions I have always known where I stood. I have never had to take counsel direct from my brethren on political matters. There is a God in heaven who reveals His secrets to His servants the Prophets, and we are all Prophets in a certain sense, if we are under the influence of the Holy Ghost, so far as that is concerned; the most humble man or woman in the Church can get down upon his or her knees in prayer, and the heavens will be opened in such a way that we will understand the will of God. Our prayers will ascend to God, and, if we are sincere and honest in our supplication, we will receive an answer through the still small voice which will guide our footsteps through life, and which will cause us to do the right thing at the right time, and to take such steps as we shall not subsequently have occasion to regret.  
  
I pray God, our heavenly Father, to bless the Household of Faith, both at home and abroad. We have over in the Scandinavian countries about four thousand Latter-day Saints. I again speak of Denmark and Norway. Including Sweden we would have between six and seven thousand members of the Church. They are, as a rule, a good and devout people. We find already tens of thousands of the sons and daughters of the North in this land, right here in these mountain valleys; and though there was a time when some of us scarcely knew whether we should rejoice or weep because we were of Scandinavian origin, I thank God that that time is past, and all that Brother McLachlan (who is a Scotchman) can say is that he is an improved Scandinavian. (Laughter.) We have nearly all come from the northern countries, directly or indirectly; and when the God of heaven, among the many revelations that He in His mercy shall give unto us in the future, will reveal our genealogy, we will find some good reason why the Scandinavian, the American, the English and the German peoples amalgamate so beautifully, with scarcely any effort at all. We are all of Israel, and the history of our Church, so far, proves that when we preach the gospel to the different nations, kindreds, tongues and people, those people who are of Israel, or highly pregnated with the blood of Israel, embrace the gospel more willingly than those who are not. In fact, the preaching of the gospel in our day has been done, principally, up to the present, for the purpose of gathering Israel from the North, from the Islands of the Sea, and from all countries whence the chosen seed has been driven; for God remembers His promise to the Prophets of old: "He that scattered Israel shall gather them again."  
  
In conclusion I want to bring you a greeting of love and good will from your brethren and sisters in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, and I will here say that there are many good, honorable people in those countries. We have some noble and faithful sons of Utah over there now, and many who have labored there as missionaries in the past, putting forth their effort early and late to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to their countrymen, or in the lands where their parents first saw the light of day.  
  
May God bless you. May we always be the recipients of revelation to lead and guide us in all things, pertaining to our spiritual and temporal welfare, and may we always listen to the voice of the true Shepherd, and ultimately be saved in the Kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
