31
Outdoor
06 10 1912 
Elder John L. Herrick. 
53
116-117

None

None

(President of Western States Mission.) 

I will detain you but a very few minutes endeavoring to elucidate one thought, and I trust to have your assistance, your prayers, while I speak to you. This idea: The religions of the world, all Christian denominations, if they are not openly opposing "Mormonism," they are secretly doing so.  
  
"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him might not perish but have everlasting life. For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth in Him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the Only Begotten Son of the Father. And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the werld, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God."  
  
In the light of conditions as they exist today, it seems to me that these words of the Savior are pertinent to us and our conditions. I saw, a few days ago, a dispatch purporting to come from the Rev. Charles B. Mitchell, pastor of St. James Methodist Episcopal church; and this is what the minister said: "O God, send us another Bob Ingersoll to arouse the people. They sit in the pews with dull, dead indifference that breaks our hearts. It would be better if they threw bricks at us as they did at Wesley. But they don't even talk back. This is an age of doubt. We ministers need more than an apostolic succession. This scoffing, indifferent, and Godless age. The pendulum I believe will soon begin to swing back." Quite an admission, my friends, it seems to me, when a minister of a great church will admit that they need something more than apostolic succession in order to get to the people of the world the principles of Jesus Christ.  
  
You cannot appreciate it at home what it means to preach religion to those that do not want it, for they really do not want it. You cannot appreciate what it costs to bring souls into the Church of God. But I will undertake to say that in monetary cost each one that joins our Church through baptism, in the world, costs at least $1,000 to $1,500 in missionary work. Some of them are worth it, and much more, and others are not worth the breath that we spend to preach a fifteen-minute sermon to them. But we have to put up with all. We have to give our testimony to the world. We have to say to them that there is a living, guiding faith that will lead men to eternal life, give them a salvation in this world, if they will but obey it.  
  
I say to you, my friends, it is not only the Protestant churches today that oppose "Mormonism," but the great Mother Church, which has heretofore apparently kept her hands off, is now joining hands with Protestants, trying to come, some of them, to one common platform on which they all can stand. Stand against what? let me ask you. It is, stand against the Church of God; that is what. You will find that the Church of Jesus Christ won't be asked to join with them when they get their platform fixed up. You say, "Well, what can you do?" We can do nothing, but continue to preach the principles of faith in God, in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the ordinances that He taught while He was in the earth. This thing, however, we may bear in mind, my brethren and sisters: "Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and shall persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you."  
  
May God's blessing be with you, my brethren and sisters, and with all Israel. I testify to you that God's work is in the earth, and that He is seeking to redeem mankind through His gospel which He has established by divine revelation. And this light, this revelation, this living faith that is in the world today will redeem mankind, if they will listen unto its teachings and the voice of the servants of God. Amen. 
