32
Afternoon
06 10 1912 
Elder George Albert Smith. 
31
117-118

None

"Get the Spirit of God, and Keep It."— Testimony of the truth of latter-day revelations. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon, in the privilege that we enjoy of meeting in this sacred building, in conference assembled to receive the word of the Lord. I endorse, most heartily, the truths that have been taught from this pulpit during this conference, and I take to myself the admonition of our beloved president with reference to the conditions that maintain in our beloved country at the present time. I desire to repeat his admonition to us, that our Father is the source of inspiration in all things, both spiritual and temporal. We may petition the throne of grace in faith and our prayer will not be unanswered.  
  
In the language of a great prophet of Israel I would say to the Latter-day Saints, "Get the Spirit of God in your hearts and keep It; it will guide us into all truth; it will be a panacea for all our ills; it will enable us to look forward to the coming of the risen Redeemer confident that He shall come again in the clouds of heaven." Possessing that Spirit, our ambition will not be a selfish one. but with charity in our hearts for all mankind, love for all our Father's children, we will mingle with them day by day, and the influence we radiate will be one of love and kindness that will have its influence for good upon every child of our Father with whom we come in contact.  
  
May the Lord add His blessing; may His peace be upon all Israel. I desire to add my testimony to those already borne. I know that the Book of Mormon contains the word of God. and that it supplements the other sacred scriptures of Jewish Israel. I know that the Doctrine and Covenants is the word of the Lord to us in this day; and I know that the same Power that gave the instructions contained in those volumes still is supreme. He will continue to feed us the bread of life as we need it from time to time, if we will but live in accordance with the teachings we have already received. God grant that we may evidence our faith and devotion to the cause with which we are identified, by lives of purity and righteousness, doing good to all men, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
