33
Afternoon
06 10 1912 
Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 
32
118-119

None

Young people admonished to shun existing evils.  
  
In the presence of this vast congregation, and in the presence of men much older than I, both in experience and in years, I certainly feel my weakness in standing before you, my brethren and sisters, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will continue to be with us.  
  
I have enjoyed this conference above all others that I have ever attended. This to me is the first privilege of standing before so great a number of people. Without the Spirit and blessings of our Father in heaven, I feel that I will be unable to magnify the calling and position that has come to me. I desire an interest in your faith and prayers continually.  
  
I know that this is the work of the Lord, and that we are His chosen people in these the last clays. Where much is given much is expected; and I do earnestly pray that both young and old will take to heart the instructions that have been given by our prophet, and by those who have followed him, in teaching and warning us concerning these trying times, and in regard to our lives as Latter-day Saints. I do hope, and pray, that the young people especially will take the advice of those who are older, and not go into by and forbidden paths, and partake of the evils that exist in our midst, by following bad examples set before us by those who are not of us. Let us look to our leaders, those who hold the Holy Priesthood, and take their advice, and, in the spirit of humility and prayer, I feel sure that if we take this admonition we shall not go astray spiritually, but be raised up by the power of the Lord and made equal to the responsibilities as they come to us from our fathers.  
  
Again I say, that in the presence of this vast congregation and those of experience in the work, I feel my weakness, but I testify that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us and we have been blessed. I pray that His spirit will go with us, and help us to put into practice the teachings given at this conference, and that when we go away we shall not say, "What a splendid conference we have had," and then in a few days forget it. May the teachings given burn within our hearts that we may be given courage, and strength of mind and body, to serve the Lord and keep His commandments, that we may be His children in very deed, and be worthy of the blessings He has in store for us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
