35
Afternoon
06 10 1912
Elder David O. M'Kay. 
18
119-123

None

Strength of the Church is individual testimony. — Obedience the key to knowledge of truth. — Benefit of Church to individuals. — Church members advised to restrain contention.  
  
I pray for the inspiration of the Lord, that I may speak those things that will be in harmony with His will — that is the prayer of my heart this afternoon.  
  
"Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by Him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders which has become the head of the corner; neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved."  
  
So spake Peter, the chief apostle when he was arraigned before the judges for having healed the impotent man. He bore a strong testimony to those people who but a short time before had participated, directly or indirectly, in the crucifixion of the Savior. They warned Peter and John not to preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified, but when they perceived the boldness of Peter and John, and saw the impotent man standing before them whole, they counseled among themselves what to do. Then they returned and cautioned the apostles not to preach Jesus Christ to the people. At that point Peter and John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, answered, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to harken unto you more than unto God judge ye, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard." On several different occasions the prophet Joseph Smith was asked by non-members, curious visitors to Nauvoo and other cities in the early history of this Church, what was the secret of the strength that seemed to be manifest in the Church in the early days. On one occasion, to be specific, he was asked how he governed this people and his answer was, "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." People today wonder wherein lies the secret of the growth, stability and vitality of the Church of Christ. Those who are prejudiced when they come in our midst are convinced that there is something within the Church that those not of us do not comprehend. Recently a young lady from the East spent a few weeks amongst us, visiting friends. Evidently her mind was previously filled with prejudice against the people of Utah, particularly against the Church. But she went around with some of her friends who were actively engaged in Religion Class work, some who were actively engaged in primary and others in Sunday School. One day when they returned from some of this regular work, she made this remark: "Well, there must be something in this Church or so many intelligent men and women would not be so actively engaged in it. Why, I almost feel that I want to enter in the work myself." You, no doubt, have met people who, seeing perhaps some such demonstration as this of the strength of Israel, wonder how it is that this Church manifests such vitality and growth. The secret is this, that every true Latter-day Saint possesses individually the assurance that this is the work of God, the same power that gave Peter and John strength to stand before their accusers and declare openly and boldly in the Sanhedrin that "Jesus whom ye crucified is the power by which this man was made whole," that His name is the only name given among men by which they can be saved.  
  
The secret lies in the testimony possessed by each individual who is faithful in the membership of the Church of Christ, that the gospel consists of correct principles. It is that same testimony that was given to Peter, which he expressed when Christ asked His disciples "whom do men say that I am?" "Some say thou art this prophet, some say thou art that; some say thou art Elias." "But whom do ye say that I am?" And Peter answered, "Thou art the Christ the Son of the living God." "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father which is in heaven; I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." This testimony has been revealed to every sincere man and woman who has conformed to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, obeyed the ordinances and become entitled to and have received the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, to guide them. Every individual stands independent in his sphere in that testimony, just as these thousands of incandescent lamps which have made Salt Lake City during the last week so brilliant at night, each one of which stands and shines in its own sphere, yet the light in it is produced by the same power, the same energy, from which all the other lights receive their energy. So each individual in the Church stands independently in his sphere, independently in the knowledge that God lives, that the Savior is the Redeemer of the world and that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Now it is given unto some, says the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants, to know by the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Son of God and that He was crucified for the sins of the world. It is to these I refer who stand firm upon the rock of revelation in the testimony that they bear to the world. But the Lord says further there are others to whom it is given to believe upon the testimony of others' words, that they may also receive salvation if they continue faithful. To all these however, there comes the testimony also of daily experience. The Latter-day Saints throughout the world find confirmation of their testimony in every performance of duty. They know that the gospel teaches them to be better individuals; that obedience to the principles of the gospel makes them stronger men, and truer women. Every day such knowledge comes to them, and they cannot gainsay it; they know that obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ makes them better and truer husbands, true and honored wives, obedient children. They know that obedience to the principles of the gospel makes them in every respect ideal home-builders; the ideal is there, they sense it in their minds, they cannot gainsay it, they know it, and they know that transgression of these principles will have the opposite effect upon their individual lives and upon their home lives. They know that obedience to the gospel fosters true brotherhood and fellowship among mankind; they know that they are better citizens by virtue of obedience unto the laws and ordinances. So, as they go through their daily acts, and apply religion in their vocation, the truth of the Gospel becomes exemplified in their lives. Thus, with the testimony of the Spirit, the testimony of reason, and the testimony of daily experience, the Latter-day Saints throughout the world must stand impregnable.  
  
I was strongly impressed the other day in reading a book written by a man who is looking for a church that will eventually dominate the world. This is the church he describes, and I want to read it, having in mind the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:  
  
"The church that can say to the unchurched, Our way is best because it works best, our people are efficient, prosperous and happy because we are a body who aid one another in the productive life; we waste none of our substance in vice, luxury or ostentation; we do not dissipate our energy in brawling, gambling or unwholesome habits; we conserve our resources of body and mind and devote them to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, which is not a mystical, but a real kingdom; it is a body of people dominated by ideals of productivity, which is mutual service. We do not strive for the things that satisfy but for the moment and then leave a bad taste; we strive for the things which build us up and enable us and our children to become strong: to flourish and to conquer. We strive to make ourselves worthy to receive the world by fitting ourselves to use the world more productively than others. We believe that obedience to God means obedience to the laws of nature, which are but the uniform manifestations of His will, and we try by painstaking study to acquire the most complete and exact knowledge of that will, in order that we may conform ourselves to it. We believe that reverence for God is respect for these laws; that meekness is teachableness and willingness to learn by observation and experience; by practicing this kind of meekness or teachableness we believe that we shall inherit the earth, whereas, the unmeek, the unteachable, who are dominated by pride of tradition shall not. We offer you hard work, frugal fare, severe discipline, but a share in the conquest of the world for the religion of the productive life. Such a church is founded upon the rock of economic efficiency and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."  
  
My testimony and yours is that this church of Christ can offer to the unchurched all the good things which this author is looking for, and more; because God has revealed more in the government and conduct of His church.  
  
Now brethren and sisters, the testimony of the gospel is an anchor to the soul in the midst of confusion and strife. Cannot we afford, then, possessing that testimony, to manifest to the world another attribute of the Church of Christ, which is love? Knowledge of God and His laws, means stability, means contentment, means peace, and with that a heart full of love reaching out to our fellow man offering the same blessings, the same privileges. Love will beget tolerance and kindness. Now I bespeak that during the next month or so, when our little towns and cities, and states will be more or less stirred up by political contention, that we remember to have charity and love for one another. Oh, let us not deal in personalities and tear down a brother's reputation and hurt his feelings. We are striving to establish the kingdom of God; let us hold to that fact as the anchor of our soul and then breathe forth charity and love to those who may not see just as we do. I mean that while we are urging our particular political belief, that we avoid dealing in personalities; we cannot afford to hurt a brother's feelings and wound him. I believe, with a western poet, that it isn't worth while :  
  
"Is it worth while that we jostle a brother,  
  
Bearing his load on the rough road of life?  
  
Is it worth while that we jeer at each other —  
  
In blackness of heart, that we war to the knife?  
 
God pity us all in our pitiful strife.  
  
"God pity us all as we jostle each other;  
  
God pardon us all for the triumph we feel  
  
When a fellow goes down 'neath his load on the heather  
 
Pierced to the heart: Words are keener than steel,  
 
And mightier far for woe than for weal.  
  
******  
 
"Is it worth while that we battle to humble  
  
Some poor fellow down into the dust?  
  
God pity us all! Time too soon will tumble  
  
All of us together, like leaves in the gust,  
  
Humbled, indeed, down into the dust."  
  
Then, in conclusion, let us stand with our hearts centered and our minds firmly fixed upon this eternal truth — that the gospel of Jesus Christ is among men for the redemption and salvation of the human family. Let us go forth in the spirit of that, dealing with our fellows in the spirit of love and kindness. Let us work in our councils, in our quorums, guided by that same spirit, for the Church in the midst of political strife and social unrest will stand, to use Goldsmith's words,  
  
"As some tall peak that lifts its awful form,  
  
Swells from the vale and midway leaves the storm,  
 
Though round its base the rolling clouds are spread,  
 
Eternal sunshine settles on its head."  
  
God grant that we remain true to this Church; that we may ever be found defending the men whom God has called to guide us and realize that harmony with them means that we are in harmony with God for He sustains them. Amen. 