36
Afternoon
06 10 1912 
Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 
37
123-125

None

John Taylor's hymn a loving tribute to the martyrs. — The Church continuously guided by a Prophet. — Counsels of inspired men should be heeded.  
  
I have been deeply impressed and edified during the sessions of this conference in listening to the remarks of the brethren, and I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the counsel and instructions that have been imparted unto us by those who stand at the head, who are possessed of the Spirit of the Lord, and whose right it is to teach Israel. I have also been impressed this afternoon by the singing of this hymn, sacred to me, composed by President Taylor, who dearly loved the Prophet Joseph Smith. I never read this hymn or hear it sung without being touched in my soul and I shall take the liberty this afternoon, in my weak arid imperfect way, to read it. for I realize that in the singing we do not always get the full comprehension of the words, which may not be impressed upon our souls, especially in a large gathering such as this, as we would like to have them:  
  
O, give me back my Prophet dear,  
  
And Patriarch, O give them back, The Saints of Latter-days to cheer,  
  
And lead them in the Gospel track! But, O, they're gone from my embrace,  
  
From earthly scenes their spirits fled, Two of the best of Adam's race,  
  
Now lie entombed among the dead.  
  
Ye men of wisdom, tell me why — No guilt, no crime in them were found —  
  
Their blood doth now so loudly cry, From prison walls and Carthage ground:  
  
Your tongues are mute, but pray attend, The secret I will now relate,  
  
Why those whom God to earth did lend, Have met the suffering martyrs' fate.  
  
It is because they strove to gain,  
  
Beyond the grave a heaven of bliss, Because they made the gospel plain  
  
And led the Saints to righteousness; It is because God called them forth,  
  
And led them by His own right hand, Christ's coming to proclaim on earth,  
  
And gather Israel to their land.  
  
It is because the priests of Baal  
  
Were desperate their craft to save, And when they saw it doomed to fail,  
  
They sent the Prophets to their grave. Like scenes the ancient Prophets saw,  
  
Like these the ancient Prophets fell, And, till the resurrection dawn,  
  
Prophet and Patriarch, farewell.  
  
My heart is always touched when I hear this beautiful hymn, or when I read it. I understand the spirit that rested upon President Taylor when he wrote it; but I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this fact — although the prophet who stands at the head of the dispensation of the fullness of times, and the patriarch who stood with him have been taken from us, the Lord has not left us helpless. There has never been a time since the restoration of the Gospel when we have not had a prophet, some one to lead us, to direct us, to teach us the commandments of God that we might walk in the straight and narrow path. We are not without leaders; and the time shall never come when the Lord will not find some one that He can trust; in whom He has confidence, and who will be qualified to stand to represent Him among the people. This is my testimony and I rejoice in its truth. I do not feel that because the Prophet was taken and the Patriarch; because President Young was taken, or President Taylor and other leaders were taken, that the time has come when we have not an inspired leader to teach us the truth. The time will never come when we will not be able to put confidence and exercise faith in the teachings and in the instruction of those who lead us. I am satisfied of this for I know the promises of the Lord are sure. I know that these things are true; the Lord has not forsaken His people, and will be with them even to the end. Therefore it behooves us, as Latter-day Saints, to put our trust in the presiding authorities of the Church, in the Priesthood of God; and accept of their teachings.  
  
No man ever went astray by following the counsel of the authorities of the Church. No man who ever followed the teachings or took advice or counsel from the one who stands as the representative of the Lord ever went astray; but men who have refused to accept counsel have gone astray and into forbidden paths, and in some instances have even denied the faith. Others who went astray because they failed to understand and to heed the counsels that were given unto them for their eternal good, have humbled themselves and come back to the Church acknowledging their error. In connection with this I desire to read just a word or two from the revelation, known as the preface that the Lord gave to His book of commandments:  
  
"Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; and the anger of the Lord is kindled, and His sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth; and the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of His servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; they seek not the Lord to establish His righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall."  
  
Therefore, we must put our faith in those whom the Lord hath called, if we want to have a standing before the Lord, and none of us desire, if we have the proper spirit, to be cut off from among the people. But this punishment will befall those who do not prove faithful and will not pay that heed or give that attention to the counsel of those who are called and appointed and inspired of the Lord to teach and direct us in all things.  
  
We should be first and foremost, as it has already been expressed, for the kingdom of God and His righteousness. Let us be true and faithful always, with a desire to keep the commandments of the Lord and honor Him and remember the covenants we have made with Him. This is my prayer in behalf of all Israel in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 
