8
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder J. Golden Kimball 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The way you people look around and feel around, I am wondering if you think that I am old. (Laughter.) I am very glad that I am not so old as I feel. I am thankful nearly every minute that I am well. I am better informed about life than death. I appreciate more than I can express President Grant's kindness towards me in permitting me to stand in this pulpit and declare humbly and prayerfully before God that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Jesus is the Christ, that God is our Father. If you take that from me, you have taken my whole life. 

I have been in the First Council of the Seventy over forty years, drifting along in the Council and receiving their instructions; and I now happen to be the senior president of the First Council. These young brethren — I call them young because they are not so old as I am — have been wonderful, they have been so kind, so considerate, and so appreciative that I want to say to you good people, you Latter-day Saints, I have been rewarded. Right along I have received my reward and pension for every kind thing that I have done. 

I love God, and I love God because he is a God of love, because he is a God of kindness, a God of forgiveness, for he has provided an opportunity that with all our weaknesses we can repent. And if you take from me the joy, the happiness, the peace and forgiveness, for heaven's sake, what have I left? I would not give you a nickle for the whole thing. I love this work. My brethren have been wonderfully good to me, and they have been patient. God knows that, or they never would have endured it, because I have said things that I was sorry I said, but I could not take them back. (Laughter). 

I have a book — I did not write it, thank the Lord — they call it J. Golden Kimball; it has been passed around. There are in it something over fifty talks, not long talks but short ones, that I have handed over to the stenographer, and they have been printed. I am saying to you in all candor that I have read it, (it is about the only book I have read through) to find out what is said about me. 

My brother Elias, before his death three years ago, read that book and he said: "Golden, there are things in that book that God must have given to you." That is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, in conclusion, that the Lord in his kindness and love has given me inspiration at times. I have been moved upon to prophesy, and my prophecies have come true. I am testifying to you that I have administered to a great many sick people; within a short time I have administered to three, four or five. 

A young married man who is not a Mormon took a fancy to me, and I went and administered to that young fellow. His stomach is punctured, he has been under the physicians' care — three, four or five physicians — in the Catholic hospital. That young man wanted me to administer to him. I blessed him. He sent for me again and I blessed him again. That young boy almost worships me; I hope he lives. 

I administered to a woman not so long ago who had a cancer. She said she was healed. Well, I have told all of them it is not I, it is God, it is God's faith. 

In conclusion: You good people learn to love God. But without faith what can you do? All of us can have faith, and without it we cannot accomplish a single thing. 

I pray the Lord to bless all you brethren, all you Authorities. My whole conclusion is God save the people, and God knows they do need salvation. 

My father, Heber C. Kimball, once was discouraged and he said: "I do not know whether any of you will be saved. If any of you are saved I will be more surprised than anybody else." 

The Lord bless you. Amen.
