13
Morning
04 04 1938
Elder Melvin J. Ballard 
1
42-46

None

None

I sincerely trust, my dear brethren and sisters, that I may make some contribution to this wonderful Conference, which I have enjoyed greatly. 

THE VISION NECESSARY 

It is written of old that where there is no vision, the people will perish. Our fathers had a vision of this work, that inspired them to leave their native homes, in the main in the old world countries. They crossed the plains with a distinct vision of an objective to obtain. We must not lose that vision or we shall perish. Whoever does lose that vision will naturally step aside and desert the great procession. The people will never lose the vision. Some may, but the majority will keep their eye upon the goal. 

AMERICA A CHOICE LAND 

I remember, years ago, being greatly impressed as I read a book written by an eminent authority, a Jew, Israel Zangwell, in which he called America the "melting pot of the nations." He saw coming to this land peoples of all other countries, and under our Constitution and our glorious privileges in America the mixing of the blood of the nations, providing a new race of people in the earth, the American, rich in physical strength, in beauty, in intelligence and leadership. 

I am sure he was right in offering his thought that America would provide a new race, produced under the most favorable circumstances that people have ever known in the earth, which are the conditions that obtain in America, the choice land — the old Book of Mormon prophets called it — choice above all other lands. 

When I think that today one-sixteenth of the world's population lives in these United States, and we have only one-seventeenth of the world's land, yet are producing almost one-half of the world's wealth, and there are no peoples in any other land, whether they be farmers, common laborers, or mechanics or artisans, whose average income is as high as the average income of the families of the United States, I repeat, it is a choice land. 

THE BLOOD OF ISRAEL 

But I am thinking of a superfine melting pot, if you please, that is going forward in America, wherein a very choice stock has been introduced, the blood of Israel, the children of the promise. You remember the old prophets foreshadowed the scattering of Israel, how they should be sifted among the nations, and yet should be gathered again. 

I read an article also some time ago in which the author, discussing the question — Are the Jews the chosen people of God? — granted that they had the right to expect the realization of all the promises offered to their father, Judah; but, said he, "when they aspire to the realization of the great promises bestowed upon Judah's brother, Joseph, they aspire to that which does not belong to them." And then he concluded: "If only somewhere in the world today we could find the descendants of this Joseph, we would indeed find the chosen people of God." 

Have they been found? Yes. It has been the declaration of this people, for more than a hundred years, that the mission of this Church was to find the blood of Joseph, through Ephraim, sifted among the nations of the earth, and for more than a hundred years we have been finding them, one of a city, two of a family, one here and one there, even as the prophets said they would be found, at the cry: "Come out of her," (out of Babylon) "O ye, my people, that ye be not partakers of her plagues." We have been gathering them up from the nations of the earth. 

I read with interest the investigations of the British Israel movement, which seeks to establish the fact that the founders of the British Empire were these descendants of Joseph. They give some very good evidences, and it is not difficult for me to believe that this branch of Israel did play a conspicuous part in the founding of the British Empire; but when they have proven their case they will discover that while that blood was there a large part of it has left England and is here in America. They have lost it. It has come to its own, to the land of Joseph, for Joseph's branch would go over the wall (the ocean) to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills. 

GATHERING PLACE IN WESTERN AMERICA 

This is the land of Joseph. Some twenty-eight thousand converts to the Church, in the hundred years of the preaching of the Gospel in England, have come into the fold in that land, and most of them have come to America. Also from the Scandinavian countries, from the central countries of Europe, from Germany and Holland and Switzerland, they have come in great numbers. This choice stock has responded to the Gospel appeal, to the highest standards that have ever been offered to man, and they have been brought to America. 

They were not left, like many of the poorer emigrants, in the congested centers of the East, but by the devotion and self-sacrifice of our fathers they were brought into this western land, where the old prophets saw them. For in the last days the mountain of the Lord's house was to be established in the tops of the mountains, and all nations, or people of all nations, were to flow unto it. This is the place, and here we came, willingly, because we had to. So we are here, in the right place. 

And what for? To obtain the natural advantages of America? Yes, and to have some superior advantages, advantages of leadership. We have the protection and blessing that comes through the Constitution and the government of this country, through the wealth of the soil. 

These are ours. And here we mingle and mix the blood of the nations, the choice blood of the nations, the descendants of Joseph producing here, for that is the purpose, the greatest race of men and women that have ever lived, under the most ideal conditions. And what for? Great are those objectives. 

TIMES OF THE GENTILES 

Our mission of gathering this branch of the house of Israel from the Gentile nations was to be accomplished during the "times of the Gentiles." One of our revelations says, that the generation that saw the light break forth would see the close of the times of the Gentiles. When that is accomplished then cometh the day for the rest of the house of Israel. We are not to be alone. You Latter-day Saints must prepare yourselves to become the saviors of all the rest of the house of Israel; even as Joseph saved them long ago, you are to save them, and their day is dawning. 

GATHERING OF THE JEWS 

I look to the Jew. Notwithstanding all his distress and peril through the ages that have passed, he seems to be in another peril, and yet I see the hand of God in it. He was to go to his native land, to the land of promise for Judah, to the Holy Land, and they are going, though many of them are going as our fathers came west — willingly because they had to. Even Hitler is used as an instrument, in the hands of God, of driving them where the Lord wants them. 

Oh you, our half brothers, Oh, that I could speak to you and your hearts could feel it and know that God has not forsaken you! Your hour is coming. Your deliverance is at hand. Do not complain, but be patient, and go where the Lord wants you, for he yet will redeem you. Your hour is dawning. Let there be no doubt about it. 

I would like our Jewish brethren to know that Moses has appeared in this generation and in the Kirtland Temple delivered the keys of the gathering of Israel to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that an Apostle of this dispensation has blessed the land of Palestine for the return of the Jews. We are confident that this blessing will be realized. 

DESCENDANTS OF LEHI 

To the descendants of Father Lehi, who have suffered so long, for whom we received the precious record of the Book of Mormon, — it did not come to us for our sake, it was committed into our hands to hold in custody for these millions who are in Mexico, Central America and South America — their day must come. It is coming, and I see the hand of God preparing for their deliverance. But you, you must lead the way. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS TO BE LEADERS 

The distresses that are in northern Europe, in Russia, are only the prelude to the day of deliverance, for great hosts of Israel, of other tribes, are in that north land. Their day will come, but you must lead the way. Your mission is to be the redeemer and pilot and guide for these hosts of Israel. 

We also have a mission to prepare ourselves, through subscribing to the principles of this Gospel, to become the light of the world, the very salt of the earth, in a day when men will lose faith in God, and even the mission of Jesus Christ will be questioned. Your mission is, therefore, to indeed arise and shine. We plead with you to subscribe to these Gospel standards, because they are the rules we must subscribe to, if we shall be worthy to come to live in the presence of God. 

A KING IN PROCESSION 

I was deeply impressed, at the funeral of the late King George of England, by an incident that happened when the kings of Europe came to do him homage. Among them was a European king who the night before had imbibed too much bad English whiskey. He was not on his feet and ready to join the procession the next morning, and an English masseur was sent to work with him and put him in condition. But he was not ready when finally the procession moved, and the English masseur was pressed to hold an unsteady king on his feet. A moving picture was taken of it, and in identifying these kings they could not discover which king this was, with his duffy hat on, with his sweater coat protruding below his other coat, and a pair of white duck pants on. Then they found he was not a king at all, not fit to be with kings. He did not know the rules of the game, and had not the honor and the right. 

I said to myself: How many of us would be fit to walk with the kings and know their rules, their etiquette, their customs? We would need a good deal of training to be a lady or a gentleman in the presence of an earthly king, and yet we aspire to come into the presence of the Great King! Surely not without preparation! That is what life is for; that is what this Gospel is for. 

THE STRAIT GATE AND THE NARROW WAY 

There came a time, in the mission of the Christ, when he saw great multitudes turn away from him, and he turned to his disciples and said: "Will you go also?" And the answer: "It is pretty hard, the things you ask us to do, but thou hast the words of eternal life. We know that. Hard as it is, whither shall, we go?" And then one of the disciples said: "If men have to subscribe to these requirements, are there then to be only a few who shall be saved?" And he answered them: "Strait is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth to life." He meant life in the celestial kingdom, in the presence of God, "and few there be that find it; but broad is the way and wide is the gate that leadeth to death" — the loss of that celestial exaltation — "and many there be who go in thereat." 

We have found the strait gate, the narrow way, the divine authority to pilot men and women in that way. All these things we ask of the Latter-day Saints, whether it be subscribing to the Word of Wisdom, the payment of their tithing, keeping themselves clean and undefiled from the world, are to fit and train and prepare ourselves to walk through the strait gate and the narrow way to that exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. 

PREPARATION NEEDED

To learn how to live in the presence of the King, that is the mission of this Church in training and preparing men and women. It is the great goal and objective. It is not practicing self-denial just because we are asked to do it, but it is to prepare for eternal living and exaltation. When we do this we shall become the very light of the world. 

God help us to keep our eyes upon these great objectives, which we never shall reach unless we pay the price of subscribing to these requirements of the Gospel, and learning to like it and to live it and to find joy in it. 

God help us in the struggle. God keep before us ever the distant goal; give us the courage to rally our wayward, faltering ones — this is the mission for this Church, not to be like the world, but to become the light of the world — I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
