19
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
59-61

None

None

My brethren and sisters, and friends, I am happy to be here to attend this Conference, and to listen to the many fine, inspirational remarks that have been made, and to the wonderful singing, both yesterday and today. These Singing Mothers have been an inspiration to all who are here. I wonder how many have counted the cost, and realize what it means for these singers and for our brethren from the mission fields to have come so far. And the same might be said of this entire congregation, because it is always a great sacrifice of the world's goods, for men and women to come great distances to attend these conferences. But out of it come great rewards and joyous privileges. 

Yesterday morning I thought I never had looked upon an audience that inspired me so much as that audience did. People were standing in the aisles until they were almost filled. When the congregation stood up to sing it looked like a solid sea of faces. I realized that the people are the leaders of the Church, to a very great extent. The majority of the men and women who are here this afternoon and who were here yesterday, are leaders of the Church. I was reminded of the passage of scripture which records the promise the Lord gave to Abraham. He said: 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers. 

Men and women who have a knowledge of the Gospel, who know what it means to have lived before they came into this world, who have taken a part in the plans of our Eternal Father, are brought face to face with the fact frequently that we are only continuing the plan that our Eternal Father taught us even before the foundation of this earth was laid. 

This great congregation represents leaders from many places, men and women of responsibility, who have leadership, and who have the authority to delegate leadership. They are blessed with initiative, and they have in their hearts a desire to help, individually, in the building up of the Church and Kingdom of our Eternal Father. As a result of experience, men and women obtain knowledge, a knowledge of the mission that comes to them in mortality, why we are here, from whence came we, and what is our responsibility while we are in mortality. The Book of Mormon prophet Alma said: 

This is the day and the time for men to prepare to meet their God. 

In this great school of experience we find ourselves following the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, in this Church of God, here in this western land. Men who have received the Priesthood, and all who have a testimony of the faith, have no doubt at all in their minds concerning this work; they have a knowledge that the Lord lives, and that he has revealed himself anew to men and women in mortality, through his prophets, those whom he has selected to lead Israel. 

Thus we see fulfilled the blessings that our Eternal Father predicted when he showed Abraham these great men whom he would call his leaders. Especially do we speak of those in this dispensation whose leadership has given them much wisdom, whose faith in God has given them abundant knowledge, and who have been preserved to a great age. 

All of the leaders of the Church in this dispensation, whose lives have not been interrupted by the bullets of assassins, as were the Prophet and his brother Hyrum, have lived to an advanced age. They have been selected by the Lord from among the rank and file of the people, and have been given a training that has made them worthy to be entrusted with the responsibility of his Church. 

I think things do not happen by chance. I think they happen by appointment, under the plans of God. I think he governs and rules, and that he whispers to those who will listen to him. And to those who listen to him, and respond, he confides his Holy Spirit, and he gives them a power and a strength that is not of man, but comes from Him. 

I think the example of leadership that we have in the Church today, in these perilous times, is a witness to all that the Lord is at the helm, and that he does not make any mistakes. He has selected a man whom he has trained from his childhood, President Grant, a man who, in his personal experience, has witnessed the growth of this country and the peopling of it from the days of Brigham Young. His great experience in life has given him a wise use of knowledge that comes as the result of experience and faith and leadership. He has given to the children of men in this dispensation the incentive to work. He has followed the instruction that came to him, as it comes to all men, to labor early and late for the building up of the Church and kingdom of God. 

The power of example is a marvelous thing. It probably is stronger than precept. If this great body of men and women go back home again and set an example that is in harmony with the revelations of the Lord and the impressions they receive from time to time it will have much to do with the correcting of many of the misuses of our time that bring sin and sorrow to thousands of people. 

The leadership of our Eternal Father is in this great Church. His authority is here. I bear that testimony to this congregation, and to all who may hear my voice. I am delighted to be able to say that I know with absolute surety that this is the work of God, and that the plan of the Priesthood our Eternal Father established in the heavens above before this earth was made, is here in action in mortality, and that the men who stand at the head are his servants in very deed. 

If this testimony and example be one that restrains us from doing things that we ought not to do, and is taken home again, it will have its effect in all parts of the earth where our people live. I pray the Lord to bless and protect every man, that he may grow in the knowledge of his Redeemer, through faith in God, and through prayer and through work and labor, and I do it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
