18
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder David A. Smith 
95
57-59

None

None

I am grateful that I live in this day in which the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed in its fulness, which gives to us power and authority to labor in the Priesthood. When I think of conditions today as we see them, I recall the statement of Nephi as recorded in the Book of Mormon: "I have been born of goodly parents." It is a heritage to be born of goodly parents. 

I am grateful that in my youth I had neighbors who were kind to me and who were interested in me because I had goodly parents, and because those neighbors had in their own soul the spirit of the Gospel and a brotherly love and an understanding of the Gospel message. Because of these, I was taught, as Nephi was taught, the things which pertain to God and our exaltation, and was encouraged to walk uprightly before the Lord. Through the quorums of the Priesthood, under the direction of wise men, I partook of blessings through passing on through all the grades of the Priesthood from Deacon to High Priest. In my youth the great honor came to me which I now bear, and I recall many early experiences in visiting in the stakes where I had the privilege of meeting your fathers — men whose heads were white, men who had seen the struggles of the Church from its beginning. They received me and the message I left with them in the spirit of love and kindness, and in departing they heaped upon me their blessings. I am greatly blessed now as I go among the Saints, for I find the sons and grandsons of these men with whom I labored as a young man, laboring in the authority of the Priesthood, and having known their fathers, I have rejoiced in the opportunity of laboring with them also in authority of the Priesthood. They, too, have been born of goodly parents and are following in their fathers' footsteps. 

This morning at 8 :00 o'clock, nearly five hundred enthusiastic men met in Barratt Hall for the purpose of discussing ways and means by which the youth of Zion might be inspired and redeemed from the pitfalls and the dangers which confront them. We are living in a dangerous age, an age in which we need every protection. We need the kind consideration of each other; we need the spirit of brotherly love, for without that the Spirit of God will not dwell with man. I am sure that those who are here will agree with me in that, and perhaps it is not necessary for me to repeat it, but with all the feeling of my soul I rejoice in the opportunity which comes to me of laboring for the youth of the Church. 

In the days of our fathers, the problems were not nearly so great for the youth of the Church as today. It seems to me, Satan has been turned loose. Every device that man has been able to discover to lead the boy away from the teachings of the Living God, has been brought forth and is being used to steal from our children their heritage. They are our heritage, and without them what is life worth? What will it be hereafter? We have all been taught that the family relationship can be broken only through our failure to keep the commandments of the Lord. I cannot forget the teachings of my father. Sometimes they appeared to be severe, but they always came in a spirit of love and kindness. He continually reminded us that his salvation was at stake if we failed to uphold and live in harmony with his teachings, teachings which he had received from those who had authority to teach, and the inspiration which came through power and inspiration from God, in whom we all believe. 

I am grateful that I do believe in God, that he has spoken in this day and that we are privileged to labor in authority of his Priesthood; that we have assurance and promise that through our faith and diligence in the performance of duty, we shall be redeemed and exalted in a glory of which we have no thought nor can we understand fully at this time. So, my brethren and sisters, I am happy to be associated in this day with men and women who fear God, men and women who are so living that they make it easier for me to live in harmony with these eternal principles. Now is the time when men who fear God must stand together to protect themselves from the evils that beset us on every side. 

I have been given a great responsibility, which came to me through the call of the First Presidency of this Church, the duties and responsibility of which are set forth by God, charging the Presiding Bishopric in a very positive manner to look after and watch over those who hold the Aaronic Priesthood. Brethren, we cannot do this alone. We want you to help and many are doing it. Let us not permit those holding the Aaronic Priesthood to develop habits which blind them and take away the light, and bring instead the darkness. Let us watch them day by day; let us help them to see the dangers, for it is much easier at that time than it is to bring them back after the spirit of the evil one has taken possession of them. Then sometimes it is too late. Let us labor together in a spirit of love and in all diligence. 

May the blessings of God rest upon all of us continually; may we walk in the light of the Gospel message and have strength and power to accomplish his purposes; may we, who hold the Priesthood, not neglect the duty which rests upon us, for remember that it is our responsibility to save souls. Should we fail, we forfeit many blessings and we must answer for our neglect. 

May the Lord help us, that when the time comes that we are called to answer we shall be unafraid, having done our best, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
