20
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder William W. Seegmiller 
230
61

None

None

I am honored in having the privilege of representing the Western States Mission. We have only begun our missionary work, and have done nothing that is worthy of special attention, but we have been blessed by the sincere support and loyalty of eight thousand Saints in the Western States Mission, and whatever we have accomplished we attribute to their faith and loyalty. 

We have twenty-six Singing Mothers in this congregation. They traveled by rail, under agreement with the railroad that they should have a comfortable place to ride and a clean place to dine, where they would not be under the necessity of either breathing or eating tobacco. This agreement was rigidly lived up to, and we thank the officials of the D. & R. G. W. Railroad Company for their kindness and gentility. 

I have been blessed many times for the effort which I have made in attending this great Conference. I have been blessed ten-fold by the address that was made by Elder Albert E. Bowen yesterday, so replete with sound doctrine in church and civil government. I hope always to be able to endure sound doctrine. 

I believe as sincerely in the story of Joseph Smith, the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, and the history of Lehi and his family coming to America, as I believe that Columbus discovered America in his time. 

I am sure that the Gospel of Jesus Christ can be nothing else than true, because it embraces all truth, wherever found, no matter from whence its source. 

We hope to be able to acquit ourselves in honor, that we may be able to improve upon the splendid foundation and organization which our predecessors have handed over to us. If this can be our happy lot we will feel that we have not struggled and labored in vain. 

I bear testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I know every man and woman will be blessed who lives by its doctrines. That we may all so live, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
