16
Morning
04 04 1938
Elder Frank Evans
229
52-54

None

None

It is a rather long way up these stairs. It reminds me somewhat of life itself. As one seeks to reach the point of vantage he may put forth a great deal of effort, he may possibly meet some obstacles in the way, but it is when he reaches his point of vantage that his responsibilities really begin. 

I have been very happy here in contact with our leaders and those to whom we look for instruction and counsel, and I have been very happy in taking part in the fine spirit which has characterized this great Conference. 

Yesterday as I listened to that broadcast I had a feeling of personal gratitude toward those who are taking part. I think I have not talked with any person, either member or non-member of the Church in our mission who has mentioned our Church and its activities who has not referred to the broadcasts of our Tabernacle Choir, and in all cases they have had nothing to say except in the way of praise. I hope sometime they may hear the Singing Mothers. 

I was very happy too to listen to that fine declaration of principles given by Elder Bowen yesterday over the nation-wide broadcast. I realized that many thousand people whom we are trying to reach were listening in, and I know what they will say, those to whom I may speak of it. I know what their reaction will be, they will say, "If you preach principles and doctrines of that kind I want to know more of you." 

There are within the boundaries of that mission seventeen million people. There are twenty-two cities with over 100,000 inhabitants; there are 800 cities of more than 2500 people, and there are seven million people in small villages, and on the 467,000 farms. I believe there is every kind of problem there in that area known to our country — economic, social, religious. I believe that probably all of the religious denominations within the country are represented in that great area, and we have contacted many of them. We find many fine, kindly, and well-disposed people, and our missionaries make many favorable contacts with them. 

It seems rather strange that we can expect that fewer than a hundred missionaries can reach with any degree of success at all such a vast multitude of people, but they have the promise of the Lord: 

You shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. (Doctrine and Covenants 11:21) 

For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor to resist. (Luke 21:15) 

In consequence they have gone forward and in the last calendar year they have visited in homes 166,000 people. They distributed 250,000 pieces of literature; they held more than 36,500 meetings; they used the radio on hundreds of occasions, and they entertained and instructed people by the means of music, both vocal and instrumental. They are young men and women who are honest, true, chaste, benevolent, and who believe in doing good to all men. I am thankful to the fathers and mothers who have maintained real Latter-day Saint homes, for there is where these young men and women receive their training. They go into the mission field prepared and you do not find the stain of nicotine upon their hands, nor the odor of intoxicants in their breath. They have been taught correct principles, and if anyone has ever looked with any degree of cynicism upon the teachings of the Word of Wisdom, I wish they could have the example before them that we see in the mission field. I honor and thank those men and women who have persistently taught, who have had the courage and the inspiration to teach and to advise, and to keep before the people these important principles. 

The thought occurred to me yesterday that was expressed I think by Ruskin: 

When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be only for present use or present delight; let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for it. 

I do thank these brethren and sisters. As we lay stone on stone, let those stones be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and finally, when the work is done, may our descendants look upon it and say, "See, this our fathers built for us." 

I believe that the work of the Mission is blessed. I believe that we have had the blessings of the Lord. It is only those who are humble who dare undertake such important work. I pray always for humility to keep within me the spirit of thankfulness and the recognition of the great power which is over us and under which we work and do our service. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless us. I sincerely pray that His Spirit may be with us. 

In conclusion I must take time to mention one thing. My first introduction to the Mission, by the way, was in company with President Don B. Colton at Palmyra on the occasion of the summer conference. Many people have asked me, and they constantly ask me there, as to whether or not that great pageant, "America's Witness for Christ" is to be repeated this year. I answer of course in the affirmative. It is to be repeated. The conference is to be held again. I think I received more inspiration there upon that occasion than in a like period at any other time in my life — to see the home of the Prophet, to attend those meetings in the Sacred Grove, to see the sacred drama, this great pageant upon the Hill Cumorah, and to witness those other scenes that are so historic and important to us. I thought of the words which came to Moses, "The place on which thou standest is holy ground." 

Yes, the pageant will be repeated this year. The Conference will be held as usual. The Hill Cumorah is now listed on all the principal and official road-maps, and many, many thousands of people travel that way. I hope that many of the Saints from the West may enjoy this occasion with us. You have our heartiest invitation to be there. 

I thank the Lord for all his blessings, and pray for a continuance of the same, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
