21
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder Carl F. Eyring 
231
62-64

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters: I hope that I shall have the capacity to carry back to New England the inspiration and the spirit which I have found here as our prophets of the living God have spoken the true word. 

I bring to you greetings from fifty missionaries and one thousand members of the New England Mission. 

The missionaries — your sons and daughters — are well. They are learning day by day how better to present the message of the restored Gospel to our friends and investigators, and they are trying to be the kind of person this Gospel ideally produces. I appreciate their loyalty and your support. 

Through the help of the missionaries, and through the greater activity of local members, the branches of the mission are utilizing more and more of the complete Church program. When compared with the enriched programs which members of well organized and efficient stakes enjoy, the Saints in the mission field are indeed pioneers. It takes the sterling qualities of the pioneer to preside and lead in such branches and to remain loyal to such small and often socially heterogeneous groups. 

As an important objective, we are diligently seeking to produce in the mission the same complete program enjoyed in the stakes of Zion, in order that the Saints may have the opportunity for religious activities, and the friends and investigators may obtain a true picture and impression of the vitality of Mormonism as they attend our Church services. Then, too, your sons and daughters who seek employment in the cities within our mission, or who attend the many universities of New England, have the right, we think, to find branches which are on a par with the wards they leave at home. We fully sense that such a goal is difficult to achieve, but we also keenly sense that if our Church is to offer the privileges and opportunities so necessary to keep intelligent and dynamic youth interested in religion, we must do our best to offer the facilities and blessings of an efficient organization. These branches must not be too much below par, when judged in terms of the home stakes, if we are to expect such members to continue actively in church work. We are fully conscious of this responsibility. We could not claim success, even with great numbers entering the front door through baptism, if we were losing, through any fault of ours, our precious sons and daughters through the back door of indifference. We pray that we may be faithful to our trust. Fortunately, the Church program which holds our sons and daughters also draws to us and holds the finest types of investigators. 

Through the program of the Boston branch and the facilities of the mission home, we offer to the students of the Universities in Cambridge and Boston and to the other members of the branch an enriched program which we believe is appreciated by all and which is fostering a fine loyalty to the Church and its teachings. In a similar manner, but with fewer facilities, the other branches are being strengthened. In this connection, we appreciate our lady missionaries. Without seeming to interfere with the local leadership of the Priesthood, they find ways and means of setting in operation an improved church program. We always place the lady missionaries where there is local leadership; their services are greatly appreciated. 

On the other hand, for the most part, the Elders are placed in new territory — on the firing line of missionary work, where their wisdom and courage is tested in new and discouraging situations. As you receive letters from your sons, you will often observe how discouragement changes to enthusiasm. The natives of New England are a cultured, and conservative people. One is not accepted with open arms on first meeting, but must prove oneself worthy of friendship. If one can thus prove oneself, breaking through what seems to be an aloofness, one may expect to make friendships which are strong and enduring. Not realizing this fact, missionaries become discouraged because of their failure to make friends easily and quickly. 

We teach our missionaries that conversion is a sacred process in which there is a very intimate relationship between God and the convert. The missionary simply leads the way to the conversion; he prepares the ground and sows the Gospel seed. As he strives to do his work, he must understand thoroughly that before converts come investigators, before investigators come friends, and before friends comes friendliness. In the New England Mission, then, the missionary tries by word and deed to prove himself worthy of bestowing and receiving friendship. Until the missionary catches fully the vision of such an approach to his work, he often becomes discouraged. But with this vision, strengthened with a few successes, and as a tolerant messenger of love and goodwill he finds the joy of seeking friends and becomes overjoyed in his work. And you and I detect a new spirit in his letters. 

Out of such an approach, our missionaries have found friends among persons from all walks of life. They speak before schools, historical societies, young people's groups at churches, fathers' and sons' banquets, and small groups in the homes of friends. Often they speak only of the settlement of the West, no theology being discussed, but the ground is thus prepared for the sowing of the seed in the lives of those who express a wish to hear the message of the restored Gospel. 

Out of such friendly relations, we find that the eyes of thinking men and women are upon us. Are we in fact different in a fine way? At the moment, they do not seem interested in the divinity of the restoration, but following the pragmatic test, "By their fruits ye shall know them," they are looking for the results which we achieve as a religious people. Thus, our missionaries are asked to describe our organization, the nature of our economic system, our program for young people, our care of the human body, and so forth. Christianity, in too many places, has fallen into the decadent state of something to be talked about, but not to be lived. "Thus, if your perspective of Christianity produces results of great value," they would say, "then we are indeed interested in finding the power back of it." 

As the attitude of intolerance turns to friendly tolerance, we must be fully aware of the fact that our acts are before the bar of friendly evaluation. As we ask our friends of the world to investigate our religion, we are asking them to investigate us as its product. Surely you will loyally stand behind us — without your lives lived on the true Mormon pattern our message to the world may not be made articulate. 

In closing, may I suggest a number of resolutions which I offer, first to myself, then to my missionaries, and then to you? 

We will demonstrate by our personal and community lives that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God and has given us a true perspective of the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

We will preserve our uniqueness, never losing our savor by the compelling impulse to become respectable from the worldly point of view; but always adding savor by the urge to become a respectable member of the Kingdom of God. 

We will be a light set upon a hill because we will be different — different in the sense that we will be more industrious and self-reliant, yet more truly our brother's keeper; more honest in business, speech, and thought, yet more forgiving of those who steal, lie, or fail to think straight; more healthy in body and mind through adherence to God's health program, yet more helpful of those who in weakness have lost control of the appetite; more diligent for personal perfection, yet more concerned with brotherly helpfulness; more nearly ideal members of the kingdom, yet more teachable and poor in spirit. 

God grant that we may lift high the light of true Christian living, and that the world seeing our good works will glorify our Father which is in heaven — through Jesus Christ. Amen.
