12
Morning
04 04 1938
President Rudger Clawson 
7
39-42

None

None

I have been on the anxious seat since Sunday morning, and now that I am standing on my feet I do not seem to get very much relief. I think we have had a marvelous Conference — one of the best in all that have gone before. The attendance has been very great. We could have used two Tabernacles the size of this to accommodate the people, but of course we have to do the best we can under the circumstances. 

My thoughts during the last day or two have been running along the line of President Grant's opening remarks, Brother Merrill's talk yesterday and the address given by Brother Smoot today. 

DANIEL’S PREDICTION

In the early rise of the Church divine authority was given to Joseph Smith, a young man, through the ministration of angels, by which he was authorized to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and this was done in conformity, apparently, with the great prediction made by Daniel the prophet centuries ago, that in the latter days the God of heaven would set up a kingdom which would never be thrown down or given to other people, but should stand forever. 

It seems to me that that was a very remarkable prediction. That kingdom did not have its commencement upon the earth, it came down from above, from the God of heaven. 

LAWS OF FINANCE AND HEALTH 

Early in our experience the Lord gave two very important laws to his Church. One might be designated, properly, as the law of finance, and the other the law of health. And following this many precious and great revelations were given to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith for its consolation and instruction, but I am prompted right now to go back and dwell for a few moments on those two great laws. 

One law — the law of finance — is known to the Church as the law of tithing, but it means the same thing. No church can prosper, or survive, without some such law as we have. 

The other law, designated as the law of health, is the Word of Wisdom, and this law applies particularly to the individual members of the Church. One law upholds the Church and the other law is given for the temporal salvation of the individual members thereof. 

When the Eighteenth Amendment was repealed, the States of the Union spent very freely of their revenue for hard liquors and for beer, and, as we heard from Brother Smoot here today, vast quantities of tobacco were consumed at an enormous expense, and, sad to relate, our own beloved State of Utah was no exception to the rule. 

COST OF LIQUOR CONSUMED 

It appears, my brethren and sisters, that, as an example, in the year 1937 hard liquor was consumed in the State of Utah to the amount of $4,047,000 in round numbers, and for beer, $4,535,000 in round numbers, and for cigarets, $2,687,000 — giving a total of $11,235,000 invested in these articles that I have mentioned, which articles, if used extensively, sap the very life and spirit of the children of men and work untold suffering and injury. These figures have been given to the people in the public press and were taken from the records of the State. The total, that I have given you does not include cigars and other forms of tobacco or bootleg liquor. I am sure it would be interesting to you to know what the actual purchasing power of $11,235,000 is. I can give you an example that will bring the matter pretty clearly before you. 

With $11,235,000, five temples, each costing $1,200,000, or a total of $6,000,000, could be constructed; forty meeting houses at $50,000 each, making $2,000,000; one thousand homes of $3,000 each, making $3,000,000, and 470,867 paid names in temple work, which is $235,000, making a total, as I have said, of $11,235,000. 

It would also give employment to at least 9,750 men on the construction of these buildings alone, not counting those employed in steel mills, in mines, lumber industries and factories. A half-acre lot included with each of the above mentioned homes would insure the owner against hunger and want. To work in the temples and receive the remuneration of fifty cents per name would give our aged brethren and sisters a feeling of independence and self respect in addition to the joy and satisfaction they would experience in performing a work of that nature. 

The above sum of $11,235,000, if placed at 5% interest, would yield $56,162 per annum — enough to provide employment for twenty-six men at a wage of $6.00 a day, three hundred sixty-five days per year. This is simply a sample of what might be accomplished with the large sum of money that goes for the purchase of these forbidden things so far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned. 

FOREWARNED BY THE LORD 

The Lord perceived from the beginning that there was danger in the articles that are listed here, and so he gave a charge to his people; he warned them and forewarned them of the danger. He knew what the danger was, but he did not point it out. It appeared to him sufficient that he should tell his people that strong drink is not good for the body, that it is not good to be used internally nor externally. It might be used in some cases for the washing of the body, but should not be used internally; and the Lord, pointing to tobacco, said it was not good for the use of man in any way, but could be used for sick cattle and otherwise if great care were taken. 

How merciful and gracious is our Heavenly Father to give this word of caution and advice and counsel to his people at a time when the real danger in these articles was not widely known. But science has confirmed the Word of Wisdom to this people. We know now where the danger is. We know that in tobacco there is a deadly poison. The Lord did not mention that, but learned men of our day, great practitioners, make this statement, that nicotine in tobacco is a dangerous poison, and that a very little of it in concentrated form would actually destroy the life of a man or a woman. 

The Lord not only points out the evils connected with our living, but also points out things that would be good for us, and altogether this short revelation covers a wide range. It is truly a law of health and those who observe to keep this Word of Wisdom will realize a blessing from it. 

The law is not only of a temporal character but is also spiritual in its operation. 

BENEFITS FROM OBSERVING LAW OF TITHING 

And now in respect to the law of tithing let me say it is about the shortest revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants — just a few words only. But in those few words is expressed the mind and will of the Lord concerning the matter of finance as affecting his Church. I am safe in saying, my brethren and sisters, that if the Latter-day Saints as a Church and as a people would observe this law strictly and pay an honest tithing, there would be sufficient means in the hands of the Trustee-in-trust of the Church for every purpose and would cover all our expenses. The only danger, I think, would then be that this people would rapidly become wealthy in the things of the earth, and in that case we would do well to remember the solemn warning given the Nephites when they had all things in common. They increased in riches and in the fine things of the earth until it affected their lives and they became proud and high minded and separated themselves one from another into classes, and finally were destroyed by the spirit of rebellion and wickedness. 

Let me call your attention to this fact in closing, brethren and sisters: When we pay to the Lord his part of our revenue, which is 10%, he does not take it up into heaven. The tithing is turned over to his servants on earth and goes into the treasury or storehouse of the Lord and later it is dispensed again and comes back to the people of his Church. Thus we get it all anyhow and the Church has the benefit of the full amount, but 10% the Lord claims and that should go into his storehouse. This is certainly an interesting phase of the payment of tithes. 

I wish to bear my testimony. I know without equivocation or mental reservation that this is the true Church of the Redeemer, the Church of Christ, the Firstborn, and that membership in this Church is very precious. We who have it must guard it very carefully, make every needful sacrifice and pay to the Lord what belongs to him, and in return his blessing will be given to us. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
