24
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 
154
73-74

None

None

It can never become commonplace and unimportant to speak in this pulpit. This is indeed a great responsibility. For two years I have been doing missionary work in the Northern States Mission. Distance seems to minimize your short-comings and imperfections and to magnify your virtues and your achievements. My brethren and sisters, deep in my soul I have great pride in the things you are doing and have done. 

During this Conference I have listened with pride and satisfaction to the eloquent discourses on the philisophy and doctrines underlying our great religion. This stimulates one's faith and inspires him, but these splendid doctrines are not accepted by those not of our faith; they might argue about them, but there is one argument that stands forever unanswered and unanswerable — the argument of righteous behavior. If the President of this Church were to ask every man and woman under the sound of my voice, who are free from the use of tobacco to arise, there would be very few who would remain on their seats. If he were to ask those who are not addicted to the use of strong drink in any form to manifest it by arising, most of those who are here would arise. If he were to ask those who cherish their virtue as they do the "apple of their eye" to stand up, the response would be universal. Somehow the world appreciates a religion that carries over, that registers in the lives of its adherents. 

As years and experience come to me there filters into my soul the settled conviction that Mormonism has something that the world needs, that it cannot succeed without. I do not think the world will ever emerge from the difficulties which seem to engulf it until it discovers what that something is and lives by it. 

The state of Illinois is a part of my mission. Since childhood I have heard the story of Nauvoo, but of recent years I have had frequent opportunity to walk the quiet streets of that little village and to contrast it with what it was when the Saints lived there. There is something missing now, something is gone. One cannot look across the century and see what a small group of our people, stripped of their earthly possessions — without borrowed money or material assistance from the state or nation, were able to do with nothing but their strong hands and their faith in their leader and in their Creator, without feeling in his soul that the world ought to learn the lesson which they practiced. When they reached Illinois they did not spend their days mourning over their persecutions in Missouri, bitter as they were, but they girded their loins, forgot their troubles and compelled the uncultivated earth to yield them a subsistence. 

The people of this generation should learn the lessons demonstrated in our history, the lesson of self-reliance, of faith in themselves, and in the Almighty. Through our present efforts to perpetuate this spirit of self-reliance we have won a place in public favor never before enjoyed by us. We do not appreciate the prominence that we have won through this effort. The world is coming to see us — to see how we do it. To use the common phrase — “We are on the spot” and every man who has a modicum of patriotism is his blood, who loves the Gospel and loves his people has an opportunity now to demonstrate it — not by facing flashing bayonets or enduring great physical hardships, but by the simple process of living his religion. If we have faith enough to do this we are destined to become the pride and glory of the earth.

I know that Mormonism is true. I have known it all my life, but I never before saw so clearly its grandeur and its beauty. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us all to preach the Gospel abroad by living it at home. We are moving forward and with the help of our Heavenly Father we will win. May this be our happy lot, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus — Amen.
