17
Afternoon
03 04 1938
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
54-57

None

None

My mind and heart are filled with the many holy thoughts that have been expressed at the meetings of this Conference. I am always grateful when I have the opportunity of listening to the word of God as expressed by his servants. 

A passage of scripture, familiar to every one present, is that found in the book of James of the New Testament. It reads: 

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. 

These are the words that had such a great influence on the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and as a result of his reading them, he went into the woods and prayed for wisdom and understanding, and God answered him by his very presence. 

A few days ago, we had a very distinguished visitor at the University — Sir Herbert Ames. Versed as he is in world affairs, it was only recently that he had a personal interview with the famous dictator, Adolph Hitler of Germany. In a lecture before the students of the University, he took for his subject: "Conditions in Germany Today". The picture he drew of Germany and the youth of that land was anything but encouraging. He told us that all boys above the age of twelve years are put under heavy drill every day, and are clothed with black shirts, the uniform for the youth as prescribed by the Hitler government. In the public schools, they learn how to give the Nazi sign. By the time the boys are eighteen years of age, they are ready to learn the military tactics of their country. Every boy then is given a musket, and until he is thirty-five years of age, the daily drill teaches him the science of warfare. In this manner, the slogan of the old military leader, Bismarck, is kept alive, which was, "Might makes Right". The youth of Germany are becoming war-minded as never before. During the past hundred years Europe has been steeped in warfare. She has literally been "washed in blood." Today every European nation is preparing for war, except the smaller nations like Holland and Scandinavia. 

A thoughtful question was asked of the distinguished scholar by a student of affairs. It was: "What can we do to off-set the military-mindedness of Europeans today?" It was a pointed question, and an interesting one. Have we not inherited the spirit of warfare from our ancestors who went forth to war to protect their homes, and then for conquest? It seems that modern man inherits all the innate pugnacity and all the love of glory of his ancestors. Today the horrors of war become man's fascination. War is the "strong life," we are told, and "war taxes are the only ones that we do not hesitate to pay." 

Our ideals here in America are those that are far aloof from the ideals of conquest and loot. The ideal of American civic liberty has always kept the Government from war for conquest. The Government of the United States has never gone to war except for the protection of her ideals and for the protection of her people. 

I do not speak as a Pacifist. The Latter-day Saints are not pacifists as that term is understood today. In the past, our people have protected the flag of their country, and our ancestors took their part in the American Revolution, which resulted in the writing of the Constitution of the United States. The Latter-day Saints will always be found protecting the Constitution of this Government. 

What will off-set war? What will become the religious equivalent of war? As I have said, we have inherited the war-like type. Our ancestors have bred pugnacity into our bone and marrow. Let public opinion vote for war, nothing can stop or prevent our going to war. I believe that the Latter-day Saints have both the moral and religious equivalent of war. Should the noted British lecturer and statesman attend our Priesthood meeting this evening to be held in this famous old building, he would find ten thousand men disciplined for peace — disciplined in the principles of law and justice, love for all people, and for peace for all mankind. And then should all the brethren of the Priesthood gather here, there would easily be ten times ten thousand with the same dreams and ideals. These men are disciplined not for war, but for peace, for the love of mankind and God. What finer nucleus could one find for the moral and religious equivalent of war? It shows that the martial type of character can be bred without war. What is needed then is for us to inflame the civic temper, as in the past nations have inflamed the military temper. Should a stranger see the Priesthood assembled tonight, he would be convinced that this organized body of men is given to the ideal of the most peaceful of activities, namely, service for God. 

The only thing then that is going to overcome war and bring peace is man himself — man in the social and religious group, disciplining himself in the ways of the Lord, disciplining his thought, purifying his heart, and uniting in one great plan of the Priesthood of God. This will be the moral and religious equivalent of war. 

Said the distinguished English stateman: "The people who prepare for war have a battle-cry." So we have a battle-cry. The cry is contained in these words: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." Every soul has the right to ask for wisdom. And yet there are hundreds of "battle cries" for peace that might be sounded. May I propose another. In a few days the Easter Day will be celebrated in all Christendom. What nobler words could be taken for the regeneration of man and his purification than the words of St. Mark in his description of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord? 

And when the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. 

And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. 

And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 

And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away; for it was very great. 

And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. 

And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted; ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here; Behold the place where they laid him. 

But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. 

War is an evil thing, and the only way to fight evil is to adopt some divine plan of campaign, given to us in the religion of Jesus Christ our Lord. Overcome evil with good. This is the secret of the battle against wrong. Evil is potent because it has control of the hearts of men. 

The Priesthood of God is the religious and moral equivalent of war, and we all pray in our hearts that this movement may grow until it fills the hearts of all people of the earth, for it will be the power for enduring peace. When this condition comes about, it will change everything. I can see the joy of women and little children some day, I can see cities and great spaces full of happiness, when war shall have ceased and the Kingdom of God has been established among men. 

It is Easter time. May we not fill our minds and hearts with the holier thoughts of thanksgiving and love for all mankind? May not the peace of our resurrected Savior fill the whole world with its light? We who labor for ideals which make for triumphant living have the resources of God on our side, and in this confidence it is possible for the ways of God to triumph. We must work and pray incessantly that his Kingdom may be established over all the earth. It is the illumination from on high that will awaken humanity to their divine worth and power. The light may be spreading slowly, but it is destined to find the hearts of all people. If any of us lack wisdom, let us ask of God. We will receive the divine answer. That the Lord may bless us all, I ask in his name. Amen.
