43
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder Legrand Richards 
171
119-120

None

None

I have had the privilege, my brethren and sisters, of standing before you upon various occasions in general conference, but I have never felt so humble as today. 

I feel very grateful that the Presidency of this Church and the General Authorities have had confidence enough in me to nominate me to be appointed to this new position, and I feel grateful to you, the Latter-day Saints, for your sustaining vote. I love these men and I love the Church, and I am sure the Lord knows that there is not a place in the world that I would not go, because of my love for and testimony of the Gospel. 

I am very happy to be associated with the Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for every opportunity of service that has come to me in the past. I feel that the Lord owes me nothing. All I have done for the Church I have done because I love the Church and because I love the Lord, and the Lord does not owe me a thing. I was grateful that I was able to successfully drop back into my business, so that the people would not think that I was dependent upon the Church. 

Now I feel that, unless the Lord comes to my aid, I shall be a very weak man to follow Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon. I know him well and I love him. He was my mission president when I filled my first mission in Holland. He released me from that mission. 

I have watched him and have admired him, and when the President told me today that he was going to be sustained as an Apostle I was not surprised; I have always thought that that would be his final appointment in the Church. I used to sit as a boy, in the mission field, when he was talking to investigators, and watch him. It was as though the light of truth was streaming from his eyes, as he explained the glorious principles of the Gospel to those who were searching after truth. 

I want to say to you men who bear the Priesthood, and those of you who are in positions of responsibility, whom I may be called upon to contact in this new assignment that has come to me, I hope you will never be afraid of me. I hope you will not hesitate to come into my office. I hope you will feel free to write, if there is anything that I can do to help you. I am willing to give all I have, and all the Lord will give to me, to help this work roll onward and upward to the destiny which I know the Lord has decreed for it. I have often said I wish the world could see it as God sees it, and know it as he knows it. Sometimes I wish the Latter-day Saints could see it as God sees it, and know it as he knows it. 

I want to say to you that there is no achievement that can ever come in the lives of my own children that will be so pleasing to me as to know that their lives shall be lives of service to this great Church. 

God bless our leaders, and God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may I enjoy your faith and prayers to enable me to fill my mission as the Lord has appointed, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
