30
Morning
06 04 1938
Elder M. Charles Woods
233
88-90

None

None

I have often sat looking from the other end of this house, but I think that perhaps other than from the choir seats, I never before looked out from the pulpit. Realizing there are many people who attend Conference I have often thought, surely it would be an awe-inspiring sight to look over the great congregation. 

My family and I returned from New Zealand night before last, coming home from the coast by way of Los Angeles and the desert. Just prior to our leaving we met Elder George Albert Smith and Elder Rufus K. Hardy. Brother Hardy formerly presided there. We saw them for a day only, as their boat stopped over in New Zealand on its way to Australia. 

I contemplate speaking to you sometime so that I may tell you the many good things that came into our hearts and our home in that land. New Zealand is a land as far south on the other side of the equator as we are north. Its largest city, Auckland, is a city larger than Salt Lake. The climate is not like Hawaii, neither is it like the other islands of the South Seas. The South and North Islands form the great island of New Zealand. It is as large in its extent as the State of Utah. I think it could perhaps be called — as it is very often called— The Britain of the South Seas. You distinguish it from the other islands of the Pacific by the icy fingers which reach skyward on both islands, and by its emerald color so different from the desert that I have just crossed. 

And in passing may I say for the first time I was a little ashamed of my people as I drove up through the south end of this state, and I hope I will not see the same picture when I go farther north. The barns, chicken coops, and other buildings are not a credit to this people, that is all I have to say along that line; but perhaps, having a little of the artistic in my own nature I should say that some paint would do wonders, and if the old gunny sacks hanging on the chicken coops were taken down and something else put there in their place, it would be very helpful. 

Paint does wonderful things for both people and places. I know that in one case it covers a multitude of skins, while in the other a multitude of sins. 

I can also say that I noticed some of your meeting houses in the south end of the State, the grounds of which had been landscaped but are in many cases sadly neglected. I saw only a few from the road. I heard the young man who was driving us home in his car remark that he admired the people for planting the grounds, but he disliked his people for letting them go uncared for. 

I do not know exactly what to say, but to tell you that your boys — or I should say young men — are well. I have taken them to my heart as my own. You have lost a part of your sons for they are partly mine. A man said to me before I left: "Elder Woods, the finest thing that could come into a man's life is contact with fine young spirits." We have found this to be quite true, and perhaps one of the great compensations which is now ours. We expect joy in both this life and in eternity because of these contacts. I have often joked with the Elders, telling them that all a mission president and his family need to do for a livelihood would be to visit their homes and live with them and their relations, continuously feasting with them on the fat of the land and enjoying their wholesome spirits. 

My two sons have been on missions in Germany, so my entire family has spent time in the mission field. I do not know how many years it would be, but we are happy for everyone of them, and the contact with your fine sons has added a charm to all our lives. 

I bring to you a fine report from the Saints, as one has just been read here. I think perhaps it comes from Elder George Albert Smith. 

I remember having been the cause of sending conference greetings to you a time or two while we were away. 

Really this crowd over-awes me; I am not thinking properly, I am just standing here seeing the sea of faces that are before me. It reminds me of looking down upon the many upturned faces as we stood on the deck of the vessel before we sailed from the shores of New Zealand. 

We have been treated very kindly by the New Zealand government. Our records are constantly used to determine old age pensions, etc. There is a kindly feeling between the government officers and our Mission office. There has also been a most friendly spirit with the office of the American Consul. Mr. Walter I. Boyle, who until recently has been American Consul in Auckland for many years, has often invited us to his home and many social gatherings. 

The Church owns property in New Zealand and the Elders who are among the Maori people have their own homes, the headquarters of the different districts. The Elders laboring among the Europeans are not so fortunate, but are still paying their board as other missionaries do. Your sons among the Maoris are not doing regular preaching, but are acting like bishops and helping with the taking care of the sick, building and gardening and other things to further the mission work. The Elders are all very happy, they love the people of New Zealand and I bring their greetings to you Saints here in Zion. 

May God bless you and make you dear to me again as you always have been, make you more dear than you have heretofore been, and I ask his blessings upon this work and those who are still conducting the great ship of Zion, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
