41
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder Merrill D. Clayson 
241
116-117

None

None

I bring to you today the greetings of nineteen thousand Saints, situated in sixty-eight branches and ten districts in the Southern States Mission. I sincerely trust that the time will come when these sixty-eight branches may be christened as wards, and these ten districts as stakes of Zion. I only wish, today, that more of our people might be here to enjoy the spiritual feast that this conference affords. It is the life-long ambition of many of these worthy Saints to have the opportunity, some day, to come to this great gathering and enjoy the feast that you people receive here. 

I am happy to report to you today that the hundred and twenty-five missionaries laboring in the Southern States Mission are well and enjoying their labors. I appreciate with all my heart, and more than words can tell, the opportunity of working with your sons and your daughters in that mission. Together, we are attempting to solve the problems that are presented in carrying the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the honest in heart. 

I am grateful that a humble Mormon Elder delivered a Gospel tract at my grandmother's house in England, brought her into the Church, and thus made it possible for me to be born here in the land of Zion and enjoy the wonderful benefits that come to us through the association and influence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Mormonism does more for its members than any other force in all the world today. I often think that we do not appreciate its great value, influence, and what it has meant to us in our lives. If we were stripped of all its truths, of all the influences that it has contributed to our character and lives and then stand off to one side and see what is left, I believe we would appreciate, more than any other time in our lives, just what Mormonism has meant to us. 

Too often people look at Mormonism, accept two or three of its principles that do not conflict with their philosophy and living, and think that they are Mormons. Others look upon baptism as the beginning and end of their religion. Others use it as a philosophy to ponder over in their more serious moods but never make it a part of their lives. The great blessings that come to us come through the acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its completeness. I am sincerely convinced that the paths that lead to health and happiness, the paths that lead to progress and the abundant life, are paved with the eternal truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It is my testimony to you people today that Mormonism is a greater builder of character and human personality than all the philosophies and man-made religions of the world. God bless us and help us to see and understand it in its completeness, and live it, and thus bring to ourselves health, happiness, progress, and salvation, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
