40
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder Harold W. Pratt 
173
115-116

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel very humble in occupying your time at the end of this conference session, and I pray for your faith and prayers while I may occupy this position for a few moments. 

We have been told, and we realize from reading the signs of the times, that we are passing through a dangerous evolution, or I should say, revolution. Perhaps in Mexico we see more closely and feel more intensely this revolutionary movement. Things are happening so rapidly that we are unable to keep up, or to foretell what may be the next step. 

Brother Ballard, in his talk, drew our attention to the fact that we are of Israel, that we have been gathered out from among the nations of the earth for a glorious purpose, to serve as a city set upon a hill, and to guide those who are honest in heart through this perilous revolutionary period. He has told us that we are charged with taking the Gospel to that remnant of the House of Israel who are not of Ephraim. 

We, in Mexico, have that charge directly. I am glad to report to you that we are making progress, that the revolution and evolution there going on is indeed the work of our Heavenly Father, preparing that people to accept the blessings that have been promised to them through their forefathers. 

We see there, however, the power of the Evil One also laboring and struggling to win souls away from our Heavenly Father and from his cause. We know that he realizes that the time is near at hand when the Gospel will be restored to that people, and that he is making every attempt to thwart those purposes and to make it impossible that those prophecies be fulfilled. 

But I wish to bear to you my testimony that I know, as I know that I live, that this Gospel is true, that it has been restored for the last time, and that the prophecies that our Heavenly Father has made will be fulfilled. He is doing his part. He is preparing the way. We, my brothers and sisters, have the responsibility of carrying out our part also, and we can do this only by accepting and adhering to the instructions given by our inspired leaders, even those instructions that we have here received in this conference. 

I plead with you, my brethren and sisters, to live the Word of Wisdom, as we have been instructed to do; to pay your tithes and offerings; to rally around the welfare work administration, to support it; to demonstrate, with your lives and with your actions, that you do love your Heavenly Father with all your heart, might, mind and strength, and that you love your neighbor as yourself; that in very deed we do become and continue to be what we are charged with being, — a light unto the world, that through our lives and our good works men may come to glorify our Father which is in heaven, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.
