38
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder David A. Broadbent
240 
111-113

None

None

Brethren and sisters, I realize that these are valuable moments. I come to you with the greetings of ninety glorious youths laboring in our mission. I have met them all within the month, and they are well, happy, and enjoying their labors. 

I desire, for the few moments given to me, to speak of a phase of missionary life which has not been touched upon by my fellow associates of the mission presidents. 

Recently there was a great gathering of the Ministerial Association of the State of Minnesota, in the city of St. Paul. They spent a long half day upon the question of Mormonism. Among other things that they presented were their objections to such glorious messages as we have just listened to from our beloved President Clark, as being nonreligious, but as being "spiritualized ethics." They took exception to the wonderful message in the book prepared by Dr. F. S. Harris and his associate editor, "The Fruits of Mormonism," because it was prepared by Mormons. 

They took grave exceptions to the most recent article on the Mormon question which has found its way into the Encyclopedia Britannica, because Senator Reed Smoot wrote it, and it was not publicized that he was also a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. It appeared that everything they did and said was like the proverbial "drowning man grasping for a straw." They also made very much of the fact that we are over-advertised in our Church Security Program. 

I sat in this building two years ago, and I recall very distinctly that President Grant suggested to the gallery of reporters who were here: "We want no word published from this meeting. When we are ready to give our message to the public we will give them through the press our position on this matter, and we will add to it as we desire from time to time." 

As this gathering of the ministerial association closed its report, this was the concluding paragraph: (I am reading from their own published statement) 

In the interest of Christianity and Mormonism, our plea is, though not formally stated, for Protestant people to inform themselves on the subject of Mormonism, and likewise to inform themselves on the principles of their own faith, for only then can an intelligent understanding of Mormon problems be effected. 

We are grateful for that admonition on the part of that great gathering of ministers. 

I have the privilege of living in the same city, as the headquarters of our mission, where one of the greatest national authorities on temperance resides, Dr. W. G. Calderwood. A member of the Minnesota Temperance Organization came to me wanting to know more about the Word of Wisdom, but he said: "I represent one of the great insurance companies. We have come to the conclusion, since we have been studying for the past three years, that from eighty to ninety per cent of all of the automobile accidents are caused as a result of the use of liquor. We have about come to the conclusion that we can offer two types of insurance and give those who are total abstainers a twenty-five per cent better policy than those who are users of liquor." 

One of the finest ladies from the city of Minneapolis, which is a city of five hundred thousand population, came to me immediately after that meeting, and she said: "I have been assigned, by my Ladies' Christian organization, to bring to them the message of Mormonism." After we studied for two hours or more she said: "This is such a magnificent message that I am sure I shall have to come again." 

Two of the students from the Social Science Department of the University of Minnesota came in and spent the greater part of an afternoon. Each of them was assigned from the Social Science Department of that institution. One of them said: "We want to know the motivating influence of Mormonism." The other: "It is my mission to find out about the organization and the administration of the Mormon Church." When I had spent several hours with them they were totally astonished to find that they had only gotten a very small fraction of the message of Mormonism, as we are teaching it to the world, and have been for the past hundred years. 

While I was touring the mission recently a chief of four thousand Indians of the Fort Peck Reservation came to me. He is a member of the Catholic Church, but his wife is a Mormon. Every creed, probably, that can be found in America is represented among those Indians. He said: "We have been together; we have laid aside all of our differences, political and religious, and we have definitely come to the conclusion that no one can help us or will help us unselfishly in our problems, except as we may be able to get assistance from the Mormon people." 

The banker of Wolf Point, Montana, where these Indians live, made a similar request, a chief business man likewise, saying: "We are holding certain interests, waiting for the Mormons to come and assist us, for we know, through studying their past history, that they will treat our people honestly, and teach them how to get the most value from the soil. 

One of the most significant things that has come out of that particular gathering of ministers was a request from the editor and publisher of a paper that goes to all Veterans. He requested that I should give the Latter-day Saint message for his Christmas issue. I modified a previous message of the First Presidency, and brought it down to date and made it local in touch, and sent it in. I was very much surprised to find that they published every single word, a column and a half, and gave my name and the address of the headquarters of the mission. 

They came back recently and I gave them a second article as a message for Easter, on the same line, emphasizing "Peace on earth and good will toward men," and love of fellow men rather than war as the Easter spirit. 

I was requested, over the phone, by a director or manager of a railroad publication, known as "The National Railroad Review," to take space with them, assisting them in a drive for greater state and national security from the standpoint of retirement. The principal heading of this particular issue, was: "The Inadequacy of Pension, as we have it at the present time." 

While I was listening and thinking of the attitude of the Presidency of the Church, and our people generally, I determined that I could not represent the Church in joining with a company asking that we shall require that all men shall be forced to go into retirement at the age of sixty-five and may retire at sixty. The thought of President Grant's wonderful definition of age, came to me while I still held the phone, and I said: "I will take space, and will send the message in." For I knew that all our missionaries are receiving concessions from the railroad. 

I read from that particular issue: 

AGE 

Age is a quality of mind: 
If your dreams you've left behind, 
If hope is cold, 
If you no longer look ahead, 
If your ambition's fires are dead, 
Then you're old. 

But if from life you take the best, 
And if in Life you keep the zest, 
If Love you hold; 
No matter how the years go by, 
No matter how the birthdays fly, 
You are not old. 

Compliments of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
3240 Park Avenue, Minneapolis. 

For their next quarterly issue, they said: "We gave you a double space for your last article, will you give us another of the same type?" I expect, when I return, to find a similar one, this time giving the Prophet Joseph Smith's definition of religion and salvation. 

God is blessing us. We are gloriously happy in our mission, and the Saints and Elders send greetings. 

May the Lord continue to bless and prosper our eighty-two year old youthful Prophet, that he, with his associates, inspired leadership of the Church, may continue to guide us into all truth. But I pray more fervently — for I know they are being guided — I pray more fervently for me and you, and for all Israel, that we shall not sell our birthright for a cigarette, a glass of beer, a cup of tea or coffee; or for refusing to make the world understand that we are not over-advertised in our great Security Program, but that we shall rally to the leadership which is ours in making it a reality. 

God grant that his blessings may be upon us all, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
