37
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder William T. Tew, Jr. 
239
109-110

None

None

Not only do mission presidents preside in the mission field without counselors, but usually they are kept on the anxious seat throughout the conference here. I am thankful for this opportunity of being here this afternoon. I am thankful to President Grant for calling me at this hour. 

Today is the hundred and eighth anniversary of the organization of this Church. All day I have been looking back, in my mind, to that little group of six men in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, in the living room of Peter Whitmer, where this Church was organized a hundred and eight years ago. In a way I have tried to visualize the progress, the expansion, the development, the power and the influence this Church has wielded and how it has grown during this century of progress. 

On the 30th of September, 1937, I noticed the following quotation in the Deseret News. There had assembled, in this city, leaders of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. They adjourned on the 30th of September, with this conclusion: 

That realism must replace sentimentalism, and conviction must take the place of emotionalism, if Christianity is to be employed in the solution of the world's ills. 

We have known that for a century or more. If there is any one thing in the world that this Church does stand for, it is realism and not sentimentalism; conviction and not emotionalism. 

Brethren and sisters and friends, I rejoice in the fact that I am called to preside over one of the missions of this Church. I rejoice in the young men and young women who are sent unto us in the mission fields. They are outstanding in their characters, in their determination to serve the Lord. Their testimonies are firm and steadfast. They have visions of what they want to do and where they want to go. They carry with them a wonderful influence. I bring you, fathers and mothers, their greetings, their love, their affection, and their regard for you. They are loyal to this Church. 

I feel to confess today that as far as I am concerned I am in perfect accord with the leadership of this Church, with the principles they proclaim. I know, as you know, that the Savior gave us the key of testimony when he said, that if a man will do the will of the Father he shall know of the doctrine. The converse of that is also true, my brothers and sisters: When we cease to do the will of the Father, we lose our testimonies of the Gospel and we forget the doctrine. When we begin to compromise, and sift out, and reject certain phases of the Gospel, we are on dangerous ground. 

I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for membership in this Church, which has stood the test of a century and more of progress, down to this particular period of time. I want to bring you this message, and leave it with you today, that not only we but other churches recognize our position in the world. 

In Fort Wayne, Indiana, on the 11th day of November, 1937, there was announced, by the Council of the Methodist Church a spiritual crusade which was to be launched among their members, looking toward a revival of devotional convictions. The thing that attracted my attention was this: The crusade will begin with a united council, on the furtherance of faith and service, to be held in Chicago. The focus of attention and effort will be upon the rank and file of the younger generation. Bishop Edgar Blake, of the Detroit area, announced: "You can't build the new order with the old men, men whose hearts are still worshiping the idols that are falling all around us." 

What a pity it is, my brethren and sisters, that after a century of time these men are just now realizing that the idols that they have worshiped for so many centuries are beginning to fall, and that the young men are the ones on whom they should focus their attention. As a matter of fact these idols began to fall more than a century ago when the Lord laid the axe at the root of the trees of false teachings in the Sacred Grove. 

Thank God for our Mutual Improvement organization, for our Church school system. Remember, my brethren and sisters, that conservation of the youth of Zion is desired far above reclamation. 

May we live our religion. May we teach our boys and girls. May the work of the Lord progress and increase until it fills the earth. Let us support and sustain our leaders, our prophets, seers and revelators, not only with our hands but with our actions, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
