35
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
98-102

None

None

On the sacred pages of the Book of Mormon these eternal truths appear: 

Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore they speak the words of Christ. (2 Nephi 32:3.) 

And again: 

For when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men. (2 Nephi 33:1.) 

A man is fearfully and wonderfully made. In this earthen vessel are heavenly treasures — an immortal spirit of which God is the Father, the immortal Priesthood and the immortal gift of the Holy Ghost. Surely we ought not to defile the temple of the Holy Ghost by using things which our Father hath forbidden. 

Quite recently one of the foremost captains of British industry visited Canada, and in the course of a public address gave this forceful admonition: "Do not think," he said, "that education weans you from the spiritual law." He was, of course, referring to education in a broad sense, to the schooling we receive in the University of Life. But when the spiritual law is subordinated to the selfish plans and feelings of men, misery steps in. If the spiritual law were dominant in the hearts of men there would be no wars. With few exceptions every war has been "a rich man's war and a poor man's fight." It is said that three-fourths of the men who fought in the Confederate Army never owned a slave. 

President Brigham Young called Karl G. Maeser, the great educator, to go to Provo to organize and conduct an academy to be established in the name of the Church — a Church school. Before leaving for Provo to start his work he went to President Young and said: "Have you any instructions to give me?" 

The President looked steadily forward for a few moments, as though in deep thought, then said: "Brother Maeser, I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God. That is all. God bless you. Goodbye." That was Dr. Maeser's guiding star. By that spirit he reached the hearts and touched the lives of thousands for good and brought them into that true idealism — the right of the spiritual law to be uppermost in the hearts of men. 

The work of the Holy Ghost is wonderful. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "You might as well baptize a bag of sand as a man if not done in view of the remission of sins and getting of the Holy Ghost. Baptism by water is but half a baptism, and is good for nothing without the other half — that is, the baptism of the Holy Ghost." The regenerating and cleansing power of the Spirit is a blessing from heaven. 

Jesus Christ tells us that "whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." We are told to rise above all carnal desires, to walk uprightly, conquering self, which will give us the testimony that we are pleasing God. But how can men do these things without that greater power of righteousness in their souls that the Holy Ghost brings to them; that great regenerating force which enables them to cast from them lust, evil thoughts, and the thought of doing things that will hurt their fellow creatures? This great strength, the powerful operation of the Holy Ghost will make one shake at the very appearance of evil. 

There is another office of the Holy Ghost: He will guide into all truth. The Lord Jesus said: 

Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak; and he will show you things to come. 

He shall glorify me; for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 

And again he said: 

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. 

I hope that every man in this vast congregation will bear in mind this holy truth so that when he returns to his home this great Remembrancer will bring to his heart and to his mind, in the moment of his need, the instructions he has received from this pulpit by the servants of the Lord. 

"He will guide you into all truth." What is truth? "And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." What a broad, comprehensive definition of truth the Lord gives! And because we are guided into all truth by that infallible guide, the Comforter, we hold dear to our hearts these great fundamental principles: The divine parentage and the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, his crucifixion and divine atonement, the glorious resurrection, eternal life, the eternity of the marriage covenant, — all of which bring forth joys inexpressible, the unspeakable gifts of God, manifested to our souls by the Holy Spirit. 

The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart. 

Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground. 

The Holy Ghost is an infallible witness that God is no respecter of persons. Stake presidents, bishops and all officers in the Church may have for their guidance and direction in the duties with which they are entrusted this blessed spirit of inspiration, so that they will hear behind them a voice, "This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand or when ye turn to the left." 

The Holy Ghost is the genius of the Holy Priesthood. Remove from this body of men, clothed with this power, dispossess them, if that were possible of the guiding influence of the spirit of revelation and they would be as unproductive in the ministry as the dry sand on the seashore. 

The spirit of revelation directs the leaders of the Church in the appointment of officers. They pray to the Lord. "Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen." The Lord is the searcher of the heart. He knows the qualifications, the most secret purposes and intentions and dispositions of all men. Every man whom we have sustained by our vote this afternoon, in the position to which he has been appointed, that man, I testify, has been chosen by the spirit of revelation, by the Holy Ghost, which, as I have stated is the genius of the Priesthood. While this spirit remains in the Church— and it will remain forever — we need not be afraid that we will be led astray, for God loves us. He loves the men whom he has appointed and he will move upon them, by the Holy Spirit, to select men whom he has chosen to be overseers of the flock, "to feed the Church of God." 

The Holy Ghost is the testimony of Jesus. "No man," said the Apostle Paul, "can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." The Savior declared that "the kingdom of God cometh not with observation," not by external show, for the world is deceived by outward ornament. "Man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." 

When the Savior of the world stood before that cruel judge, Pontius Pilate, and Pilate, in a sneering manner, addressed this question to the Savior, "What is truth?" the embodiment of truth was before him. Truth personified was there. But Pontius Pilate could not recognize the truth. Why? Because "the kingdom of God cometh not with observation." 

"Except a man be born again," said Jesus Christ, "he cannot see the kingdom of God," and, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." It has been said by a philosopher, that the eye sees what the mind brings it the power to see. The talented artist, the organist who presides at the console of this world famous Tabernacle organ, reads the music and translates it into wonderful harmonies. I can see the notes as well as he can but I cannot interpret them because the power is not in my mind. I am not a musician. This organist has acquired this technical training. He sees what the mind gives him the power to see and interprets the written notes into this beautiful melody and heavenly music which we have enjoyed at this conference. 

The Latter-day Saints have the Holy Ghost in their hearts. John Wesley rose to a great height of inspiration when he said: "We through the Holy Ghost can witness better things." Because we have the gift of the Spirit we can behold all the wonderful truths of the Gospel. We know the kingdom of God is on the earth. Any man that has the Comforter will never deny that the Constitution of the United States is inspired, but he will revere it for the Lord directed the men who wrote that glorious instrument. 

Jesus asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon-Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father whiich is in heaven. 

And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. (Matthew 16:13-18.) 

Brethren and sisters, may I in humility and in the spirit of testimony, declare in the fear of God, and in the presence of angels, for I believe there are beings here from the other world listening to what we are saying, that I believe with all my heart and know that this Church is built upon the rock of revelation, and I testify to you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he was a great revelator in the hands of the Lord to deliver unto mankind the glorious truths of the Gospel. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TESTIMONY 

Joesph Smith, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through whose instrumentality the Lord established his Church upon the earth for the last time, thus testifies of the resurrected Christ: 

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him; That He lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father. 

Joseph sealed the truth of his noble testimony by his death. 

I testify, that President Heber J. Grant is moved by the Holy Ghost, by the spirit of revelation, to lead and to guide this people. The introduction of this Church Welfare movement has already increased faith. It has decreased selfishness. It has increased the portion of the Holy Spirit which God has given to his people. 

May we sustain our President, his counselors, and all the leaders of the Church. May we sustain the rank and file of our brethren and sisters, and praise God that this blessed gift of the Holy Ghost, the spirit of revelation, shines gloriously in this Church, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
