26
Morning
06 04 1938
Elder Elias S. Woodruff
99
83-84

None

None 

I wish I were more prepared, that I might give you a better report of the mission, but I am so thoroughly surprised that I suppose I will be like the minister we frequently tell about who left his sermon at home and told his congregation that they would have to bear with him that day since he must depend upon the Lord, but that he would be better prepared next time. 

It is a great inspiration to come to this Conference; to hear the voices of the servants of God, to mingle with the Saints and to sit in council and discuss the affairs of the Church as the mission presidents have the privilege of doing. I shall return to the mission with renewed vigor, faith and determination to discharge my duty as the presiding officer in that portion of the vineyard of the Lord. 

I am happy to be able to say to you that the work in the Central States Mission continues along in its progressive way. The Lord blesses our people in their gatherings, our meetings are better attended all the time, and they grow constantly. I am sure that faith is increasing and the spirit of happiness, concord and peace generally pervades our gatherings. 

I believe the people of that mission are trying to live their religion; they pay their tithing very well — a little improvement each year over the past, nothing spectacular. They want to do the will of the Lord and they find pleasure in his service. We have the local people doing some missionary work similar to the stake missionaries. For instance, in Kansas City all the men holding the Priesthood, who respond, hold cottage meetings among the non-members of the Church within the vicinity of their homes, and they accomplish much, I am sure. In the summer time they help us with our street meetings, when these street meetings are being held in more than one neighborhood. 

The meeting houses of the mission are most of them in very good condition. We have respectable places in which to meet. We always have our wants and our needs, even as you do at home, but generally speaking I am safe in saying, and happy to say, that the work of the Lord is progressing in that mission. 

A great responsibility is laid upon those who receive the Priesthood. When missionaries volunteer to go into the mission field, they are no longer at liberty to "choose their lives and what they'll be," because they have already chosen to serve the Master, and covenanted that they will do their part in attempting to carry the Gospel message to those to whom they are sent. 

I believe that with very few exceptions the missionaries receive their calls with due respect and reverence, and do the very best they can, human weaknesses considered, to discharge their duty. They live together in harmony, peace, and good will, and if any of them do get out of harmony, the rest of them help them to get back in. There is a genuine feeling of brotherly love among the missionaries. If they become concerned about one of their brethren, they all try to help him into a better condition. 

I rejoice in the privileges we have. I rejoice in the leadership of the Church, in the kindness and gentleness of spirit that is manifested by the General Authorities of the Church in the discharge of their duty. Those who speak of them as being dictators simply do not understand; do not know. I have never known such gentleness and kindness in my life as I have found in associating with these brethren in the limited opportunities that come to me to associate with them. I testify to you that the Spirit of the Lord inspires them and blesses them, and there is wisdom in their counsel. I have never yet made a mistake by observing the counsel that has been given to me by those who preside over me. 

May the Lord give us faith in his servants, faith to do what they ask us to do, for our own welfare and happiness, is my parting prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
