28
Morning
06 04 1938
Elder Alma L. Petersen 
232
87-88

None

None

My brethren and sisters: I trust that the short time I stand before you, you will offer a prayer to our Heavenly Father in my behalf. 

I bring to you a greeting from President Richard R. Lyman and his dear wife, who are doing a very fine work in the European Mission. I bring to you also a greeting from President Mark Garff of the Danish Mission, also the Elders and Saints there. 

I am glad to report to you — and I believe that I can say it truthfully — that never before in the history of the Danish Mission have we been so respected and so well thought of as we are at the present time. We had a wonderful harvest in the past three and a half years, and have brought many fine people into the Church. We have brought into the Church some very good Catholic people who have become faithful Latter-day Saints and are doing a fine work. 

I would be ungrateful were I not to say that we were very fortunate, while I was presiding over the Danish Mission, to have some fine brethren and sisters visit us. Brother George D. Pyper visited Denmark and visited our Sunday Schools. He did a lot of good for the Sunday School cause in the Danish Mission. We had the pleasure of having President Grant visit our mission, and I do not know of anything that did our mission so much good as the visit of himself and associates. 

I am going to call to your attention just one thing that happened. The day that President Grant arrived in Copenhagen one sister, who was a faithful Latter-day Saint, came to me and said: "President Petersen, if I can but shake his hand I know that I will be well." 

I am just citing that to show you the faith that our Saints have in the work. They are living the Gospel; I think I dare say that many of them are living the Gospel better than we are here at home. I am going to refer to one thing that happened just last month. A large convention was held in the State of New Jersey, where many of the teachers and the professors of different states were present. Helen Keller was one of the speakers at this convention, and after she had delivered her paper the reporters came to her and asked if they might ask her a personal question. She said she would be very glad to answer their questions. This is the question they asked: 

"Miss Keller, if you had the wish of your heart this day, what would you ask for?" 

She said: "If I had the wish of my heart, it would be that peace might come back to the world again." 

God bless her for such a noble wish! If I had my wish today, I do not think that I would wish for that, because I am not so sure, under present conditions, that peace would stay on the earth very long. But if I had the wish of my heart today it would be that faith would come back to the children of men, that faith would come to the nations of the earth, that faith would come back into the homes, that faith more abundant would come back into our Church, for the Lord has said we cannot please him without faith. He has also said that with faith we can remove mountains. 

God grant, my brethren and sisters, that faith may increase. "Ask and ye shall receive," is the Savior's message. May we ask, and may we seek the Lord that faith may come into our hearts, that we may serve God and keep his commandments, and I want to bear testimony to you that if we will live the Gospel we will relieve the head of this Church, the Twelve, and those who preside over us, of many of the problems that they have to battle with today. 

God grant unto each and every one of us that we may have more faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
