42
Afternoon
06 04 1938
Elder Elray L. Christiansen 
242
117-119

None

None

I realize that the time I spend here is precious, and I shall attempt to be brief as possible. 

I am happy to bring greetings from the Saints and the missionaries laboring in the great States of Texas and Louisiana. We have over six thousand Saints and about seventy-five missionaries who are diligently engaged in spreading the word of the Lord among the people there. We feel that we are making definite progress in most respects, and that people are increasing their respect for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we are welcome to be heard in most places where we make the effort. 

I feel it is a great privilege to labor there and go about feeling the Spirit of the Lord guiding us, taking us to the honest in heart. The accomplishments of these fine missionaries, the testimonies and blessings they are receiving give me the assurance that the Lord will bless those who obey him. To see them come into the field, humble, untrained, and sometimes rough in their ways, then to watch them develop so rapidly that they can confound the wise and teach the great, is an inspiration indeed to me. 

I am happy for those young men and women you have sent to us. They are all well. I should make one exception. We have one in the hospital now, but he is doing very well. Outside of that, they are all in good health and happy. And we have some old missionaries as well; three of them. One faithful brother who is sixty-eight years of age this month, who before going into the field himself had sent three sons on foreign missions and supported them with the labor of his own hands, and he is climaxing that service by contributing a great work himself. Besides that, another man who has left a family of ten, is happily engaged in the work of the Lord, and is bringing results. The third one by accident lost a son, and from that accident drew some insurance money. Instead of spending that insurance money on a new automobile, or some other thing, he spent it serving the Lord on a mission himself, and he claims that it is the greatest investment that he ever made. 

We are happy for the faith of the members. They have shown their great faith and devotion by a decided increase in their tithes and their offerings; over twenty per cent increase in tithing, and a ten per cent increase in fast offerings, and they are happy because of that. 

We are simply building on the foundation that has been laid by my predecessors, President Peterson, President Rowan and President Bennion, all of whom have left good names and good works in that field. 

I am thankful for the Temple Block Mission, not alone for the names that they send us, with whom we can make contacts, but for the fine impression of the truth that they give to people who come here. It is a great help indeed to have them receive the right understanding and the right impression. Most visitors who come here we find have a splendid report and opinion of the Latter-day Saints. Anything that any of you can do, by your good works to give the right impression and the truth of Mormonism, reflects directly back into the mission, and makes our work that much more effective. 

How we rejoice when a member from Zion comes into the mission field, who is living up to the word of the Lord! He is a living testimony, and he hardly needs to open his mouth to deliver a powerful sermon on the virtues of Mormonism. The Lord has told us that he has "sent the everlasting covenant into the world, to be a light to the world and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it; and to be a messenger before my face, to prepare the way before me". 

Brethren and sisters, if we could only realize the importance of this, and let the Gospel principles be a standard in our lives from day to day, how we should be blessed! We would find great compensation and joy by doing that, even more diligently than we have. The Gospel is a light and a guide. We hear it said that this is a lost generation, that there is a crisis facing religion, and I believe there is generally.  

I heard an eminent church man, not long ago, declare to his congregation that what we need now is a realistic, practical theology for the world; that divine guidance is the only solution for its problems; that there is a need of a prophet among us. He hopes that that prophet will soon come forth. 

Thank God that we have that realistic theology, that we have that divine guidance, that we have that prophet! Thank the Lord for the presence and leadership of Heber J. Grant, our president, and these inspired men who are associated with him. 

Let us be examples to the world. Let us arise and shine forth as the Lord has told us to do, and we shall find great joy, as I say, in doing good works. Let us determine to be examples and worthy representatives, and the Lord will bless us. 

I shall not talk longer. I pray the Lord's blessings upon all of you, and we want you to pray for us who are working in the mission in Texas and Louisiana. We are proud of that great country. It is a beautiful portion of our nation, and we are happy to be engaged in the work of the Lord there. 

God bless you all, Amen.
