Afternoon
03 04 1924



PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

I am dependent this afternoon upon the Lord and the faith of the congregation for what I shall say. We had a very excellent meeting this morning. I trust that the Lord by his spirit will continue to be with us. 

A CONUNDRUM 

I have in my hands an article entitled "Happiness," written by Bruno Lessing. I will read a few lines of said article. 

"Many a philosopher has propounded the conundrum, What is the object of life? Why have we been placed upon this planet, to struggle along for a few years and then to die ? Has a beneficent Providence some scheme which we cannot fathom?' This conundrum has not yet been answered." 

THE ANSWER 

In reply to these words I may say that the conundrum here spoken of has been answered, and that a beneficent Providence has some scheme which we are able to fathom in order to arrive at a satisfactory solution of this great and important question, "What is the object of life?" We must necessarily hark back to the pre-existent state of our spirits. I know that this will seem to be a strange doctrine to many — the pre-existence of our spirits — but the scriptures are replete with references to this important subject. We are living here now. We lived before we came here. Let me submit a scripture or two bearing upon this subject : 

Hebrews 12:9: "Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence : shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?" 

Numbers 16 :22 : "And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation?" 

Ecclesiastes 12:7: "Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was : and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it." 

WE WERE THE CHILDREN OF GOD IN THE SPIRIT WORLD 

Now, brethren and sisters and friends, as a matter of fact, and as these scriptures which I have read, and many other scriptures, indicate, we existed before we came here and belonged to a great family of spirits in heaven. We speak of our Father in heaven. Jesus said, When you pray, say, "Our Father which art in heaven." We were his children in spirit, in heaven, and suffice it to say we also have a mother in heaven. There were parents in heaven — parents and children. 

THE PURPOSE OF THE CREATION OF THE WORLD 

Let me say to you that when the earth was organized and rolled into existence, the Lord had a great and glorious purpose in view, and it was that these sons and daughters in the spirit world should come down to the earth and inhabit it. Now the first great creative act in the beginning of the world indicates the importance of this subject. We read in Genesis 2:7: 

"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul." 

MAN'S CREATION 

What a wonderful, marvelous statement this is. Think, my brethren and sisters, what it signifies! We learn from this passage that man could only develop into a perfect soul by taking a body. Perhaps that passage might be better understood if it were rendered in a little different way but with the same meaning — The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils his spirit, and man became a living soul. It is the spirit which is the breath of life. And so man never did develop, and never could have developed into a perfect soul without the body. And thus we begin to get an insight into the purpose of life. The Lord said in one of the revelations to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, section 88 : 

"And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." 

REDEMPTION THROUGH THE GOSPEL AND TPIE RESURRECTION 

So that we get the impression from these scriptures that when man comes into the world, as we have done, he begins almost from the first to look forward to the redemption of his soul through the resurrection. And how may this redemption be accomplished ? The answer has a bearing directly upon the object and purpose of life. Surely no man can be redeemed except he will obey the commandments of God. I take it that redemption means that we are redeemed from sickness, disease, trouble, sorrow and sin; and that can only be brought about through obedience, as T said, to the commandments of God. These commandments of the Almighty are set forth in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and if men reject the gospel how can they hope to come into the Church and kingdom of God, and be saved and redeemed? 

You will remember doubtless the conversation between Nicodemus and the Savior, when Nicodemus came to him privately by night, in order possibly to get further light and information. He confessed that he knew the Savior was a prophet because of the great works he had done. The Savior made what might seem to be a peculiar answer. He said: "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of God." That was very confusing to Nicodemus. He could not comprehend such a statement. He wondered how it might be. Could a man return to the spirit world and then be born again? In answer the Savior said, amplifying his first statement : "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

Now, brethren and .sisters, a rejection of the gospel is a bar, -an absolute bar, against any man or woman entering into the kingdom of God. 

The importance of the body, and we have been emphasizing that thought very considerably, is greatly emphasized by another revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, section 93 : 

THE PURPOSE OF man's LIFE 

"For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; 

"And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. 

"The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple." 

Now you see how directly this passage refers to the object of life, the very purpose of life. In securing a body, we are at once put upon the line of progress that leads to exaltation and glory. We could not do this in our spirit state, but the opportunity is before us here, because the Lord tells us that the body of man is composed of eletment, that spirit and element inseparably connected receiveth a fulness of joy, or a fulness of happiness. Happiness is the very thing that this writer is dealing with, and that is how it is to be obtained. 

THE WONDERFUL BEAUTY OF THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST 

How beautiful, how wonderful, is the gospel of Jesus Christ! What marvelous light is thrown upon our lives in mortality through the scriptures that we have. The question might be asked : How is it that philosophers and wise men, many of them, reject this light, reject the principles of the gospel? The answer is: Because they are not spiritually minded. These things can only be comprehended and fully understood by the Spirit of God, and not otherwise. And so vital is this question, so important to our welfare and happiness, that the Savior delivered this tremendous charge to his apostles after the crucifixion; he said to them : "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned," or condemned, which means the same. So that those who turn away from the light and who reject the gospel, be they the learned or the unlearned, men or women, they are under condemnation, and, of course, will not attain to a fulness of happiness, to complete and perfect joy. Their wings, so to speak, will be clipped and they will come short. Now is it any , my brethren and sisters, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in which is to be found the gospel in its fulness, should send it message to the ends of the earth by our elders? 

OUR DUTY TO CARRY THE GOSPEL MESSAGE TO THE WORLD 

It seems to me that it is our bounden duty, that the responsibility which was placed upon the apostles in early days rests now also upon the apostles of latter days and also upon the elders of Israel, to carry this message to the world; and as we have received the light freely, we are to give it to others freely. We cannot escape the responsibilty. 

Standing before you this afternoon, I solemnly testify that this work in which we are engaged is the Church and kingdom of God, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is his Prophet, and the instrument in the hands of God in founding his Church upon the earth in these latter days. This is my testimony, and I rejoice in it. I glorify the Lord, and I am striving, and I hope to be able, to live the religion which has come to me, which is so perfect in all of its principles, and in the organization of the Church. Brethren and sisters, the Lord in heaven bless you and sustain you and strengthen you for your duties, and guide you continually, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire to read a portion of the 86th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the same being a communication from the Lord Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith, — and the address is made to all the Saints and elders of the Church. 

PROMISES TO BE FULFILLED IN OUR DAY 

The Lord admonishes the Latter-day Saints to have faith and confidence in the former promises made by the prophets of old, and gives us an assurance that we are living in a day when these great and precious promises are to be fulfilled; and the language which I now quote is as follows : 

"Therefore, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the priesthood hath continued through the lineage of your fathers — 

"For ye are lawful heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from the world with Christ in God — 

"Therefore your life and the Priesthood have remained, and must needs remain through you and your lineage until the restoration of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began. 

"Therefore, blessed are ye if ye continue in my goodness, a light unto the Gentiles, and through this Priesthood, a savior unto my people Israel. The Lord hath said it." 

How great and wonderful is this promise, that through this Church and this Priesthood shall be restored ultimately all that has been predicted and prophesied of concerning the great things God would do for men; and that these things are to be fulfilled and realized in our time. The Latter-day Saints are a people with a mission and a destiny, and we have not forgotten, I am sure, by the presence of this vast assembly, that we are still pursuing our destiny. We did not aspire to it, the Lord appointed it unto us, and the fulfilment of these promises surely can be and shall be realized in the Lord's own due time, and through his providing. 

THE PEOPLE, PLACE AND PLAN IN THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THESE PROMISES 

Three things seem to me to be essential in the accomplishment of these wonderful promises : The Lord must have the right kind of people to do his work; he must have them in the right place, and they must have the right plan. I said the Latter-day Saints are a people with a mission, they are entitled to that mission. 

THE DESCENDANTS OF JOSEPH THE RIGHT PEOPLE OF PROMISE 

I was thrilled not long ago when I read an article appearing in one of our national magazines. The author was discussing the question: "Are the Jews the Chosen People of God?" He denied them the right to claim for themselves and their posterity all the blessings pronounced upon all the sons of Jacob, but limited their blessings to their own particular line— the tribe of Judah. After tracing the history of the Jews and the several tribes of Israel the author concludes : "If we could find in the earth somewhere today the descendants of Joseph, we would find the chosen people of God," because the blessings of Joseph were so much greater than the blessings of his brethren that you will recall they despised him and were jealous of his blessings, and sold him into Egypt; but the Lord was with him and raised him up and made him mighty to become the deliverer of his father's household. I say, when I read that statement my soul thrilled with a new sensation of gratitude to God that I live to see the day when Joseph's children are being gathered again, and realize that the Latter-day Saints are of Joseph, children of his favored son, Ephraim, gathered "one of a city and two of a family," a few from the midst of the nations of the earth, whither they have been scattered, and brought to the land of Zion. The Lord has selected and picked them. They were chosen spirits before they were born. He knew them in the spirit world. He held them in reserve to come forth at the right time. 

GOD HAS GATHERED THEM TO THE RIGHT PLACE 

He has brought them to the right place. Joseph's blessings were to obtain above the blessings of his progenitors, even to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills. It is no chance circumstance that we are here. Notwithstanding all the drivings, the sorrows and distresses,  Nauvoo and Missouri, the difficulties in gathering the Saints from the Old World — these were but God's providences in gathering his people to the right place. 

I was deeply impressed with the statement made not long since by a man who has been gathering statistics of an eminent character, wherein he calls attention to the fact that while the United States is but seven percent of the world's land, and has but six percent of the world's population, nearly one-half of the world's natural wealth is in the United States of America. This surely is a choice land above all other lands. And then, as I thought of our habitations in these mountains, I feel a confidence in the statement that taking a survey two hundred miles from this city in either direction, and circumscribing a district within that radius, there may be found more natural wealth than in any other like territory in any other portion of this choice land. We are not only in the right nation, we are in the right part of that nation. 

I used to think about it while laboring as a missionary in the Northwest, for there was some thought, evidently, in the mind of the Prophet at one time that he might go to the northwest country, for he offered the services of the Latter-day Saint men to man the military posts along the old Oregon Trail. Tie said, "we can render this service cheaper than any one else since we expect to be in that country when we have concluded our service for the government." But the measure was defeated. You remember the discussion brought out the statement of Daniel Webster to this effect: "What do we want with this vast wilderness of shifting sands and cactus, prairie dogs, etc." He said he would not vote one dollar from the public treasury to bring the Pacific Coast one mile nearer Boston than it was at that time. And another senator said in the same discussion that he would not give a pinch of snuff for all the Rocky mountain country. And yet it was through the inspiration of the Almighty that the Prophet Joseph Smith, almost at that time, said that the Saints would continue to suffer and be driven to these mountains, and many should live to see them become a mighty people. God's providence has been over the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to this place. This is yet the place . for the Latter-day Saints. 

HOW TO SECURE A PERMANENCY IN THE RIGHT PLACE 

A very significant thing is that as you read the history of the past, the peoples who have survived have been the owners of the soil and the tillers of the land, and the keepers of flocks. By natural inclination it is the occupation of the majority of the Latter-day Saints; indeed, it was the natural occupation of the majority of the children of Israel in ancient times, to be the tillers of the soil and the keepers of flocks. While you Latter-day Saint brethren on the farms have had a trying time, be ye patient and do not desert the very foundation of our independence in this country — the farm. Better days for you will come if you can weather the storm, and you will preserve not only for yourselves but for the Church a permanency that is essential in working out this great problem. We are in the right place, and yet while this vast wealth may be here it is not easily accessible and can only be had with much labor, much patience and persistence. I doubt if there is another section in all the world that would call forth more physical strength, greater faith, patience and endurance, with a longrange vision of waiting and laboring to reach the destiny, than in these Rocky mountains. Lofty mountains, an inspiration! Clear streams of water, health-giving! Pure air, every setting is here to develop the finest physical race that has ever graced this footstool of God. The Lord brought the Latter-day Saints to the right place, and we are engaged in the right business to make us the kind of people the Lord wants us to be. 

THE RIGHT PLAN REVEALED TO GATHERED JOSEPH 

And then we have the plan revealed, as you heard this morning from our President, by the visitation of no less a personage than the Lord Jesus Christ himself. It is his plan, and it contemplates a solution of every problem that now vexes this distressed world. The Lord saw the needs of this hour, 1924, more than a hundred years ago, and he provided for it a plan, and those who follow it shall survive, and those who do not accept the plan shall be shaken; for this is a time when all that can be shaken will be shaken, and that shall stand which God has planned. I said that the plan contemplates a solution of all the problems that now vex us, and I am thinking of political problems. I thought of it this morning as one of the brethren was speaking. I shall not be surprised if this shall be the last national campaign that we shall conduct in this country with the two great parties that have so long obtained here, arrayed one against the other. I tell you that the day is coming that the Prophet Joseph Smith predicted, when the Constitution shall be in peril, when it shall be necessary for the men of all parties who stand for the Constitution and law and order, to stand together, or this thing that we hold so sacred and dear, that our fathers established, cannot be preserved. Now the Latter-day Saints, by reason of the fact that they have been taught that God established the Constitution of the United States, adhere to it as earnestly and devotedly as to any other of our principles of faith and belief. By reason of the training we have received we are on the side of the Constitution,, on the side of law, on the side of order. In the training and discipline that has come to us in the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, in the payment of our tithes and offerings, God was but preparing us to meet the emergencies of this hour. It is his plan, and we shall succeed if we adhere to it being led successfully through all the difficulties; and directed safely to that goal and haven, our natural heritage, the realization of all these sacred promises that have been made by all the prophets since the world began. 

HOWEVER WE MUST ADHERE TO OUR STANDARDS 

I tell you Latter-day Saints, however, that we need to adhere to our standards as never before in the history of this Church, because sin is rampant. Self-indulgence is the key word of the hour in the world, and I confess that I tremble and fear when I see the things that men boast of as the evidence of our high civilization, being really the very things that brought the ruin and the destruction of empires that have long since perished. I say it is a time when we need to adhere to our standards, to protect ourselves against the waves of sin and immorality that shall come in from the world. And yet I have no fear, if we shall be true to his plan for in it is our redemption and our salvation. 

WE HAVE AN INSPIRED INTERPERTER FOR THE PLAN 

I am grateful that we not only have the plan, but we have an inspired consulting engineer, an inspired man who can and does receive from time to time, the word of the Lord for this people in interpreting that plan, so that we never come to difficulties in understanding the plan. If we are in doubt, we know where to go, and we do receive the continual inspiration of the Lord for the government and guidance of his people. Behold, the plan is unfolding under the guidance of God's inspired servants. And each hour shall find God's provision adequate for that hour's need, if this people shall only -listen to the voice of the servants of the Lord, whom he has appointed to lead and guide and interpret his plan and purpose. Through obedience I am as sure as that I live that we shall see realized and fulfilled all of these wonderful things that the Lord has promised shall come. Though exiled, as many have been, driven from their homes, and much like Joseph, if not sold into Egypt, banished into the wilderness where it was thought they might perish, yet that which happened to Joseph shall yet happen to his Saints in latter days. Into the place God has led us, under the training he has given us, under the plan he has provided, he is preparing this people to become the saviors of the whole house of Israel, not to feed them physical bread, but the bread of life, that will be more essential and necessary for the world's salvation and preservation than any other kind of bread. These things I am as sure as that I live shall come. 

LET US KEEP THE GREAT VISION BEFORE US 

I pray God to bless us, that we shall keep the vision of it before us and be working towards it, and see in the practical things that we have been given in each of these commandments the Lord has revealed for the government and guidance of our own lives. It is after all a bigger thing than merely yielding obedience to the Lord's wishes; for he must have had an object, and that object is to fit and prepare us to meet the emergencies of this hour, to succeed in weathering the storms, and to come through — the salt of the earth, the light of the world! The power to do it is here — not only the plan, but the power and right to execute it in the bestowal upon men of the holy Priesthood. 

God bless the Priesthood and his Church for the comfort and salvation of all flesh. May God speed the day that we shall be prepared to take those steps. The Lord is waiting for this people, and for the world to bring to pass his righteous purposes, and if we shall prepare ourselves, he is ready and willing to lead us to our glorious destiny! May he grant it unto us who now live, if not in our day, in the day of our children, or our children's children — but it shall come; whether to me, whether to you, I cannot say, but it will come to those who are true to the truth! Many may fall away, lose the faith, but those who stand true and faithful shall be victorious, and they shall be the recipients of all these great things. God speed that day I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

( Of the First Council of Seventy ) 

When Abraham Lincoln was a child, residing in the wilds of Kentucky, his prayer was: "Lord, bless father, bless mother, bless sister, bless everybody. Teach me to read, and write. Watch over Honey and make him a good dog, and, Lord, keep us all from being lost in the wilderness." 

Lincoln himself, brought up under much the same circumstances as Joseph Smith the Prophet, so far as living in the wilderness was concerned, tells us that in his boyhood days there were many bears and other wild animals in the woods. No doubt he knew of his grandfather having met his death by an arrow shot by an Indian in ambush, and how his father, Thomas Lincoln, had avenged the death of his father. 

It is something to have a laudable ambition to learn to read and write; but it was of the last verse, in the child's prayer, that I was going to speak — guidance in the wilderness, not only in the literal wilderness, in the woods, but also in other wildernesses in life that we encounter. The children of Israel received guidance in the wilderness, and they needed it, for we learn that although they might have dry passage across the Red Sea, although they might be guided by the pillar of cloud by day, and a pillar of fire by night, and have their thirst quenched by the water which flowed from the rock, at the touch of Moses' rod; although they might be fed on manna, yet they were ready to engage in idol worship, framing the golden calf in imitation of Egyptian idolatry. Miriam, the sister of Moses, was outside of the cam.]) of Israel seven days before she was cleansed of the leprosy which she brought upon herself by rebellion against her great law-giving  Moses, and ten of the chosen twelve who went down to spy out the land of promise were unworthy to live, notwithstanding their training in the wilderness. The Lord has been very good to those whom he has sent into the wilderness. Abraham, who was called from Ur, of the Chaldees, into a new land, was promised blessings and received them just as his posterity were promised blessings — blessings to Jacob, meaning, I suppose, his posterity whom the Lord found in the wilderness and led in the wilderness, and guided, and who were precious to him as the apple of his eye, so the scriptures inform us. 

And then there was the guidance of modern Israel in their wanderings in the wilderness. And it isn't a bad training, these wildernessinstructing experiences that men may have, that the Latter-day Saints have had — guidance as they passed from the Missouri river to Utah, guidance no doubt to the citizen soldiers called the "Mormon" Battalion in their march through the wilderness, an event being celebrated by the State of Utah just now in the erection of a suitable monument, to cost some two hundred thousand dollars to properly commemorate the march in the wilderness and the behavior of these men upon that march. 

But as I said, it is not particularly of the guidance in the wilderness, the physical wilderness, that I wish to speak, although that is of importance, and we have experienced much of it, as indicated by the maps prepared by the Smithsonian Institute and exhibited in the northwest, showing the trail-blazing done by the Latter-day Saints from New York to Oregon, and also to Southern California. 

There are other wildernesses, as indicated by the remarks of the brethren this morning. We have the commercial wilderness, the financial wilderness, that men are groping in, and need guidance in, for them to devise ways and means that are honorable in the sight of all men for the support and education of their families. There is the intellectual wilderness in which there is danger of men losing their bearings. When I think of Abraham Lincoln having all together only twelve months of schooling, and that scattered over a period of nine years, and then of what a wonderful English scholar and philosopher he became, I think it is a reproach to some of the present generation who have such splendid opportunities for education and who make so little use of them. It takes our young people sometimes some months, or some years, to get their bearings again after they have gone through the education which is given to them by the current system of education that prevails in our land. If our educational system is what it should be, and our home training is what it should be, how comes it then that there is such lawlessness in the United States? Some one professing a knowledge of the statistics upon the subject has designated the United States as one of the most lawless nations in the world. If we can rear such characters as the prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, and Abraham Lincoln, who^ was born only a little over three years after the prophet was born, by proper religious instruction in the home and by divine guidance, then we may well pay greater attention to the things which will produce such men. 

I think it was a great slander upon Abraham Lincoln when his partner published that Lincoln was an infidel. I think nothing could be farther from the truth. In a large work entitled The Soul of Abraham Lincoln, written by one who carefully considered the subject, proof is given that Abraham Lincoln was of a strongly religious nature. His own words as quoted by one of his biographers, Mr.. Holland, are as follows : 

"I know there is a God, and that he hates injustice and slavery. I see the storm coming, and I know that his hand is in it. If he has a place, a work for me — and I think he has — I believe I am ready. I am nothing, but truth is everything. I know I am right, because I know that liberty is right; for Christ teaches it, and Christ is God." 

If we would have the sort of a world that the author would have, who was quoted by Brother Widtsoe this morning — a dose of atheism — we would have the sort of a world pictured by Carlyle in one of his chapters entitled, "The Everlasting No," in which he uses this language  

"Thus has the bewildered wanderer to stand, as so many have done, shouting question after question into the sibyl cave of destiny and receive no answer back but an echo. It is all a grim desert, this once fair world of his, wherein is heard only the howl of wild beasts, or the shriek of despairing, hate-filled men; and no pillar of cloud by day and no pillar of fire by night any longer guides the pilgrim * * * The whole world is like thee, sold to unbelief, their old temples of the Godhead which for long has not been rainproof, crumble down, and we ask now, 'Where is the Godhead ? Our eyes never see him.' " 

A doubt-filled world is the picture given, where no faith exists and where atheism prevails. 

The explanation of attributing infidelity to Lincoln is given by the author of the book, The Soul of Abraham Lincoln. He suggests that it was the contention of the different denominations, many of which were mentioned this morning by Elder Whitney, that may have distracted Abraham Lincoln, just as we know at about the same time it distracted the Prophet Joseph Smith and led him to prayer and to the truth. 

I am very grateful to the Lord for his guidance to the pioneers in their wanderings in the wilderness, and in their settlements in the valley, and that the great landmarks have been given to us for our educational system, and for our theological learning and religious training. We are in the happy position of being able to sail between the two extremes of the fundamentalist and the modernist, being able to sail between Scylla and Charybdis, so to speak, without striking the rock on the one hand, or being drawn into the whirlpool on the other. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate all that the restoration of the gospel means to us, and all that the guidance by the 

Priesthood has meant to us and to our fathers, and will mean to our prosterity, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

"I stand all amazed at the love Jesus offers me, Confused at the grace that so fully he proffers me, I tremble to know that for me he was crucified, That for me, a sinner, he suffered, he bled and died. 

"I marvel that he would descend from his throne divine, To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine; That he should extend his great love unto such as I, Sufficient to own, to redeem and to justify. 

"I think of his hands, pierced and bleeding to pay the debt; Such mercy, such love and devotion, can I forget? No, no, I will praise and adore at the mercy-seat, Until at the glorified throne I kneel at his feet. 

"Oh, it is wonderful that he should care for me, 

Enough to die for me! 

Oh, it is wonderful, wonderful to me!" 

Last Wednesday morning I had the great pleasure of speaking to the temple workers, and this song was sung by two of the sisters. Perhaps it was the surroundings, perhaps it was the sweet voices, but I never before heard it when it impressed me so; and I thought to myself how wonderful! how wonderful! And that expression may be made by any member of this Church when contemplating the work of God, beginning with the creation of the world, for it was wonderful. The great plan of the Father, the plan of life and death is all wonderful; and it seems to me that a man must have lost all devotion, all respect for power on earth or in heaven when he takes the position that there is no God, that we come to this earth by chance, that the earth was created by chance, and then that we are here the same as any other life, be it plant or animal. I cannot understand any man whose thoughts run in that channel. 

Then how wonderful is the regulation of the universe, causing the seasons to come and go. Mankind can depend upon them, but man has no influence over them; all is directed by a higher Power. 

I often think of the organization of the Church; how wonderful it is! It was referred to this morning as being compared with the great German army, when Germany had an army. There is no such comparison, for one is of man, the other of God. One was organized for destruction of life, the other organized for the salvation of men's souls. I feel grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the plan of life and salvation. I never forget to thank my heavenly Father that I was born a member of the Church. I never forget to thank him that that birth came through a mother and a father who have acknowledged hirri as the King of kings and Lord of lords, and had a testimony that "Mormonism," if you please, is his divine Church. I never forget to thank him that I was born under the holy covenant, and I know as I know I live, it has had a great influence upon me in my every walk of life. I care not what it may be, business of any name or nature, things pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ, I acknowledge to my heavenly Father that I have been benefited more perhaps than I am entitled to by having been born under the everlasting covenant. 

What a wonderful thing is this government of ours! How blessed are we that we live under a form of government such as ours. I am one who believes that there is no other form of government in all the world in which "Mormonism," so-called, could have been established. The religious liberties granted are necessary for the people to live the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness. It required just such a form of government as ours. And when I see, as I think I see, the least move upon the part of men claiming to be citizens of this government to destroy the very foundations upon which it stands, to cut from the Constitution of the United States, that which gives and is the bulwark of our liberty, 1 feel that every man and every woman should lift their voices, if necessary cry aloud, against any such action upon the part of any clique or group of people. I thank God for America. I thank him that I was born under the Stars and Stripes. I thank him for the Constitution of the United States. I thank him for the laws and for the institutions created under the Constitution of the United States; and I shall continue to pray with all the fervor at my command to the overruling God of nations in the world to preserve the Constitution of our country, to preserve our country from those without and from those within : America, the most blessed of all lands in the world. 

Brother Ballard just referred to the fact that nearly one-half of all the natural resources of the world are found in our America, held, as I have often said, in the hollow of God's hand for ages, that liberty may be planted here and a free government established, that would be an ensample to all other governments of the earth. When I see that there is the least inclination on the part of any one to destroy even a part of the Constitution of the United States, II shall bitterly oppose it. I have no reference now to the few amendments to the Constitution that have been made, they were incidental to the great document itself, and to the principles upon which it was founded. When it comes to destroying the fundamentals, then action must be taken, and the only action that can be taken, is by the people themselves. Power is in your hands, the power is with the people of the country, and I trust, as I believe with all my soul, that the opposition will never be successful, and the Constitution will remain intact in its fundamentals forever. 

My brethren and sisters, of all the blessings that I have received from our heavenly Father, and they are many, and I acknowledge them, there are none so dear to me as the fact that I know that Jesus is  Christ and that God lives, the fact that I am a member of his Church, that I know it was organized by revelation, that it is a power for good in the world, that if the principles of the gospel were acknowledged and adhered to by the peoples of the world, this world of ours would be a better place for God's children to live in. "Oh, the sweet joy this sentence gives : I know that my Redeemer lives." God bless his work, God bless his people. May our heavenly Father watch over our nation, that it may have a powerful influence with all other nations of the world, making them better places for people to live in. Hasten the day when the gospel shall be preached to all the peoples of the earth. Hasten the day, O Father, when thy work will be understood by the peoples of the world, and the honest in heart, wherever they may be, will acknowledge the truth of the same. God grant it, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

If we can say that during this conference the principle of man's pre-existence has been established by scriptural proof, we can also say that the principle of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man has been proved. 

THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST ORIGINATED IN HEAVEN 

Understanding the true relationship of man to his Maker, we are better able to appreciate the scriptural reference to the love the Father has for his children. We read that, "God so loved the world, that he gave his Only Begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." In this scripture we learn that God so loved his children that he made provision for their salvation. This is the end our Father has in view. All else is but a means to this end. The Prophet Joseph Smith has left of record this statement, "At the first organization in heaven, we were all present and saw the Savior chosen and appointed, and the plan of salvation made, and we sanctioned it." The truth of his statement is fully sustained by scriptural proof. It is clear that the gospel of Jesus Christ had its origin in heaven before the world was. "We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel." 

THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL 

The gospel has been upon the earth at different periods of the world's history. After the death of the Savior and his disciples there was a general departure from the truth, so that when Joseph Smith had his vision of the Father and the Son, he was told that the churches were all wrong and that he should join none of them. He was informed by an angel from heaven that God had a work for him to do, and that his name should be had for good and evil among all nations. By the gift and power of God unto him, Joseph Smith has given unto the world the Book of Mormon which gives an account of the former inhabitants of this American continent, and contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel as given by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants. Other angels appeared to him and conferred upon him the Priesthood, with power and authority to establish the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth, and to preach the gospel in all the world, administering the ordinances of salvation to those who are prepared to receive them. Thus the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been restored to earth in these last days, line upon line, and precept upon precept, in fulfilment of the holy scriptures, with authority, keys, powers, gifts and blessings, the same as were in the primitive Church. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO PREACH THE GOSPEL 

It is our responsibility to preach this gospel of the kingdom in all the world for a witness unto all nations before the end shall come. It is the responsibility of the world to accept the message which we have for them. To them it becomes as a savor of life unto life or of death unto death. On this point I will read to you from the Book of Mormon as follows : 

"Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they harden their hearts against the Lamb of God. For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the other — either to the convincing of them unto peace and life eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of which I have spoken." — I Nephi 14:6, 7. 

MANY LACK COURAGE TO JOIN THE CHURCH 

There are thousands of people within the stakes of Zion, and in the world, who have become convinced of the truth of "Mormonism" but who, for one cause or another, have not become members of the Church. 

A short time ago, I heard of a man joining the Church who had lived among our people for nearly forty ye&rs. He stated to some of his friends that he had for many years been a "Mormon" at heart. When asked why he had not earlier joined the Church, his reply was that he lacked the courage. This represents a class of which there are many. Some who believe do not join because of the cost, others because of what people would think and say, and still others because the standards of the Church are too high. 

Some years ago while in England I was visiting a family of Saints, and an elderly sister was telling me how she, and her husband recently deceased, had, during his life time, entertained a great  Latter-day Saint missionaries. I asked how she accounted for the fact that under such circumstances her husband had never joined the Church. Her reply was that he had never been invited to join. I wonder if there are those among us who are Latter-day Saints at heart but are waiting for an invitation to become members. We invite all men to repent <and yield obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the gospel that the atoning blood of our Savior may wash them clean and prepare them for salvation. 

QUALIFICATIONS FOR BECOMING A MEMBER OF THE CHURCH 

As qualifications for baptism into the Church, I will read to you a paragraph from the Doctrine and Covenants as follows: 

"And again, by way of commandment to the Church concerning the manner of baptism — All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into the Church." 

The gospel is the law of life as lived by the Savior. It made him what he was and is, and it is designed to make us like him and to save us with him. It is the highest possible standard of life — the straight gate and the narrow way. 

When the rich young man came to' the Savior and asked what good thing he might do that he might have eternal life, he was told to go sell what he had, and give to the poor, and come follow him of whom it was said that he had nowhere to lay his head. We are told that the rich man went away sorrowful; and the Savior said : "A rich < man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven." On another occasion the Savior made use of this expression: "So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple." 

Those who embrace the gospel have as their object the obtaining of eternal life, which is the greatest gift of God to man. No sacrifice should be considered too great in order to attain eternal life, and there is no other way to obtain it. 

THE SPEAKER'S TESTIMONY 

As a witness for the Lord, I testify that God the eternal Father lives, an immortal and glorified being, after whose image and likeness man is created and made, male and female, being born sons and daughters of God. He is a being having a body of flesh and bones and spirit. He has created all things through his Son Jesus Christ. The earth is his, and the fulness thereof, and all blessings, spiritual and temporal, come from him. 

I also testify that Jesus Christ is the Son of God the eternal Father, that he is the first born of the Father in the spirit, and the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, that he is the Savior and Redeemer of the world, that he was scourged and crucified, and that he died and was resurrected and ascended to heaven where he sits upon the throne of the Father at his right hand in glory. I know that my Redeemer lives. 

I bear testimony also that I do know that Joseph Smith, the founder of this work, was a divinely inspired prophet of God, and that those who have succeeded to the Presidency of this Church, each in his time, has been inspired of the Lord for his particular work and responsibility; that President Heber J. Grant, no less than his predecessors, is inspired of the Lord, and under his presidency the work is prospering and is becoming more and more a marvel and a wonder to the world. It is the work of God and not the work of man, and no power can stay its progress. The purposes of the Almighty will be accomplished, and all who will, shall be saved, and all honor be to the Father through his son Jesus Christ, our Lord and Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I hope I may enjoy the favor of the Lord while I stand before you here this day. I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel that has been restored to the earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

When Nephi, one of the ancient prophets, began his historical record he used these words by way of introduction: "Having been born of goodly parents," and thereby he made it plain that he honored his parents — his father and his mother. He deemed it a blessing to him that he had thus been favorably born into this world. And I wonder how far the sons and daughters of Zion appreciate the wonderful advantage that has come to them by having been born of goodly (parents. 

In the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association they have adopted as their slogan for this year the commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother." To what extent are the children of the Latter-day Saints obeying that commandment, that commandment which God wrote with his own finger upon the tablets of stone, and which was delivered by the prophet Moses unto the children of Israel, the descendants of Jacob, the son of Isaac who was the son of Abraham — the children of Israel, whom God loved and designated as his very own, the chosen people of God? We, who have embraced the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ are the children of Abraham. What a splendid heritage and advantage it is to come through that noble lineage. 

How do we know that we are of Israel ? It is the blood of Israel that recognizes the voice of the true Shepherd : "My sheep hear my voice and follow after me but a stranger they will not follow," said the Savior of old. It has been declared by the Prophets of God, it has been sealed upon our heads by the patriarchs when we received our patriarchal blessings. Our lineage has been declared by the inspiration of the Lord to his servants the Patriarchs, and that we have believed in the gospel is further evidence of that fact. Why should the believers come through that lineage? I believe with all my soul that in our pre-existent state we were chosen to come through that lineage because of our fidelity in the world before this one, in our first estate, and the advantages that have come to us, who have accepted the word of the Lord and who have received the testimony of the truth of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, have come to us because of our fidelity and faithfulness to the will of God before the foundations of this earth were laid. Abraham was among the great and mighty ones in that primeval day, when the great plan of life and salvation was first proclaimed to the children of God, the day that we read about in the scriptures, "when the stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." 

It is to that day that I now refer, when Abraham was known to God as one of the great and noble ones; and when he came upon the earth the Lord still loved him and gave him a marvelous promise, and told him that through him and his seed all the nations of the earth should be blessed. We now live in a day when the descendants of that great patriarch are being gathered into the fold of Christ. We belong to one of the branches of that great family. Abraham had a son who was a son of promise, Isaac. Isaac had a son whom they called Jacob, and Jacob's name was changed to Israel, and from him came the twelve tribes of Israel. One of these tribes was the tribe of Joseph. It is through this lineage that the Latter-day Saints have come. Do we appreciate the wonderful privilege that comes to us by having been born of these goodly parents, that we have inherited from them that faith that enables us to accept the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? No matter to what extent that posterity may have been scattered throughout the nations of the earth, it is through this lineage that the truth shall be accepted and preserved and heralded in the earth. It has been through that lineage that the scriptures have been handed down from generation to generation, that the knowledge of the true and living God has been preserved among mankind, land it is through that lineage that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ shall be promulgated among all the nations of the earth, and every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall be blessed through the seed of Abraham in fulfilment of the promise that was made by God unto that great man. I hope it will not sound egotistical if I declare, in the language of the poet, that indeed "We are the true-born sons of Ephraim, Who, with us, that can compare? We are of the royal house of Joseph, That bright and glorious morning star." 

This is our declaration, and we have been sounding it for miany years past. It is written in our very souls. The House of Israel is being gathered from the nations of the earth, and we, being the children of Abraham, have a wonderful obligation resting upon us to see that all nations are blessed through our being and coming of these goodly parents. It should, however, be remembered that God is no respecter of persons and therefore the gospel must be preached to every creature and those that believe and obey it shall be saved and furthermore those who reject it, even though they may be of Israel's blood, will surely have to take the consequences. 

I rejoice today that I have been born of goodly parents, that I have been born under the new and everlasting covenant. I rejoice in the work that is being accomplished by the Latter-day Saints in the building of these great temples wherein work may be performed for the living and for the dead; and while I remember those who immediately are responsible for my birth upon this earth, my heart goes back throughout the generations that have passed, and gone, until I connect and link myself up with the great household of God through Abraham his servant, and I believe with all my soul that there must be a welding link between each of us and those that have gone before until we shall indeed become members of that wonderful family that was chosen in that primeval day to come through his lineage, through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. This is the heritage of the Latter-day Saints, and our destiny is to fulfil these obligations, to carry the gospel to all the inhabitants of the earth, that they mlay hear the truth, and that the honest in heart among every nation shall be gathered into the fold of Christ and brought under the new and everlasting covenant which is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that the family may be united in that welding link that shall connect us, for without them we cannot be saved, and without us neither can they be saved; and it is essential that this work shall go on. For what man or what woman would rejoice or be happy if he could not be associated with his own kindred ? What man or what woman would feel that he was enjoying a blessing in the world to come if it were not in the association of his father and his mother? What parent could possibly feel that heaven would be heaven to him unless he could be associated there with his own children? What is true of these immediate connections is true of those that have gone on before. Our fathers and our mothers would never be happy nor f eel that they could be exalted and saved in the kingdom of God unless they could be associated with their fathers and their mothers. And so it will be until we connect ourselves and reunite in that one great family, the family of God,  together with that welding link under the new and everlasting covenant. 

May we appreciate our heritage and the blessings that have come to us by having been born of these goodly parents, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The audience has no doubt noticed the absence of President Charles W. Penrose. Brother Penrose was taken very sick a little over a week ago, but I am pleased to announce that he is very much better, that he intended to come here today, but we felt it was much better for him to n:st today and tomorrow, and we hope that he may be with us on Sunday. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

Benediction was pronounced by M. Howard Randall, president of the Morgan stake of Zion. 


