Afternoon
03 04 1924

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

IN A GREAT PESENCE 

I stand in a great presence. Surrounded by the First Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church, confronted by those who are appointed and set apart as administrators of the Lord's work in the stakes and wards and missions of the Church, and in the midst of other Saints of the Lord, it is not surprising that one should feel the weight of the responsibility of attempting to deliver a message which shall be compatible with the Spirit of our Father and acceptable to these men and women. I am always awed in this great building at one of our general conferences. There devolves upon one such a tremendous sense of responsibility as to make one crave more than under almost any other circumstances, the guidance and the promptings of the Holy Spirit, and I sincerely trust that that which I may say may ring true to my brethren, and with the remarks and the testimonies which have been heretofore given. 

A COMPARISON 

Some few years ago, through the courtesy of Brother Snroot, 1 had the privilege of attending the second plenary session of the great Disarmament Conference which was held in the city of Washington, where representatives of great nations of the earth met to consider plans for the limitation of the armaments and military operations. I remember distinctly that upon that occasion I was deeply impressed with the importance of the great subject to be discussed, and with the dignity of the men who came to represent the various countries. I saw such men as Balfour of England, the great ex-premier, Ex-premier Briand of France, and the notable Kato of Japan, and other dignitaries, standing in that assembly representing and speaking for their peoples; and I was rather overwhelmed with the transcendent importance of these men and the occasion. But I have since thought that as we gather together here in the semi-annual conferences of the Church, such conferences as that which I attended, and which so impressed me, had no more and greater significance and deep meaning to the people of the world than do these assemblies. Those men met to represent the nations. We meet to represent God and his work in the earth. We come together to hear the voice of his prophet and to feel the flow of his Spirit course through our beings, to stimulate us to higher endeavor in his mighty service, and to give us vision of the great work he designed we shall accomplish as his representatives here on the earth. 

HERE ONLY MAY BE HEARD THE WORD OF GOD 

I am aware that it always seems a highly presumptuous thing to make the statement that here only may be heard the word of God through his living oracles. In a sense it is embarrassing to make that statement, either to ourselves or to the world. We are, however, constrained to make it, because God himself hath said it, and we do but our duty in proclaiming to the children of men that here with this comparably small people is to be found the word of God, delivered to the people of the world, under the only authority existent upon the earth at this time. 

A TREMENDOUS RESPONSIBILITY 

When I contemplate the tremendous responsibility that devolves upon us as a people in the assertion and the statement that we so make, I tremble lest we may not measure up in highest degree to the fulness of the Lord's expectations of us. I say, I stand in a great presence, in the presence of my brethren of the Priesthood. May I not safely conclude, as well, in the presence of my living God ? Is it unreasonable to think that after having caused his Church to be established and set up in the world as he has done, that he is "listening in" at these conferences, and that "listening in," he likewise gives inspiration and direction to those who undertake in his name to represent him and to speak his word to the assembled Saints? 

REVERENCE FOR GOD ESSENTIAL TO THE PEACE OF MANKIND 

I have long been persuaded that a definite, conscious, genuine reverence for God is essential to the peace and joy of mankind, and I know likewise that no wholesome reverence for the Lord will ever come except there be an understanding and comprehension of him. It follows, too, that there may never be a full understanding of him, his personality, his powers, his attributes, unless men live his commandments and do his will. To some, that seems to be a very paradoxical situation, not to be able to understand the Lord without keeping his commandments, and not to be able to keep his commandments unless we understand him. But it is the true condition under which we must come to a realization and testimony of his truth, his supremacy, his Fatherhood and his great and wonderful power. I do not believe that in this great country of ours which has been so lauded during this conference, there will ever be a satisfactory upholding of the Constitution, a decent conformity to laws and statutes and ordinances unless there be at the basis of all patriotism and loyalty to country, a deepseated conscious reverence for the God of the land. It may seem to some of my fellow citizens an almost fanatic view to take that religion is so inseparably associated with the inception of this great government and its existence as to form an integral part of the loyalty and devotion of true citizens of the State; but I assert it nevertheless. I believe America to be a Christian country. I believe the principles which are set forth in her fundamental laws to be derived from, consciously, the Savior of the world. His precepts, his principles of truth and living, have been set forth by the founders and the fathers in our laws and statutes; and America, in order to continuously and satisfactorily fill her great mission as a mighty nation, must conform to those fundamental laws and principles of truth, in my humble judgment. Reverence for the Lord does not bring forth the class of men and women who ,today assail the fundamental laws of this land. They who are designated as the Reds, the Anarchists, those who are inimical to our established institutions, I venture, could they all be found out and analyzed, would not be men who love God and who revere his name and who acknowledge his power and his supremacy in the earth. The loyal citizens in this country, in my humble opinion, are to be found .among the God-fearing, God-loving people jvho still trust him and honor him, who recognize his great providence in the inception and growth of this mighty country; and when reverence for God fades and gives way, loyalty, patriotism, devotion to country, will likewise vanish. 

OUR COUNTRY AND OUR CHURCH COMMAND OUR ALLEGIANCE 

And this is the thought that primarily I would like to give today : that our Country and our Church so command our allegiance and our whole-souled devotion that we have no time, no excess energy to devote to other and extraneous purposes which in any sense might be concluded to be, in the least degree, inimical to the interest of either Church or Country. Every Latter-day Saint finds within the Church so many opportunities for the expression of his service, his good will, and his love for his fellows that he need not go beyond the organizations and agencies of the Church to find places where he can expend his time and his energy and his money for the uplift of mankind. 

I do not mean to imply that certain co-operative efforts on the part of people engaged in similar lines of endeavor are not desirable. I believe in co-operation, for the stimulation of our markets and other economic advantages. I believe in the protection of our trade and in the safeguarding of our institutions by proper kinds of co-operation; but I maintain that a man who divides his allegiance and his energy and his endeavor along many lines will usually fail to accomplish anything very significant in any one of them. I believe that the old message which has come to us for years and years past, to confine our endeavor to the spreading of the gospel, to the teaching of its principles, to the people, to the building up of our country, to the sustaining of those great institutions which have been inspired to safeguard liberty, equity, and justice in the earth, comprehends about all that any man may give to people, country or church. 

I regard it as unfortunate that there should arise in the midst of  people of the country institution after institution claiming the allegiance and devotion and energy of the citizens of our country, and in some measure at least winning them away from the one true objective which, in our case, is the establishment of the Lord's work and the maintenance of principles of righteousness and justice in the world. Any man who bears the Priesthood of God has the power to serve mankind. Indeed, others who do not bear it have a power to serve mankind, but not in the same effective way. They cannot perform the ordinances, the great and helpful things so indispensable to the happiness and joy of men. But they who are endowed with this .holy .Priesthood, who are so favored of God as to share a portion of the power by which he himself rules the world and ministers to man are entitled to go forth in his name and do his work, and that work commands their whole thought, time, and energy, their devotion, their love and their loyalty. I am conscious of the fact when I say this, that, engaged as we are in promoting the great work of the Lord, we have numerous secular — if I may use that word — duties to perform. We are engaged in financial endeavor and enterprise. We seek to build up the country in one way. and another; but every true Latterday Saint does all this with an eye single to the glory of God, consecrating, dedicating and devoting all his time, talent and energy to the great purpose of building up the Lord's kingdom. He does that even in the accumulation of his own private means and property, because in his heart there is a disposition to devote that property and, if need be, all that comes into his possession, to the establishment of our Father's work. 

AN APPEAL FOR UNDIVIDED SUPPORT 

My brethren and my sisters, too, I appeal for your undivided support for the great work which finds itself in prosperous condition as reported by the President of the Church, and by the brethren who have spoken. We have reason to feel encouraged, but our safety and the eternal progress of the work depends upon our continued vigilance, upon our steadfast devotion and upon giving to this work the utmost of talent and thought and study and prayerful consideration. I know that the work will receive that kind of consideration. I have faith and confidence in my brethren. Personally, I am grateful for their association. When I contemplate the fact that my lot is cast with the men in whose midst I now stand, I raise my voice to God in thanksgiving and in gratitude for that blessed privilege. As I move about among the Presidents of Stakes, and the Bishops of Wards I ever say to myself: where else could I be thrown into such good company? where I could meet such good, honest, upright, noble men whose contact with my life lifts me up and builds me every time I meet them and go among them? God bless the men who preside in and direct the destinies of the people of the stakes and the wards, and the missions; and God let his choice blessings rest upon the man who, under God, directs the destinies of the Church. I pray for him, I uphold him, and I sustain him, and I know that God gives his word through him. I testify to this, and I appeal, my brethren and sisters, for your undivided support, your devotion, your whole-souled loyalty to the great institutions of the Church and of our beloved Country, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

President of the First Council of Seventy 

My Brehren and Sisters : I heartily endorse the remarks that have been made at this conference. The speakers have given to the congregation ideas of helpfulness and encouragement, and with all my heart, I echo the sentiments of the last speaker in regard to the President of the Church and those associated with him. 

Today we see evidence of the truth of that prophetic utterance made by the prophet Joseph Smith on the 12th day of August, 1842, on the banks of the Mississippi river, in the little town of Montrose, — that the Saints would finally be driven from city to city, from state to state, and finally from the United States into the midst of the Rocky Mountains where they would become a great people. I am sure today that this prophecy is being fulfilled; that is, the clause referring to the greatness of the people. There is no evidence of lack of loyalty to the cause of truth by many thousands and tens of thousands of Latterday Saints. The testimonies received when the door of baptism was entered seems to have been lasting, and to have increased in power from the time of the faithful seekers after truth joining the Church until the present day. 

The prophet himself desired to know of his relationship with the heavenly Father. He went to the Lord, as the scripture designated to him, and prayed for light and knowledge and for wisdom; and in response to his prayer, the Father and the Son appeared to him and gave to him knowledge of their personality; and his vision and the testimony of it has never been successfully contradicted, although for fourteen years after the call came to him as a prophet of God, he saw nothing but tribulations and trials. There were in conflict with him many leading religious men, men of influence, seemingly, with the world at large. He had all this to face. Finally, as the end drew near, his faith did not fail him, but when he bade farewell to his family and to his friends as he met them on that memorable 23rd day of June, on his way to Carthage, he exclaimed, and it was an exclamation that came from a full heart : "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, yet I have a conscience void of offense towards God and man." We are the recipients of blessings through the evidence and call given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are in receipt today of all the great prospects that he predicted, and realizing that in the near future  are many more blessings for the Latter-day Saints, that we still have a controversy with the world, and that we must maintain our position as a religious body, led by the inspiration of the Lord through his prophets. All these considerations should not be taken from our minds and memories, but we should be in deep consideration how each individual can lift himself out of any slough of unbelief, of carelessness or neglect of duty, and how, at the same time, we can uplift our fellow men. The gospel has to be preached to the ends of the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, that all may hear the glorious sound that shall bring to them redemption from sin, redemption from darkness, redemption from ignorance, and place in their hearts and in their minds a knowledge of God, a knowledge of his gospel, and a realizing sense of the weight of truth that shall bring them not only salvation here in time, but salvation and exaltation in all eternity. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice today to stand before you and bear my testimony. Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God; and since his day there have stood in his place prophets led and inspired by the spirit and power that characterized his leadership in the fourteen short years of his ministry as a prophet of God. I say fourteen short years, because he accomplished so much during that little time that it would have needed in some persons more than double the time to accomplish what he accomplished, excepting they were like him, inspired by the Spirit and power of God. After his call came, he devoted his life, his time, and his energy to the organization of the Priesthood and the quorums of the Priesthood, and when he saw a time approach that there was a necessity for organizing again other quorums, after the Church was organized some five years, the quorum of the Twelve Apostles and the quorum of the Seventies were chosen and ordained under the supervision and under the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I look over the quorums of the priesthood and study them somewhat, and I am satisfied that he performed a perfect work in his ministry in organizing these quorums, and others of the priesthood, as has been remarked here today. The Saints are governed and directed and held together by these organized quorums, and by the power of God which attends their administration. 

I testify to you today of the clean life and elegant conduct of my brethren who preside over the Church. I have known them all since they were boys, and I testify that no better men can ever live upon the face of the earth, no better Church organization has ever existed in the Church, than exists today. 

May the Lord continue to bless his people and give them a desire to be more perfect and more willing and constant in their service to him and to the world at large, and I pray that the blessing of life and the blessing of health and peace may be upon all, and upon your loved ones at home, those who have come from distances; and when the conference is closed, I pray the Lord to see you safely home without accident or hurt, and the blessing of peace to rest upon us all, and the Spirit of God to move upon us in directing our labors. I ask and pray through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

In the words of an old prophet: "I will say of Jehovah, he is my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust." I have that feeling, that conviction burning within me. I have faith in God the eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ. I have been taught these things all my life, from my earliest childhood; and for forty years nearly, including my foreign service, I have been teaching that God is our Father, that we are the offspring of the living God; and I believe it. 

I met a Gentile friend — I suppose he is my friend, he has always been friendly — a business man, the other day. He said very pleasantly to me: "Kimball, I do not believe you have got any religion. I do not think you believe what you preach." And I laughed. I learned afterwards that he was a "Catholic, and I guess he judged me by himself, because I do not think he is a good Catholic, so he hasn't got any the best of me. How could he tell from the outside of a man whether he has religion, or, call it faith in God and in the gospel of Jesus Christ? That can only be discovered by the life we lead and by the spirit that is within us. 

If there is anything in the world that I appreciate, it is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have no desire to live with any other people. I occasionally go away with the consent of the brethren, but I am always anxious to come back. In March of this year I was in San Francisco, and I became lonesome and homesick. I think it was on the 6th of March that I preached to the people of the Latter-day Saint branch in San Francisco. When I finished, the presiding officer said : "Brother Kimball, if you preach another sermon like that about Utah, all the people will leave." That makes clear how much I think of Utah and her people. "I am not given to flattery, when I do not mean it, and I do not simulate an affection that I do not honestly feel." 

As far as the brethren of the authorities are concerned, there has been no president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that I have known so thoroughly and well as President Heber J. Grant. I have traveled with him through the Southern States, all through the south to Mexico. It took us two months before we returned. I have slept with him. We were on very friendly terms in those days. There were not so many stakes, and we became very well acquainted. I have known President Grant and heard about him from his earliest childhood, for my mother was a very dear  of his mother's, and I have been in their home when I was a child. My own father, Heber C. Kimball, took him as a child, and stood him on a table and said : "He will be an apostle," and it came true. Yes, I sustain President Grant with all my heart, for I realize, in part at least, what a great responsibility rests upon him. 

I met a horny-handed son of toil the other day near the Church Office Building. He was a Scotchman, and said : "Brother Kimball, will you shake hands with me?" I said: "Yes, and be tickled to do it." 

"Would you like to hear how I came to join the Church?" 

"Yes, I would like to hear it, for I was born in the Church. I never knew anything else." 

Then he told me his story. Little did that man know how he stimulated my faith just through that little friendship and testimony. As we stood there one of the brethren passed, in fact it was President Grant. My back was to him and I did not see him until after he got by. This Scotchman said : "Brother Kimball, as unbelievable as it is, I pray for that man twice every day of my life, and he did not speak to me." 

"Well," I said, "he did not see you. President Grant cannot stop to shake hands with every man in all Israel and do anything else. You keep on praying, for he has a great responsibility resting upon him, for when he speaks in the name of God it is not his own word; it is the word of God. God is his dictator, and he must be guided and influenced and blessed with the Holy Spirit in order to direct this great people." We ought to pray for the brethren ot the authorities, as we sustain them as prophets, seers and revelators. 

Brethren and sisters, I have a conviction burning within me, sometimes, like a living fire. There are a lot of things I do not know, but I know some things. I have paid the price. I have eaten the bread of adversity. I have drunk the water of affliction, and I have found God. I have told you that before. I have found God, and he has answered my prayers. I have heard that still small Voice — we call it a Voice — spoken to me not infrequently, and whenever I have followed it I was right. So that I can say with you that I am blessed in all my ways, because the Father gives to me of his Holy Spirit to guide and direct me in every situation, if I am humble and contrite in spirit and in truth. 

Brethren, when I think of this gathering, we do not call this a Round-Up. I attended a Round-Up on the Fair Grounds and almost lost my life when that grand-stand with three or four thousand people on it burned down, in ten minutes. My brother Elias and I happened to be on the topmost seat, because it was the cheapest. We were about the last to get out. I said : "Elias, the Lord is with us again. Praised be the name of the Lord." I tried not to be frightened, but you ought to have seen inside of me before I got off that stand. The Lord is with us in this gathering of the Saints. If you will stop to think for a moment of this building, it is faith-promoting. I helped to haul sand here, with other Kimball boys, every Saturday, to lay up these rock pillars. I was but a boy. I followed my father around the temple many times when I was a young boy. These buildings and grounds are faith-promoting, and it is wonderful to me the things that have been accomplished by this people, as recounted by President Grant. I enter the temple twice a week, and as I walk around it I have often wondered if President Young and Heber C. Kimball, and others of the pioneers, can picture what has been accomplished. I have been in Central Park, New York, years and years ago. I saw in this park million dollar bridges. I have been in Golden Gate Park time and time again, in San Francisco. I was in Denver a short time ago. They have twenty-four parks in that one city. But I want to tell you that to me, there is not a place on God's green earth like this place right here. I thank God that the brethren take good care of it. No cleaner, sweeter place is to be found anywhere in the world than right here. It is part of the vision that Brigham Young saw. Think of the temple! When Brigham Young struck his cane in the ground and said : "Right here we will build a temple to our God;" it was in the time of their poverty when they were so poor that father came along when the men working on the temple were soaking their bread in the stream- of water. Father said : "To you it will be the sweetest bread in all your life." It took forty years to build that temple. I will never forget when it was dedicated. I was in the Southern States where they were driving us like wild animals, and we took our lives in our hands. I heard that prophet say when the temple was dedicated, as I was here on a visit : "From this time forth the hearts of the children of men will be softened towards us." I stand before you as a witness of the softening of the hearts of the people in the south. See what has been accomplished. At one time Elder Elias Kimball had five hundred and fifty elders in the south, and during his presidency he handled seventeen hundred and fifty elders, and only two died out of that great number of elders, exposed as they were. You cannot tell me that God does not answer their prayers. You cannot tell me that he does not protect us when we trust in him. I tell you, brethren, there never has been a time — I can say this as truthfully as I have ever spoken in my life — when I have had a doubt in my heart that Joseph Smith was a prophet. That thought has never crept into me. I believe in the Prophet Joseph Smith. To me he is a prophet. His prophecies have been fulfilled. Pie was a great architect, and God directed him, and Brigham Young came here as a great builder, and through the efforts and unity of the people, the great mission of this Church has been partly fulfilled. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I pray the Lord to bless you and be with you. You are a blessed people to rally around and come together as you do to these great conferences, and your stake conferences; because I know, even if you forget all that is said, it stimulates faith, and God knows we need it. I pray the Lord to bless the authorities and everything pertaining to Zion. For the past year I have been working like a Trojan to love my enemies. I am making slow progress, but if I can live a little longer I will make it yet. The Lord bless you, which I pray for in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be able to attend this conference and to partake of the Spirit of the Lord that has been manifested in each session. I earnestly pray that the Lord may direct me to say that which is best at this time. 

There is no doubt in my mind concerning the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the restoration of the gospel. I know that its principles harmonize with holy writ. The great migration to the West, led by Brigham Young under the direction of the Lord, and the establishment of the people of the Lord, in this part of the earth, is pointed to as a great achievement by hundreds of thousands of people who visit our country; many often remark to me that they have never seen anything like it. It is truly a great achievement; it is something that could not be done by man alone; the Lord was at the helm, as he is today. But the great thing that appeals to me is the principles involved in this great latter-day work. While sitting in my seat during this conference I have been led to think of the many times that I have heard the principles of the gospel discussed from this stand, and of the many sermons I have read concerning the doctrines taught from the days of Joseph Smith by elders of Israel everywhere. Not only have they been preached, but they have been printed and circulated in all parts of the earth. Surely people who desire to know the truth must pay some attention to a clear exposition of principles of truth. 

Before the time of the revelations to the Prophet Joseph, there was not taught, so far as I know, anything concerning the ante-mortal state of man. In fact it was repudiated and is today. Very few people believe it, yet it is in harmony with holy writ. It was one of the principles of the gospel, in the days o-f Adam. It was one of the principles of the gospel, in the days of Noah, and in the days of Abraham, and in the days of Christ. It has never been changed, it cannot be changed. How can men then successfully assail the Church which preaches scripture as it is taught in holy writ dating back even to Adam our Father. What are men going to do with the scripture that the Lord spoke to Jeremiah when he said : 

"Before I formed thee I knew thee; and before thou earnest forth I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations." 

How can men say there is no truth in the gospel as we teach it, if prophets of old have taught it? How are they going to answer the gospel that was taught by the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ? What is the answer to the principle taught by Paul, to the Corinthians, when he asked those Jews who were in a controversy concerning the resurrection of the dead — the Sadducees and the Pharisees who had become converted to the doctrines of Christ, but who evidently were discussing the resurrection, and even doubting it : "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" 

This doctrine also, and all the principles which the Lord revealed to Joseph, have stood the test for nearly a century of time, and there has never yet been a set of men, with all the learning that the institutions of the world have been able to give them, who have successfully assailed the principles of truth as they have been taught. Can you find anything like it in all the history of the world? Investigate the organizations of men called churches and learn if they have closely followed the scriptures. They are changing their doctrines constantly, because they have no real fountain head to deliver unto them the truth. But the monument of truth that this Church has erected as an instrument in the hands of God must certainly stand for or against the human family, or that part of them who come in contact with it. 

If I were going to investigate any organization, business or otherwise, I most certainly would look at the foundation principles, the bylaws of the institution; I would investigate the strength of the institution. And the great majority of men look at material things in that way, but they appear to be blinded, so far as the investigation of the gospel is concerned. It is easy enough, evidently, to go to church and listen to the teachings of men, and take it for granted that they are true. They have not thought of having an individual testimony. They take it for granted that they are saved; they have not learned the principles which are involved in the great thing called life through which salvation is obtained. 

But when men and women come in contact with the history of this great Church, not only its organization and its establishment, but the eternal part of the Church, they must give unto the Lord their allegiance sooner or later, for after all a Church that has shown a steady growth every year, a Church which has taught the same principles and believed them from the very beginning, must surely draw the sober-minded men and women of the earth, the honest in heart, toward it. That is the great mission of the Church in the earth, as the Lord established it through his servants in these the last days. There can be no question as to the validity of the doctrines of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Why is not the doctrine of baptism for the dead being taught in  great churches of the day? Why is it that men and women do not know anything about the pre-existent state of spirits? Because they are not guided by divine leadership, they are not able truly to interpret the principles of the gospel. Happy is the man or woman who becomes acquainted with the principles of the Gospel here in mortality and is able to assume the position of a child of God, enjoying free agency, with a knowledge that this is God's work, and that we can only return to him in the way in which he has ordained. 

I am not at all fearful as to the success of God's work in the earth. If there is any man or set of men or individuals who question it, they need only to investigate without prejudice the gospel of Jesus Christ as recorded in the holy scripture. And the very thing which brings them into communication with these principles will lead the honest in heart into the Church of Jesus Christ. . There can be no other way. 

I am not fearful at all of the success of this Church; it will go on until it has finished its mission, until the honest in heart in all the world shall have heard the gospel of our Redeemer. I do not know how many will accept it in this life, I do not know how many will accept it in the spirit world, but I do earnestly believe that those who stood for the great Jehovah, and who worked faithfully with him in that great conflict with Lucifer, those who held his power and who labored under his presidency and direction, who were faithful unto the trust, and who were counted as of the chosen blood as they are counted here, will, in time, be gathered out, and those who did not and do not shall not have the privilege of knowing the Lord; it is very doubtful if they will ever have the privilege of returning unto him unless it may be through repentance as the gospel has provided. 

I am not ashamed, as Paul has said, of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the power of God' unto salvation. It is the power by which miracles are wrought. It is the power by which God can and does communicate to man. It is the power by which men may know the Lord and hear him and feel his presence, just as surely, and with as much certainty as they did in the day of their primeval childhood, when they walked by sight and not by faith. The work of God will prevail, truth will prevail. There is no reason why any man with sober mind should doubt the principles of the gospel taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There can be no failure to it, I care not what the world may think, or what men may think. Individuals may fail, but the Church of Jesus Christ is founded upon facts, it is founded upon revelation, and upon true principles that have been in the earth since the earth was peopled, under the direction of Adam, our Father in the flesh. And in this dispensation it is the word of God, and the Church is the organization of God. It will stand when others fail. It will be in the earth to meet the Redeemer when he comes to claim his people. I know that his Priesthood is in the earth, and that holy men are in this Church presiding over it. I know the Church has a prophet in this day, just as surely as it ever had in any dispensation of the gospel, and it will not, nor can it go. astray. At times it may be hindered in its growth, but it will eventually triumph, and the principles involved in it will become the common knowledge of the honest in heart in all the world. 

I pray the Lord to bless us. Israel will prosper, and the Church, through its ministry, will grow. The results of our work as elders in the earth are being felt daily. Thousands and thousands of people are being led into the waters of baptism. They are found in every part of the country, and the country is filled with honorable people who, in their hearts, desire to know the truth. It is hard to be weeded out from the convictions that have surrounded them, planted there by father and mother and a long line of progenitors, but when they hear the truth and study it, they accept it. I believe that the Lord provides for the restoration of his family according to their faith and as they prepare themselves and are qualified as a result of their faith to come into this Church, they come into it and become members of it, and begin to work for it. That is the history of it, and it shall not change till the end shall come. 

I pray the Lord to bless us, in the name of Christ. Amen. 

ELDER A. WILLIAM LUND 

Assistant Church Historian 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the Spirit of the Lord to be with me in the few remarks that I may make this afternoon. This is the first time that I have been called upon to speak at a general conference, and I certainly feel the need of the aid of your faith and prayers, my brethren and sisters, and of the Spirit of the Lord. 

I rejoice that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am proud of my parentage — of my father and of my mother. I am proud of the teachings that they gave to me in my youth, and I only hope and pray that I may always be faithful to the teachings of my beloved parents. I have a testimony that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that this is the work of God, that the men who stand at the head of this Church are men of God, that they have the Priesthood, that they are called and chosen in this day to lead God's Church, and I pray that the Lord will bless them always with health and with strength, that they may carry on this great work, the leadership of which has been given to them in this dispensation. 

As a young man I have often wondered if the youth of Zion really and truthfully appreciate the wonderful privilege they have of working in the Church of God, if they really have faith in the doctrines and principles that are set forth by this wonderful Church of ours. I consider it a great privilege to work in the Church of God, and I desire always to work in it. 

I have often wondered if we have the faith in the truth that is necessary for us to have, in order to stand when trials and tribulations come upon us. I wonder if I could stand if the same trials and tribulations should come upon me that have come upon those who have passed to the great beyond. When trials and persecutions were heaped upon the prophet and upon the leaders of this Church, it took faith, my brethren and sisters, to stand in those perilous times. In the times of Kirtland, in those dark days when apostles, some of them, were leaving the Church, apostatizing, because the evil one had gained power over them. Then such men as John Taylor, wonderfully brave and courageous, stood forth and testified to the people that it was through Joseph, the Prophet of God, that they had been taught the truth; it was through him that they had received the power of God to perform the ordinances of life and salvation, that he had shown them the way of eternal life, and he asked them why they were going back upon these wonderful truths. Even the man who converted John Taylor in Canada was being affected by the many things that had been said. John Taylor met him and said to him that the gospel was the same now as when he had preached it in Canada and that it did not make any difference what man might do, yet the gospel of Jesus Christ was true. Thus Brother Taylor testified to him, and that man, be it to his honor, returned again. He had not left the Church, but he returned again to his full fellowship and died a faithful member of this Church. That same man, President John Taylor, died away from home, away from the love of his dear ones. In a letter written to his children and to his friends gathered in the Gardo House on the first day of November, 1886, he pleaded with his children and with his wives to live true to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He thanked the brethren for being present upon his birthday and celebrating that day in his honor. He gave up his life for the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ which he knew to be true. 

When the Prophet Joseph was in Carthage jail, Willard Richards and other men were there with him. On the day of the martyrdom, in talking to some of these men, the Prophet Joseph wanted them to leave Carthage jail. He knew what would be his end. It may be true, my brethren and sisters, that in the heat of battle we are willing to give up our lives for a thing that we hold dear, but this man, Joseph Smith, knew for some years previous to the time that he was martyred that he should give his life for the testimony that he had received. In a letter written to John C. Bennett in 1840, Joseph Smith, in describing Nauvoo, said to him that if their enemies would leave them there long enough Nauvoo would become one of the most beautiful cities upon the banks of the Mississippi. In a meeting held in April, 1842, in talking to the Relief Society, Joseph Smith said that he would not be with them very long. He said that the people of the world would hear his voice only for a short time. On the 6th 'day of August, 1842, when he uttered that wonderful prophecy concerning the people coming into these Rocky Mountains, he did not say "I will go with you," but he said : "You will go into the valleys of the Rocky Mountains." When incarcerated in Carthage jail he realized that the end was near, and he desired that his brethren should not remain with him there. He tried to get Hyrum to leave him, but that faithful brother would not go. He asked Willard Richards to go but Willard turned to him and said : "Brother Joseph, you did not ask me to cross the river with you. You did not ask me to come to Carthage — you did not ask me to come to jail with you, and do you think I would forsake you now :" But I will tell you what I will do, if you are condemned to be hung for treason, I will die for you." That was the faith of that man — willing to sacrifice his life for the Prophet of the living God. 

We are not called upon, brethren and sisters, to sacrifice our lives for this gospel, but are we willing to sacrifice a little of our time in our block teaching, in our High Council work, in Sunday schools and in other opportunities that are given to us to serve God? Are we willing to go into the homes of the Saints and preach unto them the gospel of Jesus Christ? Are we willing to lay our all upon the altar of God, if necessary, and if called upon to do so? I firmly believe, my brethren and sisters, that if Joseph Smith at the last moment even, had said to the people that he alone was responsible for this Church, that he alone was responsible for the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, that they would have ceased their persecutions against him and would have heralded him as one of the greatest men that had ever lived. They would have considered the Book of Mormon as the greatest piece of literature that had ever been given in the English language. I firmly believe that, my brethren and sisters. But because he was true and faithful to the testimony that God had given unto him, that he had seen God, that he had seen Jesus Christ, that angels of the living God had come to him and had given unto him the keys of the dispensations that they held, making him the prophet of the dispensation of the fulness of times, they ridiculed the Book of Mormon, they made fun of him, and finally took his life. But what an example of courage and bravery he has given to the world, dying for the testimony that he knew that the work he had founded was the work of God and not of man. 

I am thoroughly converted, my brethren and sisters, to work, work in the Church of God, to do the things that are required of us; and I believe then that the Lord will bless us with health and with strength to carry on his great purposes. Men in these days in which we live have also shown themselves to be courageous to the faith that comes to them as children. My own father, when he was a boy not more than fourteen years of age, was an elder in the Church of Jesus Christ, preaching the gospel to the people in his native land, Denmark. On one occasion he went into the home of a certain rich man. This man thought a great deal of him and offered him the greatestest temptation  could be placed in the path of my beloved father — that of an education. He offered to put him in school, to educate him and to make him the heir of all he owned if he would renounce "Mormonism." But that boy, having the faith and testimony of Jesus Christ, refused to give up the pearl of great price. He had found the truth, and he lived faithful always to that testimony that was given to him as a boy. On his death bed, the last words that he gave unto his children were that they should remain true to the gospel of Jesus Christ. I only hope we all may be true to this wonderful gospel. I know that the Priesthood of God is here upon the earth, that the keys of this Priesthood are vested in the President of this Church, Heber J. Grant. I know him to be a prophet of the living God. When I came to England as a missionary, President Grant was the President of the European mission. I was appointed to labor in the Newcastle conference. There was a certain woman living in one of the towns in that conference who was afflicted with deafness, and she desired that President Grant should administer unto her. He did not have time, because of other conference appointments, to go to the town where she resided, but he promised the elders that if they would administer to that woman that she would be healed; and I bear you my testimony that his words were fulfilled, that the elders did lay their hands upon the head of that woman and she received her hearing. These things, my brethren and sisters, are faith-promoting to me. They testify to me that the Spirit of God is with the men who are. at the head of our Church. The Priesthood of God is the greatest thing that has been given to us. In it is the greatest and most glorious opportunity given to young men to exercise authority in the saving of souls. And no matter what may be said, I bear you my humble witness that these men do hold this Priesthood and are the leaders of the Church and Kingdom, of God. May God bless you, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DON C. RUSHTON 

Former President of the Australian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, it is the greatest event of my life to be called upon to stand here before you and bear my testimony to the work of the Lord, as I have taken part in it in the different parts of the world where I have been called to labor. I feel very timid and humble today, in facing this great audience, for I have not been accustomed to meeting with so many people at one time, but I do feel very grateful to the Lord for the splendid opportunity we have had of meeting in this conference and of listening to the testimonies of those who have been chosen to lead this people. 

I have been out in the land of Australia for about four years at this time, and three years some time back, laboring with an excellent people, a people who have many of the virtues and good qualities that are found among the races in the different parts of the world. They are principally from the British Isles, having gone over to Australia, a very fruitful land, a land capable of supporting many millions of the world's inhabitants; but it has not been consecrated, seemingly, by the Lord. I was listening to the testimonies of Brother Roberts and Brother McMurrin today, in explanation of the work which is being done on this continent, and of the testimony that had been given of the consecration of this land in the early days by the prophets, inspired of the Lord, and of how these prophecies have come to pass and been fulfilled, and I thought of the land of Australia. It seems that that land has no great destiny for the children of men. 

There are no traditions about its early inhabitants. When Captain Cook discovered the land he found there a dark-skinned race of people. They were estranged to all other races, it seems, resembling, to some extent, the African, but yet not like them. They were different from any of the other races that he found upon the South Pacific islands, and he considered the land at that time was not inhabitable for the white man. It lay in that condition for many years, until England took charge of it, and that country began to send over their offenders to that part of the world, political transgressors. Men and women who were not in favor, altogether, of the royalty of the English government were sent over, and left in the country of Australia. It is a great continent and is as large as the United States. Our work there is greatly divided. The nearest conference we have to Sidney, the headquarters, is six hundred miles, and the farthest one away is three thousand miles, so that we have to travel six thousand miles to visit the conference in West Australia. We have about eleven hundred members of the Church in that land divided into six conferences, including the Island of Tasmania. 

This great country has only a population of about seven million people. It is capable of supporting twice that many, but for some reason the people are not going there. The government of Australia is doing everything it can to induce men to come there, but they will not come in sufficient numbers; while this country of America is doing everything it can to stop them from coming here. So we observe the great difference. Australia is a fruitful land, and one where conditions are better than they are in nearly any other part of the world, but the country cannot get population sufficient to supply the demands, while America, crowded with people to some extent, cannot keep them out. 

Brethren and sisters, the words and the blessings of the prophets are sure to come to pass. I was thinking of the blessings which prevailed at the time when Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. You remember how Jacob bought Esau's birthright, and in order that he might attain to the blessings, he had to deceive his father, Isaac, but he deceived  and obtained the blessing, and that blessing came to pass. Again, when Jacob was blessing Ephraim and Manasseh, he crossed his hands when blessing those two sons, and while Joseph tried to remove his father's right hand and place it on the head of Manasseh, Jacob said, "No." All of these blessings came to pass, and while some of us think that it was not altogether fair that Jacob should obtain the blessing, yet it was pronounced upon his head by the prophet, a man authorized of God, and sent of God, and it came to pass. And so it was with Jacob when he blessed the sons of Joseph. He blessed them that they should inhabit this great land that we are in, and the Lord has sanctified it by his prophets; and so we find it today the best land, a land where everyone wishes to come, a land where everyone desires to remain, a land where those who have lived here and go away always wish to return again — in fulfilment of the prophecies which have been made and the blessings which have been given by God. 

We find that the land of Australia has no great destiny, and because of that, perhaps, the people of the world are not going there. But there is a great people living there, a people who are susceptible to the gospel, a people, however, whose minds have been poisoned against the truth by the stories which are circulated, and by the falsehoods which have been told; but whenever we have opportunity to remove these falsehoods, to show the light that God has given to the world and the gospel plan, and to get men to investigate our message, we have found friends. They do not always receive the gospel. You know it requires quite an effort to receive this gospel, because one has 'to give up a few things of the world; but we have a great many friends in Australia, and the government is friendly towards us. 

We undertook to erect a Church there a little over a year and ahalf ago. When we began building, the ministers of the neighborhood in which we were going to locate the Church were very much alarmed, and they got up a huge petition among the people of the neighborhood and the ministers all over the city of Melbourne, a city of a million inhabitants, against the "Mormon" people erecting a Church in Melbourne; and so an investigation was entered into by the government. They called upon us to furnish the evidence of what we intended to do when we had that temple as they called it, erected, for they think that the Latter-day Saints do not build anything but temples. Of course, we had to produce the evidence of what we believed in, and what would take place at this building after we had succeeded in erecting it, and as a result we presented the gospel before the government of Australia, and we preached the gospel to them. They read our gospel publications, they read the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Articles of Faith, and some scientific works by some of our leaders, and those who have written the message of truth to the world in this day; and as a result they told us to go ahead and build our Church, they did not see any objections whatever. I also had the pleasure of explaining to them the fruits of our gospel wherever our people go. I asked them to investigate what had taken place in Canada where our people had gone and colonized. I asked them to investigate the conditions which prevailed at one time when the "Mormon" people lived in Mexico. I asked them, the question if it should not be right and proper that we might be able to found such colonies and a people who loved liberty and who lived the laws of good government, and who upheld industry, and who lived a temperate, moral life. I asked them if Australia could be injured by a class of people of that kind, and they said : "We want that class of people." I said : "You will find them among the Latter-day Saints, and if you desire further information, come and learn what our purposes are and what our people are wanting to do for the world." So it was not difficult for them to see our position. I also told them that we had been there for forty years or more preaching the gospel, and that we had brought into their country thousands of pounds of money from our own country, for we all pay our own expenses, and we have never asked Australia for one cent of money. I asked them if there was any other set of ministers in all their land who taught the gospel and paid their own way and brought their money into that country? They said : "Why, from a business standpoint you are the most useful men and the best m'en we have in the country." And so they told us to go ahead and erect our Church, and we did, and we have erected two others since then, and the Lord is opening the way and removing the prejudice. We have had a hard fight with the picture films. They sent pictures all through that country maligning this people, and we had to meet them, and did meet them and succeeded in removing a great deal of the prejudice. 

Time will not permit me to go on further telling you any more at this time, but I pray that the Lord will pour out his Spirit upon this people. I know that he will if we will live the gospel. I know that the prayers of these men who have been called to lead Israel are answered. I have seen it demonstrated many times. The elders that come into the field, upon whose heads the authorities of the Church have laid their hands, have those blessings fulfilled to the very letter, and the Lord is with them; The Lord is inspiring and leading and directing this great work. 

Now, brethren and sisters, may the Lord continue to bless us, and bless the world that they may hear the gospel, that the predictions that this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world may soon come to pass; for the time of the end is drawing near. May the youth of Zion arise, and may they hold forth and hold up to the high standard of their noble sires. May we still hold up that great example of righteousness and industry and honesty and fidelity which they demonstrated and which has made this people what they are today,  made possible this great gathering of this conference, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I doubt very much whether President Penrose will be with us tomorrow. I feel in my heart that it will be wisdom for him not to make the attempt. We all know his marvelous and wonderful will power and his determination to be with us, but in view of his weakened condition I almost feel that it would be tempting Providence for him to be here tomorrow. He sent word that he expects to be hereybut I am in hopes he will change his mind. We have him in mind as we sing this magnificent hymn. Few men in all the world have written anything finer in our day or in any other day than the many splendid hymns that Charles W. Penrose has written : 

The congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." Elder William D. Hanks, President of the Union stake of Zion, pronounced the benediction. 


