Morning
04 04 1924 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Truly those who are assembled in this house this morning have reason to be grateful for the blessings by which we are surrounded. A more beautiful morning could hardly be desired, and the weather conditions are so delightful, that we must all feel uplifted. The privilege we have of meeting our friends from all parts of the Church is a blessing that I am sure is greatly appreciated. 

OUR DUTY TO ASSIST IN PERPETUATING LIBERTY 

In this day when strife is everywhere apparent, when there is contention between individuals of various parties, it is pleasing to me as a member of the Church to know that our heavenly Father is interested in us, and in our government. We are fortunate in having our agency. The Lord has blessed each of us with intellect and has offered to direct our thoughts if we will approach him in a proper manner. The mind of man is affected by good and by evil influences, and there are in the world those two powers that have been active from the beginning. Knowing that we may be directed by proper influences as members of this great Church, and as citizens of this wonderful government, surely we will not depart from the advice and counsel of our heavenly Father and follow those teachings that will lead us to destruction. Knowing that the Lord prepared this land that it might be a haven of liberty for those who dwell here, and understanding that he desires a continuation of those conditions that the builders of this republic contended for, we who are members of his Church ought, in every possible way, to assist in perpetuating that liberty that means so much for the children of men. 

THE CONSTITUTIONAL LAW OF THE LAND TO BE SUPPORTED 

We find in the Doctrine and Covenants that the Lord gave to his people a revelation on August 6, 1833, (Doc. and Cov. 98.) That seems to me has a bearing on conditions as they exist in our country today : 

"Verily I say unto you my friends,. fear not, let your hearts be comforted; yea, rejoice evermore, and in everything- give thanks; 

"Waiting patiently on the Lord, for your prayers have entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, and are recorded with this seal and testament — the Lord hath sworn and decreed that they shall be granted. 

"Therefore, he giveth this promise unto you, with an immutable covenant that they shall be fulfiled; and all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good, and to my name's glory, saith the Lord." 

When that revelation was given, our people were being harassed and annoyed by those who did not accept the revelations of the Lord to us, and their lives were made almost intolerable by their fellow citizens, but they claimed the blessings of our heavenly Father, and in this revelation he assured them that their prayers had been answered, and that the fulfilment of his promise to them for their faithfulness would be certain. They at that time were living at Kirtland, Ohio, where the first temple was erected in this dispensation, to the glory of our heavenly Father. He said to them regarding the laws of the land : 

"And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them. 

"And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. 

"Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my Church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land; 

"And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this comcth of evil." 

In other words, if we fail to sustain the constitutional law of the land we have transgressed the will of our heavenly Father. 

"I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free. 

"Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. 

"Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these Cometh of evil." 

WE SHOULD. NOT BE LED A STRAY BY FALLACIES 

In these days of confusion, when the Constitution of our country is assailed, by those who have no understanding of the purpose of God regarding this great country, it behooves those who do understand to consider seriously and faithfully, the benefits that will flow to us by honoring and sustaining the government that was reared under the direction of our heavenly Father. 

We are a peculiar people in many ways, and in this particularly are we peculiar, in that we believe that the constitution of the United States was inspired by our heavenly Father, and he has told us that he raised up the very men who should frame the Constitution of the United States. Knowing that, we should not be led astray by the fallacies of individuals whose selfishness inclines them to attack that which our heavenly Father has prepared for the people of this land. 

A DECLARATION OF BELIEF REGARDING GOVERNMENTS AND LAWS IN GENERAL 

In a very early day in the Church our people promulgated their attitude with reference to the law of the land and the purpose of government. I believe I will take time this morning to read it to you. It is found in the Doc. and Cov., sec. 134; and in the History of the Church, Vol. 2, p. 247: 

"A declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, adopted by a unanimous vote at a general assembly of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held at Kirtland, Ohio, August 17, 1835, with the following preamble: That our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood, we have thought proper to present at the close of this volume our opinion concerning the same." 

And this, is what our people subscribed to in conference assembled : 

"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. 

"We believe that religion is instituted of God: and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rtiles of worship to bind the conscience of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul. 

"We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments: and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding' sacred the freedom of conscience. 

"We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker. 

"We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are  to enact laws for the protection of all citizens in the free exercise of their religious belief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy. 

"We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment. 

"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individtial rights of its members, as citizens, denied. 

"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship. 

"We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded. 

"We believe it just to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth, and warn the righteous to save themselves from the corruption of the world; but we do not believe it right to interfere with bond-servants, neither preach the gospel to, nor baptize them contrary to the will and wish of their masters, nor to meddle with or influence them in the least to cause them to be dissatisfied with their situations in this life, thereby jeopardizing the lives of men; such interference we believe to be unlawful and unjust, and dangerous to the peace of every government allowing human beings to be held in servitude." 

NO ONE A GOOD MEMBER OF THE CHURCH WHO REFUSES TO SUSTAIN THE LAW OF THE LAND 

I felt that on this occasion, and at this time, when there is so much unrest in our land, that I would like to read to you what our people conceived to be their duty to the government under which they lived. We still believe that there is only one way whereby we may enjoy peace and happiness, and that is by observing the constitutional law of our land, and by sustaining that constitutional law that was inspired by our heavenly Father at the inception of this great government. There are those who are misguided in the belief that they may organize groups and take into their own hands the punishment of those who have differed from them in their ideas of religion or government. We may well understand that men who do that come in conflict with the orderly system that our heavenly Father has decreed should govern the children of men. So, as Latter-day Saints in these times of unrest we may know that no man is a faithful member of this Church, in good standing, who refuses to sustain the law of the land, and who lends himself in any way to break down that organized system of laws that has been prepared for the good of the community. The Lord directs that we seek after good men and great men, and that we pray for and sustain them in order that the laws that are enacted for our government may be such as he would be pleased to indorse. This people may go on exercising a power for the blessing of the children of men in this land that will be felt from shore to shore, and from border line to border line. I am grateful that I belong to a Church that has been directed by our heavenly Father to observe the constitutional law of the land. I am grateful that those men who have led this Church have been inspired by the Lord to teach obedience to law. I am thankful that on the eve of a great election, when we are to choose those who will preside over the destinies of the nation and the states, that we have the word of our heavenly Father that we should select good men, and honorable men, and that the franchise that we are blessed with shall be exercised in the interest of orderly government, and in the interest of the perpetuation of a system of laws that shall continue peace and contentment and satisfaction to all who dwell in this land. 

THANKFUL FOR THE BLESSINGS OF LIBERTY 

This is God's work that we are identified with. He has established his Church in this latter day. He has blessed us with the opportunity to seek him in prayer, and, if we are humble, he will lead us to do those things that will make for righteousness and for contentment in life. Today, let us feel as we go from this delightful conference that we will draw near unto the Lord, that we will honor him and honor the Government that he has prepared for us, under which we live and in which he have part in protecting. 

This Church is our Father's work. It is the advocate of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and this government is established by the will of Jesus Christ and is a part of his plan whereby men may enjoy liberty and freedom, and where all faiths and beliefs and doctrines may enjoy liberty and be amenable to the law of the land; and where no group of individuals may array themselves against the rights and privileges of their fellows. I thank my Father in heaven, for the knowledge that he loves liberty. I thank him for the blessings that he has given to us of peace and happiness in these everlasting hills. I am grateful for my companionship with men and women such as are assembled here today, and such as you represent throughout this great land. That the Lord may help us that we may be worthy of our birthright, that we may live such pure and holy lives that the adversary will have no power  tempt us, or direct us into evil paths, and that we may listen to the whisperings of that still small voice, to which all good men are entitled, and know that voice when it shall come to us, for it will point us the way of peace and happiness and eternal life, is my prayer, and that God may grant it to us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church 

I have listened with a great deal of pleasure and appreciation to the remarks that have been made yesterday and today. They have been a source of joy to my soul, and I appreciate most sincerely this opportunity of being present to listen to the words of life, of counsel, and of advice that have been given already and will yet be given during this conference. 

This vast congregation is unique. It is composed not of delegates whose expenses have been paid by organizations that they might come to attend these sessions, but is made up of Latter-day Saints who of their own free will have assembled in this great building for the purpose of worshiping God and for the purpose of being blessed and inspired by truth and a fuller understanding of the Gospel. They have assembled from places all the way between Canada and Mexico, as far southeast as Georgia, northeast up to New York and vicinity, from Chicago and from such western states as California, and from points as far west as the Hawaiian Islands. They have gathered here for the purpose of listening to words of inspiration and of being encouraged in their holy faith. So. in that respect, this gathering is unique; and I am thankful and glad that I am privileged to be one who is here. 

While Brother George Albert Smith was speaking I thought to myself, "What more am I thankful for than those things which he has expressed this morning?" I am thankful, as I believe we all are, for the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; for the kind and tender mercy of our Father in heaven in giving us the privilege in these latter days of hearing and embracing the truth, as revealed from our heavenly Father to his servant the Prophet Joseph. I am thankful, and I think that we all are thankful, for this goodly land, for this land choice above all other lands, protected by two mighty oceans from Old World hatreds and feuds, this land where there can be developed the highest civilization the world has yet seen. I am thankful that the Lord has so abundantly blessed his people. Though adversity brought that Pioneer band here, he himself placed them in the center of this great country, in the valleys of these great mountain ranges, where wealth and peace and comfort prevail; and how different we find the world to be when we leave these vales and these peaceful towns and villages of the Latter-day Saints, and how glad we are to get back again. I am thankful that the Lord has reserved this land as the place in which his mighty purposes were to be brought about, that the Gospel was restored in a land where liberty prevails. These happenings were not haphazard; they did not come by chance. The Prophet Nephi saw in vision the very man who would discover this land and prepare the way for the coming of the great stream of the House of Israel into this country, which has been occupied, and is still being occupied and deve'oped, by that mighty race of Israelites scattered as they were years ago, and remaining so until the sound of the Gospel message came to them. 

I am thankful, too, for the peace that prevails among us as Latter-day Saints; for the happiness and comfort which abide about us; for the well-fed and well-clothed people; for the comfortable homes and beautiful surroundings of the farms and the property which the Lord has permitted us to acquire that we might use it to his honor and glory. It was with joy, too. that I heard this morning the reading of the statement made by the Prophet Joseph concerning our rights and privileges; and I am thankful that among the fruits of the Gospel is the demonstration that people can live in harmony and in peace. While one Latter-day Saint committing a felony would be one too many, yet there is no community in this world where less crime is committed and where there is less need for courts of justice and order than in the communities where our people are thickly settled. Such are the results of obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I am indeed thankful for it. 

Another thought concerning the progress and development of the work of God : The Lord has given us the light of the Gospel, and a part of the responsibility of continuing his great work rests upon us. As I said to Bishop Nibley this morning, the Lord has placed upon the Latter-day Saints three great duties. One is that they shall save themselves; another, that they shall warn the world : and the third, that they shall redeem their dead; and nearly all we do in this Church is fundamentally based on one or more of these three propositions. 

I have been thinking concerning our personal salvation, the development of our spiritual life, increased devotion to duty in our wards and stakes, the higher and better family life; for after all family life is the basis of all the development of this Church. We are an aggregate of families organized into branches and wards and stakes and missions, and we need development in the home, the basis of all our growth and improvement. I would like to see scripture reading in the homes, and family prayers carefully attended to, that the spirit and idealism of the Gospel of Jesus Christ might be instilled into us in the home, for that is where we will save ourselves and our children. In this Church the Lord has placed the priesthood to act as his agents, that whatever they perform, in righteousness and under the proper direction, will be binding on this earth and in the heavens. This priesthood has been graded into various orders, each with very specific and -defined duties, and the Lord called and appointed two of the orders of this priesthood for the very purpose of looking- after the home life of the community. The Lord shows this in Section 20, that famous and wonderful revelation given a short time before the Church was organized, and he placed upon the priests and teachers these duties : 

"The priest's duty is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament, 

"And visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family (duties. * * * 

"The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them: 

"And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, back-biting, nor evil speaking; 

"And. see that the church meet together often, and also see that all members do their duty." 

The Lord did not intend that it should be left entirely with the priests and teachers. In section 107, he says : 

"High priests after the order of the Melchizedek Priesthood have a right to officiate in their own standing, under the direction of the presidency, in administering spiritual things, and also in the office of an elder, priest (of the Levitical order), teacher, deacon, and member." 

So, it is plain that the Lord has placed some responsibility upon every Latter-day Saint holding the Priesthood, and one of the greatest of these responsibilities I have just mentioned, that of developing the spiritual life of the Latter-day Saints; and it is a privilege to be called by the bishopric of a ward to labor in the ministry over a few families, to visit with them, to teach them, as the Lord says, and to be their counselors. It is an oportunity that comes to but few. It is the only organization in the Church by which the Lord has provided that those laboring in it shall go into the homes and teach the Saints their duties. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we should take seriously our duties in this respect, feeling the weight of responsibility and realizing that the spiritual development of this Church, the upbuilding of family life, and the guiding and training of the youth of Zion depend so largely on the twenty thousand men and boys who are laboring in the ministry as Ward Teachers. 

I believe the time has come when the young men called to hold the offices of priest and teacher should accompany older men. and I believe that these older men should be responsible for the spiritual training of the boys placed in their charge. This reminds me of the incident I have heard our President tell concerning that rugged Scotchman, Hamilton G. Park, a man whom I loved and revered, for I lived in the same stake as did he and learned to know and appreciate him. President Grant was called to labor as a teacher with Brother Park, and the President has often told of the times they have gone visiting together to the homes of the Saints in the Twelfth-Thirteenth ward, of the inspiration and encouragement he has received from that staunch Latter-day Saint who never deviated from his duty, Hamilton G. Park. That same opportunity of helping to train the youth of Zion comes to you and to me, my brethren and sisters. I believe we would be" derelict in our duty if, when young boys are called to labor with us older men, we did not instil into their hearts by testimony, by good conduct, by righteous living, a love of the Gospel, and a love of truth, so that they will be able to say, as President Grant has said about Hamilton G. Park, that we have been a source of encouragement and inspiration to them. 

I believe that the development of this Church in the stakes and wards will evolve largely around the home. You remember that a lawyer sent to the Lord at one time and said to him : "Master, which is the great commandment in the law ?" and the Lord told him : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all. thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." There must grow among the Latter-day Saints a greater love and spirit of neighborliness among us; a co-operative spirit, with a desire to help one another in commercial and in other forms of business life; a willingness to be kind and considerate and helpful to our neighbors. This spirit prevails among us to a greater degree than anywhere else in the world. Every Latter-day Saint has need for the faith and help of his neighbors. Their lives and our lives will be benefited by their good conduct and by ours. 

So I appeal to my brethren and sisters that we go home with the determination that our home life shall improve where necessary; that our spiritual life shall be developed through laboring in the ministry; that we will serve the Lord with all our hearts, with all our might, with all our minds, and with all our strength, that his great work may ,grow, that it may never be said of us that if we had been better men and women the work of the Lord might have progressed just a little faster. 

The Lord bless you and me and help us to appreciate the opportunities of today. The Lord bless us with a desire that we make the best use of today. Yesterday has gone; tomorrow we may never see. May we grasp our opportunities and make the most of them, so that our Father may say to us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant : thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." The Lord bless us, and help us to keep these facts and ideals before us all the days of our lives, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California 

Misdon 

It is a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be present in this great conference of the Latter-day Saints. It is a great privilege also to have the opportunity of occupying a few moments in this  of the conference. I have rejoiced very greatly in listening to the instructions that have been imparted, and in partaking of the spirit of the testimonies that have been borne from the lips of the Lord's servants who have been called to address the people. I am happy in the work that has been allotted to me to labor as a missionary in the California mission, and I am glad to say that my companions in that mission, as a rule, are at the present time in the enjoyment of good health They manifest an anxious desire to magnify their callings and discharge the responsibilities that have been placed upon them by virtue of their appointment as missionaries and representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The missonaries are very largely young men and young women who have not had very much experience in Church responsibility. It is, however, universal that when they come to the mission headquarters, they come with a full determination to try to play the part that may be allotted to them to the very best of their ability. They are ready and willing to go wherever they may be appointed; and it has been a source of constant wonder to note the manner in which they come to understand the principles and doctrines of the gospel, and acquire the ability to expound them. It has been a source of very great joy to me to be associated with the missionaries of the California mission, and I am sure that their hearts are touched and pricked by the power of God, and that they do believe, with just as great fervency as their fathers and mothers believe, in the truth of the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

We try to encourage men and women to believe that the Lord our Godj as has been declared during these services, has manifested himself again to the children of men, that he has revealed anew the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that he has conferred upon men, by the sending of holy angels from his presence, the authority that is necessary not only to expound understandingly, but to administer legally and properly the saving ordinances of the gospel. We try to impress upon the minds of these young missionaries that without that divine authority that was bestowed upon the head of the Prophet Joseph Smith, at the opening of this dispensation, there cannot be any salvation. Salvation is obtained through obedience to the doctrines of the gospel, and no man can teach those doctrines and administer those ordinances, except he be called of God as the Scriptures teach. We [try to impress upon them the truth of the doctrine set forth by one of the old prophets when he made the statement that we must go to the law and to the testimony, and if we speak not according to that word there is no light in us. I believe, and I am satisfied my companions believe, and the Latter-day Saints who reside in the mission believe, that there has been committed to this people a great and important message, and that that message has been committed to them in fulfilment of the promises made by the Lord our God long ago. For our Father in heaven declared by the mouths of holy prophets, in ages long gone by, that in the latter days the Lord God of heaven would set his hand to accomplish a marvelous work and a wonder. He declared that truth by the mouth of the Prophet Daniel when the king's dream was interpreted, and he declared that the dream was certain and the interpretation thereof was sure. We believe therefore we are to go to the law and to the testimony to discover the will of God and the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

While we find many people in the mission who profess to be believers in the law of God, and who apparently are quite sincere when they make such declarations, we discover that when we read from the law of the gospel and the doctrines that were taught by the Redeemer of the world and his apostles whom he commissioned to teach the inhabitants of the earth, that they do not believe, as they claim to believe, in the messages found in the holy scriptures. We believe that we place in the hands of all men the key to prove the falsity of the religion we are representing, if it be not true, from the fact that we say that it is the old gospel restored anew; and the inhabitants of the earth have in their hands the record that contains the doctrines of that gospel, as they were taught by an inspired ministry in the meridian of time. And I am happy to say that it is not the experience of the missionaries in the California mission that men come to them with the word of God in their hands, and call to their attention doctrines that are being taught that are not in harmony with the law of the Lord. 

We believe and teach that there is but one gospel; and that seems at times not to be very palatable to many people with whom we come in contact. It seems popular in the feelings of men and women today to feel that there are many systems of religion which will carry them back into the presence of God, to be approved; and we do not feel that it is our privilege to delude people with any intimation that if they will continue in good living, being good citizens and good neighbors, all will be well in the life to come! We do feel that responsibility rests upon us to bear testimony to the things that the Lord our God hath wrought — and that is, the restoration of the authority to speak in the name of Jesus Christ. When we speak by that authority we teach only the doctrines that have been given by the Redeemer of the world by which men are to be saved. We feel in our hearts that, "we are not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." We are under obligation to our Father in heaven, and to his Church here upon the earth, to expound those doctrines and to declare to the inhabitants of the earth that there is but one gospel, and that, though we or an angel from heaven or representatives from any religious denomination on the face of the earth, preach not the doctrine and the gospel that was taught by the ancient apostles, the curse of God will be upon us. We believe, my brethren and sisters, that the beginning of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is just as it is declared by St. Mark, that the forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ taught the beginning of that gospel, when he taught men the gospel of repentance and the gospel of baptism for the remission of sins. We be that in this age of the world, just as in that age of the world, men reject the counsel of God against themselves, not being willing to receive the principle and ordinance, given by the Lord our God, that initiates them into the Kingdom of God and that makes them members of the Church of Christ. 

You know that, in the gospel according to St. Luke, the declaration is made that the people who would not receive the ordinance of baptism, that was being administered to the people by John the Baptist, rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not thus baptized. We are trying to impress upon the minds of the people that there is necessity in this age of the world to hearken to those doctrines, and that it is of the greatest importance that they shall put away from them the follies in which men have believed and in which they are believing today, and that they shall receive the truth which has been made manifest by the revelations of the Lord our God. We are trying to convince men that the authority of which we speak has always been essential and necessary in the accomplishment of the purposes of our Father in heaven. Whenever God has had a message for the inhabitants of the earth he has raised up men who have been clothed with power from on high and who have been commissioned by the voice and commandment of God (o carry to the children of men the message that the Lord has for them. God has always operated through his chosen servants, and by them he has made known his will to the peoples of the earth in all past dispensations. 

We 'are trying to convince men and women of the truth and the fulfilment of the promise made by the Almighty through the lips of an inspired apostle regarding a great event in the latter time — for so he did promise. The angel told John, "Come up hither and I will show thee things that shall be hereafter" — not things that were transpiring then, in the meridian of time, but things of importance that would transpire in the future history of the world. So says the law of God, the law and the testimony. We invite men, whatever their religious persuasions may be, or whatever their expectations may be, to remember that if they speak not according to the law and to the testimony it is because there is no light in them, and the law and the testimony given by God through the mouth of an inspired Apostle is that in the latter times another angel should "fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come." So says the law. Let who will dispute it, let who will denounce it, and oppose it, it is the law and word of God, and we are under obligation and responsibility, in this great dispensation of the fulness of times, to bear witness that God is true and that the promises that have been made by him in ancient times, through his inspired ministry, are being fulfilled; and to bear record that the very heavens and the earth may pass away but the promise of God in relation to the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the latter times cannot pass away without fulfilment. 

We are joyful in bearing witness, wherever we have opportunity, that we have been made acquainted with that message, thus revealed, and that the angel, promised by the Lord our God, has come to the earth; and upon the head of the Prophet Joseph, by holy beings, the authority and power and the commandment and direction of the Lord our God were given for the establishment of the great work to which we have given our allegiance. We call men's attention to the manner in which this work was introduced by an innocent boy falling upon his knees and pleading with the Lord for information, that his soul might be saved. Who is there that can find fault with the boy appealing to God in this manner, and the answer that was given of our Father in heaven ? Men do not believe it, but we not only believe, but we know, that in answer to that prayer our Father in heaven and our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, made answer, and made the declaration that the time had come, that was spoken of by the holy prophets, in relation to the work of the latter times. That knowledge has come into our souls. It has gladdened our hearts. It has filled us with a desire and a determination to clear our skirts of the blood of all men, and to bear witness that God has sent his hand to accomplish that work, and that the work will be accomplished. May the Lord God help us to play our part therein, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church 

I am thankful this morning, my brethren and sisters, in having this opportunity of meeting with you in conference, in having fellowship with you and with these my brethren whose lives are devoted to the service of the Lord. I rejoice in the opportunity I have of laboring with you and of trying in my humble way to further the cause of the Lord. I sincerely pray that while I shall stand before you this morning he will bless and strengthen me that I may speak words of counsel and bear testimony to you of his goodness which will be acceptable unto him. 

Many good things have been said to us during this conference' thus far. I was thinking this morning, and I have been thinking for a number of weeks, in the few moments I have had when I could think of things other than those things which come to us in the regular course of business — I have tried to think of something that would be well to say to this congregation. I have gone home weary at night, after having had a strenuous day, and upon awaking in the morning, I have thought and read and studied, and I have been bewildered in the thought of approaching this task. Not that the task is burdensome to me, but that, as I serve, the field of service opens  so broad and appears to me so big, I wonder if I will ever be equal to it! 

When Brother George Albert Smith was speaking of the government of the United States, my mind turned to the government of the Church. How well has God provided for the government of his Church, and for the training of his children. My particular duty in the Church does not take me especially to the outsiders; that is, to those who do not believe as I believe; but my labor is more particularly with the members of the Church, the Lesser Priesthood, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel, which gospel is the gospel of repentance, and baptism, by immersion, for the remission of sins. One of the first commandments given by God to Adam was that he be baptized and that he teach his children to be baptized. Adam asked: "Why is it that men should be baptized?" and the Lord's answer was that, "all men must repent and be baptized by immersion for the remission of sins in the name of mine Only Begotten, the only name under heaven by which man might be saved." 

This preparatory gospel is the field of service in which I am called to labor, and I rejoice in it. As I labor, from day to day, I see in it great responsibility. I wonder sometimes if we who hold the Priesthood of the living God fully realize what it means to us to be so blessed. I recall that so far as we have record, this Lesser Priesthood was held anciently only by mature men. In the beginning of the Church this /Priesthood was conferred upon men, but the Lord to my mind has clearly shown that it was not intended that it should be held only by mature men, but its real purpose, to my mind, is to prepare men for service in this Church. Men who enter the Church in their mature years should gain their experience through the Lesser Priesthood. Boys who are just entering into their ministry should gain their experience through this Priesthood, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel. You will recall that the keys of the ministering of angels are given to prepare for service. It is a preparatory work. This is clearly shown in section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord has defined the duties of the Priesthood. The Priest's especial duty it is to be with the Church ' — and I take it where the Lord said, "to be with the Church," he meant those who are faithful, those who are diligent, those who are humble and striving earnestly to keep the commandments of God. The duty of the Priest is to be with them, to preach, teach, expound, exhort and baptize, and to see that they pray vocally and in secret. The duty of the Teacher is to be with the Church; not those who are indifferent, not those who are antagonistic, but those who have faith in God and desire to help their fellowmen in their desire to learn of God and his purposes. In this office, the duty is to see that there is no iniquity in the Church, no evil speaking, no backbiting or fault-finding, but to see that the members meet together often and do their, duty. The duty of the Deacon is to assist the Teacher and the Priest whenever occasion requires. To me, my brethren and sisters, that means this : Although in the beginning this Priesthood was conferred upon mature men, to my mind it has been given for the purpose of developing young men, or boys, as they grow and begin to gain knowledge, which knowledge is only of value to them as they can make use of it through service. 

So I take it, the Lord intended that in the Church, when fully established, young men should have opportunity to serve along with the older men. So it has been decided by his servants that young men might have this opportunity. The Deacons are ordained in their tender years; no fixed time in which they should be ordained. This should be measured by their ability to serve, and their desire to serve, that they may gain experience in this work, this ministry in which outward ordinances are the field of labor. They are put to work passing the sacrament, running errands, acting as messengers doing a hundred and one things they can do, to help impress upon them the importance of service, and the importance of their position in the Church. After a few years of such service, under proper guidance, they step into the next field of labor, that of the teacher, where it is their duty to see that there is no iniquity, no evil-speaking, backbiting, or faultfinding. Can you conceive of any work that might come into the life of a boy at the age of fourteen or fifteen years that will bring to him greater protection than to have a knowledge of the fact that it is his duty to help keep the Church clean spiritually and physically? 

And I take it, it is his duty at this age to visit the homes of the members, for his duty is with the Church, those' who sympathize with him and know something of his problems, and have a desire to help him in his struggle in life. Think what it would mean to him to enter the homes of the members of the Church to teach these things, and in return receive the blessings of the members of these households. Then, after years of service in this work, under the guiding hand of wise men, he steps into the office of Priest where he learns to preach, teach, expound and exhort, not among those who are unfriendly and who do not believe as he believes, but among those who sympathize with him, those who realize, to a certain extent, the task that is before him and those who, guided by the Spirit of God, reach out a helping hand to lift him over that rugged road and help place him firmly upon his feet in the service of God. 

This is a work, my brethren and sisters, depending upon no one individual, every one who holds the Priesthood and all who hold the Priesthood combining together in service to carry on the work of the Lord. This is a wonderful opportunity we have, and I am wondering if there isn't more we can do unitedly to carry on this great work of the Lord, to see to it that the young men in the Church are better prepared for the rriinistry when the time shall come for them to be called to go into the world to preach to those who are unfriendly and  not believe as we believe. Let me call your attention to a parable given to us by the Savior : 

"And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord when he will return from^ the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. 

"Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them. 

"And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants. 

"And this know, that if the good man of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken through. 

"Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not. 

"Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all? 

"And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season? 

"Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord when he cometh shall find so doing. 

"Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. 

"But and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the men servants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken; 

"The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. 

"And that servant, which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. 

"But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more." 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may be found faithful and diligent to the end, that when the time shall come for us to be called by the Master we will be found worthy of an exaltation with him. May God so bless us. I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States Mission 

Through President Joseph W. McMurrin you have heard a report from the shores of the Pacific. I feel myself particularly happy to be able to follow him so nearly by making something of a report of the work of the Lord from the Atlantic seaboard, so that you may hear this morning, and in this same meeting a report from the shores of the sea west and a report from the shores of the sea east of the land of Zion. I too can report that the health condition of the missionaries in the Eastern states is very fine, and also that the spiritual health of our mission is splendid. That thing we used to speak of in the army as the corps d 'esprit is most excellent in the Eastern States mission. At the present time there are no doubt many more Latter-day Saints on the shores of the Pacific than there are on the shores of the Atlantic. Perhaps if our missions were to be judged as to its success by the number of baptisms, there might be considerable discouragement, for acceptance of our great latter-day message is rather slow on that tier of states that constitute the Eastern States mission of our Church. It is only proper to say, however, that the slow progress of our work is not due to any lack of effort or earnestness of purpose on the part of the missionaries who represent the work of the Lord in that place; and, in order that you may have data on which you may form your judgment as to that, I am going to read as rapidly as I may an account of a few of our activities. I did hope that I should be able to have in my hands, before I made this report, a compiled report for the last nine months, closing with September. That report, however, has not reached my hands yet, so I am going to take our report of the month of August, from which you can form some judgment as to the activities of the representatives of the Church in the Eastern States mission: 

Through the month of August we had 129 missionaries in active service. The number of hours spent in tracting, by that number of mission, was 18,924 

Hours visiting saints, of course for purposeful labor, 9,547 

Hours spent in attending meetings 4,491 

Hours visiting investigators, teaching them the gospel at their firesides 4,186 

Hours spent in gospel conversations 14,659 

Hours devoted to study by this body of (129) missionaries 8,443 

Number of families visited 35,594 

Number of investigators visited 1,890 

The number of gospel conversations in the month, of this body of 

missionaries 28,087 

Number of Books of Mormon sold, for the month 197 

Other books distributed 527 

Tracts distributed 43,105 

Pamphlets distributed 26,942 

Hall meetings held 394 

Cottage meetings held 205 

Open air meetings held 303 

Making a total of meetings in halls, cottages and open air, for the 

month of August 902 

Perhaps you will be disposed to agree with me that these figures represent a great volume of missionary activity. 

Now I am almost loath to read the next item because the numbers are so small, but I feel that we are not responsible for the smallness of these numbers, so you must have it with the rest. Out of all this effort, and perhaps very much effort that preceded the month of August, we only had thirty baptisms. You see we have to put forth a  of effort in order to get an ounce of results; but, thank God, we did put forth the ton of effort. And then, if we count the value of souls, as God counts them, perhaps we had great reward for our efforts. The Lord in this new dispensation of the gospel has made it known that the value of a soul is great unto God. One of the elders in an early day of the Church was told that if he should devote his whole life to the ministry, and should save only one soul, yet great would be his joy with that one soul in heaven. 

During the last six months, nay during just the last month, September, we have completed and dedicated two chapels in the Eastern States mission; one in Baltimore, Maryland, and one in Fairmont, West Virginia. These two, with the chapel that was dedicated last January in Charleston, West Virginia, makes three chapels within the past two years that we have built and dedicated to the Lord in that land, at an aggregate cost of about $54,000. One third of the amount in the case of the West Virginia chapels has been raised by the subscriptions of the Saints and their friends in that land. I have been tempted to believe, that perhaps the establishment of chapels in the Eastern States mission marks progress in the development of the work of the Lord on the Atlantic seaboard of the land of Zion. It rather indicates that we are approaching that time when we shall establish permanent stations in that part of the land, when we shall carry to the people the institutions of Zion, not only the regular Church organization as expressed in branches, but our Sabbath schools, Mutual Improvement associations, Primary associations, Relief Societies and all those helps in government which can, as I believe, be made mighty agencies for reaching the lives of the people in those communities; using not only the testimony of the missionaries, but likewise the testimony of the institutions of Zion in bringing men to a knowledge of the latter-day word of God. 

I believe that this note of permanency given to our work in the Eastern States mission means a return to the vision and purpose that were in the mind of the Prophet Joseph in the last conference that he held in Nauvoo, April 1844. At that time many of the Saints felt that the ideas about the establishment of Zion in Jackson county had been somewhat disrupted, and certainly postponed. The Prophet, to reestablish confidence in the minds of his people concerning Zion, and in the promises which God had made concerning Israel, enlarged their vision about Zion by calling their attention to the fact that it was not circumscribed by the lines of Jackson county, nor by the lines of the State of Missouri, but under a very burst of inspiration from God, he made known that the whole land of America, North and South, was the land of Zion; and that God's purposes concerning Zion (sometimes also called the land of Joseph), contemplated larger things than the brethren had so far dreamed of. He announced at that conference that the whole land of America — this "land choice above all other lands," was Zion; wherever the elders went, and could find those who would receive the testimony which they bore, they were at liberty to establish "stakes of Zion" through their ministry in all parts of the land; and he specifically named the city of Boston as a suitable place for a stake of Zion, and New York as a suitable place for a stake of Zion, also I think Philadelphia. President Brigham Young, following him at the conference, in his remarks declared that the prophet's announcement was a "sweepstakes" in giving this larger vision of what would constitute Zion. Well, of course, the martyrdom of the Prophet, the expatriation of the Latter-day Saints from the United States, and their journey to these mountains, postponed, for a time, the things contemplated at that time by the Prophet Joseph. Perhaps, as a community, we were to learn what we sometimes find out as individuals, namely, that the farthest way around is often the nearest way home. It was necessary that these decades, between themartyrdom of the Prophet and now, should pass. The history that we have written in our exodus to these western lands, the establishment of stakes of Zion here — and the growth of the Latter-day Saints into a great and united community, where they could accumulate means, and experience, that would enable them to take possession of their larger inheritance throughout the land of Zion, were necessary. But now, strengthened as we are, experienced as we have come to be, may we not lift our vision to comprehend the larger purpose of God in the gathering of Israel out of the world to the whole land of Zion, and the redemption of it through stakes of Zion bein^ established east as well as west? For I do want to claim for the Eastern States that they constitute just as acceptable regions in which stakes of Zion can be established as are to be found on the Pacific shores of the land of Zion. And when we sing, "America," that great American anthem — "My country 'tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing" — we want to have a larger vision than the State of Utah affords; or that any other state affords. We want to include in our thoughts every part of the land that is under the protecting aegis of the Constitution of the United States, which God established, by raising up inspired men to lay the true foundations of civil liberty in the world. So, too, when we speak of Zion and God's purposes with reference to the gathering of Israel, and the establishment of Zion, we want to have a larger vision than these valleys of the Rocky Mountains afford, splendid and glorious as they are to us, and dear to our affections, for they are not the whole of Zion, nor even the center of Zion; and to those who understand aright, never were thought upon as more than a resting place for Israel while preparing for greater possessions, including these. We want to remember, Latterday Saints, that Zion, her center place, the center city of Zion, where God's house, The Temple of temples is to be erected, has not been moved out of her place. It is still where God declared it to be, near Independence, Jackson county, Missouri, in the center of the land. 

The center as to these United States of America, midway between "the sea east and the sea west;" midway between our boundary line on the north and our boundary line on the south; and, strangely enough, when contemplated with reference to the old North American Continent — the land of Eden, as well as the land of Zion — contemplated with reference to the whole continent; midway, the Panama region and the far North beyond the Hudson Bay; and as already I have told you, about equal distance between the west sea and the east sea. Well, Zion has not been moved out of her place, and God's decree must be fulfilled in relation to the establishment of Zion itself, as well as the stakes of Zion. We want to keep that within the range of our vision. 

I am happy to say to you that in the East, no less than in the West, we are making proclamation of this same gospel to which President Joseph McMurrin bore such splendid testimony. We had made the keynote of our ministry in the Eastern States : "The Lord hath spoken!" We open with Isaiah's text: "Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken!" And from that starting point we, too, develop the message of the new dispensation of the gospel. Not a new gospel. We have no new God to present to the world; no new Redeemer to offer; no new plan devised for man's salvation, but "the everlasting gospel." That gospel which was formulated and agreed upon by the children of God, even before the foundations of the earth itself were laid; being that covenant of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised (Titus 1 :2-3) before the foundation of the earth itself were laid. We are preaching this new dispensation of the old gospel; and your sons and your daughters in the east-lands, O Latter-day Saints, are faithful and true to the dispensation of that gospel committed unto them. God grant that they may continue true, and that we may be able to impress upon the hearts of the children of men that God has again spoken from heaven, and is reestablishing his Church in the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

President Soren M. Nielsen, of the North Sanpete stake of Zion, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


