Afternoon
07 10 1933

The meeting commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant announced the opening hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," which was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Horace Ray Pond, President of the Benson Stake, offered the invocation. 

Sister Judith Anderson Beard sang a sacred solo, "How beautiful upon the mountains." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I should like to take a little of the precious time of this conference to advocate patience. I regard patience as one of the finest of all the Christian virtues. It contemplates sympathy, charity, forbearance, suspension of judgment, and perhaps most of all, the ability to wait. 

Perhaps it was never harder to be patient than it is at the present time, and yet I think we have never been under the necessity of exercising patience more than now. 

SYMPATHY FOR UNEMPLOYED 

I have very deep sympathy for men and women who bear the chief burden of the depression; for those who are out of employment, who have long been without work, who see their families in want; who find, perhaps, their own self-respect slipping because they have been forced to accept of charity. I entertain great pity for them, I sympathize with 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

them. I am well aware of the fact that it is a very difficult thing, as they undergo these privations and wait month after month, year after year, for an improvement in conditions, to hold their patience, but I bid them do so. 

EXPERIMENTAL POLICIES 

We are now called upon to support what purports to be a very comprehensive program for recovery. It is a complex program. In many respects it is an experiment, acknowledged so to be. Those who are students of our governmental history recognize the fact that in it there have been and are wide departures from established policies, some of which seem to contravene the very fundamental tenets of our governmental faith. I freely acknowledge that as I hear criticisms of this character directed toward some of the policies that are sought to be carried out, I find it difficult, if not impossible, to answer, in terms of our .old principles and procedure, the objections that are urged. Nevertheless, for a while, I feel constrained, by very force of all the circumstances, to be patient for the outcome of these experimental policies. 

A FAIR TRIAL URGED 

I feel that constraint because, while I may have objections and criticisms, I have nothing constructive to offer in lieu of these policies. I think that many a man who gives himself over to criticism of the program which is now being projected for the recovery of the nation will discover, when he frankly asks himself the question, what would he do instead, that he is without a substitute program. 

Now, I am not opposed to criticism of the right kind. I think that it is a very definite and a very essential part of the whole theory of a democracy, that there should be open opportunity for criticism. But I do think that in times of great stress, when the very nation itself is languishing for want of something constructive to lift itself out of unheard-of conditions, it behooves the citizens of our country to be patient, and to give to a program projected by our government a fair opportunity. After all, the best way to demonstrate the worthiness or the unworthiness of any policy is to give it a fair trial, and the quicker any projected policy may have a fair trial, the sooner will its adaptability be determined. 

I feel very much assured of one thing, and that is this : that unless we give to our government our united support, our patient support, we are going to be thrown into the throes of more confusion than that which we now suffer. 

SUBSCRIBE TO SPIRIT AND CONFORM TO REQUIREMENTS 

So I appeal for patience. Let us discover, by cooperation and support, what may come of these programs. For one, I do not doubt good intention as the premise. Many of the policies are fraught with innumerable difficulties. I have had experience enough to know that it is not an easy thing to revamp a business to conform with the requireELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 65 

merits of N. R. A. But I take it that the chief thing to be conserved, after all, is the spirit of the movement, and while there may be some technical difficulties encountered, by which an absolute compliance becomes almost impossible, I take it that there is no one who cannot, if he will, subscribe to the spirit and conform as nearly as may be to the letter of the requirements. I don't have very much respect for the one who pretends to conform to this program, and secures the Blue Eagle to adorn his establishment to avoid stigma and criticism, and then ignores the provisions and the intent and the spirit of the Act. To my thinking, that is deceit unwarranted. 

Brethren and sisters of the Church, we cannot be Latter-day Saints without being honest, honest with ourselves, honest with our neighbors, honest with our country, honest with God. No manner of deception may be practiced by a man without robbing him of the fundamental spirit and genius of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

APPEALS FOR SUPPORT FOR LEADERS 

Now, I need not say more to indicate what I think should be the attitude of our people, as citizens of the Republic, toward the policies inaugurated by our government. It is true that we may entertain some different views, and we have the right to our opinion, the right to the expression of it, but in an emergency an army follows its commander. I submit to you as to whether or not we are in an emergency, and I appeal for support for our leaders in this great crisis. 

We of the Church believe in sustaining government. Wherever our people are located, they are admonished to support, not only the form of government under which they live, but those who preside over them, kings, rulers and potentates. It is a part of our creed. 

SUSTAINS GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES 

Not infrequently, of late, I have been asked by rather critical people: "Does the Church believe in the capitalistic system?" Some have thought that we ought to set ourselves against the established economic system of the country in which we live. My answer has always been : "The Church has no economic creed that it advocates for the country. It is true that it does have a conception of one that may be initiated in the fold of Christ, when preparation is made for it, but it sustains the governmental agencies that are set up where it exists, where its members reside." 

PLEADS FOR PATIENCE 

I think we need to be patient in other affairs. I believe we need to be patient with each other, as fellow members of the Church. We need to be patient with youth. We need to be patient end sympathetically suspend our judgment of others, unless perchance we are commissioned to judge and under that commission are obliged to exercise a delegated prerogative. We have been told to judge not, that we should not be 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

judged. We have been told to forgive. We are taught the principle of repentance. We know that every one is frail. We know that we all commit sins, either of commission or omission. None of us stands perfect, and we need, as our President said in his opening remarks, to be forbearing and kindly disposed, and to see our own faults, and attempt to remedy them. 

I sum it up under the caption of "Patience," and I plead for that divine quality to be manifest in the hearts and attitudes and actions of the Saints. 

DEPARTED AUTHORITIES AND THEIR SUCCESSORS 

I cannot refrain from just one comment with reference to the good men who have passed from mortality since our last conference meeting, and those who have succeeded them. I loved Brother James E. Talmage. I sat next to him for seventeen years in the Council of the Twelve. I have been blessed many times by the extent of his knowledge. I have been inspired by his diligence and his labors. I feel that he has made an inestimable contribution to the advancement of God's work, and that Brother Brigham H. Roberts, too, has done a monumental work, especially in his defense of the faith, and in his voluminous writings for the cause. 

I feel sure that the right men have been chosen to succeed these men. I love Brother Callis. I have been in the mission field with him. I have seen the spirit that he carries with him in his work. I have wondered how the people of the Southern States, over whom he presided for so many years, can find another father to take his place. They have depended on him, accepted his advice and counsel, and were ever encouraged by his wonderful discourses and his kindly treatment. 

THE DEVOTION AND TESTIMONY OF WILLARD RICHARDS 

Brother John H. Taylor is a boyhood friend of mine. I don't know whether I ought to say it or not, but I feel disposed to say that I have never been able to explain my own inclusion among the general authorities of the Church, except on the ground that my grandfather, Willard Richards, offered his life for this work. He was an intimate friend and associate of the Prophet. I know that he meant what he said when he offered to die for him. I know that he was true to him. I can think only that I came to the position that I now occupy because his good, loyal blood coursed in my own veins. 

My grandfather and Brother Taylor's grandfather were together in Carthage, with the Prophet and the Patriarch. I have felt very close to Brother John. I have felt that by inheritance we had a kinship, a comradeship, and I rejoice highly to know that I am now privileged to associate with him in the councils of the Church. 

I know that this is God's work. My grandfather knew it. He left his testimony to me of it, and I know that when he gave his record that Joseph was a true prophet, that he did not lie. The testimony that I 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 67 

have from him, sustaining the knowledge that has come into my heart, makes me to say : I know that Joseph is a prophet of the living God. I want to live worthy of his association. I should be gratified beyond measure if I could only come back into his presence and receive a word of commendation from him for my humble participation in the cause which he was instrumental in setting up. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I had the pleasure yesterday of bringing to the afternoon services of this conference Miss Thelma Cazalet of London. Miss Cazalet is a member of the English Parliament, and is in America studying the economic and social conditions of the country. It is gratifying to know that in her itinerary she included Salt Lake City. Upon her arrival here, she called on me and presented a letter of introduction from Mr. William Teeling, one of England's most prominent newspaper men. I had the pleasure of entertaining Mr. Teeling two years ago, and he seemed to have enjoyed seeing this marvelous building, and listening to its great organ. His letter to me concerning Miss Cazalet reads : 

"If you remember the time that I visited you in Salt Lake City, you will recall that we went to the Tabernacle; and then you were kind enough to take me to meet President Grant and his counselors. I wonder if you will allow me to introduce to you Miss Thelma Cazalet of the British Parliament. Miss Cazalet is very much interested in the s'ocial life of the United States, and expects to go to Utah to find out Something about the Mormon people, how they interpret life, and what they are doing - for the social uplift of humanity through their marvelous organization. I would be very glad if you will call on Mr. Smoot, and have Miss Cazalet meet the distinguished senator, for she wishes to interview him on the economic conditions of America." 

The rest of the letter is personal, so I will not quote it. 

I had the pleasure of escorting Miss Cazalet about the city, and calling on Senator Smoot. I am very happy to tell you the gracious compliment Miss Cazalet paid Senator Smoot, for she said that the English people and members of Parliament regard him as one of America's greatest citizens, and a man who more than any other American understands the economic and financial problems of the world. This gracious compliment paid the Senator I shall not forget; I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. 

A great many tourists come to Utah, and pay high tribute to the work of our people. They see something here that is delivering mankind from bondage, and bringing liberty. Such a revival is not the work of man, but the work of the Spirit of God. Miss Cazalet looked into your faces and noted your honesty; your sincerity of life. "There is something about the people here that is impressive," she remarked in words that to me were graciously given. 

Miss Cazalet is a friend of Susan Ertz, who also visited Utah 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

something over a year ago. I had the pleasure of taking Miss Ertz about the city and bringing her to this building where she heard an organ recital. It was an impressive hour. Miss Ertz has written a great novel based on the trek of the Mormon pioneers to the far West. In her story the hardships and sorrows of the people are clearly portrayed; and she tells of the great truths of colonizing the West, and pays high tribute to the pioneers of this State. 

It is only recently that the noted Austrian writer, Walter Eidlitzs completed his two volume work entitled ZODIAC. I think the novel bids fair to obtain the Nobel prize for literature this year. Herr Eidlitz came to Utah from Vienna, Austria, because he had been told by one Ann Litisch that the Latter-day Saints seemed to have a power far beyond anything she had ever experienced in her life. Here Herr Eidlitz would be able to find the power and light that the world needs, namely, the priesthood of God. Herr Eidlitz was in our home for two weeks investigating the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord, and he was greatly impressed with our testimony that the holy priesthood of God had been restored to earth. 

I think that all people who accept the Gospel of our Lord are the intelligent ones of the world. It is true that we bring from Europe and other parts of the world the poor in material things, but not the poor in spiritual gifts. We have brought from Scandinavia, Germany, England, Italy, France, and other nations those who have humble faith in the Savior. It is only such who can understand the Gospel. They, like the Apostle Paul, find power in faith; a faith that produces and works itself out in a life of love. They learn like the rest of us that true faith gives all; and in return receives all. This is what was meant by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he wrote these words which are found in the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a book which I wish we would read more in our homes : 

"For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things 1 ." 

A few months ago I brought into this building Dr. Murai, one of the distinguished educators of Japan. He was greatly interested in the architectural beauties of the Tabernacle, and the radiancy of the interior. It all looked so beautiful that day. On his return to Japan, he wrote me some of his impressions as to what the Gospel means, and among the many good things he said were these : 

"To follow Jesus Christ means : First to be a child toward God. This is trust and faith in our Maker. We must be servants, and serve with spiritual grace and power our God. Then the next thing is to be sovereigns over ourselves, which means self-control. Think of thes'e words : Faith, Service, Self-control. What a lovely lesson! Religion after all is a holy synthesis of all that is true and beautiful." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 69 

I am thankful that this noble old building in which we are sitting this afternoon inspires such thoughts in the hearts of men. Through many channels of thought, I firmly believe that mankind is coming to a better understanding of life and its meaning; I think the world is moving toward Christ. It was the prophet Malachi who wrote : 

"For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering." 

Our call as members of the Church and as men holding the Priesthood of God, is to go into all the world and preach the Gospel. It is a sacred thing given us to do. To be effective in this we must go forth with pure hearts and contrite spirits; with an eye single to the glory of God. Our spirits must be clean : and with pure hearts, which will enable us to see and understand the ways of truth, we will become the standard bearers of that divine Will which ultimately will establish the glorious Kingdom of God on earth. So in the midst of this practical world, we shall have to exhibit a practical life of love : a busy life of helpfulness; feeding the hungry, receiving the stranger, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and sorrowful. In this period of stress and tribulation, sorrow and pain, trouble and care, there is a deep and lasting lesson to be learned. It is the lesson that no one can live without God in his life. The Apostle Paul wrote to the Philippians : "Unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake." Be encouraged, my brethren and sisters. Your lives will be filled with greater visions and dreams; your days will yet be golden. Remember what an apostle of old said to the Romans : 

"Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honor preferring one another; 

Not slothful in business; fervent in Spirit; serving the Lord; 

Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer; 

Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality." 

When we have given heart and soul and life to God, we need not worry about the things that may happen tomorrow. The courage of faith will be our attitude of mind that will bring peace today. There is Light today in the world. It is a greater and more radiant light than ever before in all history. This light is the Truth of God as revealed by the Father. Remember what the first historian wrote in the Holy Scriptures : 

"In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved on the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light : and there was light." 

Then we are told in words that ring with the greatest and most divine truth of all : "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him." 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

God bless us every one. May our love increase; may our fiaith in God deepen, I ask in Jesus name. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right." 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Sunday, following the funeral service of President Roberts, I returned to my home hoping to find a subject I might use if called upon during this conference. Long ago I learned that when disturbed I might go to the Lord in the spirit of prayer, and receive comfort. Before leaving my room I had prepared some notes, for the purpose of refreshing my memory. Yesterday morning, during the speech given by President Grant, I felt my notes perhaps would be useless. By the time he had finished his address to us I was convinced the Lord had heard and answered my prayer. 

The proceedings of this conference, thus far, have given me encouragement. I shall read the notes I made at that time, for they are a witness to me that the Lord does hear and answer prayers. 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say : Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the house tops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

"And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

"Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure — 

"Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

"Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear." (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 1) 

These are the words of the Lord given to his prophet Joseph Smith. It seems to me that conditions of the world are such today that this warning is timely and very appropriate. While the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is increasing in numbers, both as to members, 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 71 

and participation in church activities provided for their spiritual and temporal welfare, there is yet much to be accomplished. From a careful study of the records it appears to me that there is a broad field for missionary work which now is being worked in only a haphazard manner, although we have the machinery set up the spiritual energy does not appear to be sufficient to cause it to operate to the fullest extent. 

Are we devoting our time to a study of the theories of men alone ? Theories of men may or may not be based upon truth. The revealed word of our Father is the truth and can be proven by each individual for himself. To obtain such truth one must so live that he comes in harmony with the principles of truth as laid down in the teachings of our Lord and Savior; this seldom comes through opposition thereto. One who makes a practice of profaning the name of Deity cannot approach him in the spirit of truth for he has said: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." That commandment is just as much in force today as when given and one who disregards it has not the spirit of truth. He who fails to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy does not develop a spirit to which the Lord may reveal the truth. The Lord demands that we "Remember the Sabbath day, -to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work." This commandment has been repeated in this day in Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, which says further, "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." 

Are our religious services such that all classes may be encouraged by them ? Do all who attend have the spirit of worship ? Are any inattentive ? What are we doing for those who make a practice of using church services as a visiting time? Are our socials orderly? Is there always some one with an understanding disposition on hand to encourage those who are inclined to rowdyism? To my mind attention to these things is of great importance to religious training, for they tend to belittle and make light of the spiritual. 

A careful examination of quorum and auxiliary records will if analyzed reveal a most interesting story, and unless those of us who have been called as leaders become thoroughly familiar with this story we shall naturally approach our labors in an inefficient manner. Are we holding our young men and moving them from one quorum to the next without loss ? Are they becoming more zealous in their work and more willing to serve as they approach new experiences? If so we may well rejoice in our labors; if not, it is our duty to redouble our efforts and plead with our Father for wisdom and power to accomplish that end. Spirituality is not developed alone through the study of the revealed word; there must be also a service through which the Gospel principles may be applied, creating in return that joy the Lord is pleased to bestow upon his children as a reward. These two, service, with a knowledge of the Gospel, will break down the power of the adversary and build in the one so fortified 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

a resistance against evil and a power to understand the truth, for our Lord has said : "If ye contiue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:31-32) 

To add to the activities of the Aaronic Priesthood we have been during the past few years developing work in genealogy. The work of the Genealogical Society is taking an important part in this conference. Their objective is to save our dead. I am sure that with proper planning on the part of Aaronic Priesthood supervisors those who hold this Priesthood can do much, not only to gather the records of their ancestors but also in doing work in their behalf, which will develop the spirit of this work. To know how to prepare records, to be baptized for his ancestors, and later perform other temple ordinances before leaving for the mission field would place each Elder in a position to render great assistance to those who live in the missions, by helping them to prepare their records, much of which, when completed, could with our help be done for them and cause them to feel contented to remain with their friends and neighbors where they may serve as missionaries also, for the missions are embraced in Zion, and young men at home preparing for such work will become a tower of strength to them and examples for good at home. Parents who are about to send your boys into the mission field do not be content with having them go through the temple only the few times they do so while at the mission home. Go with them before this time, help them to understand the full meaning and purpose of this work. This is not alone a privilege, but an obligation placed upon us. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68 : 

"Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years eld, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. * * * 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

"And the inhabitants of Zicn also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. * * * 

"And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people." 

It is extremely important that we shall provide for our dead that which they were unable to do for themselves, but what of those who were not worthy and who had that opportunity? We are given to understand that they must await the time of the Lord before they can enjoy the blessings promised. What of the boy growing to manhood who is neglected during this time when he so much needs encouragement through a contact with those who understand the Gospel and have a 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 73 

desire to use this knowledge to teach them in the spirit of love and truth ? What of the man who has been neglected, whose children are untrained because of his lack of knowledge, a condition existing generally not because he would have it so? Perhaps he too was neglected and has not the power within himself to regain that which he has lost. Is it not even more important that we save him and his household while he has the privilege of enjoying the promise of coming forth in the first resurrection ? Let us be mindful of the words of the apostles of old : 

"Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him; 

"Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins." (James 5:19-20) 

"We are of God : he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby knoweth we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. 

"Beloved, let us love one another : for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God." (I John 4:6-7) 

As an example of service I give you the following : The Tabernacle choir began to sing over a national radio network a little more than four years ago; their program is now considered to be the outstanding radio program in the world. Why? Because they receive no other compensation for their work than the joy of service. There are 273 members, they rehearse Thursday nights, sing over the Columbia broadcasting network each Sunday morning, and for the regular Church service Sunday afternoon each week. This requires them to make three trips to the tabernacle and three home each week, a personal outlay for each, of 50 cents a week for car fare. Their average attendance is 63.56 per cent. Each Sunday they are heard from more than 80 stations with combined facilities valued in millions. The commercial value of each program period is about $10,000.00, and of the full period they have been on the air $2,500,000.00. Each Sunday they are heard not only in the United States but also in Europe where the program is relayed by short wave length, those living on the isles of the sea eagerly look forward to it. All this because of the devotion of these singers which finds expression in their faithful attendance and in song and the sweet organ music mellowed by a divine providence. 

I quote from Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, verses 21 to 28: 

"And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn; 

"And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the Firstborn. 

"Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth; 

"And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; 

"And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning. 

"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying : He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth; 

"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." 

If these words are true, and I sincerely believe with all the powers of my soul that they are, are' we not charged with a great responsibility ? 

May our Father help us to understand and live in obedience to his commandments I humbly pray. 

-ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, when I heard Brother Grant say that some individual had sent a card, anonymously, asking that the Word of Wisdom be not spoken of in this conference, I wondered whether that individual expected to be present, and whether or not present at each of these sessions. If so, he or she must have been surprised at the wonderful success that card had in bringing exactly the opposite results. 

Most of the speakers have dwelt upon the principle of temperance, and the problem before the people at the present time. I want to indorse the remarks of Brother Ballard, relative to how the missionaries feel in the world, or at least in that part of the world to which I have been assigned, the Canadian Mission; what anxiety they feel as to how Utah will stand upon this question that comes before them shortly — the repeal of the prohibition amendment. 

They have traveled there and taught the people that this Gospel is different from theirs; that it has life and vitality in it; that it changes the lives of its adherents, makes them better, gives them newer ideas; that they live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, they wonder, as they walk the paths, the lanes, and the highways, preaching the Gospel, as to what the result will be should Utah follow the majority who have thus far expressed themselves, the history that she will make. They feel that though Utah be the only state in the Union that votes against the repeal, they can hold their heads high and say: "We have been vindicated; the Latter-day Saints have been taught the Gospel, and whatever there may be of theory or idea as to why they ought to be better off with repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment than they are with that amendment in the Constitution, they have at least shown their faith by their works." They feel if otherwise, the people will say: "You have told us that you have a gospel different from all else that exists in the world; that it has a revitalizing effect upon your people. Now explain Utah's vote." Utah, we are told, is sixty per cent Mormon, and forty per cent non-Mormon; and out of that non-Mormon membership there are many in the Christian denominations and churches who are working hard and diligently against a repeal. If Utah then votes for repeal, it means that thousands of the Latter-day Saints have forsaken that which they have been taught, and have been led away by error. 

Brother Joseph Fielding Smith overheard a remark about which he spoke, to some extent. I also overheard one by a church worker 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 75 

who felt that he had to vote "wet," or for the repeal, because it meant more revenue to us. I wondered where in the world that revenue is going to come from, except out of the pockets of the people who will then be led to indulge in the things that they have refrained from heretofore. Every dollar they spend for liquor goes first to pay for the rent of the saloon, for the purchase of the fixtures the saloon-keeper has to have, for the purchase of the merchandise he expects to dispense there, for the home that he builds for his family, for the luxuries that he gives unto them, for the car, the radio, and other things, to pay the tax upon his property, to pay the taxes upon the saloon property, and to give him something to lay by for a rainy day; and if there is any part left, that goes to revenue. How much ? Possibly a dime on a dollar; I doubt if that much. Oh, is it necessary to put a dollar through the hands of the saloon-keeper in order to get a dime back in revenue, and while we get that dime back debauch the manhood of the nation? That is the question as it appeals to me. 

The missionaries feel that they want to be able to say that Utah has shown, by its attitude, that it lives what it preaches. 

The song at the opening of the session here this afternoon was : 

"We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank thee for sending the Gospel, 

To lighten our minds with its rays. We thank thee for every blessing, 

Bestowed by thy bounteous hand. We feel it a pleasure to serve thee, 

And love to obey thy command." 

I feel if we who have sung that this afternoon really mean what we have sung, then we can count upon all of us to do that which is right in this matter, and as missionaries bring as many more to the same attitude of mind. Our prophet has spoken; counsel has been given. Years past have proven to us the wisdom of abiding by the counsels given unto us. Why not learn by experience already had, rather than the lamentable experience that is bound to come to us otherwise? 

I bring you greetings from the brethren and sisters in the Canadian Mission. They are not many, but they are determined; they are full of the Spirit of the Lord. We love them for their integrity, their desire to serve, their willingness to devote as much time as can possibly be given in every day of every week, during their service, in bringing the Gospel to as many people as possible, in any way that they can conceive of. We need more missionaries. We have had to abandon or withdraw our missionaries from four districts, and to concentrate a little more, pending the arrival of more missionaries. But we feel that we are doing the work of the Lord, that his blessings attend us, and that there is a finer spirit than there has been for some time, and that spirit is creeping into the branches of the Church. Much of the discord and disunion that has been exhibited heretofore has been dissipated. The people have learned more of the philosophy of the Gospel, what it means to love 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and to forgive and to overlook. They have learned something of the difference between discord and union, and what the results of those two will be. They are coming nearer unto the Lord. They are putting up a little with one another's faults where they criticised before. 

Our baptisms have increased considerably over those of the entire past year, and there are quite a number of prospects who show an interest in the Gospel, a genuine interest, because of the principles taught. We feel to rejoice in the work of the Lord in that mission. It may be the gleaning time for we get them, one out of a city and another out of a county, here and there, but they are souls, children of God, and should be found. 

We rejoice in the work we have been given to do, and we pray God's blessing, not only upon the work in our mission, but upon the fields throughout the entire world. May the Lord so bless us that finance and means may come unto us, and that the spirit of sacrifice may enter our souls, that we may send more of our people into the field; and may he open up the places where so far the Gospel has not yet been permitted to come, and that the people may be willing to receive it. Then we may find another harvest time. 

God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us to be faithful unto the end, and, having entered into the fold through baptism, not be content to sit down by the gate where we entered, and say: "We are saved," as they do in the world, but recognize the fact that our whole journey still lies before us, and if we expect to reach the destination we must continue to plod on in faithfulness, in activity and in service, and learn more about God's commandments, and about living them. 

God bless you, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President North Central States Mission 

Though feeling my weakness very keenly, my brethren and sisters, in filling this important position, I am nevertheless glad to join in the spirit of this wonderful conference, and briefly to report conditions in the North Central States Mission. 

Listening to the clarion call of our President and others who have spoken in this Conference, I have thought of the question of Paul to the Corinthians: "If the trumpet shall give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?" (I Cor. 14:8). Obviously, the answer to the question is, "nobody;" which, I believe explains in part the confusion that is found in the religious thinking of the world. There is in its leadership no authoritative, "Thus saith the Lord." 

Whatever else may be thought of "Mormonism," its trumpet call to the world is no uncertain sound. Just think : The Father and the Son themselves, in the sacred grove, announcing Divine disapproval of conditions as they were, and proclaiming a restoration of the Gospel; 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 77 

Moroni, a great Prophet of this hemisphere, restoring the scripture and record of his people, The Book of Mormon; John the Baptist, conferring the Aaronic priesthood; Peter, James, and John, the Melchizedek priesthood; Moses, Elias, and Elijah, restoring the keys of their great calling, with all that that implies. 

And now, today and yesterday, and at every such conference of the Church, the voice of the Lord unmistakably, through his chosen leaders, presenting clear, emphatic, and authoritative trumpet calls to the world, "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 

So I am glad to be here, to find myself in harmony with all that has been said and done at this marvelous Conference, and to carry back the message of it to the people among whom it is my privilege and honor to serve. 

In the North Central States Mission we have only one-third as many missionaries as formerly, but we are trying to carry on and to make up this deficiency in three ways: First, by increased activity on the part of the few missionaries who remain: Secondly, by extension of our special or local missionary service: Thirdly, by the greater use of our branches and of the auxiliaries of the Church as missionary agencies and centers of missionary activity. 

To illustrate : only last week, in a far corner of the mission, I met with a newly organized Mutual Improvement Association. Forty-three people were present. Three of us were missionaries. Five others, constituting the leadership of the group, were local members; and thirtyfive were friends and investigators who had come out to participate in the benefits and blessings of that particular auxiliary. And so it is elsewhere throughout the mission. 

In the far northwestern corner of our mission, not many weeks ago, four hundred miles above the border at Beaver Crossing near Cold Lake, we held a baptism, blessed a few babies, and organized what I suppose is the northernmost branch of the Church in Canada. This little pioneer community faces the necessity, at once, of building for themselves a chapel from the timber growing on their homesteads; and our hope and prayer is that the Lord will bless them, and that the Gospel may 'be carried to the various corners of our mission with such agencies as remain. 

Opportunities abound for preaching the Gospel, for which we are grateful; and sentiment favorable to our Church and people is growing. Concerning our missionaries, we are pleased to report that the young men and women who come to us are "the salt of the earth." Every one of them is well, and busy, and happy in his or her work, and the Lord is blessing their efforts and magnifying them in the eyes of the people. 

Our testimony is that God lives, that this is his Church and Kingdom; and that it will stand forever; and "we are all enlisted till the conflict is o'er." 

To which humble testimony and report may the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER HYRUM D. JENSEN 

Former President of the Norwegian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, words cannot express the joy and satisfaction that I have today in being present in our General Conference. It has now been five years since I had the privilege of meeting here, listening to the counsel of the servants of the Lord. 

I have been absent in the Norwegian Mission for four and a half years, and I must say that we have been under the leadership, in Europe, of one of the most wonderful men I have ever met, President John A. Widtsoe. I am very thankful that I had the privilege of going into the European Mission while President Widtsoe was taking charge of that mission. He has been a father to us mission presidents. He has been a father to the missionaries — a man whom we could always depend on for counsel and instruction. 

But we have missed the counsel and instructions that you receive here twice a year, and as I stated, I have not words to express my joy in having had the privilege of hearing the voice, the instructions and the counsel that we received yesterday from our beloved President, Heber J. Grant, and from the others who have spoken yesterday and today. 

I bring you greetings from the Norwegian Mission, from the elders and the Saints. There are only a few missionaries. We haven't had as many as we wish we could have had. I sometimes have said that I was sorry I was called to go to the Norwegian Mission just before the depression came. But when I look back upon the work that has been performed there, I feel that the depression has been a blessing to us. While it has deprived us of the missionaries from home, it has compelled the Saints to be more faithful and more energetic in the work. Every branch in the Norwegian Mission today is thoroughly organized and in the hands of local people. We have no missionaries that are concerned in any way with the branches. 

We have all the organizations that you have here at home. While we haven't them as perfectly organized, perhaps, as you have here, they are working toward perfection. Our Relief Society is doing a wonderful work: I don't know what I would have been able to do in the mission if it hadn't been for the good, faithful sisters of the Relief Society. Where we had no Priesthood or male members in the branches or in the cities, these faithful sisters have carried on the Relief Society work, and are doing it today. 

Our Sunday Schools are fully organized and doing a wonderful work. We have nearly as many children enrolled in our Sunday Schools who do not belong to the Church as we have who belong to the Church. 

Our Mutual Improvement Associations are all in the hands of local people, and are performing a wonderful work among the young people. 

We have the Primary Organization, which is just in its infancy, but the sisters who have charge of it are working hard and faithfully 

ELDER HYRUM D. JENSEN 79 

to make it a success throughout the mission. There are many more children who belong to or are attending the Primary Association who do not belong to the Church than there are children who are members of the Church. iWe are holding in the homes of the Saints and in the homes of our friends, who will open up their houses for that purpose, Primaries in different parts of the city. Eight to ten or twelve children at a time are gathered together and are instructed in the principles of the Gospel. We have been following out to the letter the instructions that we have received, and the lessons that have been sent to us through the Children's Friend. 

We have the Genealogical organizations organized throughout the mission, and they are now doing a splendid work. The Saints are becoming interested in the gathering of their genealogy, and I look for the time to come when we shall receive from that land a great many names of people for whom the Saints here in Zion may do work in the temples. 

I can join with the other mission presidents in stating that the young men who have been sent to the Norwegian Mission during my presidency are the choicest young men I have ever had the privilege of laboring with. We have only ten missionaries at present in the mission to do the work that was formerly done by twenty missionaries. 

In closing, I will state that my first mission to Norway was thirtynine years ago. I found conditions very much different at that time from what they are now. My second mission was in 1911, 1912, and 1913. I came home in the fall of 1913, and went back to take charge of the mission in 1929. I found that there was great opposition to us during my earlier missions. We had some difficulty in getting missionaries into the country when we received seven missionaries at one time. The government officials asked what we were trying to do. For a time it seemed that we might have to write home and ask that so many be not sent at one time; but conditions have changed. We could use today as many missionaries as the Church is able to send to the Norwegian Mission. The people are hungry for the Gospel. They are praying to God that men will come to them with the truth. They are searching for the truth. 

These ten missionaries were holding seven open-air meetings a week during the summer months, and we figured that we were having an attendance at these open-air meetings of between two thousand and twenty-five hundred people, who came out regularly upon the market places and in the parks to hear the Gospel explained by the missionaries. When I bade the people farewell on the main public square in the city of Oslo, and told them that I was going to return home, perhaps a hundred people came forward out of the audience of about four hundred and fifty people, and bade me farewell, wishing me joy in the future, and thanking me for the enlightenment that they had received through our meetings upon the public market places of Oslo. 

My brethren and sisters, I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I thought I had a testimony of the Gospel, a living testimony, before I went upon 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

this last mission, but through the inspiration of God that has attended me in my labors while I was there, and my dear wife, and the good missionaries with whom I have had the privilege of laboring, there has come to me a testimony, and I hope the Lord will never permit me to do anything that will deprive me of it, because it is the only thing that brings joy and satisfaction to me. 

I plead with the Norwegian people — you of Norwegian descent — to do more towards teaching your children, your young men, the Norwegian language, so that when they go into the mission field they will be better prepared to preach the Gospel, because it is resting upon our shoulders, those who have Norwegian blood running in their veins, to warn that nation, and to give them the Gospel. May we do it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE 

Mission Presidents Appointed 

Joseph F. Merrill appointed President of the European Mission to succeed John A. Widtsoe. 

Don B. Colton appointed President of the Eastern States Mission to succeed James H. Moyle. 

Daniel J. Lang appointed President of the French Mission to succeed Golden L. Woolf. 

Rufus K. Hardy appointed President of the New Zealand Mission to succeed Harold T. Christensen (acting President). 

Milton H. Knudson appointed President of the Norwegian Mission to succeed Hyrum D. Jensen. 

LeRoy Mallory appointed President of the Tahitian Mission to succeed George W. Burbidge. 

Thomas Edgar Lyon appointed President of the Netherlands Mission to succeed Frank I. Kooyman. 

Elias S. Woodruff appointed President of the Central States Mission to succeed Samuel O. Bennion. 

Mission Name Changed 

The Armenian Mission has been changed to the Palestine-Syrian Mission. 

Stake President Appointed 

S. Taylor Farnsworth succeeded Thomas W. Gunn as President of the Beaver Stake. 

New Ward Organized 

Vermont Ward, Los Angeles Stake, 

New Independent Branches 

Bay Branch, San Francisco Stake. Pittsburgh Branch, San Francisco Stake, Vallejo Branch, San Francisco Stake. ChalHs Branch, Lost River Stake, 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 81 

General Authorities who have Passed Away 

James E. Talmage, of the Quorum of the Twelve. 

Brigham H. Roberts, Senior President of the First Council of Seventy. 

Bishops zvho have Passed Away 

Joseph L. Shumway, Virginia Ward, Los Angeles Stake. 

E. Glen Wood, Glenwood Ward, Alberta Stake. 

Gideon W. Diswell, Manti South Ward, South Sanpete Stake. 

Others who have Passed Away 

John L. Bills, Second Counselor in Lost River Stake Presidency. 

Susa Young Gates, one of our most faithful and diligent workers among the sisters, from her young womanhood until her death. 

Sister Mildred B. Jensen sang a sacred solo, "The Lord is my light." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph R. Christiansen, President of the Moroni Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning, October 8. 


