Morning
07 10 1933

The Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 7, at. 10 o'clock. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

Elder Robert D. Young, President of the Sevier Stake offered the opening prayer. 

"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation" was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

of the First Council of the Seventy "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved." 

There is nothing in the scriptures that is truer than this saying, Believe on him and thou shalt be saved. But when we refer to belief on the Lord Jesus Christ, having faith in him, we mean a living faith, not a dead faith. 

A living faith in the Lord Jesus Christ will secure salvation to every soul that believes on him. It doesn't need any qualification, if we only have a proper understanding of what is meant by a living faith. In order to get a proper conception of it it is well to hark back to that primeval day that we read of in the revelations contained in the Pearl of Great Price. Hark back to that time also that is referred to in the Bible when the Lord spake unto his servant Job, and said unto him : 

"Where wast thou when I laid the foundations 1 of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. 

"When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" 

Where wast thou, Job, and where were you, my brethren and sisters? We were in the spirit world, in the presence of our Father. And what was it that we were shouting about ? It was the promulgation of the great plan of life and salvation that was made known to the children of God, begotten of him in the spirit, before the foundations of this earth were laid, and consequently before we had received these bodies of flesh and bones. When we heard those glad tidings our hearts were filled with joy. It was a plan whereby we might go on to perfection. It involved the creation of this world; it involved the placing upon this planet of our Father's children in bodies of flesh and bones. It involved also the fall. It involved a redemption from the fall. It involved the earth-life experiences as the best and only means of educating and preparing ourselves to become the children of God, members of His household, his sons and daughters in the celestial kingdom of 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

God. That required a stupendous work and it required someone to carry out the divine program, and the question arose, 'Whom shall I send?" And there was one like unto the Son of Man arose in that mighty multitude, and said, "Here am I, send me. Thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." 

That was Jesus Christ, the Lord, our Elder Brother, the first begotten of our Father in the spirit. But there was another one in that mighty multitude, also a strong personality, a great power among our Father's children who had been laboring to lead men and women away from God. He did not like the plan, for that plan was one of faith, one of repentance from sin, the only means of progress. He wanted none of that, but he said, "Here am I, send me. I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it : Wherefore give me thine honor." 

He was ambitious and he proposed compulsion, which is contrary to the will of God. Free agency is God's plan. Men must in the exercise of their own agency choose between good and evil if they would make progress. 

When we heard these glad tidings that were promulgated I tell you we were glad. Our hearts were filled with joy and gladness and we shouted for joy, at the prospect of becoming like God and dwelling in his presence forever. That was what we were shouting about. 

Well, God said, "I will choose the first," and Satan grew angry, for that is who it was — Lucifer, a son of the morning — Satan, or the devil, whatever you may call him. He it was who rebelled against God, and he took after him one-third of the hosts of heaven. So he must have been a powerful personality, leading men and women away from God's plan. 

God said, "I will send the first," and Satan grew angry and rebelled against God. All this we read in the Pearl of Great Price. 

Now to accept of him whom God did send is faith. To reject him whom God did not send, but cast out of heaven, is repentance; and so when you hear people say, "I do not want to hear about these first principles, I know all there is to know about them," I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is not anything beyond these fundamental principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Every doctrine of the Church, every sermon that has been preached from this pulpit, has to do with faith in God and repentance from sin. Every discourse that has been delivered in this conference, no matter by what name it may be called, or what may be the subject, is a concrete example of these fundamental principles and the application of them to our lives. 

These doctrines of faith in God and repentance from sin are allinclusive. That is the kind of Gospel that we have received. The Apostle Peter knew so well the meaning of all this when he declared; 

"We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts; 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 49 

"Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. 

"For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man; but holy men of God Spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

That is exactly the condition that the Apostles of today proclaim. Scripture comes not by the will of man. 

We have been sustaining in this conference the men whom God has chosen to stand at the head of this people as prophets, seers, and revelators, men whom God has chosen to stand at the head ot this Church. We ofttimes sing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." How grateful we ought to be that this Church is founded upon Apostles and Prophets, as the church was in days of old! To accept of their message, their counsel, is to have faith in the word of God, and living faith manifests itself in the works of obedience, and every work of obedience is founded upon faith. Did we not believe in God we surely would not believe in his prophets. If we had no faith in the Lord Jesus Christ of course we would not render obedience to his Gospel. But because God chose him to carry on his great work as the leader, his Only Begotten Son, he sent him into the world, "For God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." If we believe on him we render obedience to his Gospel and live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God, whether God reveals his will to us directly or through his constituted authorities upon the earth, his prophet, seer, and revelator, his servants who have been chosen and supported and sustained by his people. These are the ones God has chosen, and to accept of their message and their counsel is faith. 

To keep the commandments of God of course requires faith. The keeping of the commandments means works of obedience, whereby we demonstrate whether our faith is a living faith and not a dead faith. A dead faith has nothing to do with our religion. We say that faith without works is dead. We do not mean a living faith without works is dead. There could not be a living faith under those conditions. Only a faith that manifests itself in works of obedience has within itself the power of God to the salvation of his children. So faith is allinclusive, and likewise repentance is all-inclusive, for it has to do with everything that we have to do with. To reject him whom God did not send is repentance, and when we speak of rejecting him we mean rejecting his gospel, rejecting his plan, rejecting his sophistry, and his arguments, and there are many of them in the world today, and it behooves Latter-day Saints to choose whom they will follow — Jesus Christ the Lord and his glorious Gospel, or the devices of the adversary that lead us away from God. Every sophistry and every sin and every allurement of evil is prompted by that evil one that was cast out of heaven. He is with us here. He was cast down and is right here, not in a body of flesh and bones; no, he did not fulfil his first estate, but he came just the same, and we cannot see him with our natural eyes, He has no body of flesh and bones, but he is here, and we feel his power 

SO GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and his influence, we see it everywhere leading men and women away from the truth. 

"Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you." To resist the devil is repentance. To draw nigh unto God is faith. Apply this to everything, to all of our actions, to everything that we do, our merchandising, our business transactions, our farming, our pleasures, our dancing. There is a right way and a wrong way to do everything. When we do it in a right way those are the works of obedience, whereby we demonstrate our faith. If we do it the wrong way we are committing sin and we are called upon to repent. That is the substance of the Gospel. It applies to our politics, it applies to every problem that comes before us. 

We have the word of the leaders of this people as to what should be our course in regard to certain political things. I do not wish to get into any political discussion or anything bordering on that, but let me tell you where good and evil are involved, as they are in the prohibition question, it devolves upon Latter-day Saints to choose the right and therefore manifest our faith in God and reject the sophistries and the false arguments of those who are trying to break down the safeguards of our Constitution. 

My time has already expired. May God help us to carry on this great work by living in accordance with his divine will as it shall be made manifest to us through his prophets, seers, and revelators, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. H'INCKLEY 

President of the California Mission 

I am exceedingly happy this morning. We have just listened to the remarks of Elder Rulon S. Wells. My heart has thrilled as he has spoken unto us. He was my mission president in days long ago. While upon that mission the Lord sent unto me a son, and it was in the heart ojf the mother of that son to name him "Rulon." I loved this man in the days of my younger manhood. I loved him for his faith, for his devotion, for his tenderness. I love him today. As I sat here today and looked up into his face, heard his ringing testimony, and his declaration anew of the first principles of the Gospel, and of their fundamental endurance, and the part they take in every action of our lives, I was fed. God bless him during his remaining days with peace and all the sweetness that he has earned. 

Yesterday was a very great day in my life. Everything seemed so beautiful, with the sun overhead, and though I came up from the flowery land of California, as I walked through these temple grounds I took off my hat, and I offered a prayer of thanksgiving for the peace, the beauty, and all that surrounds this sacred spot of ground. As I came into the tabernacle and I looked at the hosts of people, my heart thrilled again. I felt that I was in tune with the infinite; that I was blessed more than it was possible for me to express. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 51 

In the beginning of our conference when the name of Chas. A. Callis was read as the man to fill the place made vacant by the passing of Apostle James E. Talmage, I was filled with joy because I had been permitted by the goodness of the Lord to minister, as one called and set apart as an ambassador of truth, under President Callis. The vision went before my mind how the thousands that have grown up around President Callis in this last quarter of a century will lift their hearts in thanksgiving that their great leader has been called to this high council in the Church. 

Oh, how my soul rejoices to know that we live in a day when the Lord reveals his holy mind and will; that we are not left to walk in darkness; that it is our privilege to walk in the light, and that we can with safety follow those whom he has appointed. 

When President Grant, in his opening address, read so many wonderful things to us from the book of the Doctrine and Covenants, and then, in answer to an anonymous communication requesting that he should not mention the [Word of Wisdom, he, as the mouthpiece of the Lord, spoke out with courage words that should find lodgment in the hearts of all the Latter-day Saints, my joy was added to. He reaffirmed and confirmed all that he said six months ago as he opened that great conference. At that time we departed and carried the word wherever we went, as the word of the Lord given through his servant. He renewed that same message at this important time in our lives, and satisfied my soul. 

I recall how President Grant stood here six months ago and said that he had been contemplating the conditions that existed throughout the world, and he bore testimony that without the shadow of a doubt in his mind, the Lord had revealed — in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that covered not more than a page — the solution that would solve the perplexing problems of the world and then proceeded to read that great revelation and to make his comments. He added that it was not only for the Church and for the high priests and for the Saints of the last days, but it was for all the world, if they would listen and obey. 

We went back to the California Mission, and I suppose that all men in authority went back to their fields of labor and carried that message as we carried it in California, to every nook and corner. Did the Saints respond ? I bear testimony and say yes, they did, and though they had beer, and though they had light wines in abundance, throughout all the territory covered by the California Mission, I bear testimony to you that the Saints have, in the language of Brother Wells, and in the language of the Lord, "chosen the Lord," they have chosen to follow his servants. I bring you word from the thousands down there that they are temperate, sober-minded, faithful, good Latter-day Saints, that will compare with the good Latter-day Saints up here in these valleys of the mountains. I know that I speak with understanding when I say that they have these qualities in them. 

Many of them have propounded the question: "Brother Hinckley, 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

now that the states, one by one, have voted as they have on this prohibition question, will Utah vote as other states have voted, or will she, when the world forsakes these standards and calls for those things, stand and be an example unto the world?" All I have been able to say is, "I hope so." What a lesson! Many come back and ask of the men of the Church "How does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints stand on this question ?" It stands for prohibition. It stands for freedom from the use of all these thing's, and for temperate lives among all of its people. The Lord has revealed that it is not good for man to touch any of these things. 

Now, I say, to have this counsel in our conference, renewed at this time by that great discourse, wherein the President of the Church, after giving his own testimony, read into that great address the testimonies of Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, bringing down to date the testimony of the servants of God, is a warning unto this people. 

For the Lord has declared, as I read — perhaps I can quote it ( Doc. and Cov., Sec. 1 :l-4) : 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape and there is no eye that shall not s'ee, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all the people, by the mouths' of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days." 

Do we have it complete? Is it given unto us by the mouths of his disciples whom he has chosen in these last days ? Yes, verily yes; and the Lord says that whether it is by his own voice or by the voice of his servants, it is the same. When they speak under the influence of the Holy Ghost, it is scripture; it is the will of the Lord; it is the voice of the Lord; it is the word of the Lord; it is the power of God unto salvation. 

To me, the warning is complete; the vision is clear. I see the way. I feel to say, in the language of one of old, Joshua : "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." More than that, if it were within my power to persuade all men to forsake their evil ways and cleave unto the Lord, that would make me happy indeed. 

I should, of course, bear testimony of the Elders. Thirty-nine of them are all we have — the choicest of the choice — down in California. To their fathers, their mothers, their friends, their bishops, I say they are pure; they are sweet; they are wholesome. They are offering a consecration unto the Lord, their time and their talents, their very best service. Twelve lady missionaries likewise; all well, all happy, all sowing the seeds of truth, witnessing the results of their work. In these last nine months there have come into the Church, through the testimony 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 53 

that has gone out unto them, four hundred members, who declare that to them this is a new world! 

I never was happier. I know the truth. I love it. I pray for power to live it and to be able to consecrate my life to his service, henceforth and forever, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret to announce that Brother Richard R. Lyman is confined to his bed on account of illness. He is on the high-road to "recovery however, for which we are very grateful. 

Brother Charles H. Hart is also unable to be with us on account of illness. 

I have received a message from Brother John A. Widtsoe, which I am pleased to read to you, as follows: 

"Read the history of man down the ages. Always truth has been compelled to fight its way through ferocious opposition. Over and over again someone has sealed truth with blood. Christ, in whom was only truth and all truth, was crucified unto death. 

Never was the universe of untruth more deeply stirred than when the Gospel of the Lord Jesus' Christ was restored in this age — the beginning of the end of the reign of anti-Christ. Centuries of apostasy had built a fortress of error supposedly impregnable to truth. Hell raged at truth's venture into a world claimed for its own. Persecution began, raged, and has continued for a century. 

truth's destiny 

Truth's destiny is victory. It breaks down every barrier of error. Ultimately it rises triumphantly above its vanquished enemy. After many trials and much tribulation, slowly, painfully it reaches its happy end. The masses of men love truth better than error, but are blinded by the clever presentations of the enemy of truth. 

Just so, the truth of the restored gospel is becoming understood in the world. The senseless persecution of the past is dying down. The essential purity and human value of the Gospel are becoming reoognized. 

THE DEVIL'S TRICK 

But, though driven into a corner, the opposition remains active. It plays its last card, the devil's trick. If persecution from without is diminishing, contention within is fanned into livelier flame. Of the two methods of destruction — persecution by untruth or discord among those who have accepted truth — the latter is the deadlier. An inward is 1 more serious than an outward wound. 

This, then, is the sober warning to all Latter-day Saints : 

Persecution from without is gradually vanishing. For that we are grateful. But, at the same time, the danger of jealousy, strife and evil speaking among the members of the Church increases. Such internal persecution wrecks the strongest organization, even one founded in truth. 

Latter-day Saints should be forewarned of this 1 ancient satanic trick. Contention among members of the Church must be banished. Kind words must replace evil-speaking about fellow members. Generous good-will must stifle jealousy. Officers must be accepted, sustained and supported with heart and hand. There must be an honest endeavor to love our brethren and sisters as well as the Lord in heaven — the first law of Gospel living. 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE POWER OF LOVE 

Love begets love. Whenever Latter-day Saints live in love together, their armour and their shield, all their weapons are of heavenly workmanship. The forces of evil flee in terror before them. Try it; the results never fail. The heart never beats so warmly as under the power of unselfish love. Whoever allows himself to cause contention in a ward or branch, or to spread it, whatever the means employed, plays into the hands of Lucifer and helps him win victory out of his sullen corner of defeat." 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, last July, and within a few days after I had been appointed to the presidency of the Eastern States Mission, I had the privilege of attending a conference held at the Joseph Smith Farm and on the Hill Cumorah, near Palmyra, New York. It was my good fortune, at that time, to meet all of the missionaries laboring in the Eastern States Mission. While I have not had the time since to visit them in the districts in which they are laboring, I feel that I can say that we are carrying on in that part of the Lord's vineyard, as are the missionaries in the other parts of the world. 

Nearly a score of newspapers in the immediate neighborhood of Palmyra gave us much publicity, and reported in fairness and in detail the proceedings of our conference, in July. In fact, there were papers in that vicinity that had reporters at all of the sessions. This, you will remember, is in the vicinity of the birthplace of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a joy to me to think of the favorable change that has taken place in the world regarding this great Latter-day work. 

A few days ago, in the headquarters of one of the leading candidates who is seeking election as mayor of the great city of New York, I was told by this candidate — and he spoke, by the way, in the presence of fifty or more prominent men of that city — I say he told us at that time that he listened every Sunday morning to the program broadcast by the Tabernacle Choir. And then he added to that group of men : "It is the finest radio program given today," and advised all present to listen, if they were not already doing so. 

I was gratified to hear many of those present say they did listen to the program as broadcast by this great choir. I hope it will be some encouragement to Brother Lund and the members of this great musical organization, to know that their efforts are appreciated, and that men of standing in the world appreciate the wonderful music which they furnish from week to week. God bless them in the continuation of their great mission. They are helping us vitally in the preaching of the Gospel. 

I passed by one of the large churches in New York, a few days ago, and noticed this sign : "He who neglects the spiritual is living, but he is only half alive." I rejoice to belong to a church that is not neglectELDER DON B. COLTON 55 

ing the spiritual. In addition to the great teachings of the Church with respect to the physical, the mental and the moral, we lay great stress upon the spiritual. In my humble judgment, the world needs spiritual food now more than it needs anything else. We can never be wholly right until we get back to first principles, and emphasize again and anew the life taught by Christ and his disciples. If we are looking for heaven we can create it here. The mission of the Church is to proclaim the new light that has come into the world through the revelations of Jesus Christ. 

May I say a word to the young people, to the young men and women who may be present in this congregation or who may hear my voice? May I say a word also to the teachers of the young men and young women in this Church : Let us not take the negative side of life. Very little good has been really accomplished by men who took that attitude. It is the men who assume the positive attitude in life that accomplish worthwhile things. 

This is not a day for quarrel. We have no time for that. We have little if any time for argument. This is a day of affirmation, of proclamation. This is the message of the hour : God lives! He has revealed himself anew in our day. 

I say to the teachers, and to the young men who may be wandering a little, that if you will spend one-half the time looking for the proof that there is a God, that it will take you to find proof that there is none, you will be converted during the period. Why not do it? You will come back to it some day, and all of the time you are wandering in doubt and questioning the existence of a personal God, or the correctness of this faith or that, will have been lost. 

Science is helping us to be better Christians. Science is helping us to discover God. It is teaching us how to cooperate with him. It is teaching us how to live, giving us better homes, better ways of living. It is affirmative. It is only man's interpretation of science that is negative. There is no disagreement between true science and the revealed word of God. "Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found." 

In the moment that is left to me may I say further that the great mission of the missionaries, and of the Church, for that matter, is to give a true picture to the world of the greatest revelation ever given, namely, the revelation concerning God and his Son Jesus Christ. Much as we revere the Book of Mormon, much as we love it, it is but a witness, a new witness of Christ, the God of this land. It is around him that all truth centers. It is to preach him and him crucified that we are spending so much time and energy in the world. 

Much as we love and revere the name of Joseph Smith, his mission was only to proclaim the Savior of the world — to preach Christ and him crucified. Much as we respect the auxiliary organizations, even the organization of the Church itself, they are all given as helps in government, to bring us to Christ. His is the only name given whereby we must be saved. 

Oh, what a wonderful message it is! 'What joy this sweet sentence 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

gives: I know that my Redeemer lives." It is the message of the ages". Let us proclaim it, move up and out, so to speak, from any position of defensiveness that we have taken or may have assumed in the past — move out in a great drive for righteousness and for the salvation of the souls of men. There need be given no apology for "Mormonism." It is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We are not ashamed to proclaim it. 

Thank God the world is rapidly growing to know us in our true light. Everywhere there the hand of fellowship and of friendship is extended, when men know of it. 

Not long ago, in one of the cities of this country, I spoke on the great philosophy of life as revealed in the Mormon doctrines or the Gospel of Jesus Christ. At the close of the meeting I was delighted to have a man come up and say to me: "I am a graduate of a great university. I was brought up in a religion that said, in effect, that we know not the origin of life, so far as the soul is concerned. It is one of the mysteries of God. I was brought up in a religion that taught me that as soon as we passed from this mortal existence our destiny in the hereafter was determined and we were given our place in the hereafter, and we should remain there forever. It was not until I heard the message of your people, that I learned of a great philosophy that explains in a perfectly reasonable way the origin of the spirit of man and that points the way to eternal progress and growth in development throughout the countless ages of eternity." He continued : "I have never seen or heard of a philosophy that compares with it, anywhere in the wide world, and I have given a great deal of study to religion." 

It is that message, that great philosophy, when translated into life, that constitutes the religion of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With boldness, but in the language of the great Lincoln, paraphrased : With charity toward all, with malice toward none, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us press, on in the duties that have come to us in the preaching of this Gospel. 

I have rejoiced and do rejoice in the spirit of this conference. I pray that there shall come into our lives, into our souls, the true message of the hour, that we shall go out from this conference and consecrate our lives anew to the building up of the church and kingdom of God, and that in our souls we shall sing gladly the hymn: 

"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, Over mountain, or plain, or sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, I'll be what you want me to be." 

God bless us in the discharge of our great responsibilities and duties, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant, the congregation arose and sang the hymn, "O say, What is truth ?" 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 57 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

My very beloved brethren and sisters, it is always with trepidation that I stand in this position. I pray that while I stand here this morning I may enjoy your faith and prayers, that perhaps some word that I may drop may be of comfort or blessing to you or to me. 

I have been more than pleased with the wonderful spirit of this conference. I bean- testimony that the things that have been said are true; that they pertain to the greatest thing in the world, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that if we will but adhere to those principles, observe them, and put them into practice in our daily lives, we will benefit by them. 

You are the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The officers who sit here upon the stand are not the Church. They, of course, are a part of it; they are the guiding element in it, under the direction of the Spirit of God, but they are not the Church. They are only people who have been selected from the great body of the Church, to be your servants, to do the things that God desires done for your benefit and for the benefit of mankind. Perhaps none of them occupies his position through his own solicitations, and certain it is that none of them pretends to any superhuman or unnatural ability in the guidance of these affairs. They rely upon the Spirit of the Lord, just as any member of the great body of the Church would have to do, when called as men are from time to time to these positions; and it is my testimony that they do enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. 

It seems to me that any member who begins to find fault with the things that are done would better first put himself in this position and ask himself if he could do better. It is most certain, I think, that almost without exception such a person would retreat from his position, and would immediately fall in line and sustain and uphold those iri authority. Now, unless the body of the Church does that, the leaders of the Church are helpless. God himself, through revelation, told the Church in early days that his great purposes in certain respects could have been accomplished if the people had sustained the leaders. 

Every man comes into the world with his free agency, and every man exercises it: sometimes to his advancement, sometimes to his disadvantage. Every man is entitled to the Spirit of the Lord to direct him, and if he lives as he should, he enjoys it. If he does not live as he should, he never has its companionship. I am certain that the body of this Church, the great majority of them live so that they enjoy this Spirit, and that they, with me, in holding up their hands to sustain these officers, mean just exactly what they say, that they will back up the authorities of the Church in the things they do for its benefit and blessing. 

I pray that we may enjoy, as the days and years advance, a greater outpouring of this Spirit, that we may expel from our midst the spirit of criticism and fault-finding that we are told is extant, that it may be replaced by a spirit of love and affection and esteem, and that under 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the influence of that spirit this great organization may go forward to its natural and normal fruition. 

I stand before you, as some of the other speakers have done, representing the missionary work of this Church. We have an obligation. You have an obligation. We are your servants in attempting to guide that work in the nations of the earth. 

It is only a few days since I had the pleasure of talking with a young man who had recently returned from Brother Sloan's mission. He said : "It is our duty to warn the world, but when can we say that the world is warned ? Can we stand up and preach a sermon to a congregation, and retire and state that they have been warned ? By no means. A man is never warned until he understands and appreciates the truth of the message you give him." It is for that reason that we go into the world, and go over and over and over again the same territory, endeavoring to impress the people with the truth of our message, to bring them to an understanding and a knowledge of it. 

My particular work, as you know, is with a foreign people. They are a numerous people and it is a great obligation. Believing as we do in the Book of Mormon, we have a special interest in the native peoples of the American continent. The other day I made a short census computation, to see if I could determine, perchance, how many of those people there are with whom we would like to make contact. 

In the first place, our immediate labors are limited to the United States of America, so I was interested in knowing how many of these people we have in the United States. I find that the city of Los Angeles has more than 75,000 Mexican people living in it and its immediate neighborhood. I find that the state of Texas has more than 800,000 people of Mexican extraction. I find that in Arizona and New Mexico there are large numbers of them, though the number I did not learn. 

Then I went on to figure the population of Mexico, Central and South America. I find that in those nations there are nearly 100,000,000 people, and perhaps one-fourth of them are of almost pure Indian blood, with another fourth or more, perhaps, that we would call mestizos. That figures a tremendous population. That figures a tremendous obligation. When will we ever be able to warn 50,000,000 people in that great expanse of territory; teach them the history of their ancestors; bear testimony to them that the Book of Mormon has been restored; bear testimony to them that the Church of Christ has been organized in the earth, and that they are to receive its benefits and blessings ? 

This is a tremendous obligation, and now we have just twenty-four young men and women endeavoring to spread that truth among them, aside from a few of their own blood who are laboring with us. I say that it is a tremendous obligation, and one that only the aid and Spirit of the Lord will enable us to carry on successfully. 

I would like to see the time come when we could put into the mission field a large force of men and women who would go into these nations and teach them intelligently the basic principles of Christianity, teach 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 59 

them of the restoration of the Gospel, and give them its benefits and blessings. 

We have as fine a group of young men and women as exists in the Church. I am sure they are doing a wonderful work. They are infatuated with it. They dislike to see the day come when they must be released, but come it must, especially now in view of these trying times. They almost invariably leave us with tears in their eyes, and say that they would like to stay, and will come back at the first opportunity. 

We are extremely thankful to the Lord for the testimonies he has given us in this great work, for the aid and assistance that he gives to his missionary emissaries in the field. 

I was reading, the other day, in a Spanish tract or pamphlet that is issued by the Mexican government, dealing with the early history as developed from archaeological studies of Mexico. There was a statement in it which interested me very greatly. This particular writer was dealing with the religion, as they think they have worked it out, of these early peoples, and of course it carried him on to a generalization of religion. In it he said that in all peoples and among all nations there are only a few who appreciate the abstract principle of Deity, and can understand it, and because of that the clergy necessarily is limited to those very select few who become the priests of the nation; and then for the people, the general people not so well indued with these peculiar powers, they raise up idols for them to worship, so that they may have some tangible vision of the thing they worship. It appealed to me as a strange and peculiar doctrine, so different, so far from our philosophy of life, so far from the philosophy of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

If there is anything about our religion that we should appreciate it is its tangibility, it is the fact that it is a philosophy which man has reached, and puerile as he is, can understand. It is that, perhaps, that makes it so popular with the people, that gives them the great and satisfying enthusiasm for it. It is that which gives me comfort, the fact that I seem able to understand it; that I do not have to go to a select few for interpretation of its meaning, because the Gospel, after all, is only the plan that God laid down for the sojourn of man in the earth, in the short time that he should spend here, to gain the experiences and advantages of mortality. It has to be simple, because it is just that plan, the plan of life, and if it were not simple we would not be able to benefit by it. 

I trust that God will give us his Spirit, that we may understand the Gospel, that we may live it, that it may be the vitalizing element of our life, that it will give us the comfort, the peace and the joy that we should enjoy through the companionship of the Spirit of God. 

I pray his blessings upon us, that he may guide us constantly, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Yesterday, as I left this building at the close of the morning meeting I overheard a conversation between two brethren, and one of them said : 

"If any one has been in doubt as 1 to what he ought to do he should know it now." 

I have been thinking of that. It seems to me that any member of this Church who is doing his duty, who loves the Lord, and who endeavors to keep his commandments, who has the spirit of prayer and faith and in humility is seeking to know the truth, ought not to be in doubt, especially in regard to questions that have constantly been before us. 

EVERY MAN WILL KNOW THE LORD 

I hope and pray for the time to come speedily, the time which has been spoken of by the prophet Jeremiah, when every man will know the Lord, when it will not be necessary for a man to teach his neighbor, saying, "Know the Lord," for they will know him from the least of them to the greatest of them. That time will come, but it seems from conditions today that it is a long way off. It may not be, but when it does come it will be because the love of truth is in the hearts of the people, because they seek righteousness and have the inspiration which they are entitled to receive through obedience, for the guidance of the Holy Ghost is promised unto all those who will be faithful and true. 

THE MEANING OF INTELLIGENCE 

We very frequently quote from one of the revelations the words of the Lord to this effect, that "The glory of God is intelligence," and I wonder if we ourselves really comprehend what it means. We stop in the middle of a sentence. That is not the end of the sentence, for the Lord says, "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words light and truth." And then he adds that "light and truth forsaketh that evil one." 

When we have the Spirit of the Lord we have intelligence — light and truth — as we have been singing, "O say, what is truth ?" It is pure intelligence, if you please, and he who has it has the power to discern between right and wrong, truth and error, and he will follow righteousness. 

DUTY TO RAISE THE WARNING VOICE 

I rejoice in what has been said in this conference. I regret that any man if he claims membership in this Church would presume to close the mouth of the President of the Church. I feel that it is our duty to warn when we see dangers, and when we discover that there are members of the Church who do not seem to understand what course they should take. We have a perfect right to direct them. That is our duty. We would not be doing our duty at this conference if we did not do it. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 61 

Let me read these words from the Lord to the prophet Ezekiel : 

"Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel : therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. 

"When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his 1 iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

"Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul. 

"Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die; because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his 1 sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

"Nevertheless, if thou warn the rightecus man, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul." 

That is our duty. When we see evil lurking, when we see dangers confronting the people, and especially the Latter-day Saints, it is our duty to raise the warning voice, and not only in behalf of the Latter-day Saints, but to warn all people, for our mission is one that is world-wide, and we should warn all men and give them the opportunity of repentance, of serving the Lord and keeping his commandments if they will. If they will not, then we have saved our souls. We are clear from the blood of this generation. That is our duty. 

THE WORDS OF ISAIAH 

Now I would like to read a few more words, from the prophet Isaiah, but I am going to read them as we find them in the Book of Mormon. First let me say that the verses that I have just read are in the third chapter of Ezekiel. That is easy to remember. President Grant said yesterday that if you put the sixth of April and the sixth of October together, you have 66. This that I have read is found in the third chapter of Ezekiel. If you put three and three together you have thirty-three, and there you find it again, in the thirty-third chapter of Ezekiel. I want to read these words also given by the Lord through the prophet Isaiah which have a bearing upon the very day in which we live : 

"Wo unto them that rise up early in the morning that they may follow strong drink, that continue until night, and wine inflame them! 

"And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine are in their feasts; but they regard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the operation of his hands. 

"Therefore, my people are gone into captivity, because they have no knowledge; and their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. 

"Therefore, hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure; and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth shall descend into it. 

"And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled. 

"But the Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness. 

"Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Wo unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cart rope; 

"That say : Let him make speed, hasten his work, that we may see it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it. 

"Wo unto them that call evil good, and good evil, that put darkness for light, and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter! 

"Wo unto the wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight! 

"Wo unto the mighty to drink wine, and the men of strength to mingle strong drink; 

"Who justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him! 

"Therefore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, their root shall be rottenness, and their blossoms shall go up as dust; because they have cast away the law of the Lord of Hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel." 

THE CONDITION OF THE WORLD TODAY 

I say that has reference to our day. It has reference to any day. We may apply it in our lives and in our times. This is the condition of the world today. They have turned from the Lord of Hosts, they have despised his law, they have turned unto iniquity. He has spoken unto them. He would, if they would listen, direct them in righteousness and in truth. He would give unto them his judgment, his statutes, his guidance, and lead them in paths of truth, but they will not. Men love darkness today rather than light, just as they did in the days of our Redeemer. They are blinded against truth and righteousness. They seek it not. Our mission is to proclaim it. 

SUCCESS DEPENDENT UPON ATTITUDE OF SAINTS 

What a wonderful thing it would be, what a power, if the members of this Church would stand unitedly as on e man for the truth! What a glorious thing it would be if we could say, it is not necessary for a man to teach his neighbor to know God, because every one among us, from the greatest unto the least, knows him! If we could say that even as members of this Church, what a power it would be. I am as satisfied as I am that I am here that there is an influence that radiates not only from the individual but from the Church. I believe that our success in the world depends largely upon the attitude of the Saints. If we were united wholly, in thought, in deed, in our actions; if we loved the word of truth, if we walked in it as the Lord would have us do, then there would radiate from this community, from the bodies of the Latter-day Saints in all of these communities, out into all the world, an influence that would be irresistible. More honest men and women would be converted, for the Spirit of the Lord would go before us to prepare the way. As it is when we find those among us who do not keep the commandments of the Lord — there is a thread, if you please, that has been running through this conference — if they, this people, would keep the commandments of the Lord it would be a force and a power and influence that would break down opposition and would prepare people to receive the light of the everlasting Gospel; and when we fail to do it we take upon ourselves a responsibility that is dreadful in its consequences. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 63 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

How will I feel, or you, when called before the judgment seat if someone shall point his finger at me or you and say that "if it had not been for the actions of this man or this group I would have received the truth, but I was blinded because they, professing to have the light, did not live it." 

May the Lord lead and direct us in righteousness, and help us to walk before him as he would have us walk in the light. Let us uphold and sustain the man who has the right to speak in the name of the Lord, not only to the Church but to the whole world, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O ye mountains high." Elder Joseph Anderson offered the closing prayer. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

SECOND DAY 


