11
Afternoon
05 10 1923
Elder Samuel W. Parkinson 
No Speaker ID
40

None

None 

If I survive this shock, I shall be very grateful. President Grant has afforded me a great honor, and also has placed upon me a great responsibility. I humbly pray that the few moments I may occupy I shall enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. I have indeed enjoyed the proceedings of the conference thus far. I have been coming to conference for many years, I think it will date back thirty or thirty-five years. I have attended conferences and have listened to the prophets of the Lord, and I assure you that my testimony has been strengthened. Indeed, I might say, I have received a testimony in listening to the prophets of the Lord explain the plan of life and salvation. It is a great opportunity to come and behold the wonderful sight that is before me on this occasion. I feel very grateful for it, to come into this wonderful tabernacle and be associated with men and women of the Lord, the leading authorities of the Church, and to listen to the beautiful music furnished by this world-renowned choir. 

I remember the dedicatorial services of the temple, thirty years ago, when President Woodruff was president of the Church; he stood out on the platform and said: "Attention, all Israel. We are about to dedicate this temple to the Lord." I remember going into the temple and listening to those services, and I want to bear you my testimony, at this time, that, although I was only a boy, I obtained a testimony, in that temple, of the divinity of "Mormonism." I have tried to keep a close touch with the Church from that time until the present, and I feel proud, and rejoice to know that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice to know that we have such great men and women at the head of this Church, men who are gifted, men and women who are qualified to advise us in the ways that we should go. My testimony unto you this afternoon is that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of the Lord, and that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet, seer and revelator unto this people. It is my desire to carry out the instructions of the authorities of the Church. I feel proud that I have been called to preside over the Franklin stake of Zion, in Idaho, one of the youngest stakes in the Church. I feel proud of this calling, and it is my purpose and my desire at all times, to carry back to the people the counsel and instructions that are delivered to us in these conferences, regarding their duties in the Church. May the Lord bless us and help us to magnify our callings, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
