12
Afternoon
05 10 1923
Elder Heber Q. Hale 
116
40-42

None

None 

I have been thrilled beyond adequate expression by the instruction and the inspiration of this conference. The address of President Grant, in our opening session, seemed to affect me more deeply than I have been touched by anything I have ever heard from his lips. I know that he speaks with divine authority and that he stands at the head of the Church upon the earth as the representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

President Penrose referred to the commandments of God as standing out before us in black and white, which, fortunately for us, is true. This statement brought to my mind, however, a wish that all of life's problems might stand out as black and white before our eyes, that we might be able to differentiate clearly between the right and the wrong, the true and the false, as we differentiate and recognize the lines of demarcation between black and white. But, alas, too often life's problems present themselves as a mingling of the two as shades of gray, and it is sometimes quite impossible to determine, with our natural minds, where the black leaves off and the white begins. 

One has said that it is given to every man to know so much as whether or not he knows. To know a thing, it must be made comprehensible and convincing to our understanding. In the solution of such problems as I refer to, we need human intelligence plus something else, namely: the light of the Holy Ghost. To him who has been baptized by authority, following his sincere faith and repentance, is given the championship of the Holy Ghost as a light to his path, illumination to his mind, and warmth to his soul. It is true that fires will not burn except they have fuel, whether they be fires of love, fires of industry, fires of achievement, or fires of holy zeal. These fires must be fed that they might burn. Those who receive the Holy Ghost should cultivate and encourage the Spirit, that light might be thrown upon their path, that their way may be made clear, that their minds may be illuminated, and that they may clearly differentiate between right and wrong. Keep the fires burning within your souls; do not let them go out; for remember, you cannot rekindle ashes. 

Dr. Widtsoe's interesting reference to truth brought to my mind something I read a few years ago to the effect that as air, fuel, and water, in proper proportions are necessary to sustain the body, so inspiration, truth and purpose, in equally proper proportions, are necessary to sustain the mind. As we reason upon this hypothesis we can readily reach, I think, three safe deductions: first, that inspiration with insufficient truth and purpose means lack of common sense, — insanity. It means a light without organizing truth and without a directing hand to make it applicable to the utility of life. Secondly, truth without sufficient inspiration and purpose gives to the world its mere theorists, its pedants; men who have fine theoretical conceptions, and yet without the practicality of their application to the needs of every day. Thirdly, purpose with scant inspiration and truth gives us our mere dreamers; men who project fine conceptions, but never reach a conclusion; men who are going somewhere always, but never arrive. But the infallible outcome of inspiration, truth and purpose properly compounded by the hand of work, always brings personal power, achievement, success, whether it be in temporal or spiritual things. 

Our light may be a little one, but we must make it shine. The crying need of the hour is for us to do the very best we can with what we have and what we are. We must have confidence and faith in ourselves. We should see to it that we have confidence and faith in our brethren, and in our Church and in our God. As necsesary as these things are, it is likewise important that we should so conduct ourselves that our fellowmen and our God can have faith and confidence in us. 

I know with all my soul that my heavenly Father lives; that his Son Jesus Christ is my Redeemer; that he came to earth, that he marked the way, that he died on Calvary's hill, and redeemed a fallen world, and that he opened the door for the resurrection of the dead, as an actuality and not a mere belief. 

In the language of another, may I say: 

I asked an angel for some motto sweet, 

Some rule of life by which to guide my feet; 

I asked and paused: he answered soft and low: 

"God's will to know!" 

Will knowlege, then, suffice, dear angel, I cried. 

But ere the question into silence died 

The answer came: Nay, this remember, too: 

"God's will to do!" 

Once more I asked: "Is there more still to tell"? 

And once again the answer sweetly fell: 

"Yea, this one thing all other things above: 

"God's will to love!" 

Oh, that we may love God's will and thereby be led to know his will and carry on to do his will, that through us his will may be done on earth as it is done in heaven, that his kingdom may come, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
