13
Afternoon
05 10 1923
Stephen L. Chipman 
72
42-43

None

None 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice greatly in the spirit of the meetings of this conference, thus far; and my spirit and feeling have been in accord with the principles of the gospel and the testimonies that have been borne by those who have spoken. I hope and trust that I may be able to stand true and faithful to the covenants I have made, that I may always be found sustaining those who preside over me in the Church; that in the stake of Zion where I have been called to preside, my life be such that it will not be a stumbling block to the members of the Church, but that it will be an inspiration, and help them to roll on the work which the Lord has established in this Church. 

I was impressed with one of the subjects that was asked and outlined for our consideration in the Parents' class of our Sunday school: "Wherein are we different from the people of the world?" It is a great subject, an important subject to the Latter-day Saints. The organization of the Church of Jesus Christ is a striking feature in which we are different from the people of the world. There is nothing like it in all the world. The Word of Wisdom was spoken of here by our President this morning. If the Latter-day Saints could live in harmony with that law and uphold the Word of Wisdom among the people, what a power this people would have in the world! We would certainly be different from many of the people of the world. When we speak of the law of tithing, the means by which the Church is supported, the method that we have of receiving and disbursing the tithes of the people, oh, how different from the people of the world! And when we speak of our marital relations, being united together in the bonds of matrimony by the authority of God, which binds on earth and in heaven, I say again, we are different from the world. May we, my brethren and sisters, let our light so shine before the world that they may see the good works of this people and be led to glorify his name, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
