18
Morning
06 10 1923
Don B. Colton 
115
62-65

None

Testimony

My brethren and sisters, when the brethren were called so unexpectedly yesterday from their places in the audiences to speak, the words of the late President Anthon H. Lund came to me, which he spoke many years ago to a group of missionaries who were leaving for their fields of labor. I happened to be one of that band. Said he, "When you are called to speak, it matters not how suddenly that call comes, if you will remember the sixth verse of the fourteenth chapter of Revelations, and if you have a testimony that the prophecy therein recorded has been fulfilled, bear that testimony and the inspiration of the occasion will give you utterance. 

I bear testimony to you this morning that I know the gospel is true, and that the angel has come to which the Revelator referred when he said: 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

This conference has partaken somewhat of the nature of a commemorative service of that event. Two great events have rather grown together among the Latter-day Saints, namely: the coming of the Angel Moroni, in fulfilment of this prophecy that I have quoted, and the work that we are doing in our temples, for the dead. Some one has said that the truest test of any doctrine is whether or not it can be and is being translated into the lives of those who believe it. One of the speakers yesterday, in referring to the Book of Mormon, said that the greatest evidence of its truth is found in the book itself. So with "Mormonism" as a whole, the greatest evidence of its truthfulness is found in its teachings and in its practices, and in the effects it has had upon the lives of those who have accepted it. The building of temples, the constant work being done therein, the desire that comes into the hearts and souls of men and women everywhere to work for their dead relatives, are direct fulfilments of the prophecy that Moroni made that God would send Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest he come and smite the earth with a curse. Where else in all the world are the hearts of the children turning to the fathers that have gone before? I feel an absolute assurance, this morning, that the hearts of the fathers that have gone before are turning to their children, else why the desire to do this work that is being done in our temples, and the desire that comes into the hearts and souls of the children of men everywhere, who accept the gospel, to come to these temples. How the words of our President yesterday morning appeal to us who are living! How we have thrilled as we have listened to those who have spoken, and we want the instructions they have given unto us to become translated into our lives. How we have resolved to reflect those teachings, to make of ourselves examples worthy of imitation! 

Oh, I am not afraid of the assaults without, if we can but set our own houses in order; if we can keep our own lives clean, I am not afraid of the result. They who fight this work forget one thing, namely: the assurance given to every individual member of its truthfulness. What does it matter to us if they fight our leaders? We do not sustain these men solely because they are good men. We sustain them because there is an assurance in our hearts that God has spoken from the heavens, that he did send the Angel Moroni to reveal the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Before they can uproot in our souls the testimony that our faith has planted there, nay, that the Spirit of God has planted there, concerning the truthfulness of "Mormonism," they must do more than attack the leadership of this Church; they must convince us that we are wrong, that our homes, started under the inspiration of God, are not good homes. Oh, I know they attack "Mormonism" because they say it is not conducive to good homes. How little they know of what they speak when they say that! 

A few months ago I happened to be in the office of a man who holds a high position in this government. I noticed above his desk a picture of Brigham Young. I commented upon it. He said: "Yes, I am making a collection of the photographs of all the great men that have been born in Vermont. I regard Brigham Young as one of the greatest, because," said he, "he taught the necessity of home building, the necessity of going out upon the land and possessing it; and if all the people everywhere would teach and practice it as Brigham Young taught it, America would be safe." 

They who seek to uproot this testimony in our souls must convince us that our fathers and mothers were wrong when they bore testimony to us as little children, day after day of the truthfulness of this work, of the divinity of Joseph Smith's mission. They must show me that my own mother when she sent me forth as a missionary, was mistaken when she said: "Though your going grieves me, and I am sorry for the parting, yet I want you to go, and I want you to remember this one thing: I can bear to see you go; and I can bear to see you come back, if necessary, in your casket, if God wills it, but I cannot bear to have you come back unclean or untrue to the teachings of the gospel which I know to be true." 

More than that, God takes these missionaries who go out as stammering, hesitating boys and girls, standing upon the street corners in humility, asking for his help, and makes of them mighty preachers of the gospel, insomuch that they are able to confound the learned men of the world. Those who would destroy this work must make these men and women believe that that spirit, which enables them to do that, is a delusion and a snare. 

More than that they must make us all believe that the testimony which has come to us in the lonely hours of our lives, when we have been alone upon the mountain tops or out on the prairies, when God has been with us and the conviction has come overwhelmingly to our souls of the truthfulness of this work and the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, is false. They must make us believe that when we have sat in the meetings of this conference and listened to the inspiring words of our beloved president and other speakers, and the witness is given to us that what they say is true, is a delusion and a snare. 

For be it known that "Mormonism" rests upon the testimony that God gives to his children of its truthfulness. If you will do the work you shall know whether these men speak of God or whether they speak of themselves. 

In humility and with all the earnestness of my soul I bear testimony that I know that the Angel Moroni came and revealed the Book of Mormon, that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of God of establishing upon the earth God's Church, through which his gospel may he preached to all the world; and I bear witness of its truthfulness in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
