28
Morning
07 10 1923
Brigham H. Roberts 
29
88-93

None

None 

Recalling the remarks of Elder Reed Smoot made yesterday, respecting the sacrifices and the burdens England incurred in the World War, I wish to say that I was very proud of England, the land of my birth, because I could not help but remember that England made those sacrifices, and took upon herself those great burdens of debt, not because of any iniquity on her part, but because she was determined that international obligations and treaties should be something more than mere "scraps of paper." Also I could not but remember that when she went to the side of Belgium and France, she did so in the interest of world-freedom, and against and to destroy the menace of autocracy, which endangered the freedom of the world. Also I could not help but remember that our own burdens in the same great war were made comparatively light because England's burden had been made so heavy. My heart was moved with great sympathy for England by these reflections, and I pray that, under the blessings of Almighty God, she may be relieved of those great burdens assumed in this great cause of human freedom as against autocracy, something before a hundred years shall elapse. You will pardon me, but I thought it was due that this much at least should be said in the extension of what was said yesterday, since just at this particular junction our shores are being visited by England's great war Prime Minister, Mr. Lloyd George. I am sure, however, you will not expect me to say anything further upon this subject; but you will most likely expect me to make some reference, in the nature of a report, concerning the Eastern States mission, and our summer campaign in that mission. 

Our mission comprises the most densely populated territory within the United States. It extends from Maine to Maryland and West Virginia. It is the industrial, commercial, financial, and manufacturing district preeminent of the United States. Its population is equal to the population of the whole of the United States, nearly, at the time our Church was organized. During the last six months we have had a varying number of missionaries, from one hundred and thirty to one hundred and forty in the field. This force constitutes an irregular and here and there broken line of workers, extending through the twelve states that comprize the mission. You can well understand that our numbers are very insignificant for so great a field of labor. We have less than five thousand as a membership of our Church, in that great mass of people, a very little leaven indeed to leaven so large a lump of territory and of population. Yet I am happy to report that the workers of this thin, long line are extremely faithful and devoted to the work in which they are engaged. 

MISSION MOTTO 

One of the mottoes by which they are guided in maintaining their spiritual uplift is — 

"A mission in the Eastern States means absolute consecration of one's self to the service of God and fellow men; with all light-mindedness, folly and sin eliminated." 

We recognize absolutely the great doctrine of the Christ, expressed in these terms: "Without me ye can do nothing." And so, as a word of good cheer to each other to be spoken in moments of sensed weakness or hesitance, we say to each other:" Immanuel!" which, being interpreted is, "God with us." And if God be with us, we shall not and cannot fail. 

These are principles that actuate your sons and daughters who are performing missionary work in the Eastern States. Our faith is in God; our trust is in him; we realize that he is the source of wisdom and of power, and that if he does not sustain this work; if he does not magnify it in the eyes of men. and does not give us the ability to set forth the great message that he has committed to his Church in the earth, then we can do nothing. 

THE SUMMER'S CAMPAIGN

The outstanding feature of our work during the last six months has been the summer campaign, commenced on the 15th day of May, the ninety-fourth anniversary of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood to the earth, the first divine authority officially communicated to man in this dispensation of the fulness of times. There was a reconsecration of our missionaries in the Eastern States that day to the work of the Lord. We had abandoned our lodgings, the elders took in their small grips all their earthly possessions, a little clothing and a few books, in a way burned their bridges behind them, and went out trusting in God to open the way for food and raiment and lodging. I think very likely if I had not myself had some experience in this kind of work, and had not learned how God can and will open the doors of deliverance for his servants, supplement their efforts by his own powerful aid, I should not have dared to put your sons and daughters to this great test of faith and patience and endurance. But recalling the providences of God to me in the early days of my own missionary experience, I did not hesitate to put them to the test, and the result has been glorious. They were not left to themselves; God abundantly opened doors to them. While they went out seeking disciples, they themselves in many, many cases, found God. They also found disciples, and it is a matter that greatly encourages me that we found so many of God's disciples in the Eastern States mission. He has caused it to be written in one of his revelations that "whosoever receiveth God's servants, that clothes them or feeds them, or gives them money, the same is his disciple, and by this we know God's disciples." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 84:87-91). And we found many disciples. I kept in close touch with the development of this work. Through the kindness of one of the brethren in the mission, I had placed at my disposal an automobile. We found a chauffeur among the elders, and so I visited many of the missionaries out in their fields of labor, where they were traveling, two and two. I joined with them in the rural meetings that they were holding, and witnessed their sublime effort at fulfilling the duties and obligations as servants of God, right in the field. So, throughout the summer I watched the development of this experiment of preaching the gospel, trusting in the Lord to open the way. 

THE CONFERENCE AT CUMORAH 

This summer campaign of four months was to culminate in the conference that we held at Cumorah, a fitting climax, I thought it would be, to the splendid labors of the missionaries in our Eastern States mission. I trust it turned out to be a great conference. There was one thing said about it in the Rochester Herald that I would like to put in the record of this conference, that it might have a permanent lodgment in the history of that event. It was written by no tyro of the press, but a man of comprehension, and I think also of deep feeling. It consists of but two brief paragraphs but the passage is of high value as an historical note. It is found in the Rochester Herald of Sept. 22, 1923, and is as follows: 

"Unfolding like some graphic panorama of the past, epic in implications and dramatic in content, the story of an ancient civilization that peopled the plains and hills in this vicinity was the chief topic of discussion before the centennial conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today. Reaching so far back into the dim yesterdays of history, back to days more than 2,500 years ago, this story came with a strange emphasis in the very places where its climaxes and denouements are supposed to have been reached. The narrative is the very basis of 'Mormon' theology and belief and leads directly up to the revelation given through Joseph Smith of the foundations of the 'Mormon' Church. 

"The speakers at the conference told the story with the simplicity and directness of a Norse saga. As point after point of drama of the lost tribes, of their rise to a great civilization and of their final downfall in the bitterness of war was related, those not conversant with the tale were gripped and fascinated by the strangeness of the recital, and when a speaker dramatically pointed to the earth and mentioned that upon the very spot where he stood some of the epic events might have taken place, there was a decided thrill to being there." 

We tried to so arrange the program of the conference that we should live again in the places and near places where the chief events took place in which the Church of the Latter-day Saints had its origin — we tried, I say, to live again, so far as we could in story and testimony and song, through the great epic events that resulted in the creation of this latter-day work. It is unnecessary for me to recount the visitation of angels and the revelations in which the work had its origin. You are familiar with them all. 

THE MESSAGES OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

There is just one other thing, however — nay, perhaps two, that I want to call your attention to. The great outstanding thing in the Book of Mormon is the fact of the visit of the Redeemer to the inhabitants of this western world, and the message of life and salvation that he delivered here; the Church which he brought into existence, the divine authority which he established here in the western world. This is what makes the Book of Mormon of so much importance — it is a new witness for God and Christ and the truth of the gospel. These things being true, makes the advent of the Book of Mormon into the world the greatest literary event of the world since the writing of the Decalogue by the finger of God, and bringing it forth by the great Prophet Moses; or the collection and the publication of the testimony in the New Testament that Jesus is the Christ; that he is the resurrection and the life of men; the greatest event since the recording of the Sermon on the Mount, or the summary of the law by Christ: for the Book of Mormon is supplemental to all this, the necessary part to a consistent whole which manifests the mercy and the justice of God in providing these great things of the gospel for the men of the Western world, as well as to men in the Eastern world. 

The other thing referred to is this: The Book of Mormon contains a wonderful message to the great Gentile nation — the United States of America — whose rise and supremacy it predicts. If you go no further back than 1830, when the Book of Mormon was brought to the knowledge of the world, it remains one of the mightiest prophecies that is of record — this prophecy of the rise of a great Gentile nation, upon this land of America. Here and there also we catch glimpses of the fact that the inspired men whom God raised up to found this nation, and whom God also raised up to preserve it by their wise counsels — here and there, I say, we get glimpses of the fact that God has inspired their minds to understand the great principles upon which this nation of ours may maintain its pride of place in this Western world, and in the whole world. For instance, in his very last public address, made before the Historical Society of New York, in 1852, Daniel Webster said: 

"Let me say, gentlemen, that if we and our posterity shall be true to the Christian religion, if we and they shall live always in the fear of God, and shall respect his commandments, if we and they shall maintain just, moral sentiments and such righteous convictions of duty as shall control the heart and life, we may have the highest hopes of the future fortunes of our country; but if we and our posterity reject religious instruction and authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions of morality, and recklessly destroy the political constitution which holds us together, no man can tell how sudden a catastrophe may overwhelm us that shall bury all our glory in profound obscurity." 

And recently, in the Atlantic Monthly, for August of this year, one of the foremost statesmen in these modern times, in a very brief article, more widely read I think, and more largely commented upon, than any other utterance that has been made of late, said this, when treating of the subject: "The Road Away from Revolution." Mr. Wilson, Ex-president of the United States, for it was he who wrote the article referred to, said: 

"The sum of the whole matter is this: that our civilization cannot survive materially unless it be redeemed spiritually. It can be saved only by becoming permeated with the spirit of Christ, and being made free and happy by the practices which spring out of that spirit. 

Only thus can the discontent be driven out, and all the shadows lifted from the road ahead." 

But before Mr. Webster made this utterance of warning, and long before President Wilson uttered these sublime words of warning to the American Nation, the Book of Mormon, ages ago, but brought forth into the world in 1830, contains this message from God in respect of all this spoken by Webster and by Mr. Wilson: — 

"Behold, this is a choice land, [referring to America] and whatsoever nation shall posses it shall be free from bondage and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." 

Such are the two great messages of the Book of Mormon revealed now some hundred years ago, and they constitute the sublimest message ever delivered to the world, because the witnesses whose words are within the book, testify of the Christ and of the truth of the gospel, of the eternal life of man and his power to become indeed, not only the sons of God, but the glorified sons of God: and also because it gives to us a sublime message for the great Gentile nation of this land, telling them the conditions upon which they may continue to enjoy the favor and blessing of God, and maintain their place and power for good in the world. 

God has made his Church — this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — his herald to the world concerning these things. May the Lord make us equal to so great a mission, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
