32
Morning
07 10 1923
Hyrum Gibbs Smith 
32
100-101

None

None 

I am very grateful indeed, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity to add my testimony to the glorious truths and principles that have been treated in this conference. 

It was my privilege to attend the dedicatory services of the Alberta Temple, and I am very grateful for that sacred privilege. 

I have enjoyed the testimonies of my brethren concerning their visit at the Hill Cumorah. Ever since my early childhood, the story of Joseph the Prophet concerning his wonderful experiences has been a very touching story in my life, and I can scarcely read it or hear it related without tears coming to my eyes. It was a most astounding declaration, for a boy seventeen years of age to make to his friends or his loved ones in a little family gathering, that his name had been named by heavenly messengers, and the statement made that his name should be had for good and ill in all the world, among all kindreds, tongues and peoples. Hundreds of us living bear the testimony from experience in the world, among all civilized nations, that this is a fact, for the name of Joseph Smith has been heard and is spoken of today for good and ill in all the world among civilized nations thereof. 

Another very startling declaration made to that boy was that he was to be the instrument in the hands of the Lord in receiving that glorious message which had been foretold hundreds of years before, that in the last days the Lord would restore the keys and powers of the holy Priesthood at the hands of Elijah the Prophet. Someone was to be prepared to receive the keys. This youth declared to his father and his mother, his brothers and his friends that this message had been delivered unto him during the night of September 21, 1823. About twelve years later this glorious truth was fulfilled, for the Prophet and his associates declared that the Prophet Elijah came and delivered to them in the Kirtland temple these most glorious keys of power, and many have borne witness that these keys have been turned for the blessing of both the living and dead. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know from my brief experience in the Church, that these keys of power are in the Church today, and that not only those in the Church but hundreds out of the Church have been influenced by this glorious mission of Elijah, for their hearts are being turned toward their fathers, both living and dead. Genealogical organizations all over the world have been and are being organized. Great efforts have been put forth, and family circles, both in the Church and out of the Church, have been organized, records have been established and hundreds of people know not why they are making this great effort; but little by little, as time goes on, more of the representatives of the families hear the sound of the everlasting gospel and come out of the world, if they are not already out of it, and are privileged through the inspiration of the call of the Lord to go into these holy houses prepared for him, and dedicated to his name, for his purposes, that in the day of the Lord the great curse which was referred to by the Prophet Elijah should not come upon the earth, but that the families may be united in the bonds of a family circle forever and forever. I know, my brethren and sisters, that the keys of this great work are in the hands of the authorities of the Church today upon the earth, and I am very grateful, indeed, that I have been permitted to officiate for both living and dead in these sacred houses. 

My heart is full of the warmth of the truth concerning these blessings, and I pray that God will continue to bless us, that we may do our part when called to labor whether at home or abroad, that his glorous blessings may come to all, that the families of the world, the great posterity of Adam and Eve may, in the due time of the Lord be enabled to find their own names and places in the fold of Christ. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may all find our places, that we may be able to stand in them and be found in them when the Lord's call comes to us. Whether the service required of us be small or great, may the Lord find us in our places and prepared to serve and labor to bring about his glorious purposes. 

May the Lord bless us in all our endeavors to do good in all the world, to know the truth, to defend it, and to live it, in our homes and in our labors wherever called to labor, that his blessings may be upon this great work and all who are engaged in it, from the President to the least and last one called, whether at home or abroad, is my prayer and blessing for us all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.