35
Overflow
07 10 1923
Joseph Quinney, Jr.
181
106-109

None

Restoration

My dear brethren and sisters. If there ever was a time when I stood in the presence of a congregation of people and needed the Spirit of God, it is the present time. I appreciate fully the great responsibility that rests upon an elder who is called upon to occupy a place of this kind in delivering the message of life and salvation to the children of men, therefore I do humbly pray with all the power that I have that I shall be directed in my remarks this morning by the Spirit and influence of our Father in heaven. 

If there is any one thing that has impressed itself upon me more than another during the sessions of this conference, it is the positiveness with which the message has been delivered to the Saints residing in the stakes of Zion, and I am convinced, as I have listened to these messages of truth, that God has never permitted anything to come into the world pertaining to life and salvation but what that message has carried with it a positiveness that has not been misunderstood. And I have wondered, as I have listened to these inspired discourses, as they have come from the lips of the Prophet and the apostles of the Lord, how it is possible for us to doubt the divinity of this great and mighty work as it has been established in this dispensation of the fulness of times. 

I have wondered if there could have been any other way of presenting and introducing the gospel of Jesus Christ, other than the way in which it was introduced into the world. God has a message to deliver. Who but he could have delivered that message with more positive understanding? When I reflect upon that vision that came to Joseph Smith the Prophet, I realize and appreciate its power and importance. I must come to the conclusion that God has estabestablished his work here upon the earth, because of the fact that it was so important that he came and introduced his Son Jesus Christ, who is the author of our salvation, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and commanded him to listen to the Redeemer of the world. This, to my mind, is the greatest event in the history of the human race and bears witness of the fact that whenever God has a message to deliver to the children of men pertaining to their eternal salvation he speaks to them in no uncertain terms and impresses upon their souls the necessity of coming in contact with the divine, in order that they may become qualified to assume the great responsibilities that are resting upon them from time to time. Subsequently, when it became necessary to fulfil the prophecy that we have heard read to us this morning, that same positiveness, that same assurance accompanied the message that was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as was delivered to him when God, in his majesty and glory, together with his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him. 

I would like to read again a passage because of the strength and the power that it conveys. It refers to a time when God's judgments were to be poured out upon the inhabitants of the earth as a witness that he had spoken through the instrumentality of his holy angels, and subsequently through his Prophet Joseph Smith here upon the earth: 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Now, in connection with the delivery of this message, I want to call attention to one or two important things; first of all, this message of the gospel should come in the day of God's judgment, and it should come in a time when we were to call upon him and worship him who made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of waters. And this is a day of God's judgments. So important and so mighty was this gospel message that was committed to this angel that it was necessary for him to come not only once in that night when he delivered himself with the power and glory of God, but it was necessary for him to repeat that message — not just once or twice or thrice, with the identical words, accompanied with the power of the Priesthood that he held, but it became necessary upon the following day for him to appear with the same glory and majesty and power, so that there would be no mistake made in the delivering of that gospel message. 

And these are things, my brethren and sisters, that make this work stand out as the great gospel plan of God, as he has revealed it to the children of men through his divine and inspired prophet in this day and time. And I want to say to you that as we carry this message to the hearts of the children of men, we are convinced as we give our testimony that God speaks, and speaks with that power that causes strength to be added to the testimonies that we have in the mission field, and we are able, through this divine power of God to develop that love within our souls for the hearts and the souls of the children of men, so that they may understand and appreciate what God has said in this day and time. It is a mighty message, a message, my brethren and sisters, that our sons and our daughters are carrying with them in humility; and understanding the power there is in humility, they pray as they never prayed in all their lives before, so that they can come in direct contact with that union that connects them with God the eternal Father. 

I bear my testimony that I know, as I know that I live, that God speaks to his prophets here upon the earth, because I am a living witness in seeing the fulfilment of prophecy in the convincing of the honest in heart of the divinity of this great work. I have heard them testify that they have been lit up to that extent that they have had the courage of their convictions to come and apply for baptism and testify of God's great and mighty power. I know that he lives, and I know that this is his Church. I am a living manifestation of his power. I have been raised, as it were, from the dead, to life eternal, and I bear witness of God's power as it has been made manifest through his holy priesthood. 

God grant that we will appreciate, as the days come and go, the power there is in this Church, the divine instruments that we have in proclaiming and living this great religion that has come to us. O, may we be humble and prayerful and bring into our very souls a love for one another and appreciate the injunction that Christ himself gave when he made that declaration in answer to the question, Which of all the commandments is the greatest? "Love the Lord thy God with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind," and then, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." 

God grant that we will take advantage of this privilege granted unto us of cultivating that divine love, that there will be strength added to the testimonies that we already have, that we may have the courage of our convictions and convey this truth in power and in strength, to the convincing of the thousands who are ready to understand it and accept it. God bless these remarks to our good and us to the service of God is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
