4
Morning
05 10 1923
Elder Joseph J. Larkin 
No Speaker ID
21-22

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy this morning to be a Latter-day Saint. I am thankful that I have been born in this day and time when God has again spoken from the heavens, when he has restored the Priesthood to the earth, and has given man authority to preach the gospel. I am thankful that I have the privilege of being here this morning and listening to the remarks of our beloved President. He certainly has given to us, as Latter-day Saints, the key that will enable us to enter our Father's kingdom. I am thankful that he has inspired his servants as he has done in these last days to lead and guide the people. I want to bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that if we will listen to their words that we will gain a salvation and exaltation in our Father's kingdom, if we will follow the instructions given to us this morning — observe our individual and family prayers, and observe the Word of Wisdom. It seems to me that if we will do those three things we will be led to do other things, for by so doing we will be led to keep the commandments that our Father in heaven has given to us. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, as I know that I stand here this morning, that the gospel is true, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, that he was raised up in this the last dispensation, to establish his work here in the earth. I know it, and I pray that the Lord will bless and inspire our hearts to keep the commandments that he has given to us through his servants. I want to say to you here that if we will follow the counsel that is given to us by the servants of the Lord, we will never go very far astray. 

I wish to bear my testimony to you regarding one other thing, and that is the matter of the home evening that the Latter-day Saint parents have been counseled and advised to hold with their families. If you will call your families together, my brethren and sisters, once a week and hold a home evening with them, pray with them, and sing with them, it will be one of the greatest helps to you in holding your boys and girls in the fear of the Lord. That is my experience, that is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, here this morning. I pray that the Lord will bless us with the desire to serve him and keep his commandments, that in the end we may gain eternal life. I I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
