42
Second Overflow
07 10 1923
Elder George S. Taylor 
No Speaker ID
132-134

None

Missionary Work

After an absence of nearly three years from the midst of the Saints of Zion it is indeed a pleasure to have the privilege of once more associating with you and of listening to the inspiring talks which have been given by the leaders of this people. 

I will report that the work in New Zealand is progressing in a satisfactory manner. In relation to the elders and sisters who are laboring there, Brother Young has relieved me of ten minutes of my time by describing the elders and sisters of that mission. You who have boys or girls there have ocassion to be proud of them. Of all the things that have been spoken during this conference, my mind has been most impressed with the remarks of President Grant, made at the opening of this conference, wherein he urged upon the Latter-day Saints the necessity of family and secret prayers. I would call to your attention the fact that it was the prayer offered by the boy Joseph Smith which opened this dispensation of the gospel, which brought again to the world the knowledge which they had lost, a knowledge of God our eternal Father and of his son Jesus Christ, that they are living, immortal beings. And it was the prayers of that same boy, the Prophet Joseph Smith, which gave unto us the revelations which are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. You will find, my brethren and sisters, in studying these various revelations, that they were invariably given in answer to prayer. 

Your boys and girls who are laboring in the missionary fields are receiving knowlege that they know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; they know that the leaders of this Church are inspired men, called of God to perform the labors of leading this people and teaching them the principles of eternal life. 

I have been somewhat surprised, during my experience in that land, to find that quite a number of our boys have never been in the habit of attending meetings; so much have they neglected the opportunities that have been offered them that they have never heard an apostle, or one of the Presidency of the Church, deliver a sermon. Have any of you sons and daughters in this condition? It is doubtless true that many of you are living in remote villages, but question yourselves: have you sons and daughters who have never heard one of the general authorities of the Church raise his voice and address the Latter-day Saints? If so, you are neglecting your opportunities; you are depriving your sons and your daughters of blessings that of right belong to them. 

During my labors in that land, I had the extreme pleasure of welcoming to the mission the first of the general authorities of the Church to visit that mission. The work of the Lord has been carried on there for some sixty-two years, and the Saints had prayed times without number that one or more of the general authorities of the Church might be sent, that they might have the pleasure and privilege of hearing their testimony, and we certainly rejoiced in the blessings that were brought to us when Elder David O. McKay of the Council of the Twelve, and President Hugh J. Cannon, paid a visit to that land. During the conference we have heard a number of references to certain inspired meetings that have been held in different parts of the earth. I can testify to you that during the visit of Elder McKay and President Cannon we had one of those inspired meetings. Those who had the privilege of attending that meeting will never forget the spirit which was poured out and the testimonies which were offered at that time. 

I have rejoiced in the labor of the ministry. I know that I am engaged in the work of God, that this Church is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that only through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints we can hope for an entrance into and an exaltation in the kingdom of God. I testify of these things, for I know that they are true. I testify that God has heard and answered my prayers and the prayers of the elders laboring in the New Zealand mission, and I testify unto you that if you will seek him in earnestness and in faith, he will answer unto you the desires of your hearts. 

May we earnestly seek him is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
