43
Second Overflow
07 10 1923
Elder Carl E. Peterson 
No Speaker ID
134-136

None

Missionary Work 

It is now four years and a half since I had the privilege of attending our general conference, and it is over four years since I left for my mission to preside over the Scandinavian mission. Norway and Denmark, four years ago, were called the Scandinavian mission. In 1920, it was decided by the authorities of the Church to make two missions out of the Scandinavian mission, naming one the Norwegian and the other the Danish mission. Copenhagen has always been the headquarters for the Scandinavian mission from the very first time, seventy years ago, when Apostle Erastns Snow came to Copenhagen to open the gospel door to the Scandinavian people. From that time, until the mission was divided, Copenhagen has been the headquarters, and in one sense we may call it yet the headquarters, as far as Norway and Denmark are concerned, because the publications of the Church are still published in the Danish language, and both Norway and Denmark are supplied with the literature of the Church from Copenhagen, with the exception of a semi-monthly paper called Morgenstjernen which was published in Norway since it became an independent mission. However, in the first place, it was decided that the Scandinavian Star should be the periodical for the two missions, but for some reason permission was given to the Norwegian people to publish their own Star, in Christiania. Otherwise, Copenhagen is supplying the mission with all the other books. 

We had a wonderful time, a glorious time, a time of rejoicing over in those countries. This is not my first experience in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark; because I have spent over thirteen years as a missionary in those countries, and hence, I am well acquainted with the conditions of the people, and their characteristics. The Scandinavian people are highly educated. They are progressive, independent, and intellectual; they have the best school system that can be found in the world; in fact, Denmark stands right at the top of the ladder as far as education is concerned. And I say to you that you cannot go from one end of Denmark to the other and find a normal boy or girl, eight years old, who cannot read and write. I say this because I know it is a fact. 

We have enjoyed freedom and liberty to preach the gospel in Denmark as you have right here in the valleys of the mountains. We are not ridiculed. We are respected wherever we go. If you appear as respectable men and women, you will be respected and honored, and in particular by what is termed the better class of people. The most highly educated people are the most tolerant. With them you can have interesting conversations, even from the king on his throne. He is willing to listen to you if you get the privilege of visiting him. It may be connected with a great deal of difficulty and preliminaries on the part of the American minister before you get the privilege, but if you get it, you will be received by him and he will enter into conversation with you relative to the religious, the social, and economic conditions prevailing here in the valleys of the mountains. He will go into details as to the resources of our glorious state. He seems to be familiar with conditions existing here. And he will carry on an interesting conversation, whether you desire to speak to him in Danish, French, German, or Italian or in the English language. He speaks perfectly the English language. So you do not need to be afraid if you go over there, some of you, perhaps thinking that you are scholars — you need not be afraid to employ the most complicated sentences and phrases that you may desire to employ in your conversation, indicating to him that you are highly educated and capable, because he will understand every phrase and word that you can utter to him in the English language and will reply to you in just as beautiful and perfect English as if he had resided in the United States all his life. And we find the same characteristic all through the whole country of Denmark. The people are highly educated, they are tolerant, they are willing to listen to you if you have anything to give them. They care not whether you represent the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or any other church; they will listen to you just as well because you are a "Mormon," as we are called, as if you were a member of any other church; it makes no difference. 

The question with the Danish people is this: Has this person who introduces himself as a special representative of a church or of a nation anything in particular to impart to us that we are not familiar with? If he has something new, something interesting, something educational, something poetical, something elevating the Danish people will listen to it with the greatest attention, and you will never be disturbed in any town or village, but you will be protected. In fact, the highest authorities asked me the question whether we ever had any trouble. I said, "No, never." "But," said they, "if trouble ever should occur, let us know and we will send you all the necessary protection you desire; because you have just as much right and privilege to proclaim the doctrines that you believe to be correct as any other church or denomination." 

O, there is so much to say regarding the Danish people! And I speak this because I am not Danish. If I were, you would say that I was egotistic, but because I am not, I speak without restraint; because I have found the Danish people, from the king on the throne to the most humble, to be endowed with these beautiful, admirable characteristics. And I say it to you who have ambitions to go to Denmark as representatives of the Church, and ask you the prepare yourselves, because you will go to a people who are highly educated and expect something from you when you come to them; and if you desire pleasure and satisfaction and joy in the ministry in Denmark, you must prepare yourself; for the time has come when the Danish people will never listen any more to illiteracy or ignorance. I say this to you from practical observation and experience. Whenever we have capable elders, people flock in great numbers to listen to them, and on the other hand when we are not favored with such representatives, the meetings are very small, and very few come, and they come only as a matter of duty. Hence, I say to you, "Let us prepare ourselves for the great work that lies before us, because the world is growing along intellectual lines and there are better people living today, yes, more intellectual people living in the world today, than ever before. There are more choice spirits coming to the world today than ever in the past, and there will be still more as the millennial dawn draws near at hand, because they will come here to enjoy the privileges of taking upon themselves bodies to be prepared for the great blessings in store for those who are permitted to enter into the glorious millennial reign of Jesus Christ when he shall come. 

Well, I must close. God bless you. I thank you for your attention. I rejoice in having this privilege of attending this most enthusiastic and interesting conference. God's Spirit has been poured out upon all the congregations that I have attended during this conference. I pray God's blessing upon President Grant, upon all the authorities of the Church, and the Latter-day Saints, at home and abroad, that the day may speedily come when righteousness shall prevail upon the earth and truth shall be acknowleged from one end of the earth to the other, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
