49
Afternoon
07 10 1923
Rulon S. Wells 
44
152-154

None

Temples, Holy Ghost

My brethren and sisters, when I look out upon the faces of this vast congregation, I am deeply impressed with the power and the influence that seems to be felt by all who are present. There must be something peculiar about the Latter-day Saints, for whenever they gather together there is a power and an influence that is felt by all who are present, that is peculiar to us. I have been led to reflect: what is it that is different from the gatherings of those who are not of our faith and the gatherings of a nature other than these religious conferences? And the answer has come to me: It is because the great multitude of people that congregate, that come together upon these occasions are men and women who have faith in God and have repented of sin, who have received a remission of those sins in the waters of baptism and after that they have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. It is then the presence of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God, that animates these general assemblies of the Latter-day Saints and characterizes them as different from all other gatherings of people throughout the entire world; for in no other church are there people who have been thus blessed and favored of the Lord, for they have not received the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Among the different things that were contained in the message of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith on that notable night of September 21, 1823, was the reference to the holy scriptures, wherein it was set forth that the day was nigh at hand when Elijah the Prophet would come and restore the keys of the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to their children. When we realize how completely this has been fulfilled, it adds to the numerous testimonies which we have received of this great work of the Lord. Surely the Prophet, at that early period of his life, could not have comprehended to any marked extent, the great work that was involved in those words. Temples have been erected and work has been done in those temples for millions of people. We build these places and we call them holy, erected to the name of the Lord and dedicated unto his service. 

The people who have been blessed by receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost are called Latter-day Saints. What do we mean by Saint? We mean a sanctified being, or a holy being. Faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sin and the reception of the Holy Ghost will make them worthy of the name by which the Lord permits them to be called. Do we have that name because we are sanctified beings? Oh, no; but because we have started out right and are in the process of sanctifying ourselves and preparing ourselves to dwell in the presence of God. A sanctified being, a holy being, is one whose sins have been remitted, one who has been made holy by receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Wherever the Lord plants his feet it becomes a sacred and holy place. What was it that the Lord said to Moses at the time of his appearance in the burning bush: "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." Only those who are holy are permitted to stand upon holy ground. Strangers Who come into our midst wonder why they may not go into the temples that we have erected. They marvel that the doors are closed against them. Many who have been in our temples before their dedication have also wondered why they may not continue to go there. Strangers do not always understand it, but this is the reason: Because they have not been sanctified by having sealed upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost. This permission is given only to those who have received this marvelous gift, and many who have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, unless they have retained the remission of their sins by living right, are not permitted to stand upon that holy ground. Who then shall enter into the temple of the Lord? I find an answer to that question in holy writ, where a question is asked somewhat similar in its nature: 

"Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place? 

"He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. 

"He shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation." 

Brethren and sisters, it becomes necessary, then, that we not only receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that we retain it by retaining the remission of our sins. Let us then, be prepared and worthy to go into these sacred houses, and carry out our part as suggested in the message that was given to us through the Angel Moroni, when the Prophet Elijah should come and enable us to go into these houses and perform the labors, not only for the dead, but also for the living. 

God help us to be worthy, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
