50
Afternoon
07 10 1923
Seymour B. Young 
49
154-156

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, I have been deeply impressed with the remarks of my brethren during this conference. The impression was made at the beginning of the service in the remarks of President Heber J. Grant, and so on each day, each session has added to my pleasure and happiness in listening to the wonderful testimonies that have been borne. I was reminded this afternoon of the chivalry of the American people, of the American soldiers and the American sailors during the Spanish-American war, at the great naval battle in San Diego harbor, at the conquering of the Spanish navy, and the taking of many prisoners. During the very heat of that terrible naval engagement the Spanish ships, many of them, were set on fire and the sailors were seen clinging to the rigging and to the bows and bulwarks of the vessels, and jumping overboard to save them from being burned. The American sailors began to shout for victory, but Admiral Schley issued the command that they should cease shouting, for could they not see their fellow men clinging to burning vessels and going down into the ocean to their death! So the shouting and the hurrahing ceased. After the close of the war, thirteen thousand Spanish prisoners were found in the possession of the American forces, and by order of that Christian gentleman, President William McKinley, those prisoners were taken to a place of safety and there fed during the winter, kept in good comfortable quarters, and in the following spring, placed in American vessels and conveyed home to their own country to the shores of Spain without cost to themselves or to the country from which they came. That was an ideal of President McKinley. I have always felt to honor him as a true Christian gentleman. He made a journey across the plains and through this western country, and had appointments to speak in different places in the West, Salt Lake among the rest, but while in California, his wife was taken severely ill, and he had to hurry home, and therefore his engagements were canceled. I went to Ogden to see him as he passed through that city, and I heard him speak a few words from the rear platform of his car. I was still more impressed with the dignity, with the scholarship and with the tenderness of that great man, the President of the American Republic. 

Now as to the gospel: 

In fulfilment of the prediction of Malachi, as quoted to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the Angel Moroni, Elijah the Prophet appeared to Joseph Smith in the Kirtland temple, and committed to him the keys of the restoration of the ordinances for the dead. Today we are witnesses that there are six temples now finished and dedicated in which ordinances for the dead are ministered. On the 26th day of July, two days after the pioneers landed in this country, it is said that President Brigham Young, the great pioneer of the west, placed his cane on the position on this block where the temple now stands and said: "On this spot we will build the temple of the Lord," and although he lived to lay the cornerstone and dedicate it at the beginning of the building, he did not live to see its completion, but he led in the dedication of the first temple that was completed in Utah. That was in 1875, if I remember rightly, the temple of St. George was dedicated, and he presided at the dedicatorial services. Then further on came the dedication of the Logan temple, under President Taylor, then the dedication of the Manti temple, under the President of the Twelve, Wilford Woodruff; then came finally the fulfilment of that wonderful vision of President Woodruff's. He said in relating it, that some years before the Salt Lake temple was finished, he saw himself seated on the front steps of the temple. President Brigham Young came and said to him: "Brother Woodruff, take the keys and unlock the doors of the temple, and bid the people enter." President Woodruff in relating this at the dedicatorial services of the temple, said he was very much surprised that he should be commissioned to dedicate the Salt Lake temple, while President Taylor was still living; but when the temple was finished, in 1893, President Taylor had passed away to his eternal and great reward, and President Woodruff had been elected and ordained President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, under the inspiration of the Lord Almighty. Then he said he could see why he was commissioned to dedicate that holy house, years before its completion. President Woodruff dedicated two temples, one at Manti and the one in Salt Lake City. President Taylor dedicated the Logan temple; and now recently our beloved President Heber J. Grant has led in the building and the finishing and the dedication of two other temples, one on the Hawaiian islands, and one in Canada. I pray with all my heart that he may live to dedicate very many more. When I visit our temple here in Salt Lake, which I take the opportunity of doing occasionally, I rejoice to see the anxiety that seems to possess the people in prosecuting this work for the redemption of their dead kindred. This temple and, I believe, all the other temples are filled to their capacity in this glorious work of redemption for the dead. I am satisfied that this is but another great evidence of the truth of the gospel and of the divine organization of the true Church of Christ under the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith. These great events of building new temples and dedicating them, and the gathering of the people to these sacred buildings to perform their duties and their obligations to the dead, are additional evidences to me of the truth of "Mormonism." 

But beyond and far greater is the knowledge that I possess in my own heart, that the Lord has revealed to me in the inmost recesses of my soul, the truth of the everlasting gospel as proclaimed now by the Latter-day Saints. The divine mission of the Savior, the great mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, are facts brought to my mind as vividly and as earnestly and as truly as the thought and the knowledge of my own existence. I know today that God lives, I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world; I know that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired as a prophet of God. May the Lord increase this knowledge for us all, I pray, and make our testimonies bright and real and sure, that we may be encouraged to go on with the great work in which we are engaged, until the redeeming power of the gospel of Jesus Christ shall reach the uttermost parts of the earth, and every one of our Father's children shall have the privilege of receiving these great truths, and thus bring to pass their redemption, I pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.
