51
Afternoon
07 10 1923
Heber J. Grant 
10
156-161

None

None

I regret exceedingly to have had to limit the time of any of the brethren in these conferences. I am sure that every speaker, judging by myself, would have been pleased to occupy more time in talking to the Saints. When we stand up to speak and the Lord blesses us with the light and inspiration of his Spirit, it is rather a difficult matter not to want to talk and keep on talking. I confess freely, that it is very seldom when I am addressing the Latter-day Saints, that I do not have very many ideas come into my mind that I would like to express; but I feel the necessity of not continuing my remarks, as a rule, longer than I have done in the past. I therefore regret that it is not possible to give the brethren the opportunity and the chance to more fully express themselves; but I am sure that many of them who have been limited to ten minutes have done themselves proud, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, in testifying to us during the short time that was allotted them. 

Now to the law and testimony as we believe in it. 

BELIEF OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men, on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship." 

"We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the rights of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded." 

I spent considerable time while Brother Ivins was preaching, looking through a lot of old papers for a few words that I wanted to read to this congregation. It fell to my lot to be honored by playing a game of golf with the President of the United States. It also fell to my lot, when a very noted attorney, Judge James A. Emery, came here to make a very important speech as an industrial expert, to be invited to play a game of golf with him. And after playing that game of golf, I had the privilege of hearing him deliver his speech at the Country Club. He expressed pleasure in coming back to Utah and he announced — I do not know that I can give his words — that the people of Utah stood like a great rock in the ocean against the waves of discontent. 

A ROCK OF CERTAINTY. 

I just wish to read one little tribute from his address: 

"In renewing an old acquaintanceship comes a peculiar source of inspiration. I have been impressed with the continuing evidence which the light of Utah has had in the development of the state. Tell me what a man thinks and I will tell you what he does. This community has stood like a rock of certainty and decision in the midst of radicalism and discontent. Utah has stood as one of the cornerstones of reliability in the American political structure." 

That is from one of the great lawyers of the United States. After his speech, I had the pleasure of riding to the Country Club in the automobile with him, and afterwards of having a little ride to enjoy some of the scenery. The gentleman owning and driving the automobile was not a member of our Church, but in complimenting judge Emery upon his magnificent address, he said: "Credit is due to the 'Mormon' people for not defending those things that are contrary to the fundamental laws, and the sustaining of the institutions of our country," or some words to that effect; and the Judge said: "Why, everybody knows that." I might add: except some people here at home. 

We hear a great deal about the wonderful influence of the "Mormon" priesthood and the tyranny of it; and this reminds me of a little incident in my own life. When I was a vice-president of the Chamber of Commerce and a certain gentleman was made the secretary, I suggested that we have that gentleman write a pamphlet upon the resources and attractions of Utah, inviting people to come here and make permanent homes — but of course we do not want anybody to come, so we are told! 

FALSE AND TRUE PROPAGANDA. 

And he wrote that pamphlet, and I suggested that after the cost of setting up the type had been returned and we had had our investment returned, that this man have an increase of salary because of the selling of the pamphlet. A few months later he thanked me for having made that motion, because he said that he was getting $20 or $25 per month from it and it was adding to his meager salary. I said: "It is contemptible for any man to receive thanks from his fellow-man in a favor that he did not extend. I did not nominate you, and suggest that you write that pamphlet because I wanted to increase your salary, although I did announce that it would increase it. I nominated you to write that pamphlet because I knew you would have to tell the truth in your writing, and that the truth printed in that pamphlet would brand the articles that you had written upon this city years ago as a United States official, as plain, simple lies. That is why I nominated you, sir. Among other things, you said that the "Mormon" Priesthood controlled the people in every city, in every home, and all over this Territory, and that they were getting rich by robbing the people, in the articles you wrote for eastern publication. In this pamphlet you say that in no other state or territory of the United States are such splendid opportunities for settlers to be found as in Utah and that the city, community and territorial taxes are lower than in any other state or territory in the Union. What a pity that these robbers could not be exported to rob other people by reducing their taxes! About that time he looked as if he would like to hit me instead of thanking me. I decided that I was quick enough to dodge if he should attempt to do so. 

AUTHORITY OF PRIESTHOOD. 

Now, with reference to the authority of the Priesthood of God and how it is to be exercised: The Prophet of the living God was imprisoned in Liberty jail and there was a desire that he should be tried and executed; but all the prison doors in all the world can not prevent the revelations of the mind and the will of God coming to those that are entitled to receive them; and while in Liberty jail the Prophet Joseph Smith received one of the very greatest of all the great revelations from God that are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. I read from Section 121: 

"How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints, 

"Behold, there are many called but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

"Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. 

"We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen." 

INSPIRED WORDS. 

Now, I want to emphasize the balance of this revelation, given in a jail. With all the power of a State trying to take away the liberty of Joseph Smith, they could not prevent the communication of that prophet with the heavens, and he received the following inspired words that should never be forgotten by any bishop or any president of a stake, or any apostle, or any president of the Church as long as they hold office in this Church: 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion," 

MORE PRICELESS THAN WEALTH. 

More priceless than all the wealth of all the world is to have the Holy Ghost as our constant companion. 

"and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and with out compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever." 

We are an ignorant people, are we? Why, Dr. Winship announces that we have the best laws on education of any state in the United States, and yet the majority of the legislature come from the ignorant "Mormons." 

We are a vile people, are we? Consider this: the governor of Arizona announced that if we had our just dues we would not have been robbed of between twenty-five hundred and three thousand per cent of some of the taxes in Arizona, namely: that we were entitled to twenty-five or thirty inmates in the state penitentiary and only had one. He also announced that we were being robbed because we did not have six or seven, in proportion to our population in the insane asylum.

When it comes to divorces — the crying evil of the age — we are not in it at all! 

When it comes to marrying, we can lead them every time. 

When it comes to fulfilling the first great commandment of God: to multiply and replenish the earth — we lead. Utah's best crop, and Canada's and Mexico's best crop, in every true, loyal, faithful Latter-day Saint family, is babies. 

Our death-rate is lower. Our birth-rate higher. 

BY THEIR FRUITS. 

"By their fruits ye shall know them," and we are at the defiance of the world in all the vital statistics that go to show that we are a Christian people, that we do acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and are living up to his teachings. We are at the defiance of any honest man upon the face of the earth to point out that we do not lead in all those things; and the Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

Speaking of the accomplishments in our Mexican colonies, that great president and warrior who ruled Mexico with an iron hand for so many years — Porfirio Dias, when he visited, just a short time before he was driven from his country, the fair in Chihuahua, when he came to the exhibits of industry and frugality; when he saw the products of our canning factories, our harness factories, the shoe factories; when he saw the exhibits from our academy there — as fine an academy as is in all Utah, barring only Logan, Ogden, Salt Lake, and Provo, our four principal cities — when he saw all the exhibits there, that warrior, whom nobody would expect to shed a tear, when he saw what this "ignorant" people had done in Mexico, wiped his eyes and said: "What could I not do with my beloved Mexico if I had more citizens like these 'Mormons?'" 

In Canada we have made a record second to no people. 

GOOD COLLEGE RECORDS. 

In every college of the United States where our boys have gone, in every university attended by them, they have made a record that is the equal to the best. We expended of the Church funds and the people's funds, last year, a million dollars because we are a lot of ignoramuses and want to keep the people in ignorance. "The Glory of God is intelligence." 

Let me read some more from the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

"Whatever principles of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated —  

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

Latter-day Saints realize, know and comprehend that one of the greatest duties devolving upon them is to gain knowledge, and to study and get information out of good books. 

"If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

God lives, Jesus is the Christ, Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God; and this work called "Mormonism" is the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Redeemer, and is the plan of life and salvation; and all the disbelief of the world, all the opposition of all the world cannot stop it, God has established it and it will go on and on until it has fulfilled its destiny! And may God help you and me and every soul that has a knowledge of the divinity of this work, to live the Gospel, that our acts may preach it, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
