Morning
05 10 1923

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is certainly an inspiring sight to see this building so well filled at the first session of our semi-annual conference. I feel truly grateful to the Lord for his blessings to us as a people during the past year. Our harvests have been very abundant. There is a feeling of contentment today throughout this intermountain country, where the Latter-day Saints are located, that is very different, financially speaking, from what it was two years ago today. 

We are grateful indeed for the blessings that have come to the people during the past two years, and we humbly pray that they may be continued upon the Saints, that the land may yield abundantly, and that peace and prosperity may continue with all of the people gf the Lord. Above all it is the desire of the Presidency of the Church and the General Authorities that the Latter-day Saints may grow in the light, the knowledge, and the testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which has been restored to the earth again, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. While we rejoice in the material prosperity of the people, we rejoice more in the growth of faith and knowledge and the love of God and a desire to serve him on their part. 

PRESIDENT'S VISIT

During the past six months we have had the privilege of receiving a visit from the President of the United States, who spoke from this stand, and who later visited the Southern part of our State. We all know that he has since been called from this life. As I stated here upon one occasion, I am very grateful that President Harding had the opportunity of meeting and mingling with the people of our State and of the adjoining States, where so many of the Latter-day Saints are located. I rejoiced when he said to me as I was dining with him in the Yellowstone Park, that his good opinion of our people had been enhanced by his visit among them. I am grateful that the high office he held until his death is now occupied by a man who I believe with all my heart is worthy of that exalted position. I desire, and I am sure that all Latter-day Saints desire, that the inspiration that comes from God may be given to President Coolidge in the great office which he holds, and that wisdom may come to him and his cabinet in directing the affairs of our beloved country. 

We as Latter-day Saints have much to be thankful for. We are just completing in Idaho Falls a magnificent hospital, which when completed and furnished, will cost about four hundred thousand dollars, and will be a lasting monument to the integrity of our people and their devotion to God. Otherwise we would not have had the means to have created such a magnificent structure in our adjoining state. 

TEMPLE DEDICATED 

There has been dedicated a temple to the Most High God in a foreign land, the first that has ever been erected outside the confines or dependencies of the United States. The cost of the Alberta Temple, including furniture, equipment, lawns, grounds, and in fact the building complete, is seven hundred and eighty-one thousand, four hundred and seventy-nine dollars and ninety cents — over three quarters of a million dollars expended there in completing a house to God, dedicated for sacred purposes. Many of us had the opportunity of attending the sessions, eleven in all, at each of which the dedicatory prayer was read, and remarks were made upon more than one occasion by all of the General Authorities who were in attendance, by many of the officers of the Church, and by many of the people who were there as visitors. 

I rejoice in being able to say that that same sweet, peaceful, Godlike and inspiring spirit that I have had the opportunity of enjoying at the dedication of the Logan Temple, of the Manti Temple, of the Salt Lake Temple, and the one in the Hawaiian Islands, was present with us upon all of the occasions when we met in the Alberta Temple. I rejoice that there was a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord during all of the eleven sessions that were held in that Temple, and that those who were present partook of that spirit, and that the visitors and the local people were satisfied in their hearts and able to bear witness that the Lord, by the rich outpourings of his Spirit was with us throughout the sacred services. 

There stands out in my mind in the various dedications of temples that I have had the privilege of attending, a feeling of gratitude and thanksgiving to God that I was permitted to be present at these dedications, and to partake of the spirit that was always present. It is the spirit that giveth life, while the letter killeth; and I can testify that the spirit of the living God has been present at the time of the dedication of each and all of the temples that I have had the great privilege and honor of attending. 

SPIRITS ATTUNED 

If we, as Latter-day Saints, live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, our spirits are perfectly attuned, so that we really partake of the inspiration of the living God that is present in the conference gatherings of the Latter-day Saints and I know that no faithful Latter-day Saint could have been present at Logan, at Manti, at Salt Lake City, in the Hawaiian Islands, or in Cardston at the dedication of the several temples but what he or she was thrilled by the spirit of God that was present upon all of those occasions. No Latter-day Saint has attended any of those sessions who has not gone away with an increased love of God, with an increased desire to serve God, with a renewed determination to live more faithful the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that we have espoused. 

It call to mind two occasions while in the missionary field that were remarkable to me, for they compared in my affections and in my feelings with the blessed experiences incident to the dedication of these temples. One of them was when we had all of the Elders of the British mission and representatives from Europe present at Bradford — several hundred missionaries, and we had a spiritual feast. We had what would be called "a red letter day," spiritually. The Lord God Almighty blessed us abundantly upon that occasion. I call to mind another instance in Rotterdam, where many of the missionaries of the Netherlands mission, including Belgium and Holland, and many from the Swiss and German mission were present. Our meeting lasted until midnight, and I am sure that no one of the many elders who were assembled there was the least bit weary because of the length of the meeting. There were tears of gratitude and thanksgiving to the living God for an abiding knowledge and testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, shed in great profusion upon that occasion. The fear of God was with us, and we rejoiced exceedingly. 

CUMORAH CONFERENCE 

On the 22nd day of last month we had the privilege — four of the General Authorities from this city and one who was located at Brooklyn as the president of the Eastern States mission, Brother Brigham H. Roberts — of being present at the wonderful conference held at the Joseph Smith farm, in the Sacred Grove, and at the Hill Cumorah, celebrating the one-hundredth anniversary of Joseph Smith's first view of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was later translated. A very remarkable conference for three days was held there. A rich outpouring of the Spirit of the living God was experienced. I am grateful, indeed, to President Brigham H. Roberts for arranging that conference, for I am free to confess, that in the multitude of duties and responsibilities resting upon me, I might have neglected that one-hundredth anniversary. I feel grateful to Brother Roberts that he did not allow it to pass without a very splendid conference. It was one that each and every person who attended will look back to with that same pleasure and joy and satisfaction with which we look back upon the dedication of our temples, and the passing of other mile-stones, so to speak, in the history of this Church. 

IN THE SACRED GROVE 

I remarked in the first meeting that we were sorry beyond expression that President Roberts' health was such that he could not be present, that it seemed to me very much like the great play of Hamlet with Hamlet left out. Brother Roberts had prepared a very remarkable program, covering many episodes and historical matters in connection with the rise of the Church through the one hundred years, nearly, of its history; and there were no words with which we could convey adequately our regret that the man to whom we were indebted for all of these labors could not take a more active part than he did because of his poor health upon that occasion; and yet we rejoiced that he was able to lift up his voice on several occasions during that conference, and also to be present during some of the meetings, although his health was such that he had to withdraw from a few of them before their close. I have expressed, and heard others who were present express sincere and heartfelt regret that the prayer delivered by Brother Roberts in the Sacred Grove on Sunday morning, Sept. 23, was not taken down in writing. I cannot remember when my heart has been more stirred, and when I have had my affection called out to the Lord more perfectly than upon the occasion when Brother Roberts uttered that prayer in the Sacred Grove, where the Lord God Almighty, and where Jesus Christ our Redeemer, had appeared and conversed with the prophet, or more properly speaking, with the boy Joseph Smith, afterward the prophet of the living God. 

FAITH INCREASED 

We know, of course, that the world doubts that God and Jesus Christ spoke in that grove to Joseph Smith; but there is no Latter-day Saint living who has kept the commandments of God, and has received the witness of the Holy Spirit, that we are engaged in his work, who has any doubt in his or her mind that the Lord God Almighty, that Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, did talk to that boy. And those of us who had the privilege of assembling in that Grove Sunday morning, Sept. 23, and partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's supper, in witness to God of our remembrance of the death and suffering, and of the atoning blood of our Redeemer, and who listened to the inspiring words of the prayer of supplication by Brother Roberts, had our faith increased and strengthened, and had our hearts mellowed in gratitude to the living God for the rich outpourings of his Spirit at that sacred spot. I believe that if I had more thoroughly partaken of the spirit of that conference prior to going there, that arrangements would have been made to have had hundreds of the Latter-day Saints present. It was only a very short time prior to this one-hundredth anniversary that I felt impressed that I ought to go there. Last May I thought, perhaps I would go, but scarcely felt the full inspiration of it. However, just before the conference was to be held, the impression came to me that it would be a very serious mistake if the man whom the Lord had seen fit to honor in placing him to preside over the Church of Christ, established through the instrumentality of that boy who, one hundred and three years ago, conversed with God, the Father, and the Savior, and one hundred years ago saw for the first time the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, did not attend that celebration. I was very grateful that two of the Council of the Twelve happened to be in the East at the time, so that they could also be there; and in thinking the matter over I felt that it would be very fitting indeed for one of the blood relatives of the Prophet Joseph Smith to be there at that remarkable celebration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the first view of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was transcribed. 

NEW INSPIRATION 

I have read within the past few weeks what a lot of rot the Book of Mormon is, what an absurd, ridiculous book it is. I want to say that it was my pleasure to be very intimately acquainted with the late William W. Riter, than whom there are few men in all the Church who were greater readers and greater students and who had more analytical and thoughtful minds. The last time that I heard Brother Riter speak was in a meeting in the ward where I reside. He was a man who read and studied a great deal. Among other things he made the statement, which was greatly to my surprise, that for many many years he had read the Book of Mormon through regularly every year. I never dreamed that he would take the time to do so. And he said that he found new inspiration, new uplifting thoughts, that he enjoyed the book, he believed, more each time that he read it than he had previously done. He said that nobody could find anything in that book that was not calculated to uplift mankind, and to improve them; that there was no book that more perfectly inspired a love of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, by its contents, than did the Book of Mormon; that there was not one single incident, not one paragraph in that whole book, that could offend the most sensitive soul. I have regretted beyond expression that the very remarkable and splendid sermon that he gave that night was not taken down in shorthand. 

THE ARIZONA TEMPLE 

I am pleased to be able to inform the people that the work on the Arizona temple is progressing satisfactorily, that next month we hope to lay the corner-stone and deposit some records in that stone, and that we hope in the near future to have that building completed for sacred ordinance work. 

We are making very extensive improvements, almost completed now, giving greater facilities for taking care of larger numbers of people in the Salt Lake temple. Many of those improvements, however, have had to be made underground because of the conditions that face us. We have made some improvements, also, in the Logan temple for increased capacity in doing temple work there. 

There have been changes in the following missions: 

Hugo D. E. Peterson has been made the president of the Swedish mission, succeeding Gideon E. Hulterstrom. 

John S. Hansen has been made president of the Danish mission, succeeding Carl E. Peterson. 

Angus T. Wright has been made president of the New Zealand mission, succeeding George F. Taylor. 

Ernest LeRoy Butler has been made president of the Samoa Mission succeeding John Quincy Adams. 

MISSIONARIES SAFE 

Martin A. Robertson has been appointed to succeed Lloyd Ivie as president of the Japan mission. Brother Ivie has not yet returned. We received a cablegram, however, from him, stating that our missionaries in Japan were safe. We have not yet had a letter from him since the terrible catastrophe of earthquake and fire in that land, but we are grateful indeed to the Lord that all of our missionaries in Japan were preserved during the awful calamity that came to that country. 

Albert R. Peterson has been made president of the Norwegian mission, succeeding August S. Schow. 

Fred J. Tadje has been made president of the Swiss and German mission, succeeding Serge F. Ballif. 

Charles S. Hyde has been made president of the Netherlands mission, succeeding John T. Lillywhite. 

The work in all of our missions is progressing very favorably indeed. We are thankful for the splendid labors being performed in all of the missions throughout the world. The one cry that comes to us from every mission is: Send us more elders. The people are becoming interested in the work of the Lord. "We could use twice as many elders," is the word that comes from many of the missions. 

IMPRESSIVE SLOGAN 

The Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church have an impressive slogan this year. They stand for spiritual growth among the Latter-day Saints through family and secret prayers. I wish to commend the young people for adopting this slogan. I am convinced that one of the greatest and one of the best things in all the world to keep a man true and faithful in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, is to supplicate God secretly in the name of Jesus Christ, for the guidance of His Holy Spirit. I am convinced that one of the greatest things that can come into any home to cause the boys and girls in that home to grow up in a love of God, and in a love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, is to have family prayer, not for the father of the family alone to pray, but for the mother and for the children to do so also, that they may partake of the spirit of prayer, and be in harmony, be in tune, to have the radio, so to speak, in communication with the Spirit of the Lord. I believe that there are very few that go astray, that very few lose their faith, who have once had a knowledge of the gospel and who never neglect their prayers in their families, and their secret supplications to God. I am grateful for this slogan. I am also grateful that in addition to this slogan the fifty thousand or more of our young ladies are being requested that they shall, during the next six months, observe rigidly and strictly the Word of Wisdom. 

If you or I possessed a letter from the late President Warren G. Harding, I am sure that we weald prize it, that we would hold it as a keepsake all the days of our lives, and that we would leave it as a legacy for our posterity — a communication from a man that had been honored by being the President of our great country. Do we ever stop to think that the Creator of heaven and earth, the Maker of all that we see in this great universe, the Father of our spirits, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ in the spirit and in the flesh, has communicated with us, that he has given us counsel and advice such as will lead us back into his presence, that will give us vigor of body and of mind? 

A MATTER OF REGRET 

And yet there are hundreds, there are thousands among the Latter-day Saints to whom the Lord God Almighty has given a testimony and a knowledge that he lives, a knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, a knowledge that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and who are able to bear that witness and to testify of it at home and abroad, who, when the Lord God Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth, tells them what is good for them, physically and spiritually, and writes them a letter, neglect to pay any attention to it. I am sorry to say that today there are many of the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints — some of the sons and daughters of leading men and women in this Church, who are having social gatherings and who think that it shows a spirit of liberality and of broadness to drink wine and to have their tea and coffee and to play their cards, and to do those things that we have been taught are not good for us. I am going to read to you a letter from the Lord to the Latter-day Saints: 

"Revelation given through Joseph Smith, the prophet, at Kirtland, Ohio, February 27, 1833." Ninety long years ago since the Lord wrote this letter to you and to me, and to every man and woman and child in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, known as the Word of Wisdom. What is there in all the world so valuable as wisdom? Nothing. The one thing of all others that King Solomon sought after was wisdom. "Abstinence from wine, strong drink, tobacco and hot drinks enjoined — moderation in the eating of meat — wholesome foods — promises to those who live according to these precepts. 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the Church, and also in Zion. 

GIVEN WITH PROMISE 

"To be sent greeting: not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God," in a letter telling you, telling me, the will of God "in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days — 

"Given for a principle with promise," don't forget that promise, "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all Saints, who are or can be called Saints. 

"Behold verily thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation — 

"That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. 

"And behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

"And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies." 

I remember hearing the most eloquent address that I heard during all of the campaign for prohibition of liquor delivered by Dr. Geisel, a lady who was connected with the Battle Creek Sanitarium in Michigan, and she stated that there were scores and hundreds of doctors that had become absolutely convinced from their scientific investigation, from their personal experience, that alcohol or strong liquors were absolutely worthless as medicine when taken internally, but that they were good for the washing of the body, that there was a stimulating and invigorating effect that those who were sick enjoyed by washing their bodies with alcohol. 

FAVORABLY IMPRESSED 

I remember after hearing her remarks in the Twenty-fifth ward Sunday school that morning, that I asked permission to ride to the depot with her in the automobile. She had a watch lying in front of her and agreed to talk within ten minues of train time. In going to the train I said: "Dr. Geisel, I am delighted to hear that your investigations in America, France and Russia regarding alcohol confirm what we knew seventy-five years ago through a revelation of the Lord to Joseph Smith the Prophet." And I told her of the Word of Wisdom, and she said she was coming back here some time to spend an entire summer vacation, that she had found so many remarkable things in our faith and our doctrines, that she wanted to investigate them. 

"And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

"And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

"And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man — 

"Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

"Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; 

"And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine." 

TEACHINGS CONFIRMED 

I remember recently reading that many of the doctors had come to the conclusion that excessive use of meat was one of the great causes of cancer, and of many other of the diseases that are destroying the human race. Year by year the inspiration comes to men through study and research to confirm, one by one, the teachings that came by the inspiration of the living God to Joseph Smith, the prophet of this last dispensation. 

All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth. 

"And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

"All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground — 

"Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain." 

Now, O ye Saints, listen to the promise of the Lord God Almighty in this letter written to you as to what shall be your heritage if you obey these simple words of wisdom: 

"And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen."

Let me read the last verse once more:

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."

BENEFIT OF OBEDIENCE

In the same book you will find it recorded that there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven, before the foundations of the world, upon which every blessing is predicated, and when we receive a blessing we receive it because we fulfil the law upon which the blessing is predicated. I wish to bear my witness here that I believe with all my heart and soul that if I had not obeyed the Word of Wisdom, if I had not kept these commandments, that I would not be standing before you this day as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I believe that I would not be alive but for having obeyed this commandment, but for having fulfilled the law which was irrevocably decreed before the foundation of the world, whereby I was entitled to live.

We have the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have the plan of life and salvation revealed to us - temporal salvation, spiritual salvation. We have the gospel that will bring to us life eternal in the presence of God our Father, Jesus Christ our Redeemer, and of our loved ones who have gone before, who have been faithful.

REJOICE IN TESTIMONIES

I thank the Lord God Almighty for the faith, for the integrity, for the devotion to him and the gospel of his Son Jesus Christ in the lives of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. I thank the Lord that they were true, even to the day of their martyrdom. I rejoice in the testimonies at the Hill Cumorah, at the Joseph Smith farm, and at the Sacred Grove, regarding these men. I rejoice in the marvelous integrity and devotion to God of Brigham Young in the days of apostasy, ini the days when murder was in the hearts of many who had once been Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that when men said the Joseph Smith was a fallen prophet, Brigham Young was as true as steel, and would have given his life at any time for the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice in the wonderful accomplishments of Brigham Young.

I rejoice in the integrity and devotion to God of John Taylor, or Wilford Woodruff, of Lorenzo Snow, and of Joseph F. Smith with whom I was intimately associated for forty-one years this identical month. I know the hearts of these men. I knew the inmost desires of their lives, that which they desired most to accomplish, and I know that every one of these men loved God with all his heart, and with all his being, that they all loved the people of God, and that the one and only thing in their heart's desire above everything else in the world, was the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the spread of it, that men who knew not the truth might learn and accept the plan of life and salvation.

LOYAL TO COUNTRY

I know that their thoughts, their prayers, their ambitions, were all for the good of this people and their advancement spiritually and morally, intellectually and patriotically. I know as I know that I live that no men every graced the footstool of God who were more loyal to their country, who believed more firmly that the Lord God Almighty inspiredthe men who brought freedom to this country under George Washington and inspired the men who wrote the Constitution of our beloved country. I thank God for these men, and with all the power of my being I pray God that I, having been honored in my weakness and my lack of strength in comparison to them, may lead this people as they did, in that straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal. I desire to read just two paragraphs from the prayer given at the dedication of the Alberta temple:

"We thank thee, O Father, for the knowledge which we possess, that thou dost live, and that thy Son Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and our Savior, and that thy servant Joseph Smith, Jr., was and is a prophet of the true and living God. And, O Father, may we ever be true and faithful to the gospel of thy Son Jesus Christ, revealed through thy servant Joseph.

"We especially pray thee, O Father in heaven, to bless the youth of thy people in Zion and in all the world. Shield them from the adversary and from wicked and designing men. Keep the youth of thy people, O Father, in the straight and narrow path that leads to thee, preserve them from the pitfalls and snares that are laid for their feet. O Father, may our children grow up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord Jesus Christ. Give unto them a testimony of the divinity of this work as thou hast given it to us, and preserve them in purity, and in the truth."

And I say unto you, O fathers in Israel; if you will set an example by being honest before God in the payment of your tithes, if you will observe the Word of Wisdom, if you will observe your family and your secret prayers, God will give you strength to preserve the youth of Zion as mentioned in this supplication.

May the Lord bless us and pour out upon us richly his Holy Spirit during this conference, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I was just thinking of that part of the hymn that we have been singing which says : "What more can he say than to you he has said? You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled." I feel filled to overflowing with joy and satisfaction and testimony concerning the great work in which we are engaged, and rejoice in the strength and power, physically and spiritually, which is possessed by our beloved President, Heber J. Grant. I can bear my humble testimony to the truth and inspiration of the wonderful discourse to which we have listened, and in saying that, I but feebly express the sentiments of this great congregation. 

THE SPIRIT AND POWER OF GOD WITH THE CHURCH. 

I rejoice in the Lord my God. I am filled with gratitude in my soul today for all his mercies to me, and I can see many of those things which will be in the day when "the veil o'er the earth" will be not only "beginning to burst," but when it shall burst over all the earth, clothed with the light of God, blessed with the presence of its Redeemer and King, and all things be subdued unto him who is our living head. God be praised this morning for the things that we have heard from the leader of this people. It is evident that the Lord is with him, as he has been for many, many years, and that the same spirit and power brought to earth from on high by the presence of the Father and the Son, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, are here today, and have been with the Church from the time of its organization down to the present moment. 

THE SUCCESSORS TO THE PROPHET JOSEPH MEN OF GOD 

Those great men who succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith in the presidency of this Church were indeed men of God. I was acquainted with them all personally, as President Grant has testified concerning his acquaintance. I knew the men; I knew their private feelings, their inmost souls. I was familiarly acquainted with each of them, and shared the joy of their confidence and their good will, and the manifestations of God to them in private as well as in public. I can testify, as I am willing to do to all the world, that they were indeed men of God, clothed upon with the power of that holy Priesthood restored to earth in the last days through divine messengers sent from on high to introduce the work of the last dipensation of the fulness of times. I am very thankful to be here this morning. It is better than anything else I can think of, to be here with this great congregation and listen to the words of inspiration that have come to us today. I rejoice in the past, I feel full of happiness and peace for the present, and my soul is filled with joyful anticipation because of the future. I know that this is the work of God, and I also know a little of what it will be when that vieil of the covering is taken away, and the light of the Lord shines out from above, from the Most High, and the earth is redeemed and clothed upon with his glory and his power. I am thankful for this testimony in my heart. I know it has come, not from any great effort of mine, any great abilities or learning of mine, but by the word of the Lord to me. I know that he has been with me all the days of my ministry in this Church. I was ordained an elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, according to a certificate which I carry with me, on the sixth day of January, 1851, and from that time to the present I have felt that I am an Elder in Israel, a servant of the Most High God, that I was dedicated to his service anywhere and everywhere and at all times, under all circumstances and seasons, in all the nations of the earth; and I have realized the blessings of the Lord in supporting me in all the efforts I have been able to make for the furtherance of this great divine cause in the world. I know that the Lord is with this people, that he has been with them from the beginning, that he has been with those who have been called to lead them from the beginning, and that he will continue so to do. I know that he will be with us, every one of us, if we will carry out the things that have been taught to us this morning. They are not new by any means; delivered in a new way, perhaps, and in an impressive manner that comes right down into our souls, but they are the word of the Lord and have been delivered to this people from the time of the organization of the Church; and the work has been gradually developing, getting bigger, stronger, mightier, having more influence in the earth. 

PLEASURE IN THE PROGRESS OF TEMPLE WORK. 

When we hear these glad reports concerning the spread of the work in foreign lands, it gives us pleasure and gives us courage to still press forward and do our part in the great cause. The building of these temples which have been dedicated to the Lord is a wonderful mark of the work of the Lord, and of its promise to us. The building of the Alberta temple — some will call it the Cardston temple, or the Canadian temple, but it is the Alberta temple, that is the name of it — the building of that structure upon English soil is an indication to us of what the Lord will do. The temples will not be confined altogether to Zion, even though that may cover both North and South America. The work will spread forth in other lands as the veil o'er the covering continues to burst. The spiritual and temporal, the heavenly and earthly, will be closer, in being joined together, and the time will come when we shall have plenty of work to do, in the millennial season, the one thousand years, the one "day of the Lord," when we get communications from the priesthood behind the veil to the priesthood in the earth, in the temples that will be erected. In those holy conversations we read about in the revelations of God, concerning the building of a house to him, that day is not very far off, as the Lord sees things. It may be quite a while as we see them, but they are real, and that which God has promised concerning them will surely come to pass. The wonderful work that is going on in these temples now is but an indication of that which is to come. The building of the temple in Hawaii, shows that we go to the heathen, as we have been invited to do sometimes by our good Christian friends, going to the Islands of the sea, fulfils the command of the Lord. These things will be increased and multiplied, and temples will be built in the north and in the south, in the east and the west, so that all that needs to be done in the great work of redemption for the dead, as well as for the living, will be accomplished, and brought about just as it has been revealed by the prophets. 

OUR DUTY TODAY. 

The great thing for us Latter-day Saints today, gathered here in conference, representing the people that could not get here — for this is a representative body in conference assembled, representing the Saints in all the stakes of Zion — the thing for us to do is to take the word of the Lord today, to do that which the Lord requires of us, obey his commandments, walk in obedience to his sayings, keep in the line of duty, in the strait and narrow way, and not go off to the side, to the right or to the left, and not get mixed up in those entangling alliances which some of our people enjoy with the institutions of the world. I don't want to say one word against those institutions that are established in the world, in the way of charity or literature or science, real science, or art, or anything that is called religion, even though it be not much of a religion, but beneficial in its sphere, I would not say a word against them. But for us, what should we do, elders in Israel, servants of the living God, called of God in the latter-days to hold this divine authority to preach the gospel to all the world, to every nation and kindred and tongue and people? That is what these temples signify to me. This was the word of the Lord from the beginning. The gospel was brought from heaven to earth for all the world, and it is our business to see that it goes there as far as we can. 

WE BELIEVE IN JESUS CHRIST; THIS IS HIS CHURCH 

Now. what is our duty? Our duty is to walk in the straight way, and find out the will of the Lord and do it as far as we have power, in the weakness of our human bodies, teach it to our children, bring them up in the fear of the Lord, keep them in the path. It is a sad thing when our people stray off into organizations that are not in consonance with the word of the Lord and his ways. It is not a good thing to be tangled up with them, my brethren. It is good to stay in this Church. When we came into it we were baptized into it over head and ears, and feet, the whole of us, body and spirit. The soul of man went into the water of baptism, and so we belong to the Lord. We took upon us the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer; we belong to him, and he purchased us by the price of his own blood. To say that we do not believe in Christ is so ridiculous that we need not say anything in trying to confute it. This is his Church; he started it; he has continued with it; he is with it today. The Spirit manifested today in the leader of the Church is the Spirit of Christ. Don't you know that? I am sure you do. I need not say anything on that. You feel it not only "in your bones," but in the soul of you, the spirit of you. It is within you. You feel that the Spirit of God has been with us here today, and has been with the president through all his administration, and he is growing with the years. He is getting younger in mind and body, and he is full of light and life and power, and I am proud of being associated with him. Thank God for the privilege. I thank God for being a member of this Church. It is a wonderful privilege. It is a great blessing from on high, to be baptized into Christ, to try and put on Christ in life and labor and spirit and energy and power; to be with him and to feel that I can approach God the Father through and by him and have fellowship with him, as well as with my brethren and sisters in the Church. It is by that Spirit that the Lord has blessed me and guided me through the years that have passed, and I bless and praise and glorify his holy name in the congregation today. 

ZIOX WILL PROSPER REGARDLESS OF THE EFFORTS OF HER OPPONENTS 

I know that this work will go on and I know that it has prospered in the past, in this respect that I am about to mention, and will go on in the future. The Lord promised that all that is formed against Zion shall not only not prosper, but it shall be turned to the welfare and benefit of Zion. Now be assured that this will be the case; that the present efforts being made by those who are not of us, but who are against us, that whatever they may do, whatever they may say, will be turned around in the sequel, to the glory of God, and the salvation of men, through and by this Church and its priesthood. That is as sure as that the sun rises in the morning after it has appeared to set at night. This work will go on and on, and we will see it, if we live long enough on the earth, and I suppose we will if we get away. I don't know how much we shall see when we get out of the body, but we will see a good deal more than we can while we are in the body. But we will see that this promise is fulfilled. All these schemes, these plots and plans, and all these ridiculous efforts that are being made will show up to be so ridiculous, so feeble, so false, that they will turn around to the good of this work in which we are engaged, to the glory of God and the salvation of men. So do not be discouraged by anything that may be said against the Church or its leaders. It has been said from the beginning, right from the start. Before Joseph Smith got even direction to organize the Church, he was assailed by the most religious people in his vicinity. But the things which they said against him eventually turned around to strengthen him in the minds of decent and reasonable and religious people and so will it be in the future. We need not be concerned about that. Only let us be concerned with our own lives and labors, and the performance of our duties. 

WE NEED NOT BE CONCERNED. OUR DUTIES ARE PLAIN. 

They are very plain. They are set down, most of them, in black and white. We can read them in the Doctrine and Covenants. I wish all our elders, priests, teachers and deacons, would become fully acquainted with Section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Many of them do not know much about it. It is there in the book we read, and all the revelations contained therein have the ring, in my ears, of the gospel of the light and love of God, and the power of God unto salvation. Now my brethren, let us be acquainted with what the Lord has revealed, and take it into our souls. Let us realize and feel that we are a part of this work, a true and living and active working part. Every man called to hold the Priesthood is called of God to work in this great Latter-day cause, that God has revealed, and if we will take the advice, received by us this morning from our President, whose right it is to direct us, we will be going right all the time. I am sure of that. 

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF THE VISITS OF MORONI 

I thank the Lord for the great manifestation of his power on the Hill Cumorah and in the Sacred Grove. I have been to those places and I felt the importance of the things that were done in the neighborhood of the Hill Cumorah, which the brethren visited, on the crown of which they held a splendid meeting, participated in by a great many people not of our faith. This meeting was commemorative of one of the most wonderful events that have ever occurred in this world. The first thing of importance in the revelations of God in the latter-days was the manifestation of the Father and the Son in that Sacred Grove to the boy Joseph. The next in importance, and as an opening of the work of the last days was the visits of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph, in his bedroom. When being reminded in his soul of the importance of the message he had already received, and feeling that he had not been faithful and true to the spirit of it in his own life, although he had not done anything of very great consequence that was wrong, he humbly confessed to God — and by this you shall know, the Lord says, when a man repents, "behold, he will confess his sins and turn away therefrom." That is real repentance. Joseph repented, and while in this mood, this angelic visitation came. I understand it to some extent. I have had what I call dreams, some people call them by other names. I can see that gathering of light in that chamber of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I can see the form of the Angel Moroni appearing right in that light, not standing on the floor but above the floor, so that Joseph could see him and the beautiful glory that surrounded his personality, and I bear testimony that he was a real personage, that he did come to the Prophet Joseph. What he revealed has, in a very large measure, been fulfilled, and that which has not been fulfilled will all come to pass. 

Read the account of that vision. Brother Ivins read it here in the tabernacle, a week ago last Sunday. Read it yourselves. It is published in the Pearl of Great Price just as Joseph revealed it to the world. The vision or revelation that he received from the Father and the Son is told there in his own words. Then follows the account of the visitations of the Prophet Moroni, three distinct times in the one night. Moroni feeling impressed to repeat it so that Joseph should not forget it, and adding other things that he had not thought of himself when he first came. Three times he appeared to the Prophet. They were real appearances, and what Joseph saw and what he heard were from God. Moroni was a messenger from on high. There has been a little discussion I have been told, by a few of our brethren holding some kind of a priesthood class, a little distance from the center of this city, over the wonderful question whether it was Moroni or Mormon who sealed the records called the Book of Mormon. They called up a friend of mine at eleven o'clock at night, after discussing it for three hours, to know which was the right thing; and he replied: "Why you have been singing it for the last forty or fifty years: 'Sealed by Moroni's hand, it has for ages lain, to wait the Lord's command, from dust to speak again." Yes, we have been singing it, and how much do we know what we are singing sometimes? I merely mention that so we may call to mind what we sing, and what we pray, and what we have agreed to do, and what our covenants are, what we are here for. We spend a good deal of time, I think, in some of our classes in discussing matters that are not of very much moment. It does not matter much to me whether it was Moroni or his father Mormon who sealed the record, although it is best to be accurate and right in all things. Be careful to be right, and do not add to what God reveals. When you speak his word, give it as it is. 

NEED OF PROPER UNDERSTANDING OF THE SCRIPTURE. 

Now, my brethren, that was a real visitation that came to Joseph, and if we will read it carefully, we will see how wonderfully was opened up and prefaced, the things that were to come in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon in its acceptance by prayerful souls and rejection, by the world. Many things that are of great moment were revealed to Joseph at that time, and they are recorded in that simple statement of his, which you can read in this Pearl of Great Price, which is a very precious document, as it contains revelations given to Moses the Prophet, about things in the beginning when the earth was made, first spiritual and afterwards temporal. Many things are in the Book of Genesis, which, historically, were evidently traditions among the people, during the time from Adam down to the time of Moses, which was over twenty-four centuries — don't forget that — and many stories are told about things that occurred, and I fear that some of them are mingled together in the same chapter, different things occurring that are put in such a way that we sometimes are a little mistaken in our views concerning them. In regard to the manifestation of God to Abraham, there is no need to say that one of those three men whom we read of in Genesis 18, came to Abraham when he was sitting in his tent door in the heat of the day, and ate veal with him, was God Almighty. There is no need to suppose that, and if you will read the chapter carefully you will find that God's conversation with Sarah and Abraham at that time might be entirely separated from the story of those three men. I merely mention that, now, because some of our elders are using that chapter as an argument to prove that our heavenly Father is a personage of tabernacle, and they can prove that without going to those narratives that are told there or elsewhere. 

Now I think that it is a very important thing to get the word of the Lord as it comes to us, as we can read it, as we can receive it in our hearts, ourselves: but do not add to it or take away from it. Let us keep the word of the Lord and preach it to the world. We are called to this. This is our "job"; this is our business. Every elder of the Church, every man holding the Priesthood, is called to be a minister for God, and among the peoples, to set as good an example as he can, considering the weaknesses of human nature. We are none of us entirely perfect: but we expect to "go on unto perfection," by keeping the will and word of the Lord. By and by we will arrive at that position when we will receive our bodies, quickened with the power of an endless life, and they become spiritual; and our spirits, which are the sons and the daughters of God, are embodied in them to be continued — to be continued, to be unrestricted in their united existence; not for a time or a season; spirit and element inseparably connected, receiving a fulness of joy. And the time will come when we will receive that grand glory, a resurrection of our mortal bodies to become spiritually united with our spiritual beings, the sons and the daughters of God, and all eternity will be before us and will open to us glory and honor and power and dominion and increase, perpetually, forever and ever. That is what is coming to us, and it will pay us for all the difficulties and troubles through which we are called upon to pass sometimes, here in this mortal state. We can let them go by. 

WE MUST PREACH THE GOSPEL IN ALL THE WORLD. 

There is a ridiculous song being sung, popularly — I forget the title — but it is "Let the rest of the world go by." Well, we can't do that. We can't let the rest of the world go by; we must go to all the world and preach the gospel, to every creature, to every kindred and tongue and family and person, so far as we can reach them, and we have done pretty well through the hundred years that have intervened between the time when Moroni came, and the Book of Mormon was brought forth and the present day. I believe that the Lord is pretty well satisfied with us, with all our infirmities and all our weaknesses, our shortcomings and our lack of faithfulness which applies to some people, it not to others. 

THE LORD WELL PLEASED WITH HIS PEOPLE. 

With all that, I believe that on the whole the Lord is well pleased with this people, and his Spirit is with them, and his power is with them. I believe that the authority and power of the holy Priesthood are being manifested in a greater degree than ever before in the history of the Church, and the work going on in the temples is something astonishing when we come to read the reports from the presidents of those temples, what they have done and what they are preparing to do. It is something wonderful, and it shows that the Lord is working in the world, as well as we are. We want to take the words that Jesus said about himself: "My Father worketh hitherto, and I work." Let us feel the same. The Lord is working for us and with us. Now let us work and do our duty and the Lord will be with us, and everything predicted concerning the glory and building up and prevalence of this great Latter-day work will come to pass. The Lord will live and rule and reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients, gloriously. He will bless everyone who labors in his cause in faithfulness and sets a good example to his fellows. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now I do not want to occupy much time. I am very thankful for the privilege of bearing my testimony. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that what we have heard this morning is true, and you know it in your hearts. I testify to you that I know that God lives, that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Savior of the world. It is through his atoning blood that we gain remission of our sins, given to us in the waters of baptism. It is by His power that we live and move, and by it that we receive this authority which God has given to us to labor in his cause; and he will be with us if we are with him in keeping his commandments and walking in his ways. 

I bear testimony to the mission of the President of the Church. Presdient Heber J. Grant is a great leader in Israel, and we give the glory of his work to the Lord, as he does. I feel honestly and sincerely in my soul today that all that I have been able to do, through the years that I have labored, has been by the blessing and providence and leading of Almighty God, and his Spirit has been with me, and I have had the privilege of having it and enjoying it with Latter-day Saints in different countries that I have visited, no matter what their language, no matter what their customs, no matter what their ways or surroundings, the Spirit of God, the same Spirit that we feel here in Zion is, measurably, enjoyed by them, and so I can say of the whole Church. We have one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and one hope of our calling. We are one with the powers of God; and by-and-by we will be united with them, and crowned with glory on the right hand of our Father, which may God grant, for Christ's sake, Amen.

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

(President of the Garfield Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I am delighted to have the opportunity this morning of looking into the faces of so many Latter-day Saints. Were I to attempt to express the great love that I have for this work, it would be difficult for me, indeed. I have enjoyed immensely this morning the testimonies and messages that have been given to us by the President of the Church and his First Counselor, President Charles W. Penrose. I was particularly impressed with the paragraph of that wonderful dedicatory prayer which was read by President Heber J. Grant. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that, as Latter-day Saints, the majority of us who are here assembled have so destined and shaped our lives that it matters very little what may be said to us, but that the important thing to us is, what can we do as parents in Israel to shape the destiny of our boys and our girls? I rejoice in the great keynote that was sounded by our beloved President, that if we, as Latter-day Saints, will observe to do the will of the Father, if we will live exemplary lives we will be able to have influence and power with the youth of Zion. I believe that the youth of Zion will become thoroughly qualified; however, I am sorry to say that in our part of the country we are drifting in a degree, and we feel that some of the insincerity that is manifested by us as parents is being reacted in the indolence and in the idleness of our children, and in their failure to fully perform their duties as members of this great Church. 

I rejoice in the wonderful meeting we had this morning. I have never before experienced such a spirit, and never before had the feeling within my soul that the veil was so thin as when the prophet of the Lord was speaking this morning, and I felt that he is the prophet of the Lord to our great Church. 

I bear you my testimony that I know this is the work of the Lord. I am delighted with the pleasure and privilege that I have had in laboring in the Garfield stake of Zion. I might say that in our stake we have eight wards and two branches. It is one hundred twenty-five miles across our stake; however, we are delighted to say to you that we believe absolutely in the statement of the Apostle Paul, as recorded in the scripture, where he said: 

"And hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; that they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us." 

I am delighted to say that we have been preserved_and reserved by the Lord to come forth in this day and age of the world. We who are living out in the southern part of this state, are happy, contented, and are seeking and finding the Lord. Hundreds of our people have strong testimonies that this is the work of the Lord. 

May the Lord bless us, may we enjoy this conference as we have never before enjoyed any conference, and may we take the message back to our people that the greatest thing that will redound to our welfare and make for success in the rearing of our children, is the example that is set by parents. May the Lord bless you is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH J. LARKIN 

(President of the Curlew Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy this morning to be a Latter-day Saint. I am thankful that I have been born in this day and time when God has again spoken from the heavens, when he has restored the Priesthood to the earth, and has given man authority to preach the gospel. I am thankful that I have the privilege of being here this morning and listening to the remarks of our beloved President. He certainly has given to us, as Latter-day Saints, the key that will enable us to enter our Father's kingdom. I am thankful that he has inspired his servants as he has done in these last days to lead and guide the people. I want to bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that if we will listen to their words that we will gain a salvation and exaltation in our Father's kingdom, if we will follow the instructions given to us this morning — observe our individual and family prayers, and observe the Word of Wisdom. It seems to me that if we will do those three things we will be led to do other things, for by so doing we will be led to keep the commandments that our Father in heaven has given to us. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, as I know that I stand here this morning, that the gospel is true, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, that he was raised up in this the last dispensation, to establish his work here in the earth. I know it, and I pray that the Lord will bless and inspire our hearts to keep the commandments that he has given to us through his servants. I want to say to you here that if we will follow the counsel that is given to us by the servants of the Lord, we will never go very far astray. 

I wish to bear my testimony to you regarding one other thing, and that is the matter of the home evening that the Latter-day Saint parents have been counseled and advised to hold with their families. If you will call your families together, my brethren and sisters, once a week and hold a home evening with them, pray with them, and sing with them, it will be one of the greatest helps to you in holding your boys and girls in the fear of the Lord. That is my experience, that is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, here this morning. I pray that the Lord will bless us with the desire to serve him and keep his commandments, that in the end we may gain eternal life. I I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MARK AUSTIN 

(President of the Fremont Stake of Zion) 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I rejoice in having the opportunity of attending this conference, and listening to the inspiring words of our beloved President Heber J. Grant. Surely the testimony, the spirit and power of the message of the Prophet of God must have found the innermost parts of our souls. The Lord is with this people, and with his servants whom he has given charge concerning this great Latter-day work. 

Surely the people of the world must discover that we love them when we send thousands of our boys and girls to the ends of the earth to cry repentance unto mankind, and to deliver the message that the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to this people. My brethren and sisters, I thank God that I was born of goodly parents, who hearkened unto the voice of the elders in a foreign land, and that they gathered with this people. I thank the Lord for my standing in the Church, and for my association with the General Authorities, and the brethren and sisters of this Church. 

We have a splendid people in the state of Idaho. They are serving the Lord, determined to keep his commandments, and establish the truth, that men everywhere may know that our Father has set his hand to accomplish his work and to save his children, to bring about peace in the earth and good will to men. May the Lord bless us and help us to accomplish every desire of our hearts, and to this end I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

PART OF THE HILL CUMORAH PURCHASED 

I forgot one item that we have here, namely that we are now the owners of a part of the Hill Cumorah. The Church, a few weeks ago, purchased a farm of ninety odd acres, which embraces the West slope of the Hill Cumorah, about one-third of the way up the hill. There is a nice farm house, and it is a very fine piece of property. Elder Willard Bean, in charge of the Memorial Home, or the Smith Farm, wrote us that he could purchase this property, and we are glad now that at least part of the hill is in the posession of the Church.  

The choir and congregation sang, "O say, what is Truth?" 

The closing payer was offered by Elder Albert Choules, president of the Teton stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


