Morning
06 10 1923

Meeting opened at 10 o'clock a. m., Saturday, October 6, 1923. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The opening hymn was sung by the choir and congregation, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

Prayer was offered by Elder George E. Browning, president of the Weber stake of Zion. 

A sacred solo was sung by Mrs. J. E. Ellsworth, "Come, ye blessed of my Father." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, as I respond to the call of the President to occupy this position for a short time. I earnestly pray that I may have aid and assistance from our Father, in the hope that I may be able to say something under his inspiration that will be of some value to us in our great work. 

ACHIEVEMENTS OF JOSEPH SMITH. 

I am sure that we have all been impressed with the thought that we cannot celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the memorable event which brought to us the great volume of Scripture which lies largely at the basis of our work, without contemplating the achievements of the Lord's prophet, Joseph Smith. I do not desire to be extravagant or to go beyond the bounds of plain, safe statement of truth, when I say that no other man who has lived since the time of the Redeemer, has made such a contribution to the philosophy, the enlarged conception, and the righteousness of civilization and the world, as did the Prophet Joseph Smith. That, perhaps was to be expected, since it was through his instrumentality that the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth. I do not claim that the Prophet Joseph Smith brought to us new things, or original ideas in great abundance because he restored rather than originated the conceptions of life, which constitute the theology of the holy gospel. What he did also, was to interpret and construe the gospel so that it touches all the affairs of life, and weaves itself into the fabric and tissue of all life and civilization. 

A REMARKABLE CONCEPTION OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT. 

Among the large contributions which Joseph Smith made was that remarkable conception of civil government which he gave to the world, for it was he who emphasized, if he did not first teach the doctrine that all governments are instituted of God for the benefit of men; and it was he who first plainly declared — assuming that some attention had been given to the same thought before — that the Constitution of the great land in which we live came from the inspiration of God through men who were raised up for the purpose of establishing it as an instrument of government. I have always been grateful for these conceptions of government and I have felt in recent years that until the great ideas of government which he promulgated among this nation find their place more securely and firmly in the minds and hearts of the citizenship of this country, America will never achieve her great destiny and will never be what she was intended to be, the beacon light of liberty and freedom and civil righteousness to all the world. 

My attention has recently been directed, by my colleague, Brother Richard R. Lyman, to a book which is off the press but a few months, in which the author, Mr. Clarence True Wilson, sets forth rather more clearly than I have ever seen it stated before, the conception of government which has been taught in this Church for nearly a hundred years. The author points out that for more than thirty years he has studied all the works which have been written upon the Constitution of this country, the influences which brought it about, and the influences exercised upon its framers, which culminated in the form and plan of government which find expression in that great document. He says that never in all his research has he discovered a single author who attributes the Constitution to the influence of the Bible and God. He points out that some contend that influences derived from the Assyrian, the Babylonian, the Greek, and the Roman attempts at Republican government found their expression in this great document. 

INFLUENCE OF THE BIBLE ON THE CONSTITUTION. 

He says that most commentaries on the Constitution pay homage to the influence of the common law of England and the English experiment in free government, but in no works on this great document does he find a single expression which indicates that it was the Holy Bible, the scriptures of the Lord, which furnished the foundation for this great instrument of government, and yet, says he, the Bible is the only book with which all the framers of the Constitution were intimately familiar. It was the book which they had read from their childhood to their maturity. It was the book from which they learned their spelling; it was the book from which they learned their English, it was their chief literature; and he asks this question: "Is it not reasonable, natural and logical, to draw the inference that it was the influence of the Scriptures of the Lord which permeated the hearts and the minds of those patriotic men in the formulation of the greatest instrument, which Gladstone says, ever fell from the pen of man?" Time will not permit to make anything like an analyticai comparison between the fundamental institutions of our government, as they were established in the Constitution, and the Hebrew government which was established under the hand of God, and which prevailed for so many centuries under his divine guidance. It might be said, however, in a moment, that there is not a single fundamental institution of this country, ordained and established under the Constitution, that does not have something like a counterpart in the Israelitish form of government which prevailed prior to the time of the coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

I SHALL MENTION BUT A FEW ITEMS 

There has been no king in this country. Do you know that Washington was upon several occasions requested, almost demanded, to assume the role of king, for that was the form of government which was best known to those who established this one. He persistently declined, and the makers of our Constitution saw the wisdom of his action. They recognized too that kings and the so-called divine right of kings, were not compatible with the great spirit of liberty and democracy which was to underly the structure of our government. Does it not seem somewhat significant that in the Israelitish form of government, for a period of four hundred and seventy years, there were no kings to rule in Israel, in spite of the repeated demands of the people for a king, that they might be like other nations. They were told that God was their king, and, that no king should rule them so long as they subscribed to the great principles of truth and righteousness which the Lord had laid down for them to follow. 

Then, too, in the Israelitish form of government there were no class distinctions. It is true that there was the order of the Priesthood, and that the priesthood exercised righteous authority over the people, but class distinctions were absolutely forbidden. 

The twelve tribes were united together for governmental purposes, and so our thirteen colonies were united. 

I wish I had the time to show how the ten commandments have lain at the basis and foundation of substantially all our penal law. There is not one of them which has not been in some way or other enacted into the laws of the States of the Union. 

So might be pointed out, if time would permit, a large list and line of comparisons which establish a very close relation between the government which predominated during the time that the children of Israel were governed by their judges, and the government established here. I wonder how many know that in that form of government which prevailed in olden times, there were three departments which are comparable to our three departments of government, namely, the legislative, the executive and the judicial. Perhaps it is not generally understood that the judiciary held supremacy in the old time as in reality it holds supremacy now. For while the three departments of government are usually said to be co-ordinate, every student of our institutions knows that it is the Supreme court of the United States which has the last word to say with reference to the interpretation of law and its enforcibility in this country. Time will not permit further detail, but there is abundant evidence to warrant the conclusion that the fathers drew liberally on their knowledge of, and training in, the Hebrew scripture, in building the democracy of the New World. 
 
HOW THE PRINCIPLES OF THIS GOVERNMENT CAN ENDURE.

Now, brethren and sisters, I state these points of comparison and draw your attention to these things for this purpose — we all love this country, we love America, we want the principles of government which we espouse to endure. I ask this question: Will these principles of government endure? Is the Constitution safe for the future, and for the generations to come? 

I answer the question in this way, that the Constitution and the sacred principles which it unfolds in the form of government, will endure if the people of America will subscribe to and defend and uphold the fundamental principles of religious righteousness upon which it is built, and not otherwise. Righteousness, in its last analysis, is a religious term. God is the author of righteousness. The framers of laws have, to a large extent, recognized that doctrine. The gospel is the compilation, the aggregation of all principles of righteousness, and into the form of government which we uphold and support there has been woven the principles of individual and community righteousness which are underlain by truth which emanates from God himself. You can't have a good government without good people, and goodness is a religious term. Much as many of our philosophers would contend that it is to be defined in terms only of ethics, and of social convention and understanding, I maintain that all true morality is supported by and finds its basis in religion, and we cannot hope in this country of ours to sustain the great Constitution — and you know that that is a matter of much concern now — unless we adopt into our lives those principles of civic righteousness and of morality and of truth which underly it. I wish that could be said to the whole people. I am just as thoroughly convinced that there is a dependence upon our Father in heaven for the carrying forward of the great principles of government, which we espouse in this nation, as I am that our own work depends upon his providence and his protection and his guidance. 

THE PRINCIPLES OF THIS GOVERNMENT A PART OF THE GOSPEL.

Indeed I regard these great principles of government as a part of the blessed gospel that 
God has given to his children, and so we must sustain them. To us is committed the obligation and the opportunity of maintaining these great principles of righteousness in their undiluted truth and beauty. We must conserve them, we must preserve them for the generations to come. America must not fall from the standards of truth and righteousness that underly the structure of her government. 

So, I say to you that Joseph Smith has made the greatest contribution toward proper conception of civic government that has ever been given by any man in all these years of history. We are indebted to him, so are all our fellow citizens though they know it not. 

Do we love America? Why! We worship the sacred principles upon which America and her government stand. There are no truer Americans, there are no Americans who have a broader, more comprehensive view of the righteousness of government, than do the Latter-day Saints, and I make the statement with deliberation, knowing that it is true. 

God bless us that we may keep these sacred principles inviolate, sustain the government, engender respect for law, and uphold the mighty Constitution that lies at the basis of all our institutions. We could repeat with propriety the prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland temple, which prayer, he said, was given by revelation from God: 

"Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have mercy upon the rulers of our land; may the principles, which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever." — Doc. & Cov. 109:54. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Wherever I go among the Latter-day Saints, as my duty calls me, meeting them in the various wards and stakes and in the missions, I find them imbued with a spirit of deep earnestness, hopefulness, confidence, trust and faith, mingled with concern and serious thought. They are happy: nevertheless, their happiness is more than levity, for in their rejoicing there is thoughtfulness and deep interest as to their present and future. 

We rejoice that the work of God is progressing, that through the ages "one unceasing purpose runs"; that all that is past has been in preparation for that that now is, and is for that which is to come; that there was a beginning, even as there shall be an end, to this particular phase of the Lord's purposes concerning his children. 

THE PURPOSE IN THE CREATION OF THE WORLD 

The earth was created primarily for the carrying out of the divine purposes respecting man. The astronomer regards it as one of the stellar units; the geologist looks upon it as the field for his investigation; but beyond such conceptions we regard it as one of the many spheres created with definite purpose, in which the destiny of the human race is the chief element and was the principal concern of the Creator, in bringing it into existence. We read, as the Lord revealed unto his friend and servant, Abraham, that before the earth was framed the Creator and those immediately associated with him looked out into space and said: We will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these unembodied spirits may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. 

CLOSE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EARTH AND MAN 

Now, that being the purpose for which this world was created, we can readily understand that there is a very close relationship between earth and man. We read that when the transgression in Eden was passed upon by the voice of judgment the Lord said unto Adam: "Cursed is the ground for thy sake; * * * Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; * * * In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." 

This seemingly dire pronouncement would be nothing but fiction did it not mean that a great change came upon the earth itself under the curse: and the Scriptures reveal a very significant relationship between the development of earth processes and that of mankind. Indeed the earth has been personified. Righteous Enoch, we are told, regarded it as a being conscious and sentient, for we read: 

"And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth; and he heard a voice from the bowels thereof, saying: Wo, wo is me, the mother of men; I am pained, I am weary, because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest, and be cleansed from the filthiness which is gone forth out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face?" (Moses 7:48). 

Following further revelation unto this prophet and seer, concerning the then future development of the human race and the purposes of God concerning such, he cried out in anguish to the Lord: "When shall the earth rest?" It was then shown unto him that the resurrected Christ would return to the earth in a dispensation to be known as the last, the dispensation of fulness and restitution; and that he, the Lord, would inaugurate the millennial reign of peace. "And the day shall come that the earth shall rest, but before that day the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth; and great tribulations shall be among the children of men, but my people will I preserve." 

Has it not been made known unto us that we may sanctify the earth or defile it according to our acts? There is a close connection between the righteousness or sinfulness of mankind and the occurrence of natural phenomena, benign or malignant as we regard them, good or bad, preserving or destroying as the case may be. Now the gross materialist may say there is no relationship between the righteousness of man and earthquakes, or between man's probity and floods. But there is! 

MAN AND EARTHLY PHENOMENA 

Touching this matter, I read to you my own words, including scriptural citations, spoken on an earlier occasion: We learn from Scripture that Adam's transgression brought about a fallen condition, not of mankind alone, but likewise of the earth itself. In this and in numerous other epochal events, wherein the direct interposition of Divine action is affirmed, nature is seen to be in intimate relation with man. 

Thus the sins of mankind may produce calamity in the form of destructive phenomena, which we may properly call natural because deserved; and human righteousness may invoke peaceful and beneficent cooperation of the elements. 

"Cursed is the ground for thy sake" was the Divine fiat to the first man. In contrast, note the assurance given to Israel that by faithfulness the seasons should be made propitious, that nurturing rains should come, bringing such harvests that the people would lack room to store their products. (See Mal. 3:8-12). 

Abject apostasy from the laws of God in Noah's time brought about the Deluge, in which "were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows [more properly flood-gates] of heaven were opened." 

Enoch, who lived before Noah, was sent to proclaim repentance to the degenerate race, and so great was the power and authority vested in him that "he spake the word of the Lord, and the earth trembled, and the mountains fled, even according to his command; and the rivers of water were turned out of their course." He foresaw the coming of the Noachian flood, and the events of history, including the Savior's ministry, down to the days of the Lord's second advent, when "the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth." (Moses 7:13, 61). 

As a fit setting for the tragedy on Calvary, a pall of darkness fell about the place, and when the crucified Lord expired, "the earth did quake, and the rocks rent." (Matt. 27:51). 

DISRUPTION SIGNALIZED THE SAVIOR'S DEATH 

On the Western Continent, widespread disruption signalized the Savior's death: and destruction befell the wicked who had flouted prophetic warnings and inspired admonitions to repentance. Many of the Nephites had forgotten the signs and wonders by which the fact of the Lord's birth had been made known, and had fallen into abominable wickedness. Then, at the time of the crucifixion, great and terrible tempests broke over the land, with thunderings, lightnings, and both elevations and depressions of the earth's crust, so that mountains were sundered, and many cities destroyed by earthquake, fire, and the inrush of the sea. For three hours the unprecedented holocaust continued; and then thick darkness fell, in which it was found impossible to kindle a fire. The awful gloom was like unto the darkness of Egypt in that its clammy vapors could be felt. This condition lasted until the third day, so that a night a day and a night were as one unbroken night; and the impenetrable blackness was rendered the more terrible by the wailing of the people, whose heartrending refrain was everywhere the same: "O that we had repented before this great and terrible day!" Then, piercing the darkness, a Voice was heard, proclaiming that destruction had befallen the people because of wickedness, and that those who had lived to hear were the more righteous of the inhabitants, to whom hope was offered on condition of more thorough repentance and reformation. (3 Nephi, Chap. 8). 

MODERN PROPHECY ON THE SUBJECT 

As was foreseen, aye, and foretold, by the Christ himself and by his prophets who lived before his mortal birth and by those who lived after, in the earlier ages, and by the prophets of the present dispensation, great destruction has come and shall come upon the earth because of the sins of the human race. In section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that section known unto us as the "Olive Leaf" as named by the prophet who received the word from the Lord and gave it unto the people in 1832, December 27, it is thus declared: 

"For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig-tree. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. 

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." 

THE RECENT CALAMITY IN JAPAN 

What has been called the greatest calamity in history is fresh in our minds. Hundreds of thousands of human beings have lost their lives in the great seismic disturbances in Japan. I have only to say that the occurrence of such earthquakes is in accordance with predictions. The Lord forbid that I should assume to pass judgment upon those who are immediately affected, upon those who have lost their lives through such catastrophies. It is beyond the wisdom of men to correctly deduce results bv applying general laws or causes to individual cases; and whenever the judgments of the Lord are permitted to fall upon the earth and upon its inhabitants, there are many of the innocent who suffer with the guilty. Many go down who are not personally culpable and who are not directly responsible for that which has come. 

RIGHTEOUS AND CULPABLE SUFFER TOGETHER 

We know the Lord does permit these calamities to come upon those who, according to our means of judgment and powers of analysis, may not have deserved the fate, but death, remember, is not finality. It is that which follows death with which we should have concern. Many are allowed to die in tempest and earthquake, whose death is but a passage into the blessed realms, because they are deserving of blessings; while unto others death does come as a judgment; and the Lord knows who fall because of their sins and who are permitted to fall because of their righteousness. 

We have an instance in point concerning the connection of affliction and distress with individual culpability. You remember the Lord and his apostles once came to a blind beggar upon the street near the temple gates; "And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?" 

Incidentally let us note that those who asked that question had an understanding of premortal existence, for surely the man could not have sinned in the flesh and brought upon him blindness at birth as a result. But the explanation given by the Lord is the important point for us to consider: "Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents; but that the works of God should be made manifest in him." The Lord's purposes were worked out in the case, for the man was healed, and the instance stands as a testimony for or against those who have become acquainted with the circumstance. 

Incident to a period of cruel intolerance in religious matters among the aboriginal people of this continent, we read that evil-hearted persecutors put to death many women and children by burning, thinking that bv this means they could terrify the rest into a denial of their faith. The Prophets Alma and Amulek were forced to witness the awful scenes. Though themselves in bonds they were brought there to witness the agony of the victims; and Amulek with zeal and righteous indignation desired to invoke the power of God to save those innocent sufferers: "But Alma said unto him: The Spirit constraineth me that I must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold the Lord receiveth them up unto himself, in glory; and he doth suffer that they may do this thing, or that the people may do this thing unto them, according to the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments which he shall exercise upon them in his wrath may be just; and the blood of the innocent shall stand as a witness against them, yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day." (Alma 14:11). 

NATIONS AS WELL AS INDIVIDUALS HELD TO ACCOUNT 

The Lord deals with individuals; and salvation is an individual affair; but, nevertheless, he deals also with nations, for he is the God of nations, which are set up or put down, are preserved or destroyed, according to their fitness; and all this is done in the Lord's due time and way. "Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord," sang the psalmist. "Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to any people," declared the author of the book of Proverbs. 

It has been pointed out that a distinguishing feature of the last days and of the imminence of the second coming of Christ would be the proclaiming of the gospel amongst all nations. "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come," said the Lord himself in the flesh on the very eve of his great sacrifice. So also in these latter-days the Lord has made plain the fact that nations shall be held to account. In a commandment to the elders of his Church, given in February, 1831, and recorded in section 43, he said: 

"Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; 

"For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying — Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord? 

"Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words — Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come? 

"And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying: Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. 

"O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not! 

"How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but ye would not!" 

In another revelation, section 84, we read: 

"For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations to scourge them for their wickedness. 

"And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness — 

"Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with knowledge of the Lord." 

Yet further: 

"And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn, and with famine and plague and earthquake and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made the full end of all nations. (87:6). 

Now, I do not believe in trying to explain away the words of God that predict calamity, but are nevertheless full of assurance unto the righteous, be it a righteous man or a righteous nation. We should awaken to their dread import. The Lord is dealing with the nations of the earth, and his Spirit has departed in large measure from nations that have defied him and his commandments, and as a result, they, being left largely to themselves, war with one another, and seek all means by which they can destroy one another most expeditiously. Now, the Lord is not the author of these evil things; the nations are bringing these inflictions upon themselves and there shall be a consummation brought about as the Lord hath decreed, which shall mean an end of all nations as such, if they will not observe the law and the commandments of the Lord their God. 

THE WAY OF ESCAPE 

Is there any way of escape? Yes, there is. The Lord sent word by his prophets unto the wicked city of Nineveh, and the cry was raised in her streets: "Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown." Then from the king upon his throne, down to the beggar in the streets, the people wailed because of their wickedness, and opened their hearts to the warning voice. They fasted and prayed, and confessed their sins before the Lord, and Jonah, the prophet who had been sent unto them, looked on to witness the destruction of the city, and seemed indeed to be disappointed because he was denied a view of the spectacle he awaited. But the Lord reasoned with the prophet in this wise: The people have turned to me, and have repented of their sins. Shall I destroy them when they have turned unto me? 

Even now, if the nations will turn unto the Lord it shall be unto them as it was unto Nineveh — they shall be spared; but if they will not, then the Lord will permit the predicted judgments to come upon them until they are brought to a realization of the fact that they do depend upon the Lord God of heaven and of earth. The forces of nature are co-operating and are permitted to wreak destruction and the end is not yet. Latter-day Saints, remember the admonition of the Lord: "Stand ye in holy places," and we cannot do that unless we are holy. "Stand ye in holy places, and be not moved," but await the working out of the Lord's purposes, the while living lives of righteousness and crying repentance unto the people of the world. 

THE TIME OF CHRIST'S ADVENT IS NEAR

This is the day of consummation, and the coming of the Lord is nearer than we are willing to admit. Let us not seek to set times or dates, for such we are told shall never be made known until the day of the Lord's coming; not even the angels in heaven are to know beforetime. Therefore, away with all attempts to fix times for the Lord. But he has told us that the time of his advent is near; and it is over a hundred years nearer than it was when he spake first to his prophet in this dispensation. I pray that we be prepared, and that we be found ready for the consummation of the ages, the coming of the Lord in his might and majesty to rule and reign. I ask this in his name, Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I feel dependent this morning upon the Spirit of the Lord to guide me in what I shall say. Nor is this an uncommon feeling, for when I stand before the people I have a spirit of timidity and feel my weakness. 

EVENTS OF A HUNDRED YEARS AGO 

A number of the speakers have referred to topics in relation to those most important events which occurred one hundred years ago, and I desire to add one or two thoughts in this direction. In the year 1820, when the declaration was made to Joseph Smith by the Father and the Son that the truth was about to be restored, that youth was fourteen years of age. Nevertheless his story created a good deal of consternation and ridicule in the world, and brought upon him much criticism, and even persecution. It seems to the world a strange thing, and an impossible thing, that the Lord would call upon a youth, inexperienced, untrained, lacking in the education of the world, to stand at the head of any great marvelous work; and also a very strange thing that any one with such a common name as Joseph Smith should be called. When the elders go forth to preach the Gospel, and bear witness and testimony to the truth of his words, the people, in ridicule, state: "Surely the Lord would not call upon anyone by that name. It is so common." It did not have even the aristocratic "y" in it. (Smyth). I suppose the Lord desired to try the faith of the people, at any rate we do know that his ways are not the ways of men. Perhaps, if Joseph Smith had been named Martin Luther, or John Calvin, or John Knox, or John Wesley, or some other John, it might have had more weight with the disbelieving world. But to be an ordinary, common, every-day Smith was more than they could stand. And yet this is the way the Lord works. The world, I suppose, has an idea that anyone with such a name, if he has any qualifications whatever, those qualifications would be what the name might suggest — the qualificatons of brawn and muscle, and not of spirituality and intelligence. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S CONTRIBUTION TO SPIRITUAL THOUGHT 

It has been stated here this morning that Joseph Smith gave to the world the greatest contribution in civil government that the world has ever known since the days of our Redeemer, and I can testify that likewise he has added, or given a contribution to the world in spiritual thought, and religious government, that is greater than anything that has been given to the world since the days of our Redeemer. 

No matter if his name is common, the youth, young and uneducated, and untrained in the things of the world, I am fully in accord with the expressions and sentiment, recorded in that beautiful hymn by President John Taylor, one verse of which I shall read because it appeals to me, and we so seldom hear it sung. 

"Of noble seed, of heavenly birth, 

He came to bless the sons of earth; 

With keys by the Almighty given, 

He opened the full rich stores of heaven; 

O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night, 

Like the sun, he spread his golden light; 

He strove, O, how he strove to stay 

The stream of crime in its reckless way; 

With a mighty mind and a noble aim, 

He urged the wayward to reclaim: 

'Mid foaming billows of angry strife, 

He stood at the helm of the ship of life." 

And so I recognize him as the one who stood by appointment of the Lord Jesus Christ at the helm of the ship of life, possessed of the Priesthood, clothed in power and authority to establish the work of the Lord for the last time, that men might be brought to repentance, might have the opportunity, the privilege of embracing righteousness and truth and finding salvation in the kingdom of God. 

WITNESSES TESTIFY TO JOSEPH'S WONDERFUL MANIFESTATIONS 

Now just one other thought: If this young man bad come before the world declaring his testimony, bearing witness to the wonderful manifestations of the power of the Lord as made known to him in marvelous vision, and had stood alone, then there might be some question raised in regard to that statement or testimony; but in keeping with the work of the Lord and the promises that he has made from the beginning that all things shall be established by witnesses, others were called to testify, to bear witness with Joseph Smith that the things of which he spoke and of which they spoke were true. 

ANCIENT PROPHECY FULFILLED 

In the revelations given anciently by a prophet of the Lord who lived upon this continent, the promise was made that the word of the Lord, as recorded in that early day, should be preserved to come forth in this age of the world's history as a testimony unto the world thai God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. Nephi says of that which he wrote and that which should be written by the prophet succeeding him: 

"Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words which are written. 

"For we labor diligently to write, to persaude our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved after all we can do. . . . 

"And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins." 

And then still prophesying in relation to these things which are written Nephi says: 

"Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words of the book; and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him good will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that rejecteth the word of God!" 

Again, in relation to this record, he says: 

"And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth unto you the words of a book, and they shall be the words of them which have slumbered. 

"And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the book shall be a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the ending thereof. 

"Wherefore, because of the things which are sealed up, the things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the wickedness and abominations of the people. Wherefore the book shall be kept from them." 

And we may judge that we are still living in the days of wickedness and ahomination, because the things which were sealed have not yet been delivered to the world, nor have they been delivered to the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In relation to this matter, Mormon writes, as we find it in the 26th Chapter of the Third Book of Nephi, as follows: 

"And when they," that is, the people who live now, "shall have received this, which is expedient that they should have first, to try their faith, and if it shall so be that they shall believe these things then shall the greater things be made manifest unto them. 

"And if it so be that they will not believe these things, then shall the greater things be withheld from them, unto their condemnation." 

ARE WE PREPARED FOR NEW REVELATION? 

We have not prepared ourselves yet to receive the things which were sealed, and which the prophet was not privileged to interpret and to publish — to our condemnation, to our shame, and to the condemnation of all the world. To our shame, I say, because we have not learned through our study, our faith and our perseverance, these lesser things which have been given and have been revealed, contained in the record now made manifest to us, known as the Book of Mormon, and it behooves us as Latter-day Saints to follow the counsels, the advice, and the teachings of the gospel as revealed in this record and in other records. These letters referred to by President Grant, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith from the Lord, contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, we must study, master that which they contain; that is, make it a part of our lives, and keep the commandments, and live in accord with every word that has been revealed from the mouth of God, and if we will not do it, those other things cannot be given unto us — to our condemnation. 

Oh my brethren and sisters, let us keep the commandments of the Lord, honor him and his word, be faithful and endure in all things to the end, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

I have been attending conference in this tabernacle pretty regularly since the year 1867. That is fifty-six years. I can say with entire sincerity that, during all those years I never attended a better opening service of the conference than we had yesterday forenoon, which was the opening session of this conference. Never was the power of presidency, the power and spirit of the Holy Ghost, the power of God, made more plainly manifest to the congregation of the Saints than in that meeting yesterday morning. So, also, in each of our meetings we have had a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. 

As Latter-day Saints, we are not by any means what we ought to be in respect to living our religion and keeping the commandments of God; and yet, I believe that, in the main the Lord approves of the work and labors of his faithful Saints. I am glad to report that the tithes of the people have increased a little over what they were a year ago at this time, and that the people seem to be more faithful in observing that law and paying their tithes while they have the means to pay, monthly, or at any season, whenever the means comes into their hands. They seem to be more faithful in honoring the Lord by contributing to this work in the payment of their tithes. 

This work is growing and it is a power in the land; a power for good and not for evil. It is an agency of peace and good will. It labors with me and with you through the teachers of the wards and in other ways, to have peace in our homes; peace in the family. And that, I say, is a good thing, for after all, the home is the foundation of civil society; of civilization itself; and there is no organization in the world, that I know of, that so labors with humankind, with its membership individually and collectively, so that we may have peace and good will and good order and good government, as this organization does. It is quite true, as Elder Stephen L. Richards has stated to us this morning, that this organization called "Mormonism," is a distinct and an added contribution to the stability and permanency of our civil government. It is not an organization in opposition to any government, or to any church, for that matter, for we are commanded here in the book of revelations which were given through the prophet Joseph Smith, to contend against no church, save it be the church of the devil, which means that we should contend against wickedness and sin and all that goes with that, but that we are not to contend, not to quarrel, not to fight among ourselves or with our neighbors and friends who are not of our faith, nor with any church or any organization whatsoever. Our mission is peace and good will; good order; security of life and property and the general upbuilding of the community. 

It is astonishing to me, my brethren and sisters, and must be, I think, to every student of history, to know the opposition which is met by an organization of this kind with such righteous intent and producing such excellent results as are apparent to all the world; which men cannot help but see — the good works which have been accomplished by this organization. It is astonishing, I say, that it should still meet with so much opposition. It is true that when anything like this comes into the world and sets itself up to be that which the world has not hitherto received: to be a little better, so to speak, at least in advanced thought, and also in achieving results for good, which have not hitherto been accomplished; and something in advance of anything that the world has hitherto received; it is natural I say that contention should be aroused against it for a short time until its meaning and purpose and achievements can be a little more clearly understood. It is true that when people come to us and say, here we have something better than you have, this that you have was good, in its time, and was a sincerity once, but you have "changed the laws, transgressed the ordinance, and broken the everlasting covenant." Now we have brought you the old, true and everlasting principles back again, reestablished with divine authority. Naturally, that arouses in human nature a spirit of resentment, for human nature, you know, rarely changes; but when the thing has been put to the test and demonstrated; when it has existed and grown for nearly a hundred years, and its works are apparent and its principles are known to all men who will look into it with unprejudiced minds, ought it not to receive more favorable consideration? Yet even now, in this twentieth century, with never before such means of information and communication between countries and peoples, knowledge increased until books and papers are published by the million, many people running to and fro, people coming and going and visiting, learning and knowing concerning us; yet in a country as liberal as England, there could be raised, and was raised during last year such a howl, going up there in good old liberal England as to what great and terrible things the "Mormons" were doing, bringing over shiploads of young girls to be made polygamous wives, and all that sort of stuff and nonsense that anybody who would take the least pains to investigate, anyone who had only ordinary intelligence would know was absolutely absurd and ridiculous, and yet it was believed by the million. 

I recall that some fifty years ago, after the Pacific Railroad was built across our country, Governor Stanford of California, president of the Central Pacific Railroad, with whom I happened to come in contact a few times, made this statement, and I believe he made it also to President Young himself; but this statement I heard, that he considered that the property values of the Central Pacific Railroad, as it was then called, were safer in the territory of Utah in consequence of the "Mormon" Church being there, than were the property values of their lines in other states of the Union. That was fifty years ago. Since that time we have been and are being much better known as to our purpose; as to our intent; as to the righteousness of the people. During these fifty years, times without number, men who have had large interests, large investments, men of prominence, high character and great ability, men who cannot be hired with small sums of money, but who command the highest salaries have said repeatedly, and I heard one of them say in substance, the same thing within the last few weeks: "We consider your organization a direct contribution to safety, to observance of law and order, to that which is permanent, and we appreciate it." That is the voice of that class of men; the judgment of which one, I will say, to paraphrase the language of Hamlet, the judgment of which one must in your opinion outweigh a whole multitude of others — others who are rampant, loud-mouthed, blatant, defaming, crying down the Church, complaining of the Church. I would rather take the judgment of the men whom I have referred to than the judgment of these others. There are some that we have among us and always will have, I suppose, once in awhile, one here and one there, a loud, blatant hireling, here and there, full of sound and fury, who will get up and defame and try to tear down the Church, signifying nothing. They do not amount to anything. They put me in mind of a story that my Catholic friend, Joseph Geoghegan used to tell. He told the story of an Irishman who came to this country and secured a good job. He wrote back to his friend: "Pat, he says, "come over. I have got an iligant job. Oh, it is a beautiful job. I am tearing down a protestant church, and I am getting paid for it." So that is the case, too, with some of these others who yelp rather loudly against the "Mormon" Church. 

The "Mormon" Church, as an organization, stands for peace. It was organized by the Prince of Peace, himself. It will subdue the world through the process of peace — not force. I was glad to note that President Coolidge the other day, and I was rather surprised at the advanced thought that he gave out, speaking of the Red Cross he said: "Here is an organization that goes about doing good without any compulsion; without any force. In our civil government we are still compelled to use force but the higher law is to secure the cooperation and harmony of society by moral suasion and without the use of force." Now, that is exactly what the "Mormon" Church organization is doing. There is no force, in this sense, in the gospel of Jesus Christ; no compulsion whatever. Every man and every woman is absolutely free — free to do as they please with respect to the Church; to live in it; to obey its principles and pay tithes or not, as they please, but they are persuaded and constrained by the power of the Spirit of the Lord; they are grateful to be impelled by a spirit which comes from God, and which teaches them to yield willing obedience to the righteousness of its principles. If there is anything lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, they seek after these things. That is one of the articles of our faith, and so, I say to my discontented non-"Mormon" friends, possess your souls in patience! The "Mormon" Church is here to stay. The "Mormon" Church is here to fill its mission, which is a mission of peace; which contributes to good government; to good order; to righteous living; to all that makes for a higher and better civilization. And it is accomplishing great results in respect to this. Is it not a good thing, think you, for an organization to have brought thousands and tens of thousands from distant lands, from all over the world, and planted them here? They are infinitely better off here. They own their own homes; they own their own land; they are free men, free women. Isn't all that good? That is what all our Chambers of Commerce, Commercial Clubs, and other organizations of that kind, are seeking for — to bring people here who will build homes; who will help build up the country, cultivate the soil and increase production of the necessaries of life. I say, all that is good. I believe that everyone — even those embittered in their narrow souls against the Church must concede this. For it is good. Then, what is there wrong about it? I can find nothing in the Church discipline that is wrong. Nothing in the Church principles that is wrong. Individuals may sometimes go wrong. You and I, we may go wrong, and do, doubtless, at times, but the principles that govern this organization; all that this organization stands for, makes for righteousness and for the well-being of the citizens of this country, for that which Elder Richards so forcefully and plainly pointed out to us this morning, the establishing, upholding, maintaining of the government of these United States. That is what this organization is here for. I repeat, it is to bring peace to the world, not contention. It begins, as I said before, at the home. It spreads to the little community governed by the bishop of the ward; all the agencies, all the powers of the Priesthood that can be used to promote well-being by persuasion; by long-suffering; by kindness and knowledge, by love unfeigned; no force, no compulsion! All these are used to promote the well-being of humankind. What a splendid thing it is to be engaged in a work of this kind. These agencies our Church is using every day to bring to pass the establishment of the kingdom of God on the earth, and I say that is a splendid thing, the best that man can be engaged in. 

Only the other day a very prominent gentleman from New York, who is in charge of large interests in this state, said to me: "Through your organization you seem to have your feet more solidly on the ground, with more of that which makes for safety and security right here in Utah, than we find in any other part of the country." 

Brethren and sisters, let me say in closing that we have it of record, that the prophet Joseph Smith said the time would come when, through secret organizations taking the law into their own hands, not being governed by law or by due process of law, but becoming a law unto themselves, when, by those disintegrating activities, the Constitution of the United States would be so torn and rent asunder, and life and property and peace and security would be held of so little value, that the Constitution would, as it were, hang by a thread. But he never said, so far as I have heard, that that thread would be cut. I believe, with Elder Richards, that this Constitution will be preserved, but it will be preserved very largely in consequence of what the Lord has revealed and what this people, through listening to the Lord and being obedient, will help to bring about, to stabilize and give permanency and effect to the Constitution itself. That also is our mission. That also is what we are here for. I glory in it. I praise God with all my heart and soul that I am a member of it. 

I know the work is true. The Lord has established it. You know that also, and when the hands of the elders at the waters of baptism were laid upon your heads and it was said unto you, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost", that you did receive and have continued to receive until there has grown within you a power, a potency, a spirit which, when you yield to and live by, makes you better everv way. You know that it is the power of God unto salvation, to this people, to this nation, and to all the world, and the time will come, as the prophet of the old Bible has declared, when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father. But it will never be done by force. The knee will willingly bow, gladly bow and acknowdedge that here is the best government; here is the best that has been produced on earth in the way of good government and good order and security and justice and righteousness and mercy, just as men do now acknowledge, those thinking men and wise men that have investigated this system, that here is the best there is anywhere that can be found. So in time, all over the world, the knee will bow, the acknowledgment will be made not through force nor compulsion, but willingly, loyally, with gratitude and praise to God that he has so established his work that man may see what he has done, and they will glorify his name and adhere to it. 

That the Lord will hasten it all in his time, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

(Member of Congress, Former President of the Uintah Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, when the brethren were called so unexpectedly yesterday from their places in the audiences to speak, the words of the late President Anthon H. Lund came to me, which he spoke many years ago to a group of missionaries who were leaving for their fields of labor. I happened to be one of that band. Said he, "When you are called to speak, it matters not how suddenly that call comes, if you will remember the sixth verse of the fourteenth chapter of Revelations, and if you have a testimony that the prophecy therein recorded has been fulfilled, bear that testimony and the inspiration of the occasion will give you utterance. 

I bear testimony to you this morning that I know the gospel is true, and that the angel has come to which the Revelator referred when he said: 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

This conference has partaken somewhat of the nature of a commemorative service of that event. Two great events have rather grown together among the Latter-day Saints, namely: the coming of the Angel Moroni, in fulfilment of this prophecy that I have quoted, and the work that we are doing in our temples, for the dead. Some one has said that the truest test of any doctrine is whether or not it can be and is being translated into the lives of those who believe it. One of the speakers yesterday, in referring to the Book of Mormon, said that the greatest evidence of its truth is found in the book itself. So with "Mormonism" as a whole, the greatest evidence of its truthfulness is found in its teachings and in its practices, and in the effects it has had upon the lives of those who have accepted it. The building of temples, the constant work being done therein, the desire that comes into the hearts and souls of men and women everywhere to work for their dead relatives, are direct fulfilments of the prophecy that Moroni made that God would send Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest he come and smite the earth with a curse. Where else in all the world are the hearts of the children turning to the fathers that have gone before? I feel an absolute assurance, this morning, that the hearts of the fathers that have gone before are turning to their children, else why the desire to do this work that is being done in our temples, and the desire that comes into the hearts and souls of the children of men everywhere, who accept the gospel, to come to these temples. How the words of our President yesterday morning appeal to us who are living! How we have thrilled as we have listened to those who have spoken, and we want the instructions they have given unto us to become translated into our lives. How we have resolved to reflect those teachings, to make of ourselves examples worthy of imitation! 

Oh, I am not afraid of the assaults without, if we can but set our own houses in order; if we can keep our own lives clean, I am not afraid of the result. They who fight this work forget one thing, namely: the assurance given to every individual member of its truthfulness. What does it matter to us if they fight our leaders? We do not sustain these men solely because they are good men. We sustain them because there is an assurance in our hearts that God has spoken from the heavens, that he did send the Angel Moroni to reveal the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Before they can uproot in our souls the testimony that our faith has planted there, nay, that the Spirit of God has planted there, concerning the truthfulness of "Mormonism," they must do more than attack the leadership of this Church; they must convince us that we are wrong, that our homes, started under the inspiration of God, are not good homes. Oh, I know they attack "Mormonism" because they say it is not conducive to good homes. How little they know of what they speak when they say that! 

A few months ago I happened to be in the office of a man who holds a high position in this government. I noticed above his desk a picture of Brigham Young. I commented upon it. He said: "Yes, I am making a collection of the photographs of all the great men that have been born in Vermont. I regard Brigham Young as one of the greatest, because," said he, "he taught the necessity of home building, the necessity of going out upon the land and possessing it; and if all the people everywhere would teach and practice it as Brigham Young taught it, America would be safe." 

They who seek to uproot this testimony in our souls must convince us that our fathers and mothers were wrong when they bore testimony to us as little children, day after day of the truthfulness of this work, of the divinity of Joseph Smith's mission. They must show me that my own mother when she sent me forth as a missionary, was mistaken when she said: "Though your going grieves me, and I am sorry for the parting, yet I want you to go, and I want you to remember this one thing: I can bear to see you go; and I can bear to see you come back, if necessary, in your casket, if God wills it, but I cannot bear to have you come back unclean or untrue to the teachings of the gospel which I know to be true." 

More than that, God takes these missionaries who go out as stammering, hesitating boys and girls, standing upon the street corners in humility, asking for his help, and makes of them mighty preachers of the gospel, insomuch that they are able to confound the learned men of the world. Those who would destroy this work must make these men and women believe that that spirit, which enables them to do that, is a delusion and a snare. 

More than that they must make us all believe that the testimony which has come to us in the lonely hours of our lives, when we have been alone upon the mountain tops or out on the prairies, when God has been with us and the conviction has come overwhelmingly to our souls of the truthfulness of this work and the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, is false. They must make us believe that when we have sat in the meetings of this conference and listened to the inspiring words of our beloved president and other speakers, and the witness is given to us that what they say is true, is a delusion and a snare. 

For be it known that "Mormonism" rests upon the testimony that God gives to his children of its truthfulness. If you will do the work you shall know whether these men speak of God or whether they speak of themselves. 

In humility and with all the earnestness of my soul I bear testimony that I know that the Angel Moroni came and revealed the Book of Mormon, that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of God of establishing upon the earth God's Church, through which his gospel may he preached to all the world; and I bear witness of its truthfulness in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Robert I. Burton, president of the Mt. Ogden stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


