Second Overflow
07 10 1923

The second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall at 2 o'clock, October 7, 1923. 

Elder John Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric, presided. 

As in the morning session the Holliday ward choir furnished the singing under the direction of Charles R. Pike, with Tracy Y. Cannon as organist. 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Don C. Walker, Rigby, Idaho. 

The choir sang, "This is the day which the Lord hath made." 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(Former President of the Canadian Mission.) 

I am truly thankful for the privilege of coming into this holy place on this beautiful day to worship the God of our fathers. I am thankful that I have in my heart a desire to bow my head and lift my heart in praise to the Maker of all. 

I returned home from a mission to Canada last April, rather worse for wear. I was a little better than a corpse and not quite as good as an invalid. But through the mercy and goodness of our heavenly Father, I have been greatly strengthened in my body during the last six months. I am thankful with all my heart for the testimony that I have that God does hear his children who come unto him with broken hearts and contrite spirits, in the times of their need and their distress. I pray that the spirit of our heavenly Father shall attend me in my utterances this afternoon. During my term of missionary service in the Dominion of Canada I learned that there is very little that any of us can do, in and of ourselves, to bring to pass the righteousness of God in the world. I have learned to know that there is only one power anywhere that can really purify and ennoble the human heart, and that is the power of God's Holy Spirit. 

During the last year or two I have had occasion to read three noteworthy books. All three of these books are addressed to the great theme of "salvaging the wrecked civilization of the world." One of these books was written by a great teacher of psychology, Dr. G. Stanley Hall. The second was written by a distinguished man of letters, H. G. Wells. The last was written by an English philosopher, G. Bernard Shaw. All three of these distinguished men attempt to answer the big question, "How can we save the wrecked civilization of the world?" 

G. Stanley Hall gave to his book the name, Morale. In it he attempts to show that the spiritual and intellectual wellbeing of the world depends upon physical wholesomeness. He arrives at the conclusion that all that we need to save the world from ruin is more abundant physical health. The professor did not seem to remember that, if the heart is evilly-disposed, the more of vitality and strength there is back of it the more there is of fuel to feed the flames of passion. Morale, in the sense in which Dr. G. Stanley Hall uses that word, will not save the world. 

H. G. Wells took for the title of his book, Salvaging Civilization. Mr. Wells is an intellectualist. He is a profound believer in the supremacy of mind over matter. He believes in education. In his book he goes on to say, in effect, that what the world needs is more education, more enlightenment. Mr. Wells seems to have forgotten that the brighter the mind, if it is attached to an evilly-disposed heart, the greater its power for evil in the world. The recent history of the world written in the blood of millions killed upon the battlefield, and the tears of weeping widows and orphans, confirms the truth that brightness of mind without rightness of heart leads to frightfulness, and the wreckage of the world. 

The last of these writers, the philosopher G. Bernard Shaw, took for the title of his book, Back to Methuselah. You know Mr. Shaw is an evolutionist. He tells us in his book that there is in operation in the world a universal principle of evolution, social evolution, political evolution, and moral evolution; and that the only reason why the human race is not saved is because men and women do not live long enough. He contends that if man could live a thousand years, so that the process of evolution could do its effective work the race of man would be saved from evil and error. But the philosopher seems to have forgotten that the longer a bad man lives the worse he becomes. 

Now, the strange thing, to me, about these three great books is the fact that all three of these writers, of international note, claimed to believe in the supremacy of Jesus Christ as the moral and ethical teacher of the world. Mr. Hall, Mr. Wells, and Mr. Shaw all believe that Jesus Christ was the greatest moral and ethical teacher the world has ever seen. Now, just why these three men should not recommend to the human race Christ's panacea for the ills of the world, I am not able to understand. That remedy is found in one simple sentence in the first chapter of Mark's gospel. In this chapter we read: 

"Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent ye, and believe the gospel." 

In that simple sentence is found the cure for all the ills of the world. In it is found the only medicine that can save this sin-sick world. 

When I think about it, I am reminded that sometime ago Mr. Bok, one of our great American writers, made an offer to the world of a hundred thousand dollars for the best plan for bringing peace to the world. Some time subsequent to the publication of this offer, a Florida newspaper came out with a short editorial, in which the writer said, "We win in two words — Stop fighting." You can turn the world from wrecklessness and sin to righteousness and peace with just two words. "Stop sinning." 

Does this command apply to me? Yes. It includes you and me, and all mankind. When you and I and all our neighbors are peaceable the peace of the world will be secure. And, by-the-by, it is not the usual sins that damn the world. I used to say to my companions in the missionary field, "You need not be concerned about the sin of robbing a bank, because you are not going to rob any bank." It is just the little daily sins of you and me, of wrong-thinking, that damn our souls. 

Now, one of these little prevailing sins which I have found since I came home is the sin of pride. You know we have a lot of people who worship their automobiles more than they worship God. There are many who have more pride in their professional skill than they have in the beauty and the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In my profession, I frequently meet young members of the bar. When some of these young men have read two or three law books, and have got about two legal ideas into their heads, they begin to think that they are too wise to take any stock in gospel truth. 

Now, you cannot get into heaven in that sort of a spirit. You cannot ride into the presence of God on a high horse. Jesus, the greatest of all teachers, said, "Except ye become as this little child, ye cannot see the kingdom of heaven." What we need is more childishness of heart and less childishness of mind. We need more of old-fashioned humility and devotion in the Church. Humility is nobility. 

Just a few weeks ago I was invited to spend a few moments in looking over a splendid Packard sedan, that had cost $5,000. I did not buy it. A friend of mine was the buyer. Now, while we were admiring this beautiful car, a young man spoke up, "It's heaven inside of it." There are some of our people who seem to think that when they get into a sedan they are in the celestial glory. Now, don't misunderstand me; I haven't anything against the automobile. It is a splendid instrument of utility in the commercial and industrial world. It is also a legitimate source of pleasure used in moderation. 

Many of us have become engulfed in the mad swirl of worldly pleasure. Our age is coming to be an age of gratification. It should be an age of glorification. In every age of the world when the children of men have given themselves over to pleasure, and selfish gratification, there has been a marked decadence physically, morally and intellectually of the race. And in every age of the world when mankind have remembered in meekness and gratitude the God of heaven, and have worshiped him, they have progressed and advanced, in all of the fine things that make for the ennoblement of the children of men. 

My brothers and sisters, let me make this appeal to you. Be not deceived by the glitter of this vain world. There is a deeper joy than the pleasure of gratification. There is the joy of knowing God, of having sacred fellowship with him through the Holy Spirit. That is the deepest and the purest joy in the world. We cannot have this joy unless we live near to God and serve him and keep his commandments. 

I am thankful with all my heart for the humble part I have had in telling the world of the great things of God's latter-day glory. I love the truth; I love this work; I love this people; I love to witness their advancement and their progress; and I pray that God will help us to be true to the truth and faithful to the faith, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel very grateful for the opportunity I have of standing before you for a few moments and reporting conditions and affairs in the Northwestern States mission. I have come to a realization as never before, of the great value of a human soul. To the degree that I stand at the head of that organization, I have been entrusted with the most precious things that God has in the earth and that we, as parents, possess in our families, your sons and daughters. We are endeavoring, so far as lies in our power and, according to the best judgment we possess, to guide them in those ways that will make of them what God intended they should be. 

We realize in the mission field, as in no other place in life, the real meaning of life. And I want to say to you, that your sons and daughters are among the most noble creatures it has ever been my good fortune to affiliate with. They do not hesitate at the performance of any noble duty, no matter how humble or how much it may call for what we term sacrifice. But when I think of that term sacrifice, I am constrained to the conviction that we are entirely mistaken respecting it. We think it is a sacrifice, some of us, to keep our sons and daughters in the mission field. There is no blessing that comes to a father or a mother equal, in my judgment, to maintaining in the mission field for the length of time necessary one of the members of their family, because of the value it is to their family and particularly to the young man or young woman. 

There is a great deal of criticism and attack by those who have constituted themselves the judges of this community and this organization and this work. I think the best answer that can be given men who attack this organization, this Church, is the lives and accomplishments of the boys and girls who go into the mission field; because they learn the best, the most vital, the most enduring thing that can be learned in all the world. Your sons and daughters stand up in the communities of Christendom affirming, with all seriousness and in humility, that God has spoken, that they have received a witness of that fact. They have stamped upon their lives the great fact that God is our Father and that their duty to him and his children is the greatest consideration of life. And that duty teaches them the strictest and most beautiful morality. It teaches them honesty: it teaches them service, service to God and his children. Can there be formed or found in all the world a higher idealism than the worship of God and the service of his children? And when people attack this organization and this community, they are attacking the highest idealism known to man, found in the worship of God and doing good to humanity. 

We sometimes think that the missionaries are subjected to great sacrifice. I have an instance in mind. There is in the mission a young woman. She comes from Sevier county. Her name is Velma Nebeker. She is educated, beautiful, and possesses all of the requisites not only for a successful missionary but for a woman fitted to occupy the highest social position, a woman who some day will make her mark and write her name large in the history of this community. She is a paragon of excellence as respects appearance and dress. The mission needed a teacher on the Indian reservation at Wolf Point, a most forbidding place. Our Church sits on a little hill, wind-swept. It is desolate. It is on the great arid bottoms of the Missouri river, mostly of mud, stunted cottonwoods, and poor growth of grass. Inhabiting that particular part of the country is a tribe of Indians, and there has been established among them, or was established during the days of Elder Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve, an Indian school. We have an enrollment of nearly thirty pupils, and we teach from the primary up to the sixth grade. This young woman, among her other accomplishments, is a school teacher. The mission needed just her stamp of woman for the performing of the duties, necessary to the instructing of those little Indian children. I called her into the office. I had been praying for a month as to the selection that should be made, because I recognized its importance. And when I called her into the office — Wolf Point is the most abhorent to all the missionaries, because it is the most difficult and sacrificial place in which to labor — and said to her, "Miss Nebeker, I want you to go to Wolf Point," her face blanched. The tears shot from her eyes, but she set her teeth and said, "I'll go." She went, and I said to her before she departed, "I want to say to you that when you return from your mission you will say — and I know it now as well as I shall know it in the future — that your labors in Wolf Point have been the very crown of your missionary labor." She is a heroine, and you men and women, parents in Israel, have hundreds of young people out in the mission who are just like that. They do not hesitate at any duty. There is no sacrifice they are called upon to perform that they do not go willingly, depending upon the Almighty not only for the knowledge that they disseminate but for their food and their shelter. 

We have recently concluded our great summer work, in which the boys (not the young ladies, because we do not entrust to them that duty) have gone into all the surrounding country, through Oregon, Washington, parts of Idaho, all of Montana, and into British Columbia, proclaiming the gospel without purse or scrip. And I want to say to the parents of these young men and women, if you want to give your sons and daughters the very best, or leave for them and fix in their lives the very best that you can, there is nothing that can be bestowed that will be of as much value as missionary experience. They go out in humility, but they acquire information with great rapidity, and some of our boys who come from the remote districts come into the mission field crude, it is true; their grammar is poor; their knowledge of the gospel is almost nil; but in a few weeks you commence to see a fire in their eyes, you commence to see a bearing and a manner in their attitude toward one another and the world, you begin to see an intelligence shooting forth from their whole being that was not there when they came. They improve with remarkable rapidity, and it makes of them the kind of men and women that the world needs for its regenerating, for its saving; because if it is saved, it will be by men and women who possess the qualification and the understanding that these young men and women have who go out into the world as missionaries. 

And when they come back to you, they will understand that the highest duty they have to perform is the duty of marriage — parenthood, good citizenship, as children of God our Father. And it cannot but be that this community will rise to an eminence that has been and will be enjoyed by no other people, because of the younger people of the community and the teachings that they receive in the missionary field which fit them for the great duties of life. They learn that it is themselves who are responsible to themselves and to God for that which they do in life. They learn the value of life. They know what time means. They are preparing for eternity. And I want to say, brethren and sisters, encourage the young people to go on missions. 

Do not write discouraging letters to the missionaries as to your circumstances, if it can possibly be avoided; it affects them in their labors; it affects them in the finest duties they have to perform, not only there, but it seriously affects their future. So encourage them, keep them out there, though you may have to struggle to get the money to maintain them. If you do not send them as much as you have been in the habit of sending them, let them live on less; it can be done. There are young men in the mission, and young women, too, who are living on very much less than some others are using. And even though you have to restrict the amount you are sending them, make every effort to keep them in the missionary field. 

And to you, brethren and sisters, here at home, I wonder if you are measuring up to the standards of the young men and women you are sending us to the missionary field? Do you have in your thoughts always that God is our Father, that you are amenable to him for every act of your lives? Do you know that we, as we stand, are great radio stations, sending off into the universe just what we are? What we think, what we say, what we do, is written in the great volumes of the future, and you will read it, you will hear again the things that you have said. The things that you have done you will know. The very thoughts of your hearts will be inscribed upon volumes that will live eternally. 

Let us remember, brethren and sisters, our duty to God and these children of ours, who are his. They are the greatest heritage that God has conferred upon us. Let us be careful of them. Let us teach them in the right, so that when we as well as they stand in the presence of the great Judge and he shall say, "What is the judgment of this man?" and another shall say, "What is written on his heart?" that written on our hearts and lives may be the great desire to serve God, to labor for his children to help him in the great work which he has established in the earth, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

And I want to bear testimony to you that your sons and daughters are the finest objects in all the world. Those with whom I have the pleasure of laboring, I love almost as if they were my very own. Let us cherish them — not only those who are there but those who are here. Our neighbors' children are our children; because they are the children of God. Let us labor and save them and all mankind and enjoy the missionary spirit; for that is the spirit in which God expects all his children who know his truth to labor. 

That we may so labor, that we may so live, that we may so help that we may redeem ourselves, our kindred, and help the Lord in this great work is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A soprano solo, "O Lord remember me," was sung by Beulah Huish. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

A few weeks ago I attended the dedication of the temple at Cardston, Alberta, Canada, and in speaking of the dedication of a temple, we Latter-day Saints naturally ask ourselves the question: Why do we build temples? And why did ancient Israel build temples? Did they erect sacred buildings for the same purpose that we build temples, or why was it that they, even when traveling in the wilderness, erected a tabernacle, which was dedicated to God as a temporary structure in which the children of Israel expected that God would be nearer to them than anywhere else on their camp ground? 

The prophets of old frequently sought God on the tops of mountains, and sometimes they would seek him in forests, or even in the caves of the earth. Christ himself, on a certain occasion, took three of his disciples with him to the top of a mountain where the glorious transfiguration took place. At other times Christ went to the top of the Mount of Olives, near Jerusalem, and there poured out his heart in prayer and devotion to God, his Father. Yet the people of God have been trained to believe that while the Lord can be found anywhere, and that we cannot hide in any place, be it ever so remote, where the presence of Deity cannot be felt, there is, nevertheless, something very important attached to the matter of erecting a house to the name of the Lord, even in the building and dedicating of a meetinghouse, a tabernacle, and especially in the building and dedicating of a temple which is considered the holiest of all structures that we read of in the history of sacred architecture. 

THE TABERNACLE 

We find that the children of Israel, after they had crossed the Red Sea and were encamped in the wilderness of Sinai (where thev spent 40 years), erected a sacred structure in which they could commune with God. The Prophet Moses had spent 40 days with the Lord on Mount Sinai and God had, with his own finger, inscribed on two tablets of stone the ten commandments which Moses brought down from the mountain; and, in order to have a safe place as a depository for these sacred tablets the "Ark of the Covenant" was made and the Tabernacle erected. The Tabernacle was only a tent, 45 feet long by 15 feet wide, pitched in an enclosure which contained about one quarter of an acre of land, as we measure land in America. Inside of that enclosure stood the Tabernacle, facing east. The Tabernacle itself was divided into two parts, of which one part, called the "Holy Place," was 30 feet long and 15 feet wide, while the other part, called the "Holy of Holies" (or Sanctum Sanctorum), was 15 feet in width, length and height — thus making a complete cube. This Tabernacle became known among the children of Israel as the "Tent of Jehovah;" it was also called the "Sanctuary" and the "Tabernacle of the Congregation." In that part of the Tabernacle called the "Holy of Holies" was placed the sacred box known as the Ark of the Covenant. It was only a small box about 4 1/2 feet in length and about 2 1/2 feet in width and height, but it was covered with gold. In this chest, made of shittim wood, the two tablets of stone were placed and the priests only had access to it. 

TEMPLE OF SOLOMON 

The Tabernacle was the abode of the Lord, so to speak, while the children of Israel traveled in the wilderness, and also for many years after they reached the promised land. But in due course of time, after the Canaanites had been subdued, and after the reign of the Judges and King Saul, King David, inspired of the Lord, became desirous of building a house unto God's holy name. The Lord at that time said that he had dwelt in a tent so far, but would accept of a house that might be erected to him, in which his presence might dwell. But David was not permitted to build the house, because of his transgression, and because he had been a man of blood and war. The Lord, however, directed that his son Solomon should build the house which in due course of time was done, and thus came into existence the Temple of Solomon. 

Solomon's temple was only a small building measuring about 90 feet in length and 30 feet in width and height. Hence, it was not larger than many of our meeetinghouses. But the children of Israel were proud of their temple because of the very costly ornaments with which it was embellished. The temple was practically covered with gold — not simply with gold leaf, but with gold plate — as we understand it, and was therefore a very costly building when finished, so much so that the enemies of Israel, such as Egyptians, Assyrians and Babylonians, were frequently tempted to take Jerusalem, that they might plunder the temple of its gold and silver, its precious stones and the precious golden vessels used for sacred ordinances in the building. In Solomon's temple, which stood upon Mount Moriah (one of the four hills upon which Jerusalem is built), the children of Israel worshipped about four-hundred years. Then the captivity came, when Nebuchadnezzar attacked Judah with his armies, took Jerusalem, destroyed the temple and carried away to Babylon the golden vessels and the costly ornaments which had been placed in the temple, some of which had been obtained from Tyre, Abyssinia, Egypt and other places. 

TEMPLE OF ZERUBBABEL 

But at the end of seventy years the children of Israel returned to their native land, by permission of King Cyrus. He told the children of Israel to go back to their land and there build a temple where they had formerly worshipped. So Israel, led by Zerubbabel and other valiant leaders, returned to the land of Israel and there built a new temple, which became known as the temple of Zerubbabel. But some of the older people who had seen the temple of Solomon, and now watched the erection of the new temple, wept because it was not so costly a building as the first temple was. It was a larger structure and contained more walls and more cubic feet by one-third than the temple of Solomon, but the people of Israel did not have the gold and silver and the precious stones to ornament it with. That is why the people wept, and not because the second temple was a smaller building than the first one. 

TEMPLE OF HEROD 

The people of Israel, after the return from captivity, enjoyed that second temple, known as the temple of Zerubbabel, for something like five hundred years. In the meantime the children of Israel had been deprived of their national independence, had been conquered by the Greeks and afterwards by the Romans, and finally the Romans appointed a certain man to be king of the Jews. He was a wicked man, very wicked, indeed, according to history, but he conceived of the idea, in order to become popular with the Jews, that he would rebuild the Jewish temple. He, therefore, pulled down some of the old walls, and erected them anew, better than before, and then finished them with lavish ornaments. We sometimes speak of this building as the third temple of the Israelites. In one sense it was only one temple, because the three successive buildings were erected upon the same site. Herod simply rebuilt, or re-constructed the former temple. It was this so-called Temple of Herod in which the Savior worshipped, and that is also the temple of which the Savior said that it would be destroyed, because of the wickedness of the people, and that not one stone should be left upon another of the building. Any visitor to Jerusalem today will find that the Savior's prediction has been fulfilled to the very letter. There is not one stone left upon another of the temple of Herod, nor of the temple of Zerubbabel, but there are remnants left of Solomon's work, certain portions pertaining to the original foundations still being in existence, and in the cavities under the foundation of the temple are the so-called Solomon's stables, where the great king is supposed to have kept his horses. Thus we find in Jerusalem today workmanship dating back to about 3000 years, while the temple of Herod, as you know, was destroyed by the Romans seventy years after the birth of the Savior. 

NEPHITE TEMPLES 

Next permit me to draw your attention to the Nephites who occupied the land of America. A certain statement made by Nephi and recorded in the Book of Mormon, has caused some criticism or discussion. The Nephites had been in America only a short time, and we estimate that there could not have been more than 300 souls of them altogether at the time that Nephi wrote the following: 

"And I, Nephi, did build a temple; and I did construct it after the manner of the temple of Solomon, save it were not built of so many precious things; for they were not to be found upon the land; wherefore it could not be built like unto Solomon's temple. But the manner of the construction was like unto the temple of Solomon; and the workmanship thereof was exceeding fine." 

Many of you brethren who are comfortably fixed financially, could, single handed, build a temple like Solomon's temple with your own means. You might be obliged to follow the example of Nephi in not furnishing the building with so much silver and gold or so many precious things as did Solomon, but I venture to say that it was quite possible for a small number of Nephites to erect a temple as large as that erected by Solomon, omitting the costly ornamentations. 

It is also recorded in the Book of Mormon that the Savior, after his resurrection, appeared to the Nephites in "the temple in the Land Bountiful." We do not know how many more temples were erected by them. On my recent visit to South America, I saw a number of temple ruins, and I could not help thinking that perhaps I stood face to face with some of the walls and temple ruins which had been erected by the God-fearing Nephites over 2,000 years ago. Of course, I have no way of proving that these temples were erected by the Nephites, but such was my first thought when I saw the remnants of the temple of the sun in Cuzco, Peru, and other temple ruins elsewhere. 

TEMPLES ERECTED BY LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

The Latter-day Saints have erected eight temples since the organization of the Church, all of which have been dedicated and used for holy ordinances. Besides these completed temples, three other temple sites have been dedicated, upon one of which a temple is in course of erection, at Mesa, Arizona. 

TEMPLE SITE AT INDEPENDENCE 

The Church was not much more than a year old when the subject of temple building became popular among its members, as the Lord had commanded his people to erect such buildings. Almost immediately after the arrival of the first colony of Latter-day Saints in Missouri, a temple site was dedicated at Independence, Jackson county, August 3, 1831, but nothing further has hitherto been done toward the erection of that temple, as the Saints were expelled from Jackson county by mobs, in 1833. The temple site is now in the hands of the so-called Hedrickites, but the Saints expect in the future to erect a magnificent house of the Lord in Independence. 

KIRTLAND TEMPLE 

On the 1st of June, 1833, the Lord directed the Saints to build a temple at Kirtland, Ohio, and on July 23, 1833, the corner stones were laid. In less than three years after that the temple was completed and on March 27, 1836, it was dedicated by Joseph Smith the Prophet. One week later, April 3, 1836, the Savior and other holy personages appeared in the temple and committed sacred keys of the Priesthood to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Among others, Elijah, the Prophet, appeared and delivered to the elders named, certain keys whereby the Saints since have been enabled to perform sacred ordinances for themselves and their friends and relatives beyond the veil. The Kirtland temple passed out of the hands of the Saints through persecutions of apostates and mob element. It is a rock building 80 feet long and 60 feet wide; the walls are 50 feet high and the top of the tower is 110 feet above the ground. This temple is situated on an elevation overlooking the surrounding country, about two and one-half miles from Willoughby and 18 miles from the center of Cleveland, Ohio. 

TEMPLE SITE IN FAR WEST, MISSOURI 

Ground was broken for a temple in Far West, Missouri, July 3, 1837, and the corner stones were laid July 4, 1838. Nothing further was done until April 26, 1839, when the twelve apostles, in fulfilment of a revelation, held a secret meeting or conference on the temple site and re-commenced the building of the temple by rolling a large stone up to one of the corners. This temple, which would have been 110 feet long and 80 feet wide, according to plan, was never built, because the Saints were driven from Missouri, in 1839. The site, however, is now owned by the Church. 

NAUVOO TEMPLE 

Soon after the Saints had settled in Illinois, preparations were made for the erection of a temple and the corner stones of such a building were laid in Nauvoo, Hancock county, Illinois, April 6, 1841. At the time of the Prophet's martyrdom the walls were up to the windows of the first story, but under the direction of President Brigham Young, the temple was so far completed that the attic story could be dedicated Nov. 30, 1845, and endowments were given in that part of the building during the winter of 1845-46. The whole building was privately dedicated by Joseph Young, April 30, 1846, and publicly dedicated by Orson Hyde, May 1, 1846. No endowment had been given in the Kirtland temple, but the ordinance of washing of feet was attended to in that building. Joseph the Prophet gave sacred endowments to certain leaders of the Church as early as May, 1842, or about four years prior to the completion of the Nauvoo temple. 

There was no baptismal font in the Kirtland temple, but such a font was built in the basement of the Nauvoo temple and baptism for the dead performed in it as early as November, 1841. The Nauvoo temple, which was 128 feet long from east to west and 88 feet wide, with a spire 165 feet high, was burned by an incendiary October 9, 1848, and the walls were blown down by a hurricane, May 27, 1850. There is now not one stone left upon another of that magnificent edifice which cost the Church nearly a million dollars. 

ST. GEORGE TEMPLE 

Although a temple had been in course of erection in Salt Lake City since 1853, it was decided by the authorities of the Church to erect a temple in southern Utah, and the site for such a building was dedicated in St. George, Utah, Nov. 9, 1871, by George A. Smith, and the ground broken the same day. The mason work was commenced March 10, 1873, the lower part of the building was dedicated Jan. 1, 1877, and the whole building was dedicated April 6, 1877, by Daniel H. Wells. This temple is 141 feet long and 93 feet wide. The walls, built of red sandstone, measure 84 feet from the ground to the top of the parapets, and the tower is 135 feet high. Its erection represents an outlay of at least $500,000. 

LOGAN TEMPLE 

The temple site of Logan, Cache county, Utah, was dedicated May 18, 1877, and the corner stones were laid Sept. 17, 1877. Seven years were spent in its erection and the building was dedicated May 17, 1884. The Logan temple, which occupies an elevation in the upper part of the city of Logan, is 171 feet long and 95 feet wide. The walls are 82 feet high and there are two towers, the one on the east end being 170 feet and the one on the west end 165 feet high. The cost of construction is estimated at about $800,000. 

MANTI TEMPLE 

The temple site at Manti, Sanpete county, Utah, was dedicated by President Brigham Young April 25, 1877, and the ground was broken five days later, April 30, 1877. The corner stones were laid April 14, 1879, but prior to that date much work had been done and considerable means expended in preparing the ground, as the temple is built on the top of a hill, known since 1849, as Temple Hill, in the outskirts of the City of Manti. This temple, which is visible from nearly all parts of Sanpete Valley is, like the Logan temple, 171 feet long and 95 feet wide. The walls are about 85 feet high. The east tower is 179 feet and the west tower 169 feet high. The building, which was dedicated May 21, 1888, including the preparations of the ground, cost about $1,000,000. 

SALT LAKE CITY TEMPLE 

The temple site in Salt Lake City was selected by President Brigham Young, July 28, 1847, four days after the arrival of President Brigham Young in the Great Salt Lake Valley, and dedicated Feb. 14, 1853. The corner stones were laid April 6, 1853, the capstone placed in position April 6, 1892, and the building dedicated by President Wilford Woodruff, April 6, 1893. Hence, the erection of the Salt Lake temple took 40 years and the estimated cost is $4,000,000. The Salt Lake City temple is built of beautiful granite, quarried in the mouth of Little Cottonwood canyon, about 20 miles from Salt Lake City. It stands on the east half of the Temple Block and occupies a central position in Salt Lake City. This temple is 186 1/2 feet long and 99 feet wide. It has three towers on the east and also three on the west end. The main tower, which is the central tower on the east end, is 225 feet high and is surmounted by a statue of the Angel Moroni. The Salt Lake temple is by far the largest and most costly temple building erected by the Latter-day Saints. 

HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 

On the occasion of a visit to the Hawaiian Islands of President Joseph F. Smith, Elder Reed Smoot, of the Council of the Twelve, and Bishop Charles W. Nibley, in the summer of 1915, the erection of a temple at Hawaii was discussed, and on the first of June, 1915, President Joseph F. Smith, in the presence of the two brethren named, selected and dedicated a spot at Laie, on the island of Oahu, for the erection of a temple. The matter was laid before the general conference, held in Salt Lake City, Oct. 3, 1915, and it was then decided by unanimous vote to erect a temple in Hawaii, in the interest of the Polynesian Saints. Work on the building was begun early in 1916 and the temple dedicated by President Heber J. Grant, Nov. 27, 1919. The Hawaiian temple is situated on an eminence commanding an unobstructed view of the ocean. It is built in the shape of a Grecian cross and measures 102 feet from east to west and 78 feet from north to south. The central portion of the edifice, which has no towers, rises to a height of 50 feet and the temple grounds are most beautifully ornamented with all kinds of tropical vegetation. 

ALBERTA TEMPLE 

A temple site at Cardston, Alberta, Canada, was dedicated July 27, 1913, by President Joseph F. Smith. Later the corner stone was laid, under the direction of Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve. The temple, which is built in the shape of a Maltese cross, measures 165 feet from north to south and the same distance from east to west. The walls are three feet thick and the height of the building 110 feet. Like the Hawaiian temple it has no towers. The sacred edifice was dedicated Aug. 26, 1923, by President Heber J. Grant, in the presence of many of the general authorities of the Church. This temple, known as the Alberta temple, occupies, like all other temples, of the Latter-day Saints, elevated ground, which overlooks much of the surrounding country, and has cost about $782,000. It is the first temple erected outside of territory belonging to the United States, and it is considered quite appropriate that a temple should be built in a British dominion, as the British Empire has contributed so many thousands of faithful converts to the great latter-day work. 

ARIZONA TEMPLE 

The site for a temple in Mesa, Arizona, was dedicated December 1, 1921, by President Heber J. Grant and is now in course of construction. The corner stone will probably be laid next month. 

Now, just a word or two in conclusion: The Latter-day Saints having erected eight temples in these last days, and knowing now for what purposes temples in our day are erected they should be energetic in attending to the sacred ordinances which have been revealed. It is true that the children of Israel built their temples different to ours, as the ordinance work in them was done by men bearing the Aaronic Priesthood, while the temples built by the Latter-day Saints are officiated in by the Melchizedek Priesthood. Consequently, the internal arrangements of the temple of the Israelites were different to ours. The temple, erected in Kirtland, Ohio, was also different in the inner arrangements to those subsequently built, but commencing with the Nauvoo temple, and ending so far with the Canadian temple, the interior of all the temples are in most particulars the same, and used for holy ordinances. 

May God help us to be true and faithful in the discharge of our duties, regarding temple work, so that we indeed may become saviors on Mount Zion and do what the Lord wants us to do in the temples, while we are trying also to be faithful in all things which the Lord has commanded us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER GEORGE S. TAYLOR 

(Former President of the New Zealand Mission.) 

After an absence of nearly three years from the midst of the Saints of Zion it is indeed a pleasure to have the privilege of once more associating with you and of listening to the inspiring talks which have been given by the leaders of this people. 

I will report that the work in New Zealand is progressing in a satisfactory manner. In relation to the elders and sisters who are laboring there, Brother Young has relieved me of ten minutes of my time by describing the elders and sisters of that mission. You who have boys or girls there have ocassion to be proud of them. Of all the things that have been spoken during this conference, my mind has been most impressed with the remarks of President Grant, made at the opening of this conference, wherein he urged upon the Latter-day Saints the necessity of family and secret prayers. I would call to your attention the fact that it was the prayer offered by the boy Joseph Smith which opened this dispensation of the gospel, which brought again to the world the knowledge which they had lost, a knowledge of God our eternal Father and of his son Jesus Christ, that they are living, immortal beings. And it was the prayers of that same boy, the Prophet Joseph Smith, which gave unto us the revelations which are contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. You will find, my brethren and sisters, in studying these various revelations, that they were invariably given in answer to prayer. 

Your boys and girls who are laboring in the missionary fields are receiving knowlege that they know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; they know that the leaders of this Church are inspired men, called of God to perform the labors of leading this people and teaching them the principles of eternal life. 

I have been somewhat surprised, during my experience in that land, to find that quite a number of our boys have never been in the habit of attending meetings; so much have they neglected the opportunities that have been offered them that they have never heard an apostle, or one of the Presidency of the Church, deliver a sermon. Have any of you sons and daughters in this condition? It is doubtless true that many of you are living in remote villages, but question yourselves: have you sons and daughters who have never heard one of the general authorities of the Church raise his voice and address the Latter-day Saints? If so, you are neglecting your opportunities; you are depriving your sons and your daughters of blessings that of right belong to them. 

During my labors in that land, I had the extreme pleasure of welcoming to the mission the first of the general authorities of the Church to visit that mission. The work of the Lord has been carried on there for some sixty-two years, and the Saints had prayed times without number that one or more of the general authorities of the Church might be sent, that they might have the pleasure and privilege of hearing their testimony, and we certainly rejoiced in the blessings that were brought to us when Elder David O. McKay of the Council of the Twelve, and President Hugh J. Cannon, paid a visit to that land. During the conference we have heard a number of references to certain inspired meetings that have been held in different parts of the earth. I can testify to you that during the visit of Elder McKay and President Cannon we had one of those inspired meetings. Those who had the privilege of attending that meeting will never forget the spirit which was poured out and the testimonies which were offered at that time. 

I have rejoiced in the labor of the ministry. I know that I am engaged in the work of God, that this Church is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that only through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints we can hope for an entrance into and an exaltation in the kingdom of God. I testify of these things, for I know that they are true. I testify that God has heard and answered my prayers and the prayers of the elders laboring in the New Zealand mission, and I testify unto you that if you will seek him in earnestness and in faith, he will answer unto you the desires of your hearts. 

May we earnestly seek him is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER CARL E. PETERSON 

(Former President of the Danish Mission) 

It is now four years and a half since I had the privilege of attending our general conference, and it is over four years since I left for my mission to preside over the Scandinavian mission. Norway and Denmark, four years ago, were called the Scandinavian mission. In 1920, it was decided by the authorities of the Church to make two missions out of the Scandinavian mission, naming one the Norwegian and the other the Danish mission. Copenhagen has always been the headquarters for the Scandinavian mission from the very first time, seventy years ago, when Apostle Erastns Snow came to Copenhagen to open the gospel door to the Scandinavian people. From that time, until the mission was divided, Copenhagen has been the headquarters, and in one sense we may call it yet the headquarters, as far as Norway and Denmark are concerned, because the publications of the Church are still published in the Danish language, and both Norway and Denmark are supplied with the literature of the Church from Copenhagen, with the exception of a semi-monthly paper called Morgenstjernen which was published in Norway since it became an independent mission. However, in the first place, it was decided that the Scandinavian Star should be the periodical for the two missions, but for some reason permission was given to the Norwegian people to publish their own Star, in Christiania. Otherwise, Copenhagen is supplying the mission with all the other books. 

We had a wonderful time, a glorious time, a time of rejoicing over in those countries. This is not my first experience in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark; because I have spent over thirteen years as a missionary in those countries, and hence, I am well acquainted with the conditions of the people, and their characteristics. The Scandinavian people are highly educated. They are progressive, independent, and intellectual; they have the best school system that can be found in the world; in fact, Denmark stands right at the top of the ladder as far as education is concerned. And I say to you that you cannot go from one end of Denmark to the other and find a normal boy or girl, eight years old, who cannot read and write. I say this because I know it is a fact. 

We have enjoyed freedom and liberty to preach the gospel in Denmark as you have right here in the valleys of the mountains. We are not ridiculed. We are respected wherever we go. If you appear as respectable men and women, you will be respected and honored, and in particular by what is termed the better class of people. The most highly educated people are the most tolerant. With them you can have interesting conversations, even from the king on his throne. He is willing to listen to you if you get the privilege of visiting him. It may be connected with a great deal of difficulty and preliminaries on the part of the American minister before you get the privilege, but if you get it, you will be received by him and he will enter into conversation with you relative to the religious, the social, and economic conditions prevailing here in the valleys of the mountains. He will go into details as to the resources of our glorious state. He seems to be familiar with conditions existing here. And he will carry on an interesting conversation, whether you desire to speak to him in Danish, French, German, or Italian or in the English language. He speaks perfectly the English language. So you do not need to be afraid if you go over there, some of you, perhaps thinking that you are scholars — you need not be afraid to employ the most complicated sentences and phrases that you may desire to employ in your conversation, indicating to him that you are highly educated and capable, because he will understand every phrase and word that you can utter to him in the English language and will reply to you in just as beautiful and perfect English as if he had resided in the United States all his life. And we find the same characteristic all through the whole country of Denmark. The people are highly educated, they are tolerant, they are willing to listen to you if you have anything to give them. They care not whether you represent the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or any other church; they will listen to you just as well because you are a "Mormon," as we are called, as if you were a member of any other church; it makes no difference. 

The question with the Danish people is this: Has this person who introduces himself as a special representative of a church or of a nation anything in particular to impart to us that we are not familiar with? If he has something new, something interesting, something educational, something poetical, something elevating the Danish people will listen to it with the greatest attention, and you will never be disturbed in any town or village, but you will be protected. In fact, the highest authorities asked me the question whether we ever had any trouble. I said, "No, never." "But," said they, "if trouble ever should occur, let us know and we will send you all the necessary protection you desire; because you have just as much right and privilege to proclaim the doctrines that you believe to be correct as any other church or denomination." 

O, there is so much to say regarding the Danish people! And I speak this because I am not Danish. If I were, you would say that I was egotistic, but because I am not, I speak without restraint; because I have found the Danish people, from the king on the throne to the most humble, to be endowed with these beautiful, admirable characteristics. And I say it to you who have ambitions to go to Denmark as representatives of the Church, and ask you the prepare yourselves, because you will go to a people who are highly educated and expect something from you when you come to them; and if you desire pleasure and satisfaction and joy in the ministry in Denmark, you must prepare yourself; for the time has come when the Danish people will never listen any more to illiteracy or ignorance. I say this to you from practical observation and experience. Whenever we have capable elders, people flock in great numbers to listen to them, and on the other hand when we are not favored with such representatives, the meetings are very small, and very few come, and they come only as a matter of duty. Hence, I say to you, "Let us prepare ourselves for the great work that lies before us, because the world is growing along intellectual lines and there are better people living today, yes, more intellectual people living in the world today, than ever before. There are more choice spirits coming to the world today than ever in the past, and there will be still more as the millennial dawn draws near at hand, because they will come here to enjoy the privileges of taking upon themselves bodies to be prepared for the great blessings in store for those who are permitted to enter into the glorious millennial reign of Jesus Christ when he shall come. 

Well, I must close. God bless you. I thank you for your attention. I rejoice in having this privilege of attending this most enthusiastic and interesting conference. God's Spirit has been poured out upon all the congregations that I have attended during this conference. I pray God's blessing upon President Grant, upon all the authorities of the Church, and the Latter-day Saints, at home and abroad, that the day may speedily come when righteousness shall prevail upon the earth and truth shall be acknowleged from one end of the earth to the other, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

The afternoon has been well spent. We have heard from the previous speakers much that has been very profitable and it is not my intention to keep this congregation more than a few minutes. Were I to give way to my feelings, I would rather not speak, but as President Grant has sent over six of us to address you this afternoon, I feel that I should not be doing my duty unless I spoke to you.

This conference has been one that will be long remembered. We have been fed with the bread of life. We have received the word of God from those who hold the Priesthood, after the order of his Son, and they have given us instructions concerning our spiritual upbuilding and comfort, and concerning our temporal affairs. The scriptures have been opened to us; the experiences in the lives of our brethren have been given to us with profit and benefit, and I hope when we go home we shall do so determined to put into practice these instructions and take to our families the spirit of this great conference. Let me suggest that around our home fires in the evening, we tell our sons and daughters and others, our impressions of the conference, reciting the instructions and advice that we have received. It is very necessary that this be done, as not more than one out of every forty Latter-day Saints have heard the speakers during this conference. 

"Mormonism" is to me a modern marvel; and how did it come? It came from that overwhelming idea of the boy prophet, Joseph, to go into the woods and ask his Father, in faith believing, which church should he join, and in that simple prayer of a boy, and the visit of the Father and the Son who came in answer to that prayer, has brought about this wonderful work of which we are a part. The Lord chose to take an unlettered boy unlearned and unsophisticated in the things of the world, but with a simple child-like faith to start his great work, and on that boy's prayer began the whole structure of "Mormonism." 

There is something unique about this great work. It was not split off from any sect or party like nearly all the sects of the day have been, but it came direct from our Father in heaven when the set time had come to establish his great work in the latter days, and the message of the gospel appealed to the honest in heart; to those who were sweet in their lives and habits. Wherever the gospel went, they picked up these rugged, frugal, honest, God-fearing people, and under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord they accepted the gospel and upon them came the spirit of gathering. This gathering came to them as a part of the power and gift of this great work, and will come upon all those who accept the gospel in foreign lands. 

Another part of this great miracle of "Mormonism" is to be seen right here in the valleys of the mountains, where men and women who previously held all shades of theories and ideas concerning religious matters, and many of them rooted deeply in the traditions of the world, on hearing the sound of the gospel, their minds were clarified; they understood its principles; they come here and mingle with one another until there has been welded here a solid body of people with the highest ideas of spirituality and religion that the world has yet seen. 

We should be thankful that we have been permitted to come on the earth in this dispensation, when this wonderful gospel, with all its gifts and powers and blessings, has been restored, and we have been permitted to partake of these blessings. Mighty men and prophets of old, men who have headed dispensations and whose works are partly recorded in the Scriptures, have longed for this time; and some have desired to live in this dispensation, when the Lord intended to gather together the works of all dispensations and establish his Church, never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. 

Let me ask you, as a bishop, to go home with determination to observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy before the Lord; to pay your tithes and offerings in the time and the season thereof; to sit down alone with your conscience once a month and see what the Lord has given you, and tithe it there and then. Remember your sacrament meetings, and renew your determination to be at the table of the Lord to partake of the emblems of his body and blood in remembrance of his sufferings, and renew your covenants with him. Nothing should interfere with this duty and privilege, for it is a privilege of every Latter-day Saint to be present at the Lord's table to partake of the sacrament and remember of his death and sufferings. 

Let us continue that friendly, neighborly, helpful cooperation among the communities of the Latter-day Saints. Let us build up business on cooperative principles of mutual helpfulness and ownership. Let us get rid of some of our envy and pride and let us also get rid of the habit of spending in excess of our earnings. Let us avoid speculation, and if we have spare means to invest, let it be done in well established and well developed businesses and institutions. Let us free ourselves from the bondage of debt. The Lord never intended his people to be in bondage to any community or to any person. We can only keep out of bondage by keeping out of debt. 

In the very nature of things we may expect panics. We may expect hard times. The chastening hand of the Lord will be felt throughout the world, but the man who is out of debt, who owns his home, who owns the land he cultivates, who is not borrowing, will not be seriously affected by panics. 

Above all, let us train our young people, around the family table, in the principles of the gospel and the obligation we owe to the Lord and to one another as Latter-day Saints, remembering our secret prayers, as well as our family prayers night and morning, for, after all, it rests upon the fathers and mothers of the children of Zion to train them in the fear and admonition of the Lord. 

Sometimes I think the world is ripening for destruction, but I do hope and pray the Lord will stay the avenging angels until the honest in heart throughout the world, particularly the House of Israel, have heard the gospel and have had the opportunity of gathering to Zion. 

May the Lord bless us. May his spirit be with us. May this conference be one long to be remembered, for its deep spirituality and the influences that have come through associations with one another, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

An anthem, "Christ our Passover," solo by Miss Ellis Timpson, was sung by the choir. Benediction was pronounced by Willard C. Burton, of the Granite stake of Zion. 


