Morning
06 10 1933

The large auditorium and galleries of the great Tabernacle were well filled when the time for opening the Conference arrived. 

The first session commenced promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday morning, October 6, 1933, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

Elder Wilford A. Beesley, President of the Salt Lake Stake, offered the invocation. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, who, by the unanimous vote of the assembly were sustained in their various offices and callings as follows : . 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Stephen L. Richards - ~ 

Reed Smoot Richard R. Lyman 

George Albert Smith Melvin J. Ballard 

George F. Richards John A. Widtsoe 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis The Counselors in the First Presidency, and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Levi Edgar Young 

Rulon S. Wells Antoine R. Ivins 

Charles H. Hart Samuel O. Bennion 

John H. Taylor 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph F. Merrill Adam S. Bennion Arthur Winter, Secretary and. Treasurer 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Orval W. Adams John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President Anthony C. Lund, Conductor 

B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper Wade N. Stephens 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints," the great pioneer song with, the many memories it brings to me every time I hear it, has changed my program today. 

The first thing I am going to read will be from section 136 of the Doctrine and Covenants. This is "the word and will of the Lord" given to President Brigham Young: 

"And if any man shall seek to build up himself, and seeketh not my counsel, he shall have no power, and his folly shall be made manifest. 

"Seek ye; and keep all your pledges one with another and covet not that which is thy brother's." 

AVOID COVETOUSNESS 

I cannot think of anything that appeals to me as being the mind and 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 5 

the will of the Lord stronger-than the last words that I have read, namely : "Covet not that which is thy brother's." 

I want to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints not to covet that which belongs to any public institution, or that which belongs to any city, or county, or the governinent of the United States, Unless I have been misinformed, many people have said, speaking of the distribution by the government of supplies to the people: "Well, others are getting some, why should not I get some of it." 

FORTY-FIVE YEARS AGO AND NOW 

I believe that there is a growing disposition among the people to try to get something from the government of the United States with little hope of ever paying it back. I think this is all wrong. I believe that there is not that same moral sense among the people today that there was forty-five years ago. Forty-five years ago I was associated in business with my brother and my cousin-in-law, and the first year we sold a hundred and twenty thousand dollars worth of goods, and ninety thousand dollars worth of those goods were sold on time to the farmers. We borrowed the money to carry these debts, and we netted $100.50 for every one hundred dollars we had trusted the farmers. The loss was only $300 and the interest received paid this, and fifty cents per hundred more. 

I am connected with that same company now, and it is known as the Consolidated Wagon and Machine Company. During the past few years we have had to charge off over one million dollars of loss on farmers' paper. I do not attribute all of this to a lack of honesty, but there are a great many people who are not honest today. 

I remember very distinctly that while I was in Europe J. M. Studebaker visited Salt Lake and was interviewed. He was the last of that quartette of wonderful men, the Studebaker brothers, who made buggies and wagons. He said that the only State or Territory in the union of the United States where they had sold wagons and buggies on time for ten long years, and where every wagon and buggy was paid for in full, was in Utah. That was a marvelous compliment to the people of Utah. 

SHOULD KEEP PLEDGES 

Remember that it is the mind and will of the Lord that we keep our pledges. 

"Keep yourselves from evil to take the name of the Lord in vain, for I am the Lord your God, even the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob. 

"I am he who led the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, and my arm is stretched out in the last days to save my people Israel. 

"Cease to contend one with another; cease to speak evil one of another." 

FAULT FINDING DENOUNCED 

A growing evil among our people is to criticise and find fault. I think there is no hymn in the hymn book that I prize more highly — and 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

it was the first one that I learned by heart — than "Should you feel inclined to censure" : 

"Should you feel inclined to censure Faults you may in others view, Ask your own heart, ere you venture, If that has not failings too. 

Let not friendly vows he broken; Rather strive a friend to gain; Many a word in anger spoken Finds its passage home again. 

Do not, then, in idle pleasure, Trifle with a brother's fame, Guard it as a valued treasure. Sacred as your own good name. 

Do not form opinions blindly; Hastiness 1 to trouble tends. Those of whom we thought unkindly, Oft become our warmest friends." 

Learn it by heart. You will find it on page 66 of our old hymn book. You cannot forget the page — 'the 6th of April and the 6th of October make 66 — so when you go home don't say you cannot remember it, because you cannot forget that number if you try. Learn it by heart and put it into your lives, and it will be valuable to you. 

"Cease drunkenness; and let your words tend to edifying one another." 

DANGER IN REPEAL 

Let me promise you right here and now that if you vote for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, there will be a great many more professing Latter-day Saints who will be drunkards than there have been while the Eighteenth Amendment has been in force. 

By the way, I received a postal card — the man who sent it did not have the courage to sign his name — asking me not to talk on the Word of Wisdom at this conference. I request each and every Latter-day Saint within the sound of my voice to read what I said about the Word of Wisdom just six months ago. Every word that I said I meant, and among other things I said I hoped and prayed that we as a people would not vote for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. Really, I was almost tempted this morning to read my whole sermon over again, and let it go at that, I think I shall have it printed — in fact I will have it printed, and anyone of you who wants a copy, or a half dozen copies of it, can write and get them. 

"If thou borrowest of thy neighbor — " Let me add, or anybody elste — "thou shalt restore that which thou hast borrowed; and if thou canst not repay then go straightway and tell thy neighbor, lest he condemn thee." 

AVOID BANKRUPTCY 

That is one of the finest verses that was ever written, and please 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 7 

remember that this I am reading is "the word and the will of the Lord." In other words, do not take the bankruptcy act unless somebody knocks you down. All of my dear friends, many years ago when I was ruined in their judgment beyond the peradventure of a doubt, and there was no possibility, as far as they were able to see, of my ever being able to pay my debts, begged me to take the bankruptcy act. I said : "Not if I live a hundred and ten years. I will go on paying." And in the providences of the Lord I paid all of my debts. 

Now, I am not condemning those who have to take the bankruptcy act; but I know of men whom I have begged and pleaded with to not take the bankruptcy act, who, if they had only had the nerve, the faith, and the willingness to work, would have come out all right. One man took the bankruptcy act and left me carrying his obligation as I recall of $12,700, with $9,000 security, or a loss of $3,700. But eventually I made a profit of several thousand more than $3,700 by assuming the debt and carrying the securities for a few years. 

REVELATIONS FROM THE LORD 

"If thou shalt find that which thy neighbor has lost, thou Shalt make diligent search till thou shalt deliver it to him again. 

"Thou shalt be diligent in preserving what thou hast," — in other words, do not be wasteful — "that thou mayest be a wise steward; for it is the free gift of the Lord thy God, and thou art his steward." 

I commend to you that you read all of that section. I have read only verses 19 to 27, I will read one more verse : 

"If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving." 

One of the great testimonies to me of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged is the revelations that were given before the Church was organized, and that are recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. I commend that you read all of the very first section of the Doctrine and Covenants. It is a very wonderful section indeed. I have decided to read a few verses of it : 

"And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people." 

* * * * 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens 1 and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same." 

REVELATION TO PROPHET'S FATHER 

Section 4 of the Doctrine and Covenants is a revelation given to the father of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in February, 1829, a year before the Church was organized : 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to oome forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God; see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his 1 sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity, and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 

"white already to harvest" 

Many of these revelations given before the Church was organized announced- that the field was white already to harvest. 

When I stop to think that Wilf ord Woodruff baptized some eighteen hundred people in less than a year in Herefordshire, England, and that Orson Pratt baptized several thousand people in his missionary work, I realize that the field was indeed ready to harvest. 

We have had as high as twenty-three hundred missionaries out in the field for one year, and they did not accomplish as much as Wilford Woodruff accomplished in one year. His labors were simply marvelous to me. The field was "white, ready to harvest." 

Today is a day of gleaning. 

"THOU SHALT NOT BE IDLE" 

I read now from section 42, 42nd to 46th verses : 

"Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." 

I heard of a case of a man and his wife and their boy calling on the governor of the'state who had a job for the boy. I believe that the amount he was to receive was thirty dollars a month. The man and the woman said : "Our boy shall not work for thirty dollars a month. We will beg first; we will steal first." I hope that this story has been exaggerated. Thirty dollars a month when I was a child would have been a fortune. I am sure that my dear departed mother took care of herself and me on one-half of that amount. We did not have any butter on our bread, however. We did not sit up nights and have a fire burning, because we could not afford it. We went to bed very early. Why? Because we had plenty of bed clothes. 

"And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be nourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy. 

"And the elders of the Church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name; and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live, they shall live unto me. 

"Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 9 

of them that die, and more especially for those that have not a hope of a glorious resurrection. 

"And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them." 

I now read from section 88, verses 124 and 125 : 

"Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated. 

"And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace." 

I now read from section 58, verses 26 to 29: 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass" much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." 

"mind and will" of god 

I have heard any number of Latter-day Saints say, "Why, the Word of Wisdom is not a commandment." What does the Word of Wisdom say? That it is the mind and the will of the Lord. And why was it given? "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days," and a more damnable and evil design was never in the heart of any man than the advertisements that we see on the billboards showing a beautiful woman with an engagement or wedding ring, the smoke of the cigarette making the ring. 

What is the purpose of these advertisements? To get money by selling cigarettes to destroy the mind and the body and the intelligence of boys and girls. I get hot in the collar, as the saying is, every time I think of the millions upon millions, and the billions upon billions, of cigarettes that are consumed. 

A SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM 

Do you want to know how to obtain temporal salvation? Not only the Latter-day Saints, but all the world would have the solution of that problem if there were no tea, coffee, liquor nor tobacco used in the world. Peace, prosperity, and happiness would come to the entire world. 

I now read from section 130: 

"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." 

I know of no one of our general authorities Who has studied more or was better posted — 1 know of no one of them who has been a greater 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

promulgator of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, than were the two men who were with us six months ago — James E. Talmage, and Brigham H. Roberts — who have since passed away. They will go on progressing beyond the grave and using that marvelous store of knowledge and information that they had gained. We miss them, the whole Church will miss them. 

BLESSINGS PROMISED 

"There is 1 a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated." 

Spiritual and temporal salvation, with the destroying angel passing us by will come from observing the Word of Wisdom. It would solve ail the problems of the Latter-day Saints, and of the nation, and of the world, if it were obeyed. Notwithstanding the fact that this anonymous Latter-day Saint asked me not to say anything about the Word of Wisdom, as I said before, you can read nearly an hour's sermon about it if you will read my sermon preached in this tabernacle six months ago. 

May the Lord bless and inspire all who shall speak during the conference. May we grow in the light and knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May each and every one of us who has a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged so live it in honesty in the daily affairs of life, so live it in energy and not in idleness, and so live it that those seeing our good deeds may be led to investigate the Gospel and receive that sweet and wonderful testimony that gives us a knowledge of the divinity of the mission and the Godliness of the mission of Jesus Christ our Savior and our Redeemer, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Mirl Lindsay rendered a solo, "The eternity of love." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters, I stand before you in the depths of humility. I did not receive an inkling that my name would be presented this morning, and I feel one of the weakest of God's creatures. 

The first miraculous manifestation I received when I was a youth was through President Heber J. Grant when he delivered a sermon in Coalville in the Summit Stake of Zion. The President, whom I dearly love, has always made a profound impression upon me in my life. I love all of the General Authorities of the Church. I know that they are men of God. I know, too, as sure as I stand here that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I know by the same power that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I am in absolute harmony with all that the General Authorities of the Church have done. 

Brethren and sisters, I desire to spend my time in your service. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 11 

God help me to always be faithful and humble, and to always love his people and his work, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I wish first to express my delight in the choice that has been made to fill the vacancies in the Council of the Twelve and in the First Council of the Seventy, as presented here this morning by President Grant. I have known President Callis and President John H. Taylor for many years. I have labored with Brother Callis in the mission field, have had his confidence, and know him to be a man of God, one who will give his life if necessary for the truth. 

I have been closely associated with Brother Taylor in the Missionary Home. I know his integrity to the truth. I know his reliability and soundness. I know he comprehends as few men comprehend the needs of missionaries. It is highly fitting for him to be called into the First Council of the Seventy, the special mission of which is to direct the missionary work of the Church and to instruct the Seventies of the Church as missionaries. I congratulate the Church upon these appointments. I know Sister Callis and Sister Taylor, and know them to be wise women, worthy to share the great honor that has come to their husbands. They are faithful and true and capable. God bless these brethren and sisters in the great responsibility that has come to them. 

ME WORTH OF THE INDIVIDUAL 

"Remember the worth of souls." This divine admonition suggests the topic about which I desire to speak; namely, The Worth of the Individual. 

If, as it has been said, the babe "is the center of the universe," then man is the center of all social activity. "Man is the jewel of God, who has created this material world to keep His treasure in." This is just another way of saying that the earth was created for man and not man for the earth. 

/ am one of those who believe that all institutions and organizations exist primarily for the purpose of securing to the individual his rights, his happiness and proper development of his character. As soon as organizations fail to accomplish this purpose their usefulness ceases. "So act," says Kant, "as to treat humanity, whether in your own person or that of another, in every case as an end, never as a means only." 

In all ages of the world men have been prone to ignore the personality of others, to disregard men's rights by closing against them the opportunity to develop. The worth of man is a good measuring rod by which we may judge of the rightfulness or wrongfulness of a policy or principle whether in government, in business or social affairs. 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF BRUTE FORCE 

Taking a long glance at the world's history with its confused mass 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of tangled events, we can glimpse an ever-increasing group momentum in favor of the rights of the individual. There was a time even since history began, when men were ruled by the aristocracy of brute force. Under this condition developed such group powers as the Huns, who ruled at one time all peoples between the Caspian and the Chinese borders. Under this power the masses were but serfs. Indeed all conquered groups were compelled to pay tribute to the conquerors. Those who refused were either subdued or exterminated. At one time, for example, the entire region between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean was laid waste. A good illustration of "man's inhumanity to man." 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF BIRTH 

Centuries passed and we find the world governed principally by the aristocracy of birth. This ruling power was climaxed in the declaration of the weak king, James the Sixth of Scotland, who became James the First of England, and who made the declaration that kings rule by divine right. Under this regime also, the individual who represents the masses was but a vassal whose principal right to existence in the mind of the ruling class was to pay tribute. For eleven years, Charles the First, son of James the First, contrary to the spirit and express declaration of the Magna Charta, ruled without a parliament. His tyrannical usurpation of power and his refusal to recognize the rights of his subjects proved his undoing. 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF WEALTH 

However, the aristocracy of birth has crumbled. Thrones of Emperors and Kings are today unoccupied. Titles may be bought for the fourth of a common fortune, or for the wealth of an actress. In the meantime there has arisen in the world another centralized power which may be called the aristocracy of wealth, in which success and influence seem in proportion to the amount a man possesses. Under that regime big business seems more concerned about raising the value of things than in raising the standard of living. Men are used to make money instead of money being used to make men. Of course, man is the ultimate means of wealth, but this personal power should not be exploited by any man or force advantageously situated. 

We are living in an age of changing opinions, of swiftly shifting human relations. Man's wisdom seems baffled. In all our readjustments, plans and policies we cannot do better than keep in mind the divine admonition that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. 

THE END OF ALL SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS 

There has been no little discussion as to whether the individual or society is the great end of all social developments. "From the Christian point of view there needs be no hesitancy in the answer so far as man is concerned. The saved individual is the supreme end of the Divine Will." 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 13 

Jesus always sought the welfare of the individual, and individuals grouped and laboring for the mutual welfare of the whole in conformity with the principles of the Gospel constitute the Kingdom of God. Many of the choicest truths of the Gospel were given in conversations with individuals. It was while Jesus talked with Nicodemus that He gave us the message relative to baptism and being born again. From the conversation with the woman of Samaria we have disclosed the truth that they who worship God must worship in spirit and in truth. From that with Mary and Martha we get the divine declaration, "I am the resurrection, and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." 

Jesus' regard for personality was supreme. When the Pharisees dragged into his presence the woman taken in adultery, Christ saw through the soul that had been stained with sin the personality that still contained the spark of hope, which He kindled into a light that warmed and guided a personality back to confidence and perhaps to righteousness. 

THE PRESENT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION 

I said that we are living in an age of shifting uncertainties. Recently I saw an expressive cartoon which depicted an engine on an old railroad track, from which a train loaded with people was being pulled in another direction by a tractor which had left the rails and started out over an unbeaten track. The President of the United States was the engineer. It is expressive of our political and economic situation today. Some of us may not know just where we are going, but we are trusting our leader. 

To policies and legislation now proposed for the purpose of lifting the country out of the quagmire of depression, let us in the spirit of tolerance apply the test of The Worth of Souls. Two of these policies are The National Recovery Act, and Prohibition. 

THE NATIONAL RECOVERY ACT 

Of this one thing we are certain, that the dominating spirit of the movement expressed in the blue emblem of the National Recovery Act has as its impelling motive the good of the individual. It is reaching out to alleviate suffering and to make brighter the life of every unfortunate. Vast sums of money are being appropriated to make better the condition of every citizen in the United States. That motive is sound. It conforms to the measuring rod of the individual and, therefore, deserves the hearty support of every loyal American. 

DEBASING TO MANHOOD 

I wish I could say as much of the Anti-Prohibition movement. Many who are favoring the repeal of the 18th Amendment sincerely believe repeal of sumptuary laws will foster greater temperance. Others, however, lay much stress upon the fact that if our prohibition laws are 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

repealed we shall have more revenue. In this latter case money seems to take precedence over manhood. I have no objection to any effort, indeed, I favor every means to turn into the natural channels of government wealth which has heretofore been flowing to bootleggers and other lawbreakers. But while that is commendable I cannot lose sight of the fact that traffic in alcoholic drinks and the indulgence in intoxicating liquors are debasing to manhood. That which does not contribute to the need, to the comfort, to the happiness of the individuals should be banished from society at whatever monetary expenditure. "Abstinence from the use of alcohol or drugs and purity in the sex relations are fundamental determinants of our efficiency, whether mental, moral, or physical." If the majority of the thinking men and women in the United States agree that prohibition is not the best way to handle this evil, then mark what I say, some method of control must be devised and assumed not only by the States but by the Federal Government or the Cause of Temperance will be set back twenty-five years. It is my personal opinion that traffic in intoxicating liquor should be placed in the same category as traffic in morphine and other drugs and opiates. 

SPECIAL MEANING TO LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

To the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the worth of the individual has special meaning. Quorums, auxiliaries, wards, stakes, even the Church itself, are all organized to further the welfare of man. All are but means to an end, and that end the happiness and eternal welfare of every child of God. 

With wards, quorums, organizations and auxiliaries in mind, I wish to suggest again three major means of winning souls to Christ. 

These three conditions are: 

1. Enrollment of every individual. 

2. Personal contact. 

3. Group service. 

These three plans or conditions are already operating in the Church, but unless they function they will be ineffective in acomplishing the purposes for which they have been established. They will be like a sugar factory in which the wheels are silent and rusty. 

The first duty of each of these organizations is to enroll every individual who belongs to it, not only enroll but know the conditions under which each person lives. 

The second condition is personal contact. To make this possible and effective there has been organized in every ward in the Church a Correlation Committee, made up of the heads of quorums and organizations which combined comprehend every man, woman, and child in the ward. The third is service. It is not enough to know, and it isn't sufficient to visit, for no person can become fairly enthused with the principles and doctrines of the Gospel unless he lives them. "If ye will do the will, ye shall know," is a fundamental law of spiritual growth. 

There are 3,512 quorums in the Church in which are enrolled 150,700 men and boys. There are 101,876 officers and teachers in the 

ELDER DAVID 0. McKAY 15 

auxiliary organizations. If each of these members of quorums and lady officers and teachers (212,500) were to influence for better living one individual and should "labor all his days * * * and bring save it be but one soul unto me, how great shall be his joy with him in the Kingdom of my Father." "And now," continues the revelation, "if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me. into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" 

PERSONALITY SACRED 

I appeal to all members of the Church and particularly to presidents of quorums and to officers of all auxiliaries to put forth a unified effort to make sweeter and better the lives of men. Only in such effort can the high ideal for which the Church was organized be realized. Let us prove to the world and particularly to those who are suspicious of us that we consider personality sacred and not a thing to be exploited for gain. 

DUTY OF INDIVIDUAL TO SOCIETY 

While emphasizing the worth of the individual, I wish to say that the individual in turn owes a duty to society. The world today perhaps as never before is demanding that the employer consider his employee not merely as a part of a machine to make money, but as a living, sensitive being entitled to justice and right. It is equally obligatory upon the employee to recognize the employer as one who has equal privileges. It is the duty of the citizen to take this same attitude toward the leaders of his government, and the duty of the churchman to recognize the rights of those appointed to preside. 

This is a time in which we should renew and rekindle the faith of our fathers. On every hand "we see social unrest; unloving and unlovely men, greed, selfishness, political corruption. We see people indifferent, pleasure seeking, ignorant, far from following a life of service. Plans fail and success seems an Utopian dream. The materialistic philosophy of life which so largely controls our thinking today has nearly succeeded in convincing the world that a man's life does consist in the abundance of things which he possesses." 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF CHARACTER 

It is time for the world to try Christ's teachings. The Church of Christ is so completely organized and so constituted to' inspire its members that we may confidently look forward to the day when all individuals will have a fair chance for the joy of living, when men will be measured by what they are and not merely by what they possess, and when an aristocracy of character, will govern in organized society. 

"Then let us pray that come it may, As come it will for a' that, That man to man the world o'er Shall brothers be for a' that," 16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Carlyle answered the old question, "What is the chief end of man ?" by saying: 

"To glorify God and enjoy him forever." 

And the Prophet Joseph brought to light the great truth that God's work and glory is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

May the Lord continually inspire us to aid in this divine consummation. I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The Columbia Broadcasting Company has been very good to us. They have given us, free of charge, a national broadcast for our choir. If we had to pay for it this broadcast would cost us tens of thousands of dollars every month, if not every week. Not only have they given us free for this purpose a half hour each week, but some months ago they requested that we increase our broadcast from a half hour to an hour. 

They have now asked permission to shut us off the air, so far as this meeting is concerned, fifteen minutes from now. Therefore, the last five or ten minutes of Brother Ballard's remarks will be heard by this audience only. We dislike to deprive those who are listening to the radio broadcast of the privilege of hearing the last part of Brother Ballard's remarks, but if they wish to read his remarks they can do so in the newspaper or in the Conference Pamphlet, as they will be published. 

We feel that we owe the Columbia Broadcasting Company this courtesy, otherwise a great many people as far distant as the Hawaiian Islands would be deprived of the opportunity of listening to the report of the baseball game. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a great joy, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you again in one of the great conferences of the Church, and how my heart has rejoiced in the spirit of this meeting. 

With Brother McKay, I rejoice in the selection of those splendid, devoted, faithful men who have been called into the service. Our hearts are made sad at the loss of such giants as Brother Talmage and Brother Roberts, but their works will live after them. But I am as sure that the Lord will raise up men to carry on this work as I am that I live. I have no fear about it. 

PROPHECY OF JOEL QUOTED 

One hundred and ten years ago last month, three years after the prophet had received his first vision in the sacred grove, while praying concerning the future of his work, anxious to have a forgiveness of his sins and to know his standing before the Lord, he received a visit from 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 17 

a prophet of this American hemisphere who announced that he was Moroni, who had kept the records of his fathers sacredly guarded for hundreds of years, and that these records were about to come forth, and that a new and marvelous work was about to begin. Among other things he quoted the second chapter of Joel, twenty-eighth to the last verse. The angel said that this was not yet fulfilled, but soon would be. I shall read a part of what Moroni quoted : 

"And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions : 

"And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit. 

"And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth." 

One hundred and ten years ago Moroni declared that the day was at hand when that prediction of old was about to be fulfilled. 

ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO 

As I stood in the World's Fair a few days ago, A Century of Progress, in Chicago, witnessing the marvelous growth that has occurred in the hundred years that have just passed, I could not help but think of this prophecy of Joel. In the hall of transportation and communication I saw what was the condition of the world one hundred years ago, so far as their means of communication or travel was concerned, and it had made almost no progress since the days of ancient Egypt. During all these centuries of time men were traveling as they did one hundred years ago. Their means of travel was the canal boat, the ox-cart, the horse and wagon. Their tools were largely the shovels, the scythes, axes, and the flails. It took from May to November, one hundred years ago, to send a letter from one coast to the other, and the cost was five dollars. Dirt roads were the only highways. Newspapers were made on hand presses, and only two hundred copies an hour. 

THE EIGHTEENTH- CENTURY 

Then the eighteenth century came, the new day that the Lord declared 1 10 years ago was about to dawn, burst on the world, and what marvels have been wrought! Wonders in the heavens, and wonders upon the earth, even as Joel declared. In 1829 came the locomotive; in 1832 the telegraph; in 1833 reaping machinery; in 1830 sewing machines; in 1849 steam engines; in 1852 elevators; in 1856 steel. Then followed internal combination engines, electric generators, automobiles, airplanes, typewriters, motion pictures, the telephone, the radio, the electric lamp, and a thousand other marvelous inventions. 

In 1874 it cost two hundred and fifty dollars to move a ton of freight four hundred miles. In 1896 Barnum and Bailey exhibited for the first time in their circus a horseless carriage. Elwood Haynes was arrested in Chicago for driving the first automobile in that city. There are only twenty-five million of them traveling in the United States today. 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Jane Addams said: "The decade beginning in 1830 has been described as the beginning day of the emancipation and hope, opening paths of progress in all directions." 

Bruce Barton said: "The heresy of yesterday becomes the orthodoxy of today. Truth never stands still. It goes forward, sometimes slowly, sometimes by leaps and bounds; at present it is flying." 

MORONI'S WORDS FULFILLED 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that the words of the angel of the Lord to Joseph Smith have been fulfilled. Wonders have been wrought upon the earth and in the heavens. The vision of God has been opened to the minds of men. In the laboratory and elsewhere they have dreamed dreams. The secrets of God have been made known to man. It is not because this generation is smarter than those which have preceded it, for some of the greatest of minds that ever appeared in the world came before our century of time, but it was not the hour when these secrets were to be known. I grant you that the Lord has sent into the world in this day choice men who can be used to accomplish these marvelous things, but even their smartness would not have succeeded had it not been the good pleasure of God to unlock and open the windows of heaven and pour his Spirit out upon all flesh, and we have made greater progress in the last hundred years than was made in all the ages of time. Surely God has done it. 

As I looked upon these marvelous advancements and realized that I had lived to see in my own period of time greater progress than all of my fathers have seen in all the ages of time that they have lived upon the earth, I asked myself what have I done to be privileged to live in such a marvelous age, and to see so much, and what is my responsibility, and what is the end of the matter, for we have not yet reached the end ? 

MARVELOUS TRANSFORMATION IN PALESTINE 

Among the marvels that I witness in the earth in addition to these inventions is the hand of God at work establishing his people, even as he predicted in ancient times. The Lord Jesus Christ said concerning Jerusalem : 

"And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations; and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

All of that has been fulfilled, and Jerusalem has been trodden down. But the time of deliverance had come when General Allenby's army marched up to the land of Palestine and broke the band and the power that had ruled that land for ages. Although the Crusaders had waged war to redeem it, and millions of lives and property had been given to rescue the land, it was not the hour until this day dawned, and from that day on the hand of God has been over the land and its prosperity is manifest. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 19 

I want to read just a few words from a recent visitor, an eminent gentleman who has been over the land of Palestine, and who calls attention to the fact that a few years ago, an eminent Frenchman, Chateaubriand, visited the land, and called it a land of desolation, where the voice of God was not heard any more, where all was still and quiet, and the end of miracles had come. But, said this visitor, "Chateaubriand was wrong, for a host of miracles had happened even in the short interval of time since my last visit to the Holy Land." — Some two years before. — "Wheatfields waved me a welcome, where only marsh and barren sand existed on the previous trip. Jerusalem has spread out in brand-new Jewish suburbs. Tiberias has become a Spa. Perfume is borne on the breezes from the new orange groves of Sharon. Here and there too the hanging gardens of Solomon's day have been restored. Fresh earth has been dragged up the mountain slopes by Jewish labor battalions. Trees have been planted on the hills. New vineyards have been laid out over the gray, sun-beaten rocks of Samaria. Chateaubriand's 'desert' has grown a hundred new schoolhouses; it has 'budded, bloomed blossoms, and yielded' transmission stations and farmsteads, a university, and a network of colonies. Surely it is a miracle more wondrous than the budding of Aaron's rod in the wilderness of Paran." 

PROMISES CONCERNING JEWS BEING FULFILLED 

And the Jews are turning their faces towards that land of hope for them. Our hearts have been full of sympathy for this race. They are our half-brothers. God's promises upon them are to be fulfilled. The inspiration that directed the Prophet Joseph to send one of the Apostles of the Church a hundred years ago to bless the land for the return of the Jews, speaks of our affection for them, and the day has come when there is no enmity between Ephraim and Judah, for we are of Ephraim and we love our brothers the Jews. If the hand of oppression seems still reared against them in Germany, and there seems to be no peace for them, we still see the hand of God even in that. For we came west because we had to; it was the place for us, and the Lord has appointed a place for them, and if they do not go willingly they will have to go otherwise, even as we had to do, but they will see the hand of God opening before them a way and an opportunity to rebuild themselves and to establish a nation. 

ANOTHER GREAT PROPHECY FULFILLED 

This is one of the miracles, one of the mighty miracles of this modern age. And then I remember also that the prophet Isaiah declared concerning that other great movement that was to come in this age : 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us! go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

That miracle has been fulfilled — a part of this century of progress. For up in the tops of these mountains, not down in the valleys and prairies of Illinois and of Ohio, .but here, this is the place, and we came to fulfil the prophecies of old, to a place which God has preserved for this people. And here we are, made up of all nations of the earth, trying to work out the problems of the world and solve them by and through the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

AT THE WORLD'S FAIR IN CHICAGO 

In our booth at Chicago the elders of our Church are calling the attention of the thousands who pause there to the wonderful Gospel message. That to me is a miracle. Forty years ago, when we sent Brother Brigham H. Roberts to speak for the Church before the Parliament of Religions, he did not get a hearing except in a committee room. But today it is different, we stand with equal opportunity to every other Church in the land, with a display that is in many respects far more interesting, and more people pause to listen to our story. Mormonism is solving the problems of the day, and I thought as I witnessed these things, how God is moving. 

MAKING HISTORY 

We are to be a light unto the world and solve the problems of men, and as I listened to the appeal of our President I felt that we were making history today. We have been making history during these years, and we are going to make some more history in the next month or so, that we are either going to be proud or ashamed of, when we come to express ourselves on the Eighteenth Amendment. 

IF WE ARE DIFFERENT 

I heard the missionaries in Canada, where I visited recently saying, "O, how we are praying that Utah will be different! Then we may go from door to door with our heads up and with a new spirit in our hearts, with new courage to appeal to the best people." For let me say to you that many of the best people in this land are standing for the maintenance of the Eighteenth Amendment. I find that in the churches all over the land noble souls are fighting for these high ideals, and our appeal to them will be greater than it has ever been before, if we are different. And ought we to be different? The day will come when the ends of the earth will say, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob." It will be to learn of our ways, and if our ways are like the ways of the world, why will they come? If we are different they will come. We are called to be pattern-makers, to hold aloft the colors, and to show the way to others who cannot see as clearly as we can. 

Thank the Lord for our glorious principles. Our fathers were true to them in the day of their trials, they showed their stamina and their worth. If there is enough of the iron that was in them in us 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 21 

we too will stand, though we stand alone, for ideals, for standards, for the accomplishment of great things. God expects it of the Latter-day Saints. 

IN PREPARATION FOR CHRIST'S COMING 

Now what is to be the end of all this progress, brethren and sisters? I declare to you it is preparing this world for the coming of the Son of God. He would not come to a world that was in the condition this world was in a hundred years ago. All these marvelous changes had to come. Yes, and many changes will yet come, for there are many things that will have to take place before the Son of Man shall come. But this world was never more willing to receive him than they are today, because the whole world would like a dictator, somebody to tell them what to do, someone in whom they have confidence. But they will want him worse than they want him today before he comes. There are battles to be fought, yes, and struggles and conflict, war and bloodshed, and famine 'and pestilence. And nations will be wrecked, and thrones will fall, but out of all of these conflicts will come the victory for truth and righteousness. All things will go forward to prepare this world for its golden age, and its golden age will come, and universal brotherhood will come, and peace will come to men. 

DELIVERANCE PROMISED 

God bless the Latter-day Saints through these trials, that we may be true, that we may not show the white feather, that we shall be patient under trials and be true to God. For I promise you that you will see the work of God go forward. Its new day has come, and God has a great program for this Church. If the Latter-day Saints will keep their covenants, if they will pay their tithes and their offerings, and keep themselves clean and undefiled from the sins of the world, I promise them, in the name of the Lord, deliverance from all their difficulties, and they shall see the sun arise with healing in its wings for all who have been wounded and hurt. 

God help us to be faithful and true, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I hardly think it would be fair to the next speaker to give him ten minutes at a time when the people cannot hear him over the radio, so I am going to read a revelation that was given to the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. The revelation says that it is for all of us. This also was given eleven months before the Church was organized : I am going to read all of Section 11 : 

"A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word. 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his' sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God. 

"Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God. 

"Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

"Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments" — 

I hear a great many people say : "I get sick and tired of the same thing over and over and over again. I am so sick of the Word of Wisdom I do not know what to do." If everybody who says that would get up on top of a house and shout : "I do not keep the Word of Wisdom," he could not give himself away any more perfectly. 

" and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion." 

And remember, the Church was not yet organized. 

"Seek not for riches." 

ETERNAL RICHES 

Wouldn't it be fine if we did not do that? 

"Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation." 

A MARVELOUS POSTERITY 

Not only did Hyrum Smith do much good, but what a marvelous posterity he has left in one man alone — Joseph Fielding Smith, former President of the Church. 

"Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." 

Once more : 

"Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. 

"Behold, thou hast a gift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee;" 

How we should rejoice to have Jesus Christ speak unto us! And he has done so in this revelation. 

"For behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in the darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. 

"And now, verijy, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy; 

"And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 23 

"Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called. 

"Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine. 

"And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith shall it be done unto you. 

"Keep my commandments;" 

REPETITION JUSTIFIED 

Once more. You know some people complain about our repeating ourselves. Indeed, the Savior is guilty of repeating himself. 

"hold your peace; appeal unto my spirit; 

"Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken — yea, the translation of my work;" 

Remember, they were translating the Book of Mormon at that time. 

"be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

"Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind and strength. 

"Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. 

"But now hold your peace; study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto. 

"Behold, thou art Hyrum, my son; seek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just. 

"Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; 

"Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; 

"Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap." 

Please remember that the main reason why I was impressed to read this revelation was because of these few words : 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. 

"Behold, I am Jesus 1 Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. 

"I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own received me not; 

"But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as 1 receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen." 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." 

Elder Mark Austin offered the benediction. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 


