Afternoon
08 10 1933

The closing session of the Conference convened Sunday afternoon, October 8, at 2 o'clock. Once more the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, and thousands of people who could not find accommodation in that building gathered in the Assembly Hall and upon the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the services by means of amplifiers that had been provided for the purpose, as the proceedings were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang the "Hosanna Anthem" by Stephens. 

Elder Roy A. Welker, President of the Bear Lake Stake, offered the invocation. 

The sacred anthem, "For the Strength of the Hills," (Stephens) was sung by the Choir. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, I sincerely hope that the spirit which has thus far characterized this conference may be continued in what I may say to you today. I trust that whatever I shall say may bring something of hope, of cheer, something to encourage and lead us onward in this great work in which we are engaged. 

I should like first to pay a tribute to the wonderful broadcast which we had this morning. I think I can definitely see an improvement in the Choir over even their excellence of six months ago. I congratulate them. To Brother Lund and to Brother Asper I also extend my congratulations; likewise to Brother Richard L. Evans for his choicely worded announcements. I should like to say to the choir that in my opinion the secret of their success is that they are rendering gratuitous service for the up-building of the culture and the faith, not alone of our people, but of the people of the entire world. 

GIVES ENCOURAGEMENT 

We ofttimes hear it said that there should be art for art's sake, and I am persuaded that in those great cultural occupations of music and art it is necessary that it shall be art for art's sake, and furthermore that so soon as any individual or organization begins to commercialize itself in art and music it ceases to do the work which otherwise it would 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 101 

do. I say this by way of encouragement to this great Choir, which is so fatihful in the performance of its duty. 

Service for service' sake is a great truth. 

I wish also to say a few words regarding the great Crusaders who were with us at our last conference, and who have been called hence, Brother James E. Talmage, who was a life-long friend, and Brother Brigham H. Roberts of whom I know through his works. They were great captains of the Lord's hosts. They did a great work; they were armored in truth; they loved truth for truth's sake; they did not depend upon the approval of the world for their inspiration nor for their courage. While I am sure they enjoyed the approval of the world, they worked in spite of it. 

Sometimes I feel that we are prone to look even as little children for commendation from the world for what we do and what we believe and how we work. It is not a compliment to me for any non-member to tell me that I am a human being. We, the people of the Lord, stand for the greatest principles which have been revealed to humanity. We have no reason to excuse, no cause for apology. 

ANTI-CHRIST PREDICTED 

Brother Ivins referred this morning to the words of the Savior given in reply to the question of the disciples : "What shall be the sign of thy coming?" and to the fact that great upheavals, political and physical, were predicted, and that anti-Christs should arise. 

I wonder, sometimes, if we do not, in considering those things, focus our attention too much upon the physical and political upheavals, and too little upon the other side of that prophecy, the false and anti- Christ. I wonder also whether, when we read these things, we do not think of false personages pretending to be Christ, when perhaps the Savior had some other meaning, because he spoke of the prophets of the anti-Christ. I think he had in mind and wished to warn us against false and vicious teachings. 

HERESY PREVAILS 

The world today is torn with heresy; it seems as if the more fantastic the plan and the idea, the more ready we are to listen, and sometimes to follow. It seems to me that we have broken loose from the moorings which we once had, that we have permitted our minds to leave those places in which they found peace and rest and to seek new places where neither peace nor rest is to be found. 

What more anti-Christ doctrine could there be than that which we so frequently hear nowadays, that Christianity has failed. How could Christianity fail in this world, because so far as I know, Christianity has not yet been tried. When the world lives the principles which the Savior gave unto us, when the world becomes really and truly Christian, then it will be time enough to cast the score as to whether Christianity has failed or succeeded. An apostate generation may not judge and condemn truth. 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

CIVILIZATION HAS NOT FAILED 

How equally unfortunate, as it seems to me, is that statement that our civilization has failed. We say that usually because some of us unfortunately have not had so much of the material things of life as we once had. Civilization has not failed. It has, in the past, sometimes paused; it has sometimes halted, but looking at the whole course of history it has constantly gone forward, rising from every such pause and every such halt to higher and more glorious levels. It is my faith, my brothers and sisters, that such it will be when our present tribulations are over. 

Moreover, there are some of us who go about saying that if this, or that, or the other man-made plan does not succeed, chaos will result. It is my faith, my brothers and sisters, that chaos will come only in the due time of the Lord, and when the world shall have fully and completely rejected his principles and his doctrine. 

We are in a time of great stress. I say a truism, something that you all know, when I tell you that some of us are somewhat in want. Many of us have lost the garnerings of a lifetime. Some of us know not how to turn to meet our obligations. Some of us wonder from where will come the necessities of life during this coming winter. Brother Stephen L. Richards yesterday assured us of his sympathy, and I can assure you of my sympathy. I can assure you of the sympathy of all the brethren in these, your trying times. I can assure you that they sorrow with you over your privations. I can assure you that what they can do they will do. 

But, brethren and sisters, there is a certain side of this depression that I wish to bring to your attention. For example : Report has reached us that a man having a hundred tons of hay, two hundred head of cattle, four milk cows, several pigs and a flock of chickens, last year accepted relief. 

NECESSITIES ONLY PROVIDED 

My brethren and sisters, relief is not for those who are in that situation. Report has also come to me that in some cases in making this recent survey, those making it have been told to urge the people to report all they could think of that they needed. Relief can not be carried out on that plan. In this relief work we must look forward not to the maximum of our desires, nor necessarily the maximum of what we have had. Those in need must look forward to the minimum of their needs. We can not take care of the situation on any other plan. The whole people are not in a position to bestow luxury, or even the full comforts to those in distress. If those suffering can be helped from actual want, they will have as much as the whole people can do. 

Brother Grant referred, in his opening remarks, to relief from the government. I approach this subject with a great deal of feeling and strong conviction. The thought that we should get all we can from the government because everybody else is getting it, is unworthy of us as American citizens. It will debauch us. Judged by my standards it 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 103 

is wicked, and followed out it will destroy us. The government of the United States has not and can not supply the funds necessary to carry on relief work on that basis. We must be as careful with government funds as with our own or as with the Church's. Patriotism, loyalty, decency, everything demands that such shall be our course. 

COUNTRY NEXT TO GOD 

My brethren and sisters, I want to endorse every word that President Tvins said this morning regarding our government. If I know my own mind and heart, next to God, the author of my being, comes my country. It has been my honor and my privilege to serve it in some more or less minor capacities, and if the providences of the Lord shall so order, 1 stand ready to serve it again. 

This government of ours was established under the inspiration of the Lord. We as a people need our government. We must have the safeguards which the Constitution throws around us — freedom of the press, freedom of speech, freedom of conscience. It has been my opportunity during my life to stand near to some of those who are called great. It has been my opportunity to work among those who will always work in subordinate capacities in the government. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, in all earnestness, that I have yet to see the man, however great he was, that I would wish to see become a dictator. Dictators are not for America, and the doctrine that dictators should rule us comes from an evil source. 

COURAGE REQUIRED OF PIONEERS 

As I contemplate our condition today, and contemplate the condition of the pioneers when they came into these valleys, I can but wonder what they would have thought of our fears, our apprehensions, our complaints. When I think that their first winter was spent here with scarcely enough to carry them through, and with no help nearer than a thousand miles by ox team; when I think of the following spring when they had to eat roots to maintain themselves; when I think of the fear that must have been in their hearts when they saw the locusts come in hordes to destroy their crops; when I think of how we are situated, with an actual sufficiency, if not an abundance, with communications open and free, housed, clothed and possibilities of being fed, it seems that we should take courage, we should hold up our heads, we should return our thanks to our Heavenly Father for all of his goodness and mercy unto us. Think how fortunate the pioneers would have thought themselves to be if they had been placed as are we. We should appreciate the Lord's blessings, because he does not always bless those who fail in their appreciation, and our prayers should be not alone asking for what we want, but expressing gratitude for what we have. And after all, my brethren and sisters, the temporal things of life, food and clothing, and shelter, amount to very little, if we have enough for our actual wants. It is only the great eternal truths that count, and we have those 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

truths, and we have a knowledge that they are true. We know that by Hving the truth we shall have eternal life in the world to come. Peter in his first epistle says : 

"For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away; 

"But the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this 1 is the word which by the Gospel is preached unto you." 

May the Lord bless us, may he let his Spirit hover over us, may he give us peace and courage and confidence, may he enable us to see the blessings of what we have in order that we may hold them, instead of flying to conditions of which we have no knowledge, may he be with us individually and collectively, may he make of us a beacon in the world to lead all to the true light of the Savior, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters, it is a wonderful responsibility to stand before a great congregation like this. There are perhaps ten thousand people in this building. I trust that I may be strengthened for the present ordeal. 

THOSE WHO BRING GLAD TIDINGS 

I have enjoyed every moment of the conference. I am in hearty accord with all that has been said and done. I have listened to the singing of this conference with rapt interest. I have been thrilled. Yesterday a solo was rendered, entitled, "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of great joy!" If I might be pardoned, I would like to paraphrase this title somewhat by saying, "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Mission Presidents, and the Authorities and presiding officers of 104 Stakes of Zion, that are represented in this congregation, who bring glad tidings of great joy to the people of the Lord!" 

NOTABLE WOMAN DEFINES SUCCESS 

Some days ago I read a brief article in the public press that has caused some reflection on my part. This article sets forth to some extent ideas upon the vital question, What is success in life, and what is failure? I think you will agree with me that that is a vital question. Very often the division line between success and failure is very thin, and at other times the division line is very strong. 

If you will bear with me for a few moments I shall be glad to read this brief article in your hearing. It concerns the death and burial of a notable woman which occurred in New York City, January 23rd, 1933 : 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 105 

"The metropolis prepared a notable funeral today for Miss Elizabeth Marbury, 76 years old, who considered herself a failure. 

"A renowned leader in theatrical, literary, political and civil life, she nevertheless believed that any one of millions of obscure housewives was more successful than she. 

"When asked for her ideas about success for women, she would say: 

" 'There is only one real success for women; that is to marry happily and have children and a home. In other words', to bring forth life as God intended a woman should.' 

" 'If a woman,' she would say, 'has not been blessed with such a union as I have in mind, and with motherhood, then it is better for her, if she has talents and qualifications, to go out into the world and find some occupation that will prevent her from becoming narrow, introspective and unhappy.' 

"Because Miss Marbury had talents and 'went out into the world,' there will be a notable funeral tomorrow. Governor Herbert H. Lehman is expected to head a huge gathering of distinguished people who will go to St. Patrick's Cathedral to pay tribute to the woman who died yesterday of a heart attack. 

"Most people would have said that Miss Marbury's was a full life. She was a member of the Democratic National Committee, agent for famous authors, adviser to young talent, war worker and woman leader. 

"In a book entitled, 'My Crystal Ball,' she told of her dealings with poets, statesmen, dancers, generals, playwrights, and politicians. She was play agent for Victorian Sardou and George Bernard Shaw. Oscar Wilde sent her 'The Ballad of Reading Gaol' from his prison cell and she sold it here for $250.00. She produced 'Little Lord Fauntleroy.' She was a war nurse and once she an;l 'Big Bill' Edwards sold $10,000,000 worth of Liberty Bonds in ten minutes from the steps of the sub-treasury. 

"She crossed the Atlantic seventy times, went bicycling with Nellie Melba in Brittany. She saw Paris in ruins just after the Prussian victory in 1870. She promoted the New York success of Irene and Vernon Castle and she established a highly moral dance hall on Broadway. She got decorated by several governments and founded women's clubs. She fought for Al Smith and against prohibition. 

"But, as she would say, 'There is only one real success for women.' " 

Brethren and sisters, to my way of thinking, the woman was just about right in the conclusion she reached. Surely the high dignity and honor appertaining to the great blessing of becoming a mother of men is beyond all comparison with the many things which this good woman did. 

THE FIRST GREAT COMMANDMENT 

Is it to be wondered at that the Lord said in the beginning: "It is not good for man to be alone. I will make a helpmeet for him." So he gave Eve to Adam in marriage in the garden of Eden, and it was then that the great first commandment was given which has come thundering down through the ages — and is equally binding upon all who live under the marriage covenant — namely, "Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air, and over everything that moveth upon the earth." 

I am quite sure that the phrase, "Be fruitful," did not then mean, and does not mean now that the family should be limited in number to the husband and the wife and one or two children. No provision was made in the first marriage for divorce. It seemed not to have been under contemplation, for you will remember that Adam said, having 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the woman in mind : "She is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh, and she shall be called woman because she was taken out of man." 

MARRIAGE A CO-PARTNERSHIP 

Now, in a very real sense, in marriage woman becomes a part of man, and it was this thought in mind doubtless that led the Lord to say : "What God hath joined together let no man put asunder." The ease with which in many instances the marriage tie is sundered is certainly very deplorable. Marriage in most countries is solemnized in some form; among the Latter-day Saints it is regarded as a solemn sacrament of very great importance. It is learned, by a careful study of the scriptures and the revelations of God, that the husband and the wife, in bringing forth children, actually enter into a co-partnership with God in heaven, for the reason that God in heaven supplies the spirit of the child and the parents upon the earth furnish the body, and the spirit and the body of the child in birth joined together form this great and important co-partnership with God. Is it not wonderful, is it not marvelous, is it not an honor of the very highest dignity, that people upon the earth have the opportunity of entering into this co-partnership? Marriage to the Latter-day Saints means very much more than it does to our friends of the other Christian denominations. They marry for this world only, but the Latter-day Saints marry for this world and the world to come. 

Now, it may be said that there are some Latter-day Saints who marry for this world only. What is the answer? It is because of a lack of understanding. They little comprehend the nature and farreaching influence of marriage for eternity. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT MARRIAGES 

How lovely it is to contemplate the destiny of a young couple who have contracted a Temple marriage; joined hand-in-hand they face the battle of life fearlessly, courageously. Still hand-in-hand they pass along through the years celebrating at various intervals some very important wedding days — there is, for instance, the wooden wedding, the pottery wedding, the silver wedding, the golden wedding, and the diamond wedding day. Crowned with seventy-five years of happiness mingled with trials that were hard to bear this couple descends into the grave only to rise again on the morning of the resurrection when they will be reunited in the family relationship and will enter into exaltation and glory and go hand in hand throughout eternity. 

The nature of the marriage covenant, brethren and sisters, is beautifully and concisely set forth in one paragraph of Section 132 of the Doctrine and Covenants. I will read that paragraph to you. It is the 18th paragraph in that wonderful and marvelous revelation given to Joseph Smith the Prophet : 

"And again, verily I say unto you," — s'aid the Lord — "if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant is 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAW SON 107 

not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom I have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid neither of force when they are out of the world, becaus'e they are not joined by me, saith the Lord, neither by my word; when they are out of the world it cannot be received there, because the angels and the gods are appointed there, by whom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God. 

I say unto you Latter-day Saints in boldness and without fear of successful contradiction that any man or woman who contracts a Temple marriage in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and abides by the conditions and restrictions of this great law will have lived a successful life. That is my testimony. 

A TESTIMONY 

I know that this is the Church of God. I testify that Jesus was the Christ who was crucified upon Mount Calvary for the sins of the world, and that we today and all future generations and all past generations will be benefited by the mighty sacrifice that he made, and what might to some have seemed to be a failure, yet the crucifixion of the Savior was the stepping-stone to his everlasting success in the kingdom of his Father and our Father. 

I testify most solemnly and earnestly that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and one of the mightiest of the latter-day prophets. 

May God bless you, brethren and sisters, and bless this great people, the Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of attending this remarkable conference. Never in the history of the world was the plan of God so necessary as it is today to solve the horrible conditions the world finds itself in. What the world needs today is more of the Spirit of the living God. 

"I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation." 

THE LOFTIEST AMBITION 

The loftiest ambition of any person is not to receive the plaudits of the world but to be honest, honorable and patriotic in every act of life. A truly religious man cannot help but become a better citizen, no matter in what country he may reside. "In faith, nothing wavering," is and has been a fundamental principle of our Heavenly Father's Church in every dispensation of the world's history. 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE PROPHET'S EDUCATIONAL IDEALS 

Joseph Smith was the author of such sayings as these : 

"The glory of God is intelligence." 

"It is impossible to be saved in ignorance." 

"Seek learning even by study and also by faith." 

"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the res'urrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." 

The Prophet was true to his principles. He established schools and championed the cause of education. A "Mormon" writer has said: "His educational ideals passed over the threshold of time and strode down the halls of eternity. With a full appreciation of the knowledge that makes men and women capable and skilful in this life, he prized and taught others to prize, above all, the knowledge that maketh wise unto salvation. How to make a living here — how to solve life's everyday problems, was of course important; but how to grapple successfully with the mightier problems of the great hereafter, how to store up treasures in heaven and lay hold upon eternal life, was far more consequential. Education meant to him the leading out of all the latent potential powers of the individual, the training to perfection of every divine attribute in man, as the child of God and as a god himself, in embryo. He stood for the full and complete development of the soul, body and spirit combined — mental, physical, moral, and spiritual education — the education contemplated and inculcated by the Gospel of Jesus Christ." 

REASONABLE AND SOUL-SATISFYING 

In my intercourse with the world I have had ample opportunity to come in contact with other religious systems and to compare them with my own. If "Mormonism" is my preference over all, it is because it appeals to me as the most reasonable of all, the most soul-satisfying religion that I have encountered anywhere. 

MAN LITERALLY A CHILD OF GOD 

It teaches that man is literally the child of God, fashioned in His image, endowed with divine attributes, and capable, by education and development, of becoming like unto that glorious Being, in whose image or likeness all men are created. 

EARTH TO BE CELESTIALIZED 

It teaches that this earth, which is but one of millions like it formed for similar purposes, was made not out of nothing, as some theologians assert, but out of the eternal elements, spirit and matter, and that after it has filled the measure of its creation as a temporary abode, a place of probation for man, it will be converted into a celestial sphere, that the 

ELDER REED S MOOT 109 

righteous may inherit it forever. Christ's millennial reign is to sanctify the earth and prepare it for celestial glory. 

god's kingdom 

"Mormonism" teaches that the glorified planets are God's kingdoms, and that to each kingdom a law is given. Whosoever inherits any one of these kingdoms — celestial, terrestrial or telestial — must abide the law pertaining to that kingdom; all heavenly gifts, whether spiritual or temporal, being predicated upon the principle of obedience. 

REWARDED ACCORDING TO THEIR WORKS 

All men are to be rewarded according to their works, as shown to John the Revelator in his great vision on Patmos. They who inherit celestial glory, the highest heavenly condition, which is comparable to the light of the sun, are they who receive the Gospel in this life; also those who would receive it if the opportunity were offered. They can believe and repent in the spirit world and receive baptism by proxy in temples erected on earth for that purpose. These are the valiant who obey Christ in all things. 

The inheritors of terrestrial glory are they who yield a partial, but not a full obedience to the divine commands. They receive not the Gospel here but afterwards receive it, and their glory is likened unto that of the moon. Telestial glory is for those who are cast down to hell, are there purged of their sins, and after paying their debt to Eternal Justice, are released from prison to receive that for which they are fitted and prepared. They are as the twinkling stars, and are servants of. the Most High, "but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end." 

All men will be saved except the sons of perdition, who have had every opportunity not only for salvation but for exaltation to the highest glory; and then have denied, trampled upon and thrown it all away. These are the only ones who cannot be saved in some degree of glory; and the reason why they are lost is because they have sinned away the power of repentance, upon which all salvation is predicated. 

LOYALTY TO COUNTRY 

"Mormonism" 'was made possible, humanly speaking, by the establishment of the government of the United States, whose constitutional guarantee of religious liberty paved the way for the coming forth of this "marvelous work and wonder." 

The Latter-day Saints believe that they must be loyal to their country, honoring its laws, upholding its institutions, its constituted authorities, and doing all things that American citizens ought to do. They are taught that the Constitution of the United States was inspired of God and framed by wise men whom the Almighty raised up for this very purpose, and that it "should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh," so that every man may act according to the moral agency 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

which God has given him, that he "may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment." 

Believing this, they cannot be otherwise than loyal. They do not blame the government of the United States for their past persecutions at the hands of lawless mobs. They realize that such things were not because of the Constitution and the Government, but in spite of them; and they stand ready at all times to honor the laws of this nation and to defend it against foes without or within. 

"In faith, nothing wavering," has been a fundamental principle of all God's servants from the beginning of time. 

A TEST OF FAITH 

An opening incident in the lesson of faith to which I wish to call your attention today is an occurrence of a long time ago, as human history runs. But its lesson comes to this very hour in the crisis we now are facing. The hosts of Israel who had been held in Egyptian bondage had been led from the land of their detention. On their way to the new land they had met discouragements, defeats and victories. In it all, their great leader had pressed them forward to learn, through many miraculous displays of divine power which came to them in the vicissitudes of their journeying in the Arabian deserts, that God lived — the God of their fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. They were learning, too, that as descendants of those great patriarchs theirs was a chosen race for a great destiny. Among other things, they were to be a blessing to all the families of the earth. 

As a starting point in their destiny from this time, they were to begin a national existence in "the promised land" — the land which the "Lord thy God giveth thee." Of those who had been led out of Egypt forty years earlier, only two remained alive, Joshua and Caleb. All the others had found graves in the desert. Yet Israel had become a "great and a mighty people." The children who had been born in the wilderness were reared in their varying ages under the leadership of the mighty Prophet Moses. The adult body of those children included a considerable force of able-bodied fighting men. But now their great leader, who had brought them to the crisis of actual entrance upon the promised land, had passed from their midst. It was a test of their faith in God, individually as well as collectively. The leadership had been taken over by Joshua, whose confidence in the mission of their departed prophet was unshaken. Testing them in their faith, as a body and as individual members thereof, came the incident to which I have made reference. 

A VITAL AND FUNDAMENTAL COMMAND 

It was then and there that the Lord gave to Joshua this vital and fundamental command, as vital and fundamental to those in Israel today who hold the Priesthood as it was to the leader Joshua on the borders of the promised land nearly thirty-four centuries ago: 

ELDER REED SMOOT 111 

"Only be thou strong, and very courageous; * * * for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success." (Joshua 1 :7, 8) 

Israel moved forward to success. The basic foundation of acceptance and of conformity with the admonition thus given was faith in God. 

A REDEEMER PROMISED 

Only a few years earlier it had been declared (Numbers 24:17) : "There shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel." 

The great Prophet Isaiah later explained (Isaiah 59:20): "The Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn from transgression in Jacob, saith the Lord." 

This was to Israel the promised and hoped for Christ, who so firmly declared this basic principle of faith in the living God (John 14:1) : "Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me." 

PRINCIPLE OF FAITH STRESSED BY CHRIST 

Through all his ministry, Jesus stressed this principle of faith. When the afflicted woman had but "touched the hem of his garment" in her desire to be healed, he said (Matt. 9:22) : "Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee whole." And to his disciples he said for occasions when they came to the necessity of performing some important work (Matt. 17 :20) : "Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove." 

In the observance and exercise of the principle of faith, nothing that was proper to be accomplished would be impossible to them. This same teaching of the great importance of faith goes all through the record in the New Testament. 

ON THE WESTERN CONTINENT 

Not only in the Old World was the active exercise of faith in God impressed upon the people. Here on the western continent, among dwellers on this land before the opening of the Christian era, there comes in the sacred record these words of impressive testimony (2 Nephi 25 :26-29) : 

"We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins. * * * 

"And now behold, I say unto you that the right way is to believe in Christ and deny him not; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel; wherefore ye must bow down before him, and worship him, with all your might, mind and strength, and your whole soul; and if ye do this ye shall in no wise be cast out." 

In the further record of Christ's visit to people on this continent after his resurrection, there is abundant illustration of the surpassing power of faith in God, as this was exercised in accord with the Gospel 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of Jesus Christ. This is a faith shown by our works that are in harmony with the laws of God as these are set forth in his revealed word. It is a living, effective, courageous faith. It is a whole-hearted recognition of the great truth declared by the Apostle John in his gospel as recorded in the New Testament (John 3 :16, 17) : 

"For God so loved the world, that he gave his 1 only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

"For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved." 

IN THIS DISPENSATION 

In this later age, when the "falling away" of the early Christian Church foretold by the Apostle Paul (2 Thessalonians 2:3) had reached a culmination to the approaching "hour of God's judgment" (Rev. 14:7), the young man Joseph Smith, then under fifteen years of age, was impressed by the Spirit of the Lord to call upon God for guidance under the disturbing circumstances of his day. His reading of the Bible included the general epistle of the Apostle James. It advised him to "ask of God" (James 1:5). He considered carefully the admonition in the sixth verse of the first chapter, "Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering;" and in the seventh verse that the man who wavered in his faith would not receive the desired blessing. Joseph asked in unwavering faith and received the great revelation from God so necessary for this dispensation. Divine authority was restored to earth, and the Church of Jesus Christ again came into existence, with all its gifts and powers. That organization is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in which we claim membership. 

"in faith, nothing wavering" 

Now, I ask for myself, as I ask for the Saints, are we ready to seek the Lord, each and every one of us, "in faith, nothing wavering?" Our faith, to be unwavering, also must be shown by our actions as well as by our words. Our human opinions and ambitions must not be our chief desire. We need to be wholly willing, when we ask the Lord in faith for wisdom, to receive direct that which the Lord is willing to give. This may be a difficult thing to do; but doing it is the living, unwavering faith recognized in the Gospel of Christ as bringing results. Then, when we do that, we are in a frame of mind to profit by the instruction and promise which I have quoted : 

"Only be thou strong, and very courageous; * * * for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success." 

May we all, by our unwavering faith in the present purposes of God, be strong and very courageous in meeting the present crisis, that we may have good success in being in strict accord with God's great purposes for us, individually as well as collectively, is my prayer, in Jesus' name. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 113 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

"Great and marvelous are thy ways and thy works, O Lord, our God!" 

This expresses my feelings as I have sat through the various sessions of this conference, and listened to the words of the various speakers, and felt the impress of the Spirit of the Lord which has been with us; and as I sat with you this morning and listened to the beautiful musical rendition by the tabernacle choir, with the accompanying music, which was broadcast throughout these United States and possibly beyond its borders into other nations of the earth, and the islands of the sea, which is quite possible by the means which have been employed by men in this day and time. 

FOR THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF GOD's WORK 

One may say : Why, these are but the inventions of man. Yes, they are the inventions of man, inspired of God for his honor and glory and the accomplishment of his work in the earth. The Savior, as recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, spoke of the time of his second coming, and said her: 

"This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." 

That was to immediately precede the great and dreadful day of the Lord, the ushering in of a millennial reign of peace. 

For more than a hundred years the Latter-day Saints, on whom rests this responsibility, have been engaged in the preaching of the Gospel with more or less of success. We are here, as a congregation of Latter-day Saints, as the result of the preaching of this Gospel in the nations of the earth. We are here located in the valleys of the mountains, having gathered from the nations of the earth through the preaching of the Gospel. 

The Lord without a doubt has inspired those men of inventive genius, who have brought forth the radio and this broadcasting, for his own purpose, and I think I can see how that in a very short time this Gospel of the kingdom may reach into every nation, to every kindred, tongue and people, in all parts of the world. We are already using this system of preaching the Gospel in a number of the mission fields, and from Salt Lake City. Marvelous indeed are the works of God. No man can fully comprehend them. 

WORK NOT RETARDED 

As remarks were made with reference to our brethren of the General Authorities who have recently departed this life, my mind has run back over the history of the Church since the days of the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum, who gave their lives for the Gospel's 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

sake. When the Prophet and the Patriarch were martyred there was a feeling among a great many people that their death would end this work, commonly known as Mormonism. But the blood of the prophets has proven to be the seed of the Church, and there was no retarding of the work, but it broadened out and extended, under the leadership of President Brigham Young, the legal successor to the Prophet Joseph, and those associated with him, and they passed on. And still the work persisted, with no evidence of its being retarded in the least. And so from one presidency to another, six of them having passed away, and the work goes on and gets stronger and stronger, greater in numbers, better and more thoroughly organized, and with greater accomplishments. 

Now, these good brethren of ours whom we have dearly loved, with whom we have associated so closely and have known so well for their virtues and their worth, have passed on. They belong to another world and have another life of activity to live. While they lived here such a thing as rest and recreation were scarcely known to these two men, indefatigable laborers for the cause of truth, for the cause of the Master, in studying, in preaching the Gospel, and in writing books, they scarcely had any peers in this Church. We will miss them of course, but will the work be retarded ? Not at all. 

THE WORK OF GOD 

And why this condition of stability and uninterrupted progress from the inception of the work down to the present time? Because of the greatness, the bigness and the magnitude of this work, being God's work, and his arm and hand are over it. He is at the helm and giving direction. Men haven't made this great work that we are engaged in, "Mormonism," so-called. But this work has made men of renown, noblemen such as these our brethren who have recently passed beyond. That is the glory of this work, the greatness of it, the bigness of it. Nothing like it in all the world! It is the biggest thing known to man. 

The Latter-day Saints have no serious objection to the use of the word "Mormonism," notwithstanding the name was given to us by those who are not of us, who never intended it for a compliment. We understand that the word "Mormon" in itself means "more good," and the word "Mormonism" is comprehensive, in that it stands for the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which in very deed is the power of God unto salvation. 

More minutely described we might say it is the plan of the Gods for the existence of this world, this earth on which we live; and for man's existence upon the earth; for man's fall, for that was considered in the plan in the beginning, and for the fall of the earth; for the redemption of man and the redemption of the earth; for the glorifying of the earth, for it is to be renewed and receive its paradisical glory; and for the eternal life and exaltation of man. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 115 

FOR THE SALVATION OF MAN 

As the Lord talked to his servant Moses he made plain to him his plans and purposes concerning his creations, and told him that they were for the accomplishment of man's salvation. 

"Behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

The Gospel was instituted for this purpose. The Prophet Joseph tells us that we were all present in the council of heaven; that we sat in council with the Gods; that we saw the plan of salvation made, and the Savior chosen and appointed, and we sanctioned it. We must have had a long period of life and experience in the spirit world to have been able to sit in council with the Gods upon such momentous questions. We must have understood the plans and purposes of the Lord, and we must have subscribed to them. Every man that has been born in the flesh came with a definite understanding that he was to work out his salvation according to the plan of the Gospel, that he might attain the blessings of eternal life and exaltation. It involves the acceptance of certain principles, the receiving of certain ordinances, the obeying of the laws of God, the keeping of his commandments, the making of sacrifice, the rendering of service, the denying ourselves of that which is evil, the acceptance of that which is good. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

Our remembrance of the past was taken away, and in the language of the scripture, we must live while here in the flesh by faith and not by sight. But we have had the word and will of God revealed to us, through his prophets whom he has raised up, so that we are not in the dark. As we have investigated and have received the Gospel, we have received a testimony of its truth, and with it a responsibility for the carrying on of this work looking to the saving of the souls of men. It involves the preaching of this Gospel in all the world. It involves the building of temples and the redeeming of the dead. It involves the organizing, as we are organized, as a great Church, for the proper teaching and training of our children, for the finishing, we might say, of the conversion of those who have been gathered in from the world. 

Even in the world where we have these organizations they are to prepare men and women in the faith and integrity and ability to engage in this work. Every man and every woman that comes into the Church, every convert, is expected of the. Lord to be a missionary for him, whether he be called to labor at home or abroad, or having no calling whatever specially given unto him. 

The word of the Lord is to the effect that he that is warned is to warn his neighbor. Every young man in this Church ought to have an ambition to go -upon a mission, realizing that all that he has and enjoys of the Gospel and hope of eternal life is the result of the preaching of this Gospel; that if we have not ourselves heard it in the world for the 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

first time, and been converted, our parents or our grandparents or our great-grandparents have, and we are partaking of the fruits of their sacrifices and their labors. We should have a desire to pay the debt of gratitude we feel for the Gospel, by imparting the knowledge we have of it to those who are in spiritual darkness. 

A SECOND OBLIGATION 

One important obligation resting upon us as a Church is to get missionaries, and another important obligation is that of looking after them when they return. There are men who have left remunerative positions of labor to go upon missions, and when they have returned they have walked the streets of Salt Lake City, and have gone from city to city seeking in vain for employment, and some of them having families to maintain. That is a very regrettable condition and discouraging to others who contemplate going upon missions. 

I think it is serious when a High Priests' quorum can not help a returning High Priest, or a quorum of Seventies will allow one of their members returning from a mission to go months and years without desired and deserved employment. They ought to have that spirit of brotherhood and helpfulness that they would either furnish employment for him or help him to find employment. 

MEETING THE EMERGENCY 
MEETING THE EMERGENCY 

The shortage of missionaries creates an emergency in the mission field today. One way of meeting this emergency is that of utilizing more fully the labors of the brethren and sisters who are residents in the missions, in the preaching of the Gospel. A local man may accompany an elder from Zion, and make a full team of two in tracting or doing any other kind of missionary work. If that were carried out as it might be, it would double our corps of missionaries, and it would build up the Saints who might be thus engaged. 

Another thing : Many of our missionaries in the field spend too much of their time in visiting the Saints, in settling difficulties among them, and encouraging those who are indifferent in the faith, all of which is necessary, but it should be done as far as possible by local men and women, that the regular missionaries may be at liberty to find new friends and preach the Gospel to them. 

Branches should be organized with teachers as they are in the wards and branches in Zion, with local men and women who go into the homes of the Saints regularly and make an effort at keeping peace, settling difficulties, answering troublesome questions, etc. 

There is some opportunity for improvement, and I think the exigencies of the case demand an extra effort along these lines by those who have the work in charge. 

WORK FOR THE DEAD 

Then there is the work for the dead. That is one of the things that is required of us — service for God and our fellow-men. There is 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 11? 

no better way of serving God and our fellow men than that of working for the redemption of our dead in genealogical research and in temple work. They go hand in hand. The temple work for the dead can not be accomplished without first obtaining the information such as is necessary to identify them upon the records of the Church and in the temples. This work is growing and increasing, which is very gratifying. 

There are a great many people who are out of work and who are wasting their time, who could go to the temple and be laying up for themselves treasures in heaven, treasures that would not, slip away from them, and at the same time be saving the souls of men and women. 

There are people who are living far distant from the temples and can not very well get to the temples. You would do well to spend a little of your money in genealogical research from a distance, by writing the Genealogical Society of Utah, giving them a few items of information pertaining to your ancestors, and see what they can do for you in the way of genealogical research. Then, if you can not go to the temple, perhaps there are some in the community in which you live who are in need of employment, who could go to the temple. Give them some relief by employing them to represent you and at the same time you will be spending your money in the redemption of the dead. 

A GOSPEL OF SERVICE 

This Gospel is a Gospel of work, of service to God and our fellowmen, from beginning to end. It is not sufficient that we be simply good, or that we ourselves embrace the principles and ordinances of the Gospel, but we are to teach them to others and administer the ordinances thereof to those who are prepared to receive them, all things being done in proper order. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, that we may be able to understand our responsibilities, and be able to discharge them in a way that will be satisfactory to the Lord, who knows what we are doing and what we are not doing, and in a way that when we have finished this life we will not meet with disappointment; that when we go on the other side and meet our dead we will not be reproached for having neglected them. May the Lord help us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Castle H. Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission has been in the hospital for a week and has been confined to his home another week. He has cabled us that he is now able to continue with his work and sends greetings and aloha to the Authorities and the Saints. 

I am sorry that the good people who are listening to these services over the radio will be deprived of the privilege of hearing the last song by the choir, as I understand that the radio broadcasting company will shut us off the air promptly at four o'clock. I am going to rob the choir 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of the privilege of being heard over the radio when they sing the closing number. They had an hour this morning and were heard all over the United States, so I am going to take the five minutes that belong to them. I am very grateful that there have been five minutes left for me. I do not remember that this has happened before. 

BLESSES LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I feel in my heart of hearts to bless the Latter-day Saints. I feel grateful to the Lord beyond all the power and ability he has given me to express my feelings for the devotion and faith and integrity of the Latter-day Saints. I feel grateful to them for their prayers in my behalf a year ago when I was in the hospital. 

CONFERENCES ESTABLISHED BY GOD 

I really felt when this conference opened that we could not possibly have a conference that would equal the one we had six months ago. Perhaps I enjoyed it so much at that time because I had been absent from the previous conference, but I feel in my heart that we have been blessed as abundantly during the three days of this conference as we were six months ago. God established these conferences. Nothing but the Spirit of the living God could bring together such a congregation as we had here this morning, and as we have here this afternoon. 

The General Conferences of the Latter-day Saints are one of the great outstanding testimonies to me of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I have now attended these conferences as one of the General Authorities of the Church for fifty years, lacking only the ones that I missed when I was in Japan and in Europe and when I was ill a year ago. I have heard the expression after each and every conference, "The best we have ever had." 

BECAUSE OF APPETITE FOR SUCH THINGS 

The main reason why each conference seems to be the best is that we have an appetite for such things. On one occasion after I had been shoveling snow for many hours, being on a delayed train at the time, dry bread tasted very sweet. It almost makes my mouth water today as I think of Zebulon Jacobs, in a snow blockade between here and Ogden, inviting me into his car and taking a piece of iron and breaking an old piece of bread and dividing it with me. Hunger makes food very delicious. Hunger for the Gospel of Jesus Christ makes us enjoy these conferences. 

We have had a time of rejoicing. I have been grateful beyond expression for all that has been said in this conference, for the spirit of the brethren and the inspiration to them. I am grateful to the Lord for the freedom of utterance that I had in my opening address. 

INVOKES BLESSINGS 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints at home and abroad, and so far as the power is given to me to call down the blessings of the Lord, 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 119 

I bless you one and all, not only those who are here, but those who are in any part of the world who are serving God and laboring for his cause. I pray from the bottom of my heart that God will bless the President of the United States, his Cabinet, and the officers of our States and Counties. I pray that there may be such loyalty in the hearts of all citizens of our country that they will not try to impose upon the government. Men offered their lives for this country during the World War, and I think it is a shame that any man who is in such a favorable financial condition as the one referred to by President Clark would draw support from the government of the United States. 

God's blessings upon you, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir sang, as a closing number, "Jehovah," (Schubert) solo part by Sister Margaret Stewart Hewlett. 

Elder Albert H. Belliston, President of the Juab Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund, assisted by Albert J. Southwick, conducted the singing at the Conference meetings. Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ wei " played by Frank W. Asper and Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 2 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 16 

Prophecy of Joel quoted, 16 — One hundred years ago, 17 — The eighteenth century, 17 — Moroni's words fulfilled, 18 — Marvelous transformation in Palestine, 18 — Promises concerning Jews being fulfilled, 19 — Another great prophecy fulfilled, 19 — At the World's Fair in Chicago, 20 — Making history, 20 — If we are different, 20 — In preparation for Christ's coming, 21 — Deliverance promised, 21. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 37 

Bluth, Elder John V 74 

Callis, Elder Charles A 10 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 31 

President Roosevelt's address 1 , 31 — Extensive Church Relief, 31 — Social justice, 32 — Comparative economic conditions, 32 — Church social standards, 32 — Christian qualities, 33 — National recovery, 33 — Coordination of all relief agencies, 34 — Self-seekers not in need, 34 — Fair consideration for unemployed, 34 — All able-bodied to work for relief, 34 — Aim of public works, 35 — Church relief policy net changed, 35 — Government responsibility in unemployment, 35 — Church responsibility and destiny, 36 — Initiative and resourcefulness, 36 — Industry and self-help, 37 — A constructive Church, 37. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 100 

Gives encouragement, 100 — Anti-Christ predicted, 101 — Heresy prevails, 101 — Civilization has not failed, 102 — Necessities' only provided, 102 — Country next to God, 103 — Courage required of pioneers, 103. 

Clawson, President Rudger 104 

Those who bring glad tidings, 104 — Notable woman defines success, 104 — The first great commandment, 105 — Marriage a co-partnership, 106 — Latter-day Saint marriages, 106 — A testimony, 107. 

Colton, Elder Don B 54 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 2 

General Officers of the Church 3 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 4 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Presentation of General Authorities and Officers, 2. Grant, President Heber J 4 

Avoid covetousness, 4 — Forty-five years ago and now, 5 — Should keep pledges, 5 — Fault finding- denounced, 5 — Danger in repeal, 6 — Avoid bankruptcy, 6 — Revelations from the Lord, 7 — Revelation to Prophet's father, 7— "White already to harvest," 8— "Thou shalt not be idle," 8— ''Mind and will" of God, 9 — A solution of the problem, 9 — Blessings promised, 10. 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 16 

Columbia Broadcasting Company service, 16. 

Grant, President Heber J 21 

Eternal riches, 22 — A marvelous posterity, 22 — Repetition justified, 23. 

Grant, President Heber J 46 

Comment about "A poor wayfaring man of grief," 46. Grant, President Heber J 53 

Message from John A. Widtsoe, S3 — Truth's destiny, 53 — The Devil's trick, 53 — The power of love, 54. 

Grant, President Heber J 80 

Changes in Church officers since last April Conference, 80. 

Grant, President Heber J 99 

Brethren not limited in their remarks, 99. 

Grant, President Heber J 99 

Tribute to composers of music, 99. Grant, President Heber J 117 

Blesses Latter-day Saints, 117 — Conferences established by God, 118 — Because of appetite for such things, 118 — Invokes blessings, 118. 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 51 

Ivins, President Anthony W 82 

Had turned to idols, 83 — Duty to magnify ideals, 83 — A prophet's calling, 84 — Prophecies being fulfilled, 84 — Covenant with Abraham, 84 — A land of promise, 85 — Coming of pilgrims, 86 — Independence declared, 86 — Church founded, 86 — Washington's influence, 86 — Overcoming problems, 87 — Present perplexities, 87 — Should obey laws, 88 — Opposition of Lucifer, 88— Influence of the Church, 88— Pleads for loyalty, 89. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 57 

Jensen, Elder Hyrum D. 78 

Jones, Elder Miles L 97 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 41 

McKay, Elder David 11 

The worth of the individual, 11 — The aristocracy of brute force, 11 — The aristocracy of birth, 12 — The aristocracy of wealth, 12 — The end of all social developments, 12 — The present political and economic situation, 13 — The National Recovery Act, 13 — Debasing of manhood, 13 — Special meaning to Latter-day Saints, 14 — Personality sacred, 15 — Duty of individual to society, 15 — The aristocracy of character, 15. 

Richards, Elder George F 113 

For the accomplishment of God's work, 113 — Work, not retarded, 113— The wortk of God, 114 — For the salvation of man, 115 — Our responsibility, 115 — A second obligation, 116 — Meeting the emergency, 116 — Work for the dead, 116 — A Gospel of service, 117. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 63 

Sympathy for unemployed, 63 — Experimental policies, 64 — A fair trial urged, 64 — Subscribe to spirit and conform to requirements, 64 — Appeals for support for leaders, 65 — Sustains Governmental agencies, 65 — Pleads for patience, 65 — Departed AuthorINDEX 123 

ities and their successors, 66 — The devotion and testimony of Willard Richards, 66. 

Romney, Elder George S 39 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 44 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 45 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 53 

Sloan, Elder William R. 96 

Smith, Elder David A 70 

Smith, Elder George Albert 24 

Rejoices in growth of Church, 24 — The Lord's work, 24 — All have equal opportunities for exaltation, 25 — Should pray for nation's leaders, 26 — Rules governing membership in Christ's Church, 26 — Change in attitude toward religion, 26— The Church all-comprehensive, 26 — Must leaven the lump, 27 — Service in the mission field 27 — Our duty to others, 27 — A great blessing, 28 — Our opportunities, 28 — Our duty to serve, 28 — Grateful for blessings, 29 — Testimony, 30. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 60 

Every man will know the Lord, 60 — The meaning of intelligence, 60 — Duty to raise the warning voice, 60 — The words of Isaiah, 61 — -The condition of the world today, 62 — Success dependent upon attitude of Saints, 62 — Our responsibility, 63. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 107 

The loftiest ambition, 107 — The Prophet's educational ideals, 108 — Reasonable and soul-satisfying, 108 — Man literally a child of God, 108 — Earth to be celestialized, 108 — God's kingdom, 109 — Rewarded according to their works, 109 — Loyalty to country, 109 — A test of faith, 110 — A vital and fundamental command, 110 — A Redeemer promised, 111 — Principle of faith stressed by Christ, 111 — On the western continent, 111 — In this dispensation, 112 — "In faith, nothing wavering," 112. 

Taylor, Elder John H 30 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 82 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 100 

Welling, Elder Arthur 76 

Wells, Elder John 90 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 45 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. (Message read by President Grant) .... 53 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 93 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 67 

THE FALLING AWAY 

By B. H. ROBERTS 

This new work is a ringing challenge to Christendom and a frank indictment of the multifarious creeds that are an outgrowth of the disintegrated Apostolic Church. It shows most conclusively and brilliantly that all the churches had departed from the true pattern of Christ and lost the authority completely, long before the New Dispensation was ushered in through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. 

Yet the motive of the author is not to tear down, but rather to build up; had there been no "falling away," the claim of the prophet of the New Dispensation would have been an imposture; if there was a "falling away," however, his claim is credible. It was to establish this fact sharply and conclusively that these radio addresses were given. All who heard Elder Roberts or who will read these published discourses, will agree that he has accomplished the end in a scholarly and convincing manner. 

Though most of the discourses deal with eras of apostasy and centuries of discord, the ultimate message of the book is one of hope and salvation for the world. The three discourses on the Restoration read like the happy outcome of an otherwise tragic story. You feel at the end that the author has performed a necessary but melancholy task, only that he might invest with true meaning the unique claim of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The Appendix of the new work is an answer to Catholic charges that the author had been unfair in his use of evidence and presentation of historic facts. His reply is given with enough zestful detail to leave the reader without a single doubt. 

Price $1.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Talmage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" 44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Brigham Young 

By SUSA YOUNG GATES AND LEAH D. WIDTSOE 

WITH A FOREWORD BY HONORABLE REED SMOOT 

"This book presents the life story of a New England cabinetmaker, who, well into his thirties, entered upon a career that made him an empire builder of the West; the founder of a hundred cities; the governor of one of the territories of the United States: and one of the outstanding figures of the nineteenth century." 

Thus does Senator Smoot begin his enthusiastic foreword to this notable biography. 

A Special Edition. Beautifully and Substantially Bound in Cloth. Price $2.50 

Do Men Believe What Their Church Prescribes? 

By RULON S. HOWELLS 

A comprehensive yet concise study of leading Christian religions and their fundamental subjects, carefully and painstakingly compiled as a guide for all thinking Christians. 

The book contains 164 pages and a large folded chart. The chart contains the views of ten of the outstanding religious denominations on twenty-three of the outstanding fundamentals of the Christian Doctrines. 

The material for this chart was furnished by officers and ministers of the various churches involved, and is therefore authoritative in all of its statements. 

Price $1.50 

Published and Distributed by the 

Deseret Book Company 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 








