Afternoon
06 10 1933

The second session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant announced that The Singing Mothers would furnish the music for this meeting, and that they, together with the congregation, would sing as an opening number, "Redeemer of Israel." 

After the singing of this hymn the opening prayer was offered by Elder W. Aird Macdonald, President of the San Francisco Stake. 

The Singing Mothers sang the hymn, "An Angel from on High," duet part by Sisters Virginia Freeze Barker and Annette Richardson Dinwoodey. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am sure that all of you who were here this morning rejoiced in the blessings that came to us, and I trust that during the time we are together this afternoon that same sweet spirit may characterize what may be said and done. 

I have felt the absence of two of the brethren who were here at our last general conference, and I marvel how quickly we move on, and how soon those who have served us pass from our remembrance. In a few short years others occupy the posts of duty, and this Church that was organized in the year 1830 goes forward year by year. 

REJOICES IN GROWTH OF CHURCH 

"We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." I am grateful that when the Gospel came in this latter day there were so many who were willing to cast in their lot with that unpopular group. When we think that it is only a little over a hundred years since this Church was organized, and that notwithstanding the opposition of evil throughout the world, it has continued to grow until today it is stronger and more potent for blessing mankind than it has ever been, we have cause for rejoicing. 

It is my privilege to travel much in the world. Many of my associates are men of other faiths or men who have no faith, and I rejoice in observing how tolerant and how considerate many of these people are when I realize that only a few years ago it was almost impossible for us to obtain a hearing in the larger centers of the world. 

THE LORD'S WORK 

But this is the Lord's work. It was his beloved Son who came and directed the organization of this Church. That was not done 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 25 

because there were not other churches; it was not necessary because there were not people worshiping God; but it was necessary in order that the scriptures might be fulfilled and in order that the Church of Jesus Christ might be again established. When I say that, it is not with any unkindness toward any other faith or creed. I realize that each of us must live his or her individual life, and when we think of the wonderful people there are throughout the world who do not know about the Gospel of Jesus Christ, who have no conceptions of the teachings of our Lord as revealed again in this latter day, and as we see so many of them that are anxious to know what to do, I realize how important and serious our problem is. 

You brethren who are sitting here today have had conferred upon you a sacred opportunity, a sacred trust. You have received the blessings of the holy Priesthood. Divine authority has been conferred upon you, and with that authority there has come the responsibility of raising your voice and living your life so that the people of the world may know the difference between the Gospel of Jesus Christ and other organizations of the world. 

ALL HAVE EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXALTATION 

I find as I travel about that people are astonished when they discover that men of this Church who attain prominence, men who have been exalted in political and business life, retain their faith. I had a man ask me sometime ago : "How is it that people can remain faithful in your Church and still have all of these advantages that come in the world?" He said: "In our church this is not the case. When men become prominent in civil life or in business life in most cases we lose their cooperation." 

I thought today as I sat here looking at this group of men and women who have had unusual opportunities for education, refinement, and culture, opportunities to serve in various capacities, that when we meet as we have met today we are brethren and sisters, we have the spirit of the Gospel, we have affection for one another, and we meet under that influence that our Heavenly Father said should exist if we love our neighbors as ourselves. 

One of the beautiful things to me in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it brings us all to a common level. It is not necessary for a man to be a president of a stake, or a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in order to attain a high place in the celestial kingdom. The humblest member of the Church, if he keeps the commandments of God, will obtain an exaltation just as much as any other man in the celestial kingdom. The beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it makes us all equal in as far as we keep the commandments of the Lord. In as far as we observe to keep the laws of the Church we have equal opportunities for exaltation. As we develop faith and righteousness our light is made to shine as a guide and blessing to those with whom we mingle. 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

SHOULD PRAY FOR NATION^ LEADERS 

Today the world is confused. There never has been a time within my memory when there was so much uncertainty as to what we should do. Reference has been made to the President of the United States, that he is the leader of this nation; and I am sure that as members of this Church we ought to pray for the President of the United States. We ought to ask the Lord to inspire and bless him. iWe ought to pray for those who associate with him. We ought to be what the Lord would have us be — real helpers in a great nation such as the one in which we live. 

RULES GOVERNING MEMBERSHIP IN CHRIST'S CHURCH 

Our Heavenly Father has revealed to us what his purposes are toward the children of men. We are expected to have faith, we are expected to repent of our sins, we are expected to receive baptism of the water and of the Holy Ghost. The Lord himself has prescribed the rules that govern membership in this his Church. And when I say his Church, it is not with any discriminating feeling against any other church, because I realize that when all the good men and women in all the church organizations of the world — and there are millions of them — when they live up to all the light that they now possess, and have added to that the light and information that God has revealed in this latter day, they too will be glad to cast in their lot with us — not because we are better men or better women than they, but because they will desire to walk in the footsteps of the Master and desire to walk according to the pattern he has given us, and follow the admonition he has given the children of men. 

CHANGE IN ATTITUDE TOWARD RELIGION 

I rejoice in my companionship with men and women in the world as I go to and fro — I meet many marvelous characters — and I am happy to observe in the last few years quite a change in their attitude toward religion. Some of them seem to have been non-religious in many respects, but the conditions in the last few years have changed their attitude and today they are glad to sit down and converse about the principles of the Gospel and learn what it is that the Latter-day Saints seem to have that they do not possess. I feel it is only a question of time, if we do our part, until most of our Father's children who are in the world and do not now understand, will learn of the truth and will be glad to be identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

THE CHURCH ALL-COMPREHENSIVE 

In order to do that they will not have to give up any good thing they have learned in the Methodist Church, they will not have to surrender anything that is good that they have learned in the Catholic Church, they will not have to give away or lose sight of any blessing that has come to them from any quarter in order to belong to the 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 27 

Church of Jesus Christ. That is the beauty of this work. To me it is all-comprehensive; when it comes to that which is good there is not a virtue, there is not a desirable attribute that a human being may attain to that he is not able to enjoy to its fullest extent as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

MUST LEAVEN THE LUMP 

And so today, while we assemble here comparatively a little handful of our Father's children among the great multitude of the world, yet we are the leaven that must leaven the whole lump, and unless we keep the commandments of God we will not succeed. If the salt should lose its savor, how shall the great multitude of this earth be salted? It is your privilege, my brethren and sisters, to know these things, and it is our privilege as members of the Church to do our full part as the Lord requires at our hands. 

SERVICE IN THE MISSION FIELD 

There never has been a time for years when there were so few missionaries in the world as there are today, and the world has never needed missionaries more than today. There are men in this audience, and they have relatives and friends and members of their families who could support them, who want to be in the mission field. You would be happier, you would be accomplishing something that would be eternal, you would not be wasting your time seeking for the things that perish if you were serving in the mission field. 

Only a few years ago many of my friends were well-to-do, they had the necessities of life, and many of the luxuries, and when it was intimated that they might go into the mission field some of them would say : "I can not leave my business, I can not get along if I go off and leave what I have." But their business has gone off and left them. The things that they thought they could not get along without have disappeared from their control, and many of these very men today would be happy if they could go back ten years, and if they were then called to go into the service of the Lord, they could say: "I will adjust my affairs, I am happy at the opportunity that is offered me to be a minister of life and salvation." 

Our ministry is so different in the world. Think of our opportunities and privileges, to be able to sit down in the homes of the honorable men of the world and teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ; think what it might mean to sit down with men who do not possess divine authority, and teach them the plan of salvation and explain to them the manner by which they too may enjoy the blessings of divine authority which you enjoy. 

OUR DUTY TO OTHERS 

I feel that some of us are selfish. We are so glad to enjoy our blessings, we are so happy to be surrounded by the comforts of life and 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

to ha,ve the association of the best men and women that can be found in the world, that we forget our duty to others. How happy we could be if we would strive to be more potent for good in the world by ministering to those who have not yet understood the Gospel of our Lord. 

Many of us have passed middle life, many of us are completing our work. The Church needs missionaries in the field. Men who understand the Gospel and who are willing to give their lives for it if need be, and when I say we need missionaries I mean that the world needs them. 

There never has been a time when there was a better opportunity for disseminating the truth than now. Never a time when so many homes would make us welcome. Never a time when we could lay up treasures in heaven where moth and rust will not corrupt or thieves break through and steal, better than in the year 1933. Do not let us forget that. 

A GREAT BLESSING 

I feel that our financial difficulties will prove a great blessing to many of us. We will become more humble, we will draw nearer to our Heavenly Father, we will be more willing to be guided by his influence, we will not feel self-sufficient as some of us have, and in our homes we will know the necessity of uniting at the altar of prayer and invoking the blessing of the Lord upon us. By repenting of our foolishness and reforming our lives we will evidence our desire to be real Latter-day Saints — real sons and daughters of the living God. 

OUR OPPORTUNITIES 

These are our opportunities, and they will pass from many of us in the not distant future. Some of us will finish our work soon. We do not know when but while the day lasts, while there is yet time, let us set our houses in order and renew our determination to be worthy of a heritage in the celestial kingdom. It is not always the amount of earthly wealth that we acquire that blesses us, but it is the spiritual wealth that is a real benefit to us year after year; and eternally if we would be happy. We ought to radiate sunshine and make others who are less fortunate than ourselves as happy as possible. 

OUR DUTY TO SERVE 

The Presidency of the Church are burdened with tremendous responsibility. I marvel, sometimes, how they go forward day after day and year after year, carrying their load. Let us relieve them as much as possible by properly caring for our departments. I realize that I am talking to the leadership of the Church today. I know that the majority of the rank and file are not here. A few of them may be listening in. We and they are all children of the same kind Father who loves every one of us, and he will bless us in proportion to the manner in which we serve, not ourselves, but serve our fellows. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 29 

We have from time to time conferences with auxiliary organizations, we have our great Priesthood conventions, our annual conferences, our quarterly conferences. The Lord has provided every opportunity for us at home to learn what he would have us do. If any of us fail to understand, it will not be his fault. 

Consider the welfare of our brethren and sisters in the world. What of those who are now among the nations of the earth? It has already been intimated by the President of the Church that the gleaning time has come, and that those of us who are willing to go out and help in the gleaning will be those who will receive the blessing. 

Great and good men in the world are looking to us. Only today a brother from California said to me that he had been talking with a very prominent man in another church who has been watching the elections in the United States of America, the elections that are being held in the various states. He said to our brother : "If Utah holds her place as she has a' right to hold it, if Utah remains true to the ideals for which she has been standing all these years, it will not be a difficult thing for me to join you, because I know there is something worthwhile there." 

So, brethren and sisters, let us not lose our opportunities, let us not sell our birthright for a "mess of pottage." Let us say to the Lord, "We are willing to serve, we are willing to live, we are anxious to be exemplars for thy sons and daughters elsewhere," not that we may be puffed-up in our own conceit, but in order that good men and good women in all the world, whose eyes are now upon Zion as they have never been before, may not be disappointed in us, and that we may glorify the name of our Heavenly Father, that we may magnify his Church, that we may exemplify in our lives the teachings we have had from the beginning, and be worthy to be called his sons and daughters in very deed. 

I pray that we who are here today and that those with whom we may come in contact in the not distant future may feel the influence that the Lord is willing to bestow upon us when we serve him and keep his commandments. 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS 

I am grateful for my position among the General Authorities of the Church, one of the humblest of all. I am grateful for their companionship. I know that these men are servants of the Lord, and I know they are seeking to bless mankind. I hope that not any of you who are here will fail to sustain them, not only by your faith and prayers but if they are misrepresented and their attitude misinterpreted, that you may be willing and anxious to defend them, if need be, because there is a time coming when they will need your defense. The Adversary has not forgotten them, and one of the evidences to me of the divinity of the calling of these men is that evil men speak evil of them, and good men and good women speak well of them. TESTIMONY 

I know that this is the work of the Lord, I know that this is the Church of his beloved Son, restored to the earth for the last time. I realize how serious the obligation is that rests upon us, and in bearing my testimony to you today, I do so with the feeling and desire that you may know as I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the living Lord. This organization effected in 1830 is for the salvation of the human family. It is the work that God intended the world to be benefited and blessed by. He has offered us the privilege of carrying that blessing to others, and that we may do our duty I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I feel very appreciative, my brethren and sisters, of the blessing that has come to me, but knowing myself as I do, I feel incapable and unworthy of this blessing. 

I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. From my youth up I have been taught concerning the Gospel, and while I didn't understand the full import of the Gospel message when I was young, because of the teachings of my father and mother I was able to hold to the Church and gradually find out for myself about the divine work in which we are engaged at the present time. 

May I say this, too: I am very grateful to my Heavenly Father that he gave me such a good mother and such a good wife. Sometimes I think that we men think that we have accomplished great things because of ourselves, but I can bear testimony that the good things that I may have in my life, and the good things that I may have done, have been helped and encouraged by my mother and by my wife. Surely we are all grateful when we are thus blessed and helped in our work. 

My father has been dead for a number of years, and President Grant has been a father to me. He has been concerned in my life and my doings and has made it possible for me to do many things that perhaps I would not have been able to do had it not been for his encouragement and blessing. I am grateful to these men and women who have helped me. 

I have been very fortunate in my associations in a church way, because since my youth I have known the presidents of the Church, the apostles, and the other leaders of the Church; and they have at all times been an inspiration and a blessing to me. The work I have been called to do in recent years, first as the field man for the Mutual Improvement Associations, then in the mission field, and later in the Missionary Home, has brought to me happiness and contentment of life, and a desire to be of service to God. I can think of nothing finer or better than to come in contact with the lives of young people, and to be a part 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 31 

of their life in finding out God and gaining a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I love these my brethren and you, my brethren and sisters. I trust that God will bless me, that I may so act that I may have your confidence, your love and your blessing, that in my weakness I may be able to do some good in this the church of God. I pray for these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to be with you in this splendid conference, to enjoy the spirit of this gathering. 

I was greatly impressed this morning, in the opening remarks of President Grant, with the variety of important quotations which he read from the Doctrine and Covenants, which refer to and present the means of solving many of the social, economic and moral problems which confront the world today. Those few excerpts which he presented, of themselves form a strong evidence of the divinity of that scripture. I would like to speak to you for a few minutes this afternoon along some lines that President Grant referred to in those remarks. 

president roosevelt's address 

I was reading just recently an address delivered by President Roosevelt, with regard to t"he conditions which are prevailing today in a social way in this country. Among other things President Roosevelt said : "Social justice is becoming an ever-growing factor and influence in almost every part of the world." Again he said : "Humanity is moving forward to the practical application of the teachings of Christianity, as they affect the individual lives of men and women." Then further : "No program of recovery can suddenly restore all our people to selfsupport. * * * The longer, harder part still lies ahead. We must redouble our efforts to care for those who still need relief, to prevent disintegration of home life, and to stand by the victims of depression until it is definitely past." Again: "The federal government cannot do the whole job. Every community and every state must do their share." 

extensive church relief 

I am sure we agree to these statements made by the President of the United States, and that the Church to which we belong is doing its part in conformity with these suggestions. I think I may state, without question of doubt or contradiction, that this Church has done more and \s doing more, in proportion, for the relief of those in need, than any other religious organization. I do not think I shall be challenged in that statement. In the past I believe the Church has done proportionately more than could reasonably be expected of it. 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

SOCIAL JUSTICE 

The desire of the authorities of this Church is for the welfare of its members. As has been frequently remarked, the effort is to help men and women to help themselves. The business of the Church is to promote, in the largest way, social justice for its members and for all mankind. Every worker is entitled to the opportunity for reasonable employment at fair compensation, for leisure time for recreation and study, and for spiritual development. Every wife and mother is entitled to proper consideration in the care of her household and to similar opportunities for recreation, intellectual and spiritual progress. Every child is likewise entitled to opportunities for reasonable education, for recreation and preparation for life, and to protection from unfair practices. In like manner, each of them has the obligation to society at large to do his or her part in promoting better conditions generally that will make for progress and peace. Under the present disturbed circumstances these conditions are not being fully realized. But it is even more important for us all to cooperate in striving to bring such conditions about. The teachings of the Gospel are the very essence of social justice. To the extent that we observe them we shall evidence fair dealing, mutual helpfulness and kindness to all. 

COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I think the economic conditions throughout the Church are probably not so serious as they are in other parts of the country. In the first place, we are generally living in less congested areas than the industrial sections of the country. We are, in considerable part, an agricultural people. That is, we live nearer to the soil, I think, in proportion, than most other communities. There is probably greater equality and, consequently, less extreme poverty and less great riches, among the people of this Church, than other communities, whether religious or social organizations. So our problems may not be quite so serious Yet they are so serious as to deserve the earnest consideration and effort of every one who has responsibility in this Church, and also of every member. Because this Church is working as a unit to promote the welfare of all of the people. 

CHURCH SOCIAL STANDARDS 

Our standards, as established by the Gospel, not only as given by the Savior and his apostles in earlier days, and as taught by the prophets in Israel, but through the revelations of the Lord in these days, are broader and more important and more definitely placed before us than any people have ever had. We have the standards set up for us to follow, socially, morally and religiously. If we will endeavor to observe those standards — in other words, if we will learn, as has been expressed here frequently today, to keep the commandments of the Lord — we shall grow in right living, social justice and true charity. It leads, in fact, to the finest civilization. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 33 

CHRISTIAN QUALITIES 

In one of the quotations from the revelations of the Lord, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, President Grant called attention to the qualities necessary for Gospel service among men. The instructions apply to us and to all mankind, if we would promote the greatest human welfare. These qualities are: faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility and diligence. The development of these qualities in the lives of men and women comes as a result of Gospel teaching and enables them to apply the same practically for the welfare of humanity as referred to by President Roosevelt. 

If we would apply in our lives the teachings of the Savior, day by day, as they have been taught to us through revelations from him in these days, our lives would be most exemplary and influential among mankind. 

I believe the Latter-day Saints, as a whole, are endeavoring to live in accordance with these teachings — to practically apply them, as President Roosevelt says, as they individually affect us — so that we may evidence greater helpfulness, equity and consideration for one another. That, I think, is the most effective sign of the spirit of the Gospel for which we are all striving. I am sure that if we keep constantly before us the practical application of the Golden Rule, that whatsoever we would that men should do unto us, we would do it unto them, thinking beforehand what we would like to have done to us, and then applying that in our relations with our fellow men, we shall increase in our power to do good and to advance human welfare. 

NATIONAL RECOVERY 

I believe we all appreciate the fact that the President of the United States and his administration are endeavoring in every possible way to promote general recovery from the depressed conditions we have suffered. As has been stated, it cannot be immediate. It will require time to bring to pass the things that are desirable, and to overcome the economic stagnation through which we have been struggling for the last three or four years. To rise on the crest of the wave which we are hoping and striving for, out of the trough in which we have been for some time, exacts powerful, coordinated efforts. Progress must necessarily be gradual and sound. The efforts of the administration to coordinate public works, industrial recovery plans, means of raising farm commodity and other prices gradually, in ord<;r to increase employment and consequent purchasing power, cannot all be effected hastily. The plan conceived and the application of the same are tremendous and never previously undertaken. There have been, of course, delays that have interfered with the program, and have hindered, to some extent, the upward advance which is so greatly needed. I think it is our business to do our part, and to help to coordinate, as far as we can, the carrying out of the plan, so that the unemployed of the nation shall be able to obtain work to maintain themselves and their families, 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and not to have to be dependent upon public or private charity or upon federal relief. But, in the meantime, those in need must be taken care of. Therefore, pending complete recovery, there is bound to be suffering and distress, which the people of this nation, individually and collectively, must help to avoid and overcome. 

COORDINATION OF ALL RELIEF AGENCIES 

It is of the utmost importance that there should be even greater efficiency in the coordination of relief by all agencies engaged in caring for all those who are in need, including federal, state, county and private agencies. Care must be exercised in the system followed to be sure that no one in need shall suffer, and, on the other hand, that any who do not need help shall not impose upon those who are furnishing relief. 

SELF-SEEKERS NOT IN NEED 

I was impressed with what President Grant said with regard to those seeking help who do not need it. It seems to be a peculiar feeling or attitude, on the part of many citizens of this nation, that whenever the government has anything to give away, they are desirous of obtaining it, even though they may not actually need it, and are able to support themselves without. That seems to me a rather selfish attitude. I think that we ought to strive to be self-supporting, and, as far as possible, independent of help from other sources. 

FAIR CONSIDERATION FOR UNEMPLOYED 

Where help is needed, those who have the direction of relief should undertake to see that help is extended. There should be fair consideration given to every unemployed head of family, and to every single person. In all of these measures of relief that are being undertaken, there should be no desire to humiliate any individual who seeks employment. There should be no effort to force them to use up all their resources; in other words, to make paupers of them, when they are in need of employment to provide for themselves and their families. In my judgment, those engaged in relief work should, in their investigations, differentiate those requiring somewhat permanent relief from those who are somewhat temporarily in need of help. Certainly the latter, who desire employment, should not be required to sacrifice all they have before they receive make-work or other relief. There is danger in some of the relief work that is being done, that sometimes there has been extreme effort made to require them to go to the very limit to dispose of every single thing that they have, before they can obtain help from those who have the relief in hand. 

ALL ABLE-BODIED TO WORK FOR RELIEF 

Now, those who are out of employment are not entirely responsible for the conditions. They are desirous of obtaining ways and means whereby they can support themselves and their families. They should 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q, CANNON 35 

be encouraged in that effort, without causing them embarrassment. I believe that every able-bodied person who needs help should give labor or service for the relief that is extended. The doing of work in consideration for compensation, whether it be food relief or cash, promotes independence of spirit, self-respect and satisfaction. Any other policy is destructive of good citizenship. All should feel willing to give that effort. As far as possible, no help should be extended without it. 

AIM OF PUBLIC WORKS 

There are many desirable things that can be done in the various communities which, with reasonable planning, can be of great benefit to the communities. That is one of the great things that is being undertaken in connection with public works. The projects must be economically and socially desirable. They are intended to help overcome unemployment and reduce relief. They are planned to prove a stimulus^ also, to private industry throughout this whole nation. I want to express appreciation for the great thought on the part of the Federal administration in trying, by the advancing of federal funds, under reasonable conditions, to provide the widest possible employment in the various sections in proportion to the needs, and thereby to provide the public improvements, both self-liquidating and otherwise, that will make for the greatest welfare of the people. In this connection may I say that in my judgment there needs to be the greatest mutual consideration in the relations between employers and employes. With the codes being established in industry and the rates of wages on public works, employes will receive higher hourly wages but less hours per week than f ormerly. If industry is to increase and purchasing power be strengthened, tne demands of labor must be reasonable and at the same time the employer must be considerate and fair. 

CHURCH RELIEF POLICY NOT CHANGED 

I believe- you appreciate the fact that the church policy with regard to relief is being carried out as it has been. In other words, the Church does not accept responsibility entirely for the relief of those who are in need. The Church realizes that, first of all, the relatives of those in need should extend all the help that they can possibly do, and next to that the counties in the various states are responsible for the care of those in need. The Church stands by to aid, and to see that members of the Church shall not suffer. We cannot, of course, go beyond that. Especially does the Church feel the responsibility for the faithful, devoted members who may be in need. We are endeavoring to cooperate with the various relief agencies in the most effective way toward promoting improved conditions. 

GOVERINMENT RESPONSIBILITY IN UNEMPLOYMENT 

In the stagnated conditions of private industry, it appears that new employment must be largely undertaken by the cities, counties, 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

states and the Federal government until increased buying power develops through the policies being carried out by the administration. Though the Church is not directly responsible for providing employment, it is endeavoring as far as practicable to furnish additional work through the wards and stakes and in a general way. 

CHUCH RESPONSIBILITY AND DESTINY 

I wish to direct your attention to the responsibility of the Church in the fulfilment of its destiny. The matter of aiding in relief is only one phase of its responsibility. Under normal economic conditions the care of those in need should not be a major part of its responsibilities. With improved prices, employment and general business conditions, the members of the Church, in common with the rest of the people of this nation, can through industry, patience and thrift gradually overcome the unfavorable conditions in which we find ourselves. The primary responsibility of the Church is the preaching of the Gospel throughout the world for the spiritual and temporal welfare of mankind. Also, the great work of salvation for the dead through vicarious ordinances, and for the living through the divine ordinances connected therewith, forms an important duty. Likewise, the education in religious as well as secular subjects, is vital to the proper development of all Church members. In addition, the providing of all necessary facilities for religious worship and training, as well as recreational and social activities, becomes an essential requirement. The result of all this effort, in connection with other positive forces at work in the world to promote liberty, truth and righteousness, will be general peace, good will and spiritual progress. 

INITIATIVE AND RESOURCEFULNESS 

President Grant called our attention this morning to the divine counsel given us in the 58th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants — "It is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore, he receiveth no reward. Verily, I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." This is, in effect, what we call initiative. It is the doing of that which we ought to do, instead of having to be told. This instruction is given us primarily with respect to spiritual affairs. The same principle applies in our secular affairs. It is the business of everyone of us as individual Church members to plan our efforts and our lives in such a way as to promote the interests of the Gospel in the most extensive way. It is, likewise, our opportunity in our daily affairs to advance our personal interests in getting forward and in properly caring for those dependent upon us. This involves also the development of resourcefulness — the ability necessary to meet unusual demands or needs. Centuries ago a wise man 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 37 

declared, "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men." 

INDUSTRY AND SELF-HELP 

It should be the attitude of all who join the Church and those who grow up in it to strive continually to give in every way possible for its advancement, rather than to seek for support from the Church. Very definite instructions have been revealed to us regarding the importance of industry and the seriousness of slothfulness and idleness. There are, of course, times and conditions that may require for some Church members some assistance beyond their own efforts. But, generally, it is expected that each individual will develop the spirit and determination, not only to maintain himself, but also to give service and financial help for the advancement of God's work. Therein lies progress and blessing. On the other hand, condemnation rests upon those who are covetous, greedy or idle, whether rich or poor. 

A CONSTRUCTIVE CHURCH 

This Church is a constructive organization, spiritually as well as temporally. To achieve its great purposes justifies the cooperative effort of the entire Church membership in the use of their time, talents and means. The more universally and willingly the sacrifice, the greater will be the achievement, and the finer the development of the individual members. As we cultivate the unselfish attitude of seeking to maintain ourselves, and also of aiding in the fulfilment of the destiny of this great work, we shall grow in that spiritual faith and power which comes from our eternal Father. 

May the Lord bless and help us to grow in patience, helpfulness and kindliness, which will enable us to gain spiritual strength; and at the same time help us to develop those standards of industry, initiative and resourcefulness which will enable us to become independent in a temporal way. I pray for these blessings, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Holy art Thou," was sung by Sister Margaret Stewart Hewlett. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the Central States 

Mission 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in occupying this position, and I pray that I may be led to say that which will be best for me to say upon this occasion. 

First, I want to express my gratitude and appreciation for the fine choice the Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Twelve have made in the appointment of President Callis to the Council of the Twelve, and of Brother Taylor to the Council of the Seventy. I have known these men a long while, and I know that they will be welcomed 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

in all the Stakes where they shall go, and that they will be richly endowed as a result of their experience and their faith. 

President Grant gave us a wonderful message this morning in his address. I was greatly impressed by that passage of scripture referred to in the Doctrine and Covenants, 58th section (and I have used it many times in the mission field) wherein the Lord says: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is) in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." 

Agents unto themselves! That gives us to understand that we have the principle of free agency in us. We can do or not do. We can read, we can work, or we can neglect our work. The power is within us. The Lord appointed men to carry on his work. He led them in the path whereby they might gain a testimony and might know and understand his work; but the freedom of choice is left with his sons and with his daughters. 

There is no place in the world, nor an organization anywhere that offers so much for its membership, through the priesthood and through its auxiliaries, as does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Much responsibility rests upon the priesthood quorums, and great blessings come to them. Men who are anxious concerning their appointment and the work that is entrusted to them, who are all the time thinking about it, planning about it, trying to bring about in the best possible way the fulfilment of their duties and appointments, will feel greatly the power and influence of the Spirit of the Lord. 

There is fine leadership in this Church. The men with whom we are associated all the time are anxiously engaged in their work. They labor earnestly early and late for the establishment of Zion, and constantly preach faith and works and set an example unto us that all of us can profit by, if we take advantage of the opportunity afforded us. 

There never was a time during my period of service when there were better opportunities than now afforded, in the preaching of the Gospel, both at home and abroad. There never was a time when leadership was more needed than now, in every phase of man's existence. The people are looking for men to lead them. They are disturbed and heartsick because of disappointment. They are not fed the bread of life. They don't understand it. They live and they die without any hope, because they have not had opportunities which will enable them to receive the blessings of God, our Father, that they are entitled to. I feel that it is our duty to a very great extent to provide this spiritual food. 

As I travel in the mission field, and especially in the section where I live and have lived for so many years, I ask myself : Am I reaching the men and women with whom I associate, as I know I should do? When I get on the other side can I be justly accused of neglect ? 

There isn't any question in my mind but that, if we could get people to thinking, they would revere the plan of life and salvation. They would understand that we do not worship the Prophet Joseph Smith 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BEN N ION 39 

or the other leaders of the Church, but that we do honor these men. We honor and respect them because the Lord selected them and placed them in authority so that the Gospel could be brought again to the children of men. 

It is in the hearts of thousands of people to believe the Gospel. I said there never was a greater time than now, and I believe it. Everywhere one goes there is an opportunity to hold meetings. Men could go out in the mission field for a few months at a time, if not longer — men who are experienced — and with very little money could hold meetings among the congregations of the people of the country. There would be many who would listen to them. Even now, though we are reaching only a few, comparatively, just a few men and women, it is marvelous the way the work of the Lord is growing in the earth. 

The position that we occupy is a most worthy one and we should magnify it. If we could ourselves feel the importance of our calling; if we could feel that we were called and appointed before the foundation of the earth was laid, as Alma the prophet said, if we could feed and feast more upon the glorious principles that the Lord has revealed, it would greatly enrich our souls and give us a greater desire to do for him that which he would have us do. 

I know full well that we shall live again. I know that the Lord revealed all that the Prophet Joseph said he revealed to him. I know that when we sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," that Jesus did anoint him a prophet and seer, and that he blessed him to open this the last dispensation, and that "kings shall extol him and nations revere." This will be brought more forcibly to the attention of the world from now on than ever before. 

When we sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," in our hearts and with our voices, we do know that the Lord did call and did reveal unto him the priesthood, and gave him the power and the right to act in his name! And nations do revere him in all the civilized world, where missionaries have gone. We find men and women everywhere singing praises unto God and revering that man unto whom the Lord revealed himself. 

May we, my brethren and sisters, do our part. My prayer and heart's desire have always been that we will walk in the path of rectitude; that we will follow our file leaders; that we will ourselves study the things the Lord has revealed; that we will take to heart that which the Lord's servants called to our attention this morning. It came from God. I am a witness of it. I bear testimony of it to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy to bring to you a word from the Northern States Mission. The Elders and Saints are well and enjoying the spirit of the Gospel. It is interesting to note the difference 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

in the spirit of people as you meet them in the world, as you meet them among the Latter-day Saints and the missionaries in the mission field, and as you meet them in the stakes of Zion at home. We who are separated from you notice the difference. 

President Grant said this morning that that person who found fault with him for talking about the Word of Wisdom indicated by his talk that he was not faithful in keeping that law. I have sometimes thought that people who find fault with others, and who criticize the General Authorities of the Church, and also ward and stake authorities, are simply using that criticism as a camouflage; that they are trying to raise a smoke screen to hide themselves by getting others to turn their attention to the apparent faults of our brethren. 

I have been taught since I was a child to pray for the authorities of the Church, and I think I have always done it. But recently my prayers have changed, somewhat, in that I am now praying more earnestly that I may have the strength and the power and the wisdom to sustain the authorities of the Church, as well as asking the Lord to bless them with inspiration and revelation. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints should turn their attention more to this particular phase of calling upon the Lord for strength, that we, as members of the Church, may see to it, in all that we say and in all that we do, we sustain the authority of the Priesthood which God has given to us in these latter days. 

I have but a few moments to speak, and I should like to say something about that which you must all be interested in, which is happening in Chicago at the present time. There comes very forcibly to my mind now the visit of President B. H. Roberts about a month ago. He went to Chicago to speak to the World's Fellowship of Faiths. This great institution is in a way the follower or the outcome of the World's Parliament of Religions, which was held forty years ago. It was known to the officials of this organization that Brother Roberts had been in Chicago forty years ago, and had not been permitted to speak in the general assembly. In the introduction that was given to him this fact was referred to as indicative of the change in public opinion. President Roberts was honored, it seems to me, more than any other of the distinguished people who spoke in the many meetings of that organization. He gave to the people a message, in fact, two great messages. He spoke of the Prince of Peace, and how that peace might come to the world by giving justice, social and economic justice, to all mankind. He was powerful in his discourse, and there will be written in the books, the records of that great convention, as one of the first and foremost messages given, that which was given by Brother Roberts during the last days of his life here upon the earth. 

I wish you could go into the booth and see the exhibit in the Hall of Religions that has be.en made by the Church to which we belong, and listen to your young men and young women who are there working. I believe that there would be many more of the young men and young women of the Latter-day Saints desire to go on missions, and be willing to sacrifice themselves in order to go on missions, if they could 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 41 

feel the spirit of those young men. There are probably from three thousand to five thousand people each day who stop to listen as they give to them the message. It is a living message. 

Our booth is in the Hall of Religions where many other religious faiths have made exhibits, and it is outstanding on account of the spirit of it. The figures in the paintings and the sculpture work seem to be living individuals — they look as if they could speak. They are outstanding. They are different. They are symbolical of the work that is done in the Church. They tell the story of the work of our Relief Society, our Sunday Schools, our missionary work, our Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement work; and especially do they depict most beautifully the ideals of the "Mormon" home, as the father sits with the child in his arms, and the mother stands with her arm over the shoulder of a boy scout. 

These young men who lecture almost continuously for twelve hours every day, for the five months of the Fair, are filled with the spirit and enthusiasm of missionary work, as they deliver the great message which we have to give to the world. And I bear testimony, as Brother Bennion has done just before me, that the world is hungry. The people stop and listen, and you may go into that booth any time of the day, when the rest of the hall is filled or when there are but few there, and there will always be a group filling that booth of ours. 

I wish that this spirit, the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ which fills the hearts of your young men and young women in the mission field, could be in the hearts of all of you people. I believe it is important in the education of every boy and every girl that they take a mission, and know something of missionary work as well as something of college work. While I believe in college work, I believe that the missionary work is the most needed and the most outstanding experience in a person's education. 

May the Lord bless us, and fill us with the spirit of this great work, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

of the First Council of the Seventy 

I presume that in the past forty-one years I have trained the Latterday Saints, in this tabernacle, so they are always somewhat anxious as to what success I will have. During this time I have always been anxious, having only one desire, and that is, to say .something, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, that would be for my good and for your good. The Lord knows my desires and will give to me his Holy Spirit. 

I shall not attempt to preach a lengthy discourse. I realize that time is quite a factor in a general conference especially, as President Grant is noted for wanting as many of the brethren to speak as possible. 

It might be well to inform you that I was ordained one of the Fiist Council of the Seventy October 8th, 1892. When I became a 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

member of the Council there were such men as Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, John Morgan, Brigham H. Roberts and George Reynolds who were among the greatest missionaries of our day. I have associated with them a great many years, and in thinking of them since Brother Roberts passed away, I could not help but feel that they were men of God; that no mistake was made; that they were called by revelation. All of these brethren have gone home. I am the only one living that was associated with them. After the date of my ordination, Rulon S. Wells, Edward Stevenson and Joseph!W. McMurrin filled vacancies within about five years. 

I think there is no man living in the flesh that knew Elder Roberts any better than I did. There was an affection, a friendship, formed in the missionary field that exceeds any love I have ever known, outside of my own family. 

A missionary friend, Charles Welch, called on me yesterday. He is now a patriarch in the Bighorn stake. He was formerly a counselor to the president of the stake. He came to my home yesterday to see me. I traveled with him one year under Elder Roberts' presidency in Virginia. I know of no better man than Brother Charles Welch. He was a youngman when I was laboring with him fifty years ago, but he told me yesterday he is now seventy-three years old. Ours is a keen friendship, a brotherhood that will last through life and will continue in the other world. Why ? Because he never forsook me. He was to be trusted. I was sick and he ministered to me and was so kind and patient. I had boils — called carbuncles, if you know what a carbuncle is. I don't know what kind of boils Job had, but if he had carbuncles I am in full sympathy for him. They started on one of my wrists and they followed me all the way up and down. The last one I had was on my knee. We had reached Burkes" Garden at that time, after traveling nearly one thousand miles without purse and scrip. 

I am trying to make clear to you, if I can, the friendship that we Mormon elders have for one another. I may not be gifted in coupling together all of those beautiful sentiments and words, but friendship of the kind I am talking about cannot be told in words. Brother Welch said to me : "Golden, I have come six hundred miles to this conference, and one of my big objects was to see you." 

The first time I ever saw Elder Roberts was either in Cincinnati or St. Louis. He had been chosen as president of the Southern States Mission to succeed John Morgan. I left for Chattanooga, Tennessee, with twenty-seven elders assigned to the Southern States. There were all kinds of elders in the company — 'farmers, cowboys, few educated — a pretty hard looking crowd, and I was one of that kind. The elders preached, and talked, and sang, and advertised loudly their calling as preachers. I kept still for once in my life; I hardly opened my mouth. I saw a gentleman get on the train. I can visualize that man now. I didn't know who he was. He knew we were a band of Mormon elders. The elders soon commenced a discussion and argument with the stranger, and before he got through they were in grave doubt about their message 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 43 

of salvation. He gave them a training that they never forgot. That man proved to be President B. H. Roberts. 

On arriving at Chattanooga I was appointed to labor in Virginia with Elder Landon Rich. I traveled for one year under his direction. President Roberts called me to the office the second year — 1884. I slept with him. I talked with him. He trusted me, and I never betrayed him. He confided in me, the only time in his life, about his own affairs, his family, etc. We occupied one room — used as office and sleeping quarters. We paid $25.00 a month for rent and board. It was hotter than hades most of the time. I was his secretary. He walked the floor and dictated, and I wrote longhand volumes and stored away a fund of information. I was with Brother Roberts at the time of the Kane Creek Massacre, as I was at Shady Grove and was the first to get the information of the killing of Elders Gibbs, Berry and the Condor boys, and that they were buried. I was with Brother Roberts when he went out into a cornfield to disguise as a farm laborer. We kneeled down and prayed, and we discussed the matter and were satisfied that we should secure the bodies. I said : 

"Brother Roberts, let me go. They know you in that section. You have preached there. They will kill you. Let me go." 

He said, "No, I am the president of the mission. The Lord will take care of me." 

Eight members of the First Council have died since I was ordained on October 8, 1892, and there isn't one of that number who was so close to me as Brigham H. Roberts. I never felt more lonely or helpless, in a way, than I do now. Brother Roberts has been my mentor; he has been my teacher; he has been my chronicler. I was relieved of reading the great histories; I didn't have to read a whole library searching for information. What did I have to do ? When anything troubled me about the history of the Church or scripture, I went to Brother Roberts. He had the most wonderful mind and memory of any human being I have ever known, right up to the very last. A great light has gone out in my life. I will soon follow. 

I am now what they call the Senior President of the First Council of the Seventy. It is not altogether merit. It is just the regular order of things in the Church, just as it is with the Twelve Apostles. I have had the tenacity to outlive my fellow laborers. I have given forty-one years of my life whole-heartedly for the Seventies. The First Council are all presidents equal in authority. As much as I honor and respect Brother Roberts I have never felt inferior to him in his presence; he has never made me feel that way. He had a greater intellect, greater intelligence, but I have had some gifts of my own, that in a way were equal to his. I have preached by his side many times, and after he got through preaching I reached those that he missed, so it has been that way during all this time. He often said when in the south, "Our love is akin to that of David and Jonathan." 

One other thing I want you to know. I am not currying favor; I am sick of such things. You can't say anything in this Church without 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

someone thinks you are catering to somebody. It's in accordance with my calling as senior president to comment on the appointment of Elder John H. Taylor, who has been chosen and sustained to fill the vacancy caused by President Roberts' death. We welcome John as a member of the First Council. I knew him when and about the time he filled his first mission. When he filled his second mission he was a seventy. We were ransacking the whole Church for missionaries, and were not meeting with great success. In conversing with me about a mission he said : "I am ready to go." He was appointed to labor in Belgium. I have had due respect for and confidence in his faith, loyalty and integrity. I respect him for what he has done and will do in the future. He is a grandson of President John Taylor, and I cannot think of a man that has sacrificed more for the Church than President Taylor did. It was under his presidency that I reported for my first mission in 1883. I knew John H. Taylor's father very well, having always been on friendly terms with President John Taylor's family. 

I represent in a way my race of people. I may be of rugged individualism, but if there is one thing I am proud of it is that I am Heber C. Kimball's son. I want to ask you people in confidence, don't you think he is entitled to a representative? 

I want to say another thing. jWe now have Brother Ivins, Brother Bennion, and Brother Taylor in the First Council of the Seventy. I am telling you straight, there are not over thirty per cent of our Seventies that are active, although they are just as active as the rest of the priesthood. What are we going to do about it ? They will not come to Us; we will have to go to them. There is the greatest opportunity for missionary work to be done among the quorums of Seventy who are or should be special witnesses for God, of any place I know. 

Remember, I pray you, that our Savior did not wait for his children to come to him. He went to them. If they were hungry, he fed them. If they were sick, he healed them. If they were in sorrow, he comforted them. If they were ignorant, he taught them. If they were distressed, he encouraged them. If they were burdened with sin, he proclaimed to them his Father's forgiveness, if they would repent and sin no more. 

There is no greater responsibility, requiring greater kindness and love and patience and the Spirit of God, than to go out among the Seventies and encourage them to do their duty. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am reminded of the scripture that says, "Prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men ot God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

I have enjoyed the conference immensely thus far. As I have heard the words as they have come from the prophets of the Lord I have rejoiced, and hope that all Israel will heed these wonderful messages. 

ELDER CHARLES A. ROWAN, JR. 45 

As one who is not a member of the general authorities, may I express my feeling of gratitude to our heavenly Father in the selection of these worthy men who have been called to help lead and direct Israel. I believe that no finer men could be found in the Church, and yet I appreciate that in this Church we have many mighty, stalwart leaders, who are gifted and talented. 

It has been my pleasure to be acquainted with President Callis for twenty-four years. I have had the opportunity of sleeping with him, eating with him, visiting with him, and enjoying his friendship and confidence, and have had the pleasure of listening to him preach to the people in the mission field, a rare privilege. 

I had the opportunity of meeting Brother Taylor first eleven years ago, when he came into the Garfield Stake of Zion, representing the Mutual Improvement Association. I think he will remember the introduction. We met him in Marysvale with a Model T Ford and took him to Escalante where the conference was to N be held. Some of the pitches over the mountain were eighteen per cent and the Ford could hardly make the grade. Sometimes it was necessary for the passengers to walk and Brother Taylor had to help push it over the mountain. More than that, we had a baby girl called Rachel, and at times he carried her in his arms. He said : "Oh, I think Rachel is the finest name in the world." I thought of that when he referred to his kind, sweet wife here today. I am sure the Saints in the wards and stakes will be delighted with these appointments. 

I am happy, brethren and sisters, to bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries in the Texas mission. Your sons and daughters are well. They are bearing testimony to the people, wherever they can, that God, our Father, has spoken in this generation of time; that no greater mission has ever been given to any people than has been committed to us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I bring you greetings from the Saints, and say to you that they are honest, God-fearing people in the main; that we have had an increase in our numbers who have paid tithes and fast-offerings this year; that our auxiliary organizations are all fully organized, and we are anticipating increased activity this coming winter. We have had considerable increase in the activities, particularly in our genealogical work. In checking it over the other day I discovered an increase -of 862 per cent in the names that have passed through the mission office for the temples this year. Really the spirit of Elijah is resting upon the people, not only those who are members of the Church, but the people in general seem to be interested in finding out who their ancestors were. We are grateful for this. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in this great calling. I have never enjoyed anything so much in my life. I am grateful for the testimony that I have that Jesus Christ is actually the Son of the living God. I am grateful for my association with these fine sons and daughters of yours. I wish to say to you that they are indeed servants of the true 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and the living God; that they are anxious to go forward and proclaim the truth, and they are doing all they can everywhere to preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I want to read a statement here that was made by the Savior during his ministry. He said : 

"All things are delivered unto me of my Father; and no man knoweth the Son but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him." 

I am also reminded of the fact that he said : 

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast s'ent." 

Here we find that no one can know that Jesus is the Christ, and that God is our eternal Father, unless it is revealed to him by Jesus Christ. When Jesus was about to depart from this life he said: 

"And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever." 

"Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth : for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will show you things to come." 

A glorious promise that has been fulfilled and is being enjoyed by faithful Latter-day Saints everywhere! 

I certify in words of soberness that you who have testimonies and have received this revelation from Almighty God, according to that which our Master has said, have the assurance of life eternal. 

May God bless us all. May you be able to sustain your missionary sons and daughters in the field. May you who have sons and daughters, and you who are experienced be endowed with power from on high, with a determination to go forward and help to reap, because truly the field is white, ready to harvest. May we be sustained and profit by the good things we hear in this conference, and support our leaders, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Unfold ye portals," an anthem, was sung by The Singing Mothers, after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder Heber C. Austin. Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Saturday, October 7. 

A sacred solo, "A poor wayfaring man of grief," was sung by Elder Charles Martin, immediately following the opening prayer First Session. 

When announcing that Brother Martin would sing "A poor wayfaring man of grief," President Grant made the following comment : 

This hymn was sung twice in Carthage Jail by John Taylor just prior to the martyrdom of the Prophet and the Patriarch. After having sung it once Brother Taylor was asked by the Prophet to sing it again. Brother Taylor replied that he did not feel like singing. The Prophet requested him to sing it once more and suggested that he would feel better after doing so. 

Shortly after Brother Taylor had sung the hymn the second time the firing commenced which caused the death of the Prophet and the Patriarch, and four bullets lodged in Brother Taylor's body. 


