Morning
08 10 1933

Sunday morning, October 8. 

Every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied before 9:30 o'clock. The large Assembly Hall on the Temple Block was crowded with people who could not find accommodation in the Tabernacle, and hundreds of others assembled on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the proceedings as they were broadcast by radio. 

As a prelude to the fifth session of the Conference the following program of choral and organ music was rendered by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, from 9 :30 to 10 :30, and broadcast by radio from coast to coast over the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL: 

"Awake" (Wagner) — Choir. 

"I'll sing thee songs" (Clay) — Organ. 

"Arise, glorious Zion" (Careless) — Choir. 

"Scherzo" (Rogers) — Organ. 

"Glorious things are sung of Zion" (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Finlandia" (Sibelius) — Organ. ."Lead kindly light" (Parks)— Choir. 

"Lo! the Mighty God appearing" (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Pilgrims Chorus" (Wagner) — Organ. 

"He that shall endure" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

"Berceuse" (Dickinson) — Organ. 

"The Lord's Prayer" (Gates) — Choir. 

"March Religieuse" (Guilmant) — Organ. 

"Hail bright abode" (Wagner) — Choir. 

"Gently raise the sacred strain" (Phelps) — Choir. 

The Tabernacle Choir was conducted by Anthony C. Lund. Organ accompaniments and organ solo presentations were played by Frank Asper. 

Following the Choir and Organ broadcast President Heber J. Grant announced that the Choir and the congregation would join in singing the hymn "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Joseph J. Daynes, President of the Grant Stake. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVilNS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to express the gratitude which I feel that I am permitted to meet again in a general conference of the Church. I have not been well, but through the blessing of the Lord 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. WINS 83 

I have not been seriously sick. I thank him and praise his name for this privilege. 

I love to be here at these gatherings of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I love to listen to the voices of my brethren who are called upon to address you. It is one of the joys of my life. 

Naturally, knowing that I might be asked to make remarks at this conference, I have thought of something to say. I knew the message that I wished to deliver, but was at a loss to find words with which to properly express it. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, in his remarks, supplied me with a text. He quoted from the words of the Prophet Ezekiel, words which, notwithstanding the centuries which have passed since they were uttered, are as applicable to us today as they were when the Lord uttered them to him. It was an admonition to him personally. 

HAD TURNED TO IDOLS 

The Israelitish people had turned from the faith of their fathers to the worship of idols. The Lord called Ezekiel, the son of Buzi, to go to them and proclaim his word, and he tells us that he went to those who dwelt upon the river Chebar, and abode with them for seven days. He marvelled at their wickedness, at their lack of faith, and hesitated to declare the message which the Lord had sent him to deliver. It was at this time that the Lord called his attention to the fact that when he required at the hands of a man the accomplishment of a work, when he sent him to call the wicked people to repentance, and he failed to deliver that message, and the wicked died in their sins, he might be held responsible for it. But he also said to him that if he complied with the commands of God our father, and warned the wicked man of his ways, then if the man died in wickedness, he had complied with his duty and would not be held responsible. He called his attention to the fact that he had made him a watchman upon the towers of Zion, a man through whom he might properly send his word to unbelieving people. 

DUTY TO MAGNIFY IDEALS 

I have often read this scripture, have studied it carefully, and endeavored to understand its import and application. I have asked myself this question : What application has this command of the Lord to you ? The answer that has come to me has always been the same. It is this : that whatever my profession, whether it be as a citizen of the government to which I have given my allegiance or a member of the Church with which I affiliate, it becomes my duty to magnify in my life the ideals for which my country stands and the doctrines which my Church teaches. 

If I fail in either, and by example or precept lead other people away from loyalty to their country or to indifference and lack of attention to religious duties, I have 'in a sense become responsible, and I never feel this responsibility more than when I stand before a congregation of Latter-day Saints in the attitude of teacher, for the Lord expects men 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and women who accept responsibility to magnify it, otherwise they will be in judgment. 

a prophet's calling 

This particular scripture which was quoted called my special attention to prophecy, the inspired word of God our Father, which is uttered by his servants the prophets, modern and ancient. I thought of its importance, of its application to us, and so sat down and outlined some of the results of prophecy in which we modern people are particularly interested. 

The word, prophet, defined in the Hebrew language, means one who has been called to denounce sin and foretell the consequences and punishment of it. He is to be above all else a preacher of righteousness, to call the people back from idolatry, to faith in the living God, and when moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord to foretell coming events. But more particularly a prophet is to be an expounder of present duties and an interpreter of the meaning and application of the written word. 

PROPHECIES BEING FULFILLED 

We at the present day have an entirely different relationship to prophecy than had those who lived at the time that many of the most important of the prophecies made were uttered. People of Bible days looked hopefully and in faith forward to the fulfilment of the words of the prophets. 

We look backward and see that many, very many of those important predictions have been fulfilled. We know if we study them carefully that we are living at a time when they are being fulfilled and that we are the actors in their fulfilment, whether we are conscious of it or not, and we know further, if we are to judge by the signs of the times which have been given to us by the prophets, and Christ himself, that we are upon the very verge of the fulfilment of the most important of them all, when God our father will consummate his work, when Christ our Lord shall come to rule and assume dominion over the kingdoms of this world. 

COVENANT WITH ABRAHAM 

It was four thousand years ago that the Lord called Abraham from Ur of the Chaldees, and brought him up into Palestine to a country and people who were alien to his own race, and entered into a new covenant with him. This man was ninety years of age and was childless, yet the Lord told him to look over all the land of Palestine, from north to south and from east to west and promised that he would give this land to his posterity who he declared would become, by comparison, as numerous as the sands upon the seashore or the stars of heaven. 

It was not until one thousand years later that this prediction, this covenant of the Lord, was fulfilled. When -1 David, the shepherd king, led the armies of Israel, subdued the last Jebusite defenders of the city of Jerusalem, and established his capital city at that place, was the word 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 85 

of the Lord fulfilled. Israel did become at that time one of the dominant and most influential kingdoms of the known world. 

A LAND OF PROMISE 

We, my brethren and sisters, are assembled here today in this historic building, in a city which we call Salt Lake, in a territory which we call Utah, a territory which forms one of the forty-eight federated states of our union, each state independent in its own sphere, but all bound together by constitutional law, which welds them into a single entity. 

Only yesterday the ground upon which this building stands, in fact the entire area covered by the United States of America, was an uncultivated wilderness. The prophets of the Lord, centuries before, had predicted the existence of this land, before it was known to the people of the old world. They had outlined to us the establishment of this government of ours; they had declared that upon this land, which to them was a land choice above all others, there would be established a system of civil government, which would be a light to the world; a government to which would be gathered the remnant of the scattered house of Israel; a government in which men would enjoy equal rights under the law; a government in which men would act as their own conscience might prompt them to do — with this restriction, however, that in that which they did they must not infringe upon the rights of others or prevent them from exercising the agency which they themselves exercised. 

The prophet Isaiah, referring to this land of America, these everlasting hills, declared that at a future time — the time to which he referred was the latter days — the house of the Lord would be established here, and that all nations would flow unto it; that they would be taught here the way of the Lord and learn to walk in his paths. By foreknowledge of God the prophets declared that by the direction of his Spirit the Lord would bring people to this continent who would establish this form of government, and said that they would never be overthrown or conquered by other nations, if they would but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. 

The destiny of America from the day that Columbus sailed from the ports of Spain to the present, was declared by the prophets of the Lord, as I have said, before the people of Europe knew that America existed. The sailing of Columbus, from the port of Palos, in Spain, was not a thing of chance. It had been declared by the prophets nearly two thousand years before that the Spirit of the Lord would rest upon a man among the Gentiles, and that he would sail forth and land upon this continent. As he sailed on and on over uncharted seas, his crew was in open revolt, they declared that they would go no farther, and that upon the morrow they would turn the prows of their ships back to the east and endeavor to find their way back to Spain, but upon that eventful night a gun from the Pinta announced that land had been sighted. A new world had been discovered. 

S6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

COMING OF PILGRIMS 

Two hundred years after the landing of Columbus another landing occurred which had been just as definitely declared by the prophets of God. When the Pilgrim Fathers anchored their ships off Plymouth Rock, another prophecy had been fulfilled and the history of the American nation had been commenced. Both of these events had been declared, according to the dates I have been able to discover, two thousand years before their final accomplishment. 

INDEPENDENCE DECLARED 

For more than a century the colonists who had come from the Old World continued to live under the governments of the countries from which they came. At the end of that time, and this too in fulfilment of the decrees of the prophets, they declared that they of right were and should be an independent people. 

The Declaration of Independence was published to the world, the War of Independence was fought and won, and our ship of state was launched on a troubled sea. The hour had struck that kingcraft and priestcraft, which for ages had held the struggling masses of the world in thralldom, under perverted control both in civil and religious life, were to be stricken and the people of the world were to be emancipated from the shackles with which they had been bound. 

CHURCH FOUNDED 

A half century had elapsed since the establishment of our government when another event of transcendent importance to the world occurred. The events that I have so briefly and imperfectly outlined up to the present were simply the foreordained and divine accomplishments that were to occur for the accomplishment of a divine purpose. Our Lord taught his apostles that though his life might be taken by his enemies, though the kingdom which he would have established might be destroyed by men, yet would he live on and come again to assume control and dominion over the earth. When they asked him when this would be — "give us a sign," they pleaded, "by which we may know the time of your coming and the establishment of your kingdom," — he outlined the things which would occur in the world, things which we are passing through today, as plainly as though he had seen them, and definitely declared that this gospel of the kingdom should be restored and preached in all the world as a witness. 

That promise, my brethren and sisters, was fulfilled eighteen hundred years later when, through the ministry of Christ our Lord and under his direction, the opening of the present gospel dispensation was effected through Joseph Smith and those who were associated with him. 

Washington's influence 

Immediately after the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, trouble, as serious as any which our government has since experienced, occurred. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. WINS 87 

The army was about to be disbanded, there was no money with which to pay the soldiers for the years of devoted service which they had rendered their country. It was proposed that Washington be declared king and that the confederation of states be dissolved. Others denounced Washington as the person responsible for all of the trouble with which they were threatened. The army threatened to march upon the Congress and enforce its demands, and for fear that this might be accomplished, Congress adjourned and moved its place of meeting from Philadelphia to Princeton in New Jersey. 

"While these plotters were assembled," Fiske says (I have copied this from his writings, and now quote) : "Washington suddenly came into the meeting and amid profound silence broke forth in a most eloquent and profound speech. All," he says, "were hushed by that majestic presence and those solemn tones. He pleaded for patience," as Elder Richards pleaded for it here yesterday, for tolerance, "for trust in the newly born government which would in the end pay that which it owed. The soldiers listened, hesitated and yielded to the irrepressible presence of the man who, more than any other, had made the establishment of our nation possible." 

OVERCOMING PROBLEMS 

From that time to the present our country has met and solved many grave problems, it has had wars and emerged victorious from them. It has had financial depressions, many of them, but notwithstanding this trouble, it has gone on. I might go on and quote part of the notes I have here, from the war of the rebellion, when fratricidal war shook the foundations upon which the government was established down until the present time. From all of these we have emerged stronger, more influential, more powerful, until today the United States of America has become the most influential and perhaps the wealthiest nation in the world. 

PRESENT PERPLEXITIES 

At the same time, paradoxical though the statement may appear to you, in the midst of all its wealth, surrounded by the abundance which the Lord has showered upon us, we know that millions of our fellow citizens are in dire need for the common necessities of life. Every citizen who is familiar with existing conditions in our country knows that embarrassing situations and complex questions confront us at the present time. 

They are not only perplexing to the national government, but to the various states which constitute the Union, the counties which constitute the states, and the municipalities which constitute the counties; and to a greater or less extent, my brethren and sisters, they affect every individual of the commonwealth, as you who hear my voice well know from your own experience. 

Three things have conspired during the past decade which more than any others although there have been many ramifications from them, 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

have created the present unfortunate situation. They are, as I analyze them, the following: 

First, the unprecedented disposition among the citizens of our country to treat with indifference the obligation of obedience to civil law, and the indifference manifested by administrative officers in the administration of it. 

Second, the frenzied desire of selfish men to become suddenly wealthy regardless of the ethics of the means employed to accomplish their ambitious and unrighteous desires. 

Third, the increasing indifference of our people to the sacredness of religious obligation. 

SHOULD OBEY LAWS 

The revelations given for the guidance of the Church tell us definitely that governments are instituted of God for the benefit of man, and admonish us to be obedient to the civil law in the countries in which we reside; that it is the right of all men to act in both private and public affairs as their conscience may direct, but, as I have stated, with the limitation that they are not to infringe upon the privileges and rights of others. 

The Lord says — and this is quoted from a revelation : 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land by the hands of wise men, whom I raised up for this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

OPPOSITION OF LUCIFER 

If this government was established by God our Father, no argument should be necessary to convince you that anti-Christ is opposed to it. Lucifer is the enemy of God and Christ his Son. His minions have always been arrayed against them. He fights to lead men away from the Redeemer of the world. Never have his emissaries been more active than at the present time. The very elements appear to combine to bring confusion and tribulation to the people of this troubled world of ours. Both physical and spiritual forces are at work to effect and accomplish if possible our ruin. 

Shall Christ or Lucifer triumph in this conflict? This government of ours and all other governments need the strength of the Church. It was by Christian people under God that our government was founded and has been maintained. I have faith in the soul of the American people. They may stumble, they may waver, wicked men may for a time seize control of the affairs of government, but even though confronted by chaos, these people whom the Lord has brought here will rise in their might and with the help of God will triumph. 

INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH 

Just as the government has had its difficulties, has had its trials, has been at times almost upon the verge of destruction, so has the Church since its organization. Its members have been driven, they 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W, IVINS 89 

have been persecuted, they have been misunderstood, and like Saul of Tarsus, under the impression that they were doing God service, men have endeavored to destroy its influence. Notwithstanding its drivings, notwithstanding the suffering of its people, like the government of which we form a part, the Church has become stronger, more powerful in influence and better than ever before, I believe, in its history, and I say the word better believing it to be true. 

PLEADS FOR LOYALTY 

I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, and to all others who are under the sound of my voice, or to whom my words may come, to remain firm and immovable in life or death to the principles upon which this government of ours is founded. In its sphere it occupies the same relationship to our Father in heaven that the Church does. He is clearly the author of both, each to act in its own sphere — the government for the temporal protection and welfare of mankind, and the Church for their spiritual salvation. 

And so I feel impressed to call upon my brethren and sisters to support and magnify and do their duty to both the State and the Church. We need the sympathetic support of government wherever we are. You mission presidents who go into the field to proclaim the glad tidings of the restoration, my first act would be to get in harmony with the civil officers of the country in which I labored. 

We are frequently oppressed because people do not understand us, they do not know our mission, and that in many instances is because we have never endeavored to impress upon the minds of governing officers the real mission which we come to deliver. So I say we require the sympathetic support of the civil law. Without it Lucifer will sweep truth from the earth as he did in the primitive church and substitute in its stead the worship of idols. 

I want to say to you men of the Church who may be present or those who are absent and may hear my words, you doctors, lawyers, bankers and merchants, you men who because of your busy lives have forgotten perhaps the full sense of responsibility to the Church of which you form a part, to return to it, renew your affiliation with it. The Church needs you, it needs your intelligence, it needs your learning, your wisdom, as you need the strength which only the Church can afford. Your fathers, many of them, laid down their lives in its establishment. Come back to it and help us in this time of stress. 

I am sure that with this combined strength, my brethren and sisters, the proper union of the Church with the State, and the proper union of the State with the Church, we shall triumph. Without it our heritage may pass into the alien hands of a godless, idolatrous people. There is real fear of that except we faithfully do our duty, both to this government of ours, the best there is in the world, with all its weaknesses, the government established by God our Father. I pledge myself to be obedient to its laws. I have always been, and to the men who have 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

administered its affairs, notwithstanding the fact that they may have weaknesses. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, keep us in the faith. Do not falter. The daydawn is breaking, when Christ our Lord shall come, not only to assume dominion over his Church, of which we form a part, but over the world at large. It was by church people — do not forget —  that this government was founded and the foundations of it were laid. It was by church people that the War of Independence was fought. It has been by church people that it has been maintained, and it will be by church people that it shall be rescued from chaos, if it is rescued at all. God bless you. Amen. 

A vocal solo, "O rest in the Lord," was sung by Mrs. C. G. VanOs. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

My brethren and sisters, I sense deeply the responsibility that comes to any person who is called to express his thoughts to this large congregation. 

This morning's session has been an inspiration to me. The program presented by the tabernacle choir has subdued my spirit, so much so that I feel the influence of this meeting more, it seems to me, than I have at any other time. I am thankful to be here, thankful that I am a Latter-day Saint, thankful that I have the privilege of mingling my voice in song and praise and prayer in this conference. 

Let me first express my deep appreciation for my brethren who have passed away, Brother Brigham H. Roberts and Brother James E. Talmage. I became acquainted with Brother Roberts sometime in the year 1886, in England. He was then but thirty years of age. I admired him. He taught the Gospel to me as no other person had done previously. It was my privilege to sing for him as he preached the Gospel in the neighborhood where I lived. The second Sunday after I arrived in Salt Lake I heard Brother Talmage preach in the old 19th Ward chapel, and that sermon I shall always remember. His subject was : "Thou Shalt Have No Other Gods Before Me." Since the year 1889 we have been close friends. I miss both of these brethren. 

I was glad that Aunt Susa Young Gates was remembered among those who have passed away since our last conference. She was my neighbor. Sister Gates was devoted to her religion. She had a wonderful understanding of the Gospel. I admired her for her devotion to this great work and the honor that she manifested toward the Priesthood. 

At the Stake Clerks' meeting held yesterday I said that we do not need to be told anything new half so much as we need to be reminded of the things we already know. This thought has been constantly in my mind during the sessions of this conference. 

The life of the Master is always most interesting to me. I like to follow his footsteps while he was here in mortality. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 91 

When the Master was traveling toward Caesarea Philippi accompanied by his disciples, a marvelous testimony came to them. He asked them the question : "Whom say ye that I am ?" And they answered him, Peter being spokesman: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." After that he told them many things about his ministry, and particularly about his death. He admonished them in this manner : 

"For what is! a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" 

Evidently he was preparing these twelve men for their important duties in the establishment of his Church. 

On another occasion a rich young man, a ruler among the Jews, came to him seeking instructions. I will read what Matthew has recorded regarding the incident: 

"And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? 

"And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God : but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." 

I have thought of that as the keynote of this conference. 

"He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness. 

"Honor thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

"The young man saith unto him, all these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? 

"Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come and follow me. 

"But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful : for he had great possessions." 

Let us consider these incidents in the light of our present conditions. 

Depressions like the one we are passing through come periodically. We are never prepared for them. We soon forget the experiences of previous depressions. We again ride on the high tide of prosperity for a few years, followed by another reaction similar to the present one. The living conditions of every person in the country have been affected. Property values have fallen. The selling price of the products of the soil and the mill have been materially reduced and the purchasing power of the people seriously impaired. 

It has been stated that when Martin Luther commenced his great reform movement (which after all was a preparatory movement for the establishment of the Gospel of Jesus Christ through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith) the Pope sent word to a high church official to "stop that monk's mouth with gold." This official reported back: "The fool doesn't love gold." Was he a fool? I believe not. There are many things more valuable and more lasting than the possession of wealth. Pitiable is the poverty of the soul of one who works 

92  GENERAL CONFERENCE 

for earthly riches alone. The great elevating force in our lives is our spiritual growth. 

Those who are in business or who follow commercial pursuits require an accounting from time to time to ascertain whether or not the business or pursuit they follow is profitable. At frequent intervals an inventory is taken of the condition of the business. A statement of the business is prepared. If he is a wise business man, he will closely examine the balance sheet which will show his assets and liabilities. This is the usual routine of commercial life. 

It has been said by many that the merchant or business man who never takes an inventory nor has prepared for him a balance sheet, will run the risk of becoming bankrupt through ignorance of the condition of his business; and so I say that a man who never takes an inventory and balance sheet of himself will run the risk of intellectual and spiritual bankruptcy. 

We are now in the last quarter of the year. Like other years, it began with new hopes, new resolutions and perhaps a few new opportunities. Would it not be proper for us to take an inventory ot our general conduct as Latter-day Saints and see if we are increasing our spiritual assets and decreasing our spiritual liabilities? 

Brother Nephi Jensen has given a definition of spirituality : 

"Spirituality is that liveliness of spirit that intensifies appreciation of the beautiful, deepens loyalty to truth and kindles love for the good; it puts the heart in harmony with the moral forces of the world; promotes delight in the realization of high ideals; and quickens in the heart the joyousi glory of being in actual partnership with God in the purification and ennoblement of mankind." 

We are all familiar with the Master's injunction: 

"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal, but rather lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt and thieves do not break through and steal. For where your treasure is there will your heart be also." 

Now does our spiritual balance sheet show that we have been more helpful in the stake and ward where we live? Does it show that we have developed those priceless attributes, dependability and loyalty? Does it show that we have observed the Sabbath day and kept it holy; that we have paid our tithes and offerings? Can the people about us say that we are good neighbors? Does this balance sheet show that we have kept the Word of Wisdom ? Does it show that we have done all that has been required of us in the service of the Lord and his Church? If so, we are increasing in spirituality and our assets are growing. 

Now let us examine the other side of the balance sheet. Our spiritual liabilities will increase when we do not observe the Sabbath day, when we are law breakers, when we fail to pay an honest tithing to the Lord, when we fail to keep the Word of Wisdom, and when others have to labor with us to keep us interested in the Church. If our 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 93 

spiritual liabilities are increasing, isn't it time to ask ourselves the question : 

"For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul ? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul ?" 

Several years ago there came into my possession a leaflet which contained the following questions : Am I really and truly interested in my membership in the Church? What am I doing to prove that interest? How do I look to the man on the outside? Can he tell by my actions that I am living the Gospel? Am I a good example for anyone to follow? Would my Bishop classify me as useful, active, faithful, or would he classify me as just one of his members? 

My brethren and sisters, let us see that our spiritual assets are increasing and that our spiritual liabilities are decreasing; that in spite of poverty, disappointments and financial reverses, we do increase in faith, keeping always in mind the saying of the Master, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." We can show our love for the Master by keeping his commandments. 

I am thankful for the Gospel, for my membership in the Church, for the testimony that has come to me. I testify to you that I know this is the work of God, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God, that he was raised up to stand at the head of this great dispensation of the fulness of times. 

Let us constantly remind ourselves of our obligation to our Father in Heaven, to this Church, and to one another, that we may grow in spiritual power and usefulness in this great latter-day work, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

I believe that this is the eleventh time that I have had the privilege of representing the Western States Mission before a congregation in this tabernacle, and it is the last time that I shall have that privilege, since I have been transferred into another field of labor. I have had extreme pleasure in the labor that has been assigned to me, and Sister Woodruff has enjoyed it with me. We have had a very pleasant experience. We have labored in the mission among many happy people in a delightful part of the country. Our experiences have been of great benefit and blessing to us. We are very grateful for them. 

I should like to take this opportunity to say a few things about that mission that I hope will be interesting to you and appropriate to this occasion. In the first place let me speak a word with reference to the city of Denver. I had no idea of the beauty of that city until I went there to live nor of the fine people who live there, and the splendid spirit of civic pride apparent in that city. On every hand we have met with 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

courtesy, kindness and consideration at the hands of the public officials and the good people of the city. Denver is a city of beauty and a city of extreme civic pride. Her streets are beautiful and clean and lined with shade trees; miles upon miles of beautiful streets with lovely homes. 

You may not know that Denver is the second federal city in America. We are told that more federal employees reside in Denver than in any other city except Washington, D. C. There are beautiful federal buildings there and of course a number of our own people who are in civil service find themselves in the city of Denver. They attend our branch, and participate in our worship and in our activities. The branch at Denver is one of the splendid little congregations that make up this Church. They do things quite on a par with some of the best wards in the stakes of Zion. The people there are ambitious to serve the Lord and to do his will as well as they can. 

On the other hand we have many small and remote branches where Latter-day Saints live, because their occupations take them there, some of them from the stakes of Zion.- They are just as anxious as they are elsewhere, but they do not ha.ve the opportunity at times to do as well outwardly as they appear to do in better organized centers. 

For instance, in the city of Omaha, the moving of the Union Pacific offices took a number of our brethren there, some of them who had experience in the stakes of Zion and are well trained in the Church. And what a blessing they were to those who had already settled in Omaha. They came in with a wonderful spirit of humility and broke down the old barriers of prejudice that had so long existed there among the local converts against so-called Utah Mormons. I believe for the first timeto my knowledge at least — we have a fine spirit of harmony between the two classes of Latter-day Saints, if Latter-day Saints may be classed. 

Then we have remote districts, even small districts. I could refer you to a little place at Lordsburg, New Mexico, where we have four women composing a Relief Society. I remember meeting with them on a June day, when the temperature was 112. Of these four women one of them was president, two of them were counselors, and the other was the secretary of the organization. The question arose, Is it worth while to try to hold a Relief Society when there are only four women who belong to it? Well I had to prove that it was, and so I said, "If there were forty of you, would you be happy?" 

"Why of course we would think it was wonderful." 

"Well, now, if there were forty of you, you would only have onetenth the opportunity you now have to participate." 

"Well, maybe that is true. We will try to be happy and carry on." 

So you see we have every type of condition existing, and the people do carry on. We try to organize little family Sunday Schools in those remote districts, where one or two or three families come together, and the wonderful outlines that have been provided by the General Board make it possible for them to conduct lessons quite satisfactorily. And so the problem before us in the mission is to keep everybody doing 

ELDER ELI AS S. WOODRUFF 95 

something and happy in the circumstances with which they are surrounded. 

We have twenty-three elders in the mission and eleven sisters, or thirty-four missionaries. When I first took charge of the mission we had nearly one hundred and forty. With twenty-six organized branches there is not an elder to every branch, so the branches have to get along without them, and the elders have to be scattered over the districts as widely as we can scatter them. Two elders cover the whole area of New Mexico, trying to minister to the spiritual needs of the people, to baptize the children that arrive at the age of eight years, to bless the children who are born, to administer to the sick, and bury the dead, as far as they reach them. 

In the western part of the state of Colorado, another great area, only two elders are laboring. The whole state of Wyoming, outside of the stakes, and the south part of South Dakota — that is the Black Hills section — and the extreme western part of Nebraska are covered by only two elders. In east Nebraska, in Council Bluffs and Lincoln, and that great section of the country, there are four elders and two sisters. In Denver — in the whole Denver district, which means the northwest quarter of Colorado — there are two elders and two sisters. So you may understand how inadequately we are equipped so far as the help of missionaries is concerned. But the people are happy, they are trying to serve the Lord, and locally the people are willing to go out and do missionary work, but their labors are confined to the radius of their own homes, they cannot go abroad. 

I rejoice that my brethren have seen fit to honor me and to trust me with further responsibility. Sister Woodruff and I will leave the Western States Mission reluctantly, but grateful for our privileges, and we hope to go into the Central States Mission and labor as nearly as we can with an eye single to the glory of God. If we can do that and discharge our duty and obligation the Lord will bless us, but if we think of ourselves we shall not succeed. 

I bear testimony to you that this is the work of God, and I know from my experience that if I can just keep in harmony with his Holy Spirit everything will go splendidly. When I do not do that it is difficult to carry on, for no man can do the work of God except he keeps himself clean and sweet and worthy of his blessings. My testimony is that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that it is the power of God unto salvation, that if we will humbly serve the Lord we need not fear, for we shall stand in safe places, no matter what happens. If this people could believe the word of God and would believe it as it is expressed by his servants, their troubles would end and we would be happy and singing as the days go by, for the Lord has promised, through his servants, that the wicked may be destroyed, but the righteous need not fear. 

May God help us to put our trust in him and serve him, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am thankful this morning that I find myself in perfect accord with the teachings of this great conference. I have rejoiced in the sessions that have been held in which President Grant was one of the speakers. 

As I stand before this microphone I am reminded that every time I have returned home from conference so many people have said : "President Sloan, we heard your voice over the radio." In our mission today thousands and thousands of people are listening to the services of this great conference, and as I have pleaded with my people in the years that have passed, so I plead today with you, follow the President of this Church and you will never go astray. To those who may be in Alaska who know my voice, those in Oregon, Washington, Montana and northern Idaho, and before this great assemblage of people, may I make this plea, keep your eyes on the President of this Church and you will never go astray. God bless this work. 

We are now enjoying in our mission many of the opportunities of today. Never before have such glorious privileges been given. We have only fifteen elders and an equal number of lady missionaries, thirty in all, yet our converts are in excess of the converts made a year ago. In the thrity-odd branches in our mission over two-thirds of them exceed in the amount of tithes paid for the nine months of 1933 as compared with 1932. We are growing, much interest is being manifest in our work, and the Lord is blessing our efforts. 

I should like to read an extract from an editorial in one of the largest newspapers published in the northwest in keeping with the spirit of this great work : 

"A recent report shows that two-thirds of the inmates of Sing Sing and Auburn prisons, New York, are under thirty years of age." 

What a proof these figures are that the home is not adequately functioning! The parents are taking for granted that their sons are safe and that the citizen body and the courts are adequately safeguarding the nation's children. Jails and prisons are poor substitutes for conscience. Crime means a multiplication of criminals and a multiplication of convicts. 

If we go on in our lethargy it will not be many generations until we shall have a nation composed entirely of convicts or descendents and relatives of convicts, in which case we shall have a degenerate people without pride of ancestry or hope of honored progeny, a prospect that should appal all those who love their country. 

The sacredness of the American home is at stake. I appeal to my brethren and sisters to safeguard your homes. 

"Home ain't a place that gold can buy 

or get up in a minute; Afore it's home there's 1 got to be a heap o' livin' in it." 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 97 

I am not apprehensive for the youth of this Church today, but I am vitally concerned with the fathers and mothers. What is your example? What is your conduct? What is your loyalty towards the Constitution of the United States? What is your loyalty to this great Church and your God? The Lord warned this Church in a revelation that he was not pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there were many idlers among them, and their children were growing up in wickedness. Are they following in the footsteps of us their parents ? 

"A father and his tiny son Crossed a rough street one stormy day, 'See papa,' cried the little one, 'I stepped in your steps all the way.' ***** 

"If this man shirks his manhood's due And heeds what lying voices say, It isn't one that falls, but two, 'I stepped in your steps all the way.' " 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, to be exemplary in your leadership as parents in the home, as leaders in the Church and in the community. I bear testimony to you of my hope, of my faith, of my belief to my entire satisfaction that this is God's work, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters and friends — and I say friends because I realize that perhaps many of this congregation have not as yet allied themselves with this great Latter-day work, and there are also many of the unseen audience who are listening in upon this occasion, and they are our friends, and we are their friends. We are all brethren and sisters, sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father, and he is mindful of all of us. 

I am very pleased to bring to you greetings from your sons and daughters and relatives who are now laboring in the East Central States Mission. The work is progressing in that part of the land, and we are meeting with success. During these services my mind has been drawn back many times to the work that is being carried on there. 

Yesterday I received a report to the effect that last Sunday three honest souls made a trip of some fifty miles to the city of Louisville in order that they might receive the ordinance of baptism. This was the result of the labors of some of the Saints who had been working with those people. They came there for the purpose of receiving the birth of water and of the Spirit. 

A short time ago Sister Jones and I made a visit of some fifty or sixty miles into the country to visit a family of Saints. They had gathered together a number of their neighbors and asked that we speak to them, which we did. We stood upon the ground where a few years 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ago the elders were disturbed and a meeting broken up. At the conclusion of our meeting, and since then, we have received several invitations to come back, or have the elders go and labor a week or so in that neighborhood, and I have received information to the effect that two of the elders are down there now holding a series of meetings, and I am very much interested as to the results. 

There are wonderful opportunities in all directions for us to reach the people and deliver our message to them. 

During the course of President Ivins' remarks this morning, when he referred to those who came to this land years ago, my mind reverted back to what I read of early history when I was a boy at school, as to the Pilgrim fathers more particularly. They came to this land after being persecuted in the land in which they lived. 

In 1906, while laboring as a missionary in England, at the invitation of President Grant, a number of missionaries, including myself, accompanied him to the Netherlands Mission. While in Holland we took the opportunity of visiting the city of Delftshaven, where is located a beautiful chapel, in which the Pilgrim . fathers worshipped the Lord after coming down the canal out of the land of Holland. From there they crossed the channel to Southampton, from which place they took their journey to this land. They landed and settled in some of the states that now comprise the East Central States Mission, more particularly North Carolina and Virginia. As I travel through those old places, such as Georgetown and Jamestown, and other places on my way to and from Portsmouth and Norfolk, I cannot help but feel impressed with the sacredness of those spots where the Pilgrim fathers settled in early days in order that they might worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. As people in those sections come into the Church today, we find almost invariably that they are descendants of the Pilgrim fathers and others who settled that land, and thus we can in a way account for the wonderful success of the work, because those noble sons and daughters in early days came to this land where they might worship God as they saw fit. 

I recall now an account that I read in a paper a few years ago of a very prominent official of the United States visiting the president of one of the South American republics. As they sat upon the verandb and were talking over the situation, the President said to this official, "How is it that North America has advanced so much more rapidly than has South America, nothwithstanding we have more natural resources, more varieties of timber, more water power and more minerals of all kinds, also all kinds of fruit and vegetation? Notwithstanding these advantages North America has forged ahead of South America." 

The American official in a characteristic Yankee way evaded the question, and asked the President what his view of it was. The President said : "The only answer I can give is this : those who settled South America came here in search of gold, while those who settled North America came in search of God." 

And that seems to be the solution of the question. It also accounts 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 99 

for so many today listening to the Gospel message as it is presented to them. 

I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that I have been counted worthy, along with these other brethren, of going into the world and carrying this message of glad tidings of great joy to those who sit in darkness, and there is nothing in all the world that will bring more joy and happiness to the souls of men or women than that which comes to a person when someone can come to him and say, "Thank God, you are the one who brought the light of the Gospel into my home and into my life." There are many of your sons and daughters today that can bear witness to that fact. 

God bless the youth of Zion. May they be kept in the paths of truth and righteousness and virtue, that they may prepare themselves for the great responsibility that will rest upon them, because it is only a matter of time when they will be called to carry on this great work. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, who have charge of the work in the various branches of the Church, and in all auxiliary organizations. May you have the power, the spirit, and the wisdom to carry on your work, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

For the very first time during my administration I have not had to tell anyone how long he should talk. I am very happy indeed that we have got this far along without limiting any of our brethren, but they have had the opportunity of saying as much as they wanted to say. 

However, I am thoroughly converted in my own mind that the reason we have done so well is that two of the Apostles are in Europe and one other is sick. I think that accounts for it. 

According to the count that was made, there were 10,784 people in the building at this morning's session. 

Many of the good people whose sons and daughters are in the mission field are anxious to meet the Mission Presidents. I shall ask Brother Joseph S. Peery to open a room in the Bureau of Information where the Mission Presidents can meet any of the Saints who want to inquire regarding their missionary sons and daughters. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

After announcing that the choir would sing the anthem, "Song of the Redeemed," by Evan Stephens, President Grant made this comment : 

Three years ago, at the Sunday morning session of the Conference, this song was sung by the choir under the direction of the author, Professor Evan Stephens, who shortly after returning to his home, following the meeting, became ill and later passed away. We owe a very deep debt of gratitude to Brother Evan Stephens, Brother George Careless, Brother Ebenezer Beesley, Brother Joseph J. Daynes, and many others for the marvelous music they have composed. 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The Choir sang "The Song of the Redeemed," after which Elder S. Taylor Farnsworth, President of the Beaver Stake offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

THIRD DAY 


