Morning
07 04 1906



ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

My brethren and sisters, it affords me very great pleasure to meet with you in this conference, to see the vast number present, and to feel the goodly influence which prevails. In standing before you this morning I may refer to. the missionary laboij of the Church. At the present time a large number of Elders are being called for this important work, and I may say that in all my lengthy experience I have never known the call for missionaries to be answered so willinglv and so readily as is the present one. I presume at least one hundred and fifty missionaries will leave our borders during this month, and in the months immediately following the number will be almost as large, and names from the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops still continue to reach the President's office. I believe I am justified in saying that the brethren whose names have been  show better preparation for that labor than I have ever known. There is. however, one thing that disheartens me. just a little, that is, the number of young men called who admit that they have not been keeping the Word of Wisdom. While they say they will have no difficult" hereafter in observing this law of God, they acknowledge that in the past they have not done so. This is regretable, because it shows the Lrndfncy there is among us to neglect 1 hose requirements of the Lord which entail a daily sacrifice of our personal desires. We often express a willingness to lay our all upon the altar of sacrifice, and at the same time these matters which in the minds of some appear to be of minor importance are forgolten or slighted; they are not considered of sufficient importance for us to live up to every day of our lives. I know that in our hearts we are readv to meet the requirements that the Lord makes of us. Some of the answers received by the First Presidency are quite pathetic. The writers, though expressing the difficulties by which they are environed, say they will be ready, and that they will report at the time mentioned to fulfill the requirement of the Lord, whatever may be the circumstances under which they are placed. No doubt, our Church schools have had considerable influence in bringing about this result, and the missionary classes established in our academies are no small factor in increasing the desire of the brethren to perform missionary labor, and in. preparing them therefor. We have had quite a large attendance at the missionary classes in the districts that are remote from headquarters, but for some reason, this year, the Church schools nearest to Salt Lake City, have not had the fulll attendance in the missionary classes that they have had in former years. The schools in the north — in Rexburg, in Preston, and other places, have had large classes of missionary students. The effect of these classes is quite pronounced and has much to do with the present ready responses to missionary calls. You are aware no doubt, from reports that have been made by the presidents of missions at the last few conferences, that they have not been supplied with the number of men they desired. They could not indeed answer all the calls that were made upon them by strangers.nor even visit all the members of the Church in their missions as frequently as was desirable, and the consequence has been that some have fallen into the background through the want of that attention which is necessary in all places where our people are established. I am hopeful that this difficulty will be remedied and that the arrival of so many new brethren will also increase the vitality and develop the labors of the brethren in these various missions. 

Referring to a cause nearly akin to the missionary work, that of the Sunday schools, I desire to say a few words. President Smith asked me if I did not think the Sabbath schools were in a better condition today than they had ever been, and I answered him to the effect that I so believed- that I had never known the time when taken all in all, the schools were doing better work than they are now. Our schools are increasing in number; and that in regard to punctuality, the good order maintained, and the methods adopted for instructing the children I believe we are growing and growing in the right direction, each year. Above all, I believe that the children in the schools are obtaining a better knowledge of the Gospel, and that they are not losing in the spirit and faith of the principles of eternal life. I have always regarded, and do today, that the first thing most important in connection with our Sunday schools, and indeed with all the other auxiliary organizations of the Church, is to make 

Latter-day Saints of our children, to develop within them a faith that shall grow with increasing years, an understanding faith, a faith that, while it appeals to the heart, will also appeal to the head, and be able to give a reason for the hope that is within; not a blind obedience, as it is sometimes called, but a comprehensive understanding of the revelations of God and the work that He is performing in this generation i Mans*- of our children are wonderfully blest in this direction. They have a strong and abiding faith. God has, by His Holy Spirit, given it to them. They also have an understanding of the history of the Church and the reasons for the faith that they possess, and are able to talk in a sensible manner in regard to the principles of the Church. They are able to tell why God has revealed His mind and will in these days, and why the kingdom of God is being built up, and the reason of the opposition which Satan and those under his control upon the earth are using to overthrow this work. Many of them also realize that the resons given by our opponents for their opposition to the work of God in which we are engaged are not the real reasons. They realize the reason is that in our midst is to be found the Priesthood of the true and living God. It is that which the emissaries of Satan are fighting, it is that which they fear, because they know as long as God's Priesthood is organized upon the earth the purposes of the evil one cannot be accomplished, nor can they continue unreproved in the lives that so many of them are inclined to lead. As was said by President Smith yesterday, the Gospel stands for righteousness, for purity, for truth, for everything that is good and desirable, and within the pale of the Church is to be found everything necessary for the happiness of man here upon the earth, and for his eternal salvation hereafter. There is no need of Latter-day Saints going outside of the Church for any good thing, for it can all be found in that which God has given to us. His plan is perfect and embraces all things that men  desire to receive and attain to; and when men go outside of the Church of Jesus Christ for anything that they believe will benefit them, it shows that they have a narrow, a limited and a contracted idea of the Gospel, and do not rightly understand its principles nor its efficacy for salvation day by day and forever. We were told many, many years ago by President Young, that outside of the Gospel there were but three things— death, hell and the grave. None of us want either of those things. We desire to live, and to live forever, with the gift of eternal lives granted unto us. Our desires are to so live in this probation, that when that which is perfect is come we shall inherit it, and we shall eventually become, through the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ, like unto Him. As Christ said, "Be ye perfect, even as I and my Father in heaven are perfect." 

My brethren and sisters, I do not think that my voice is adapted to this Tabernacle; possibly many of you cannot hear me; so I will not occupy your time any longer, but pray God to bless you, and to bless all that is done and said at this conference; and may much good and unity in the midst of the Saints result from our coming together at this time. I ask it through Jesus our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that during the few moments I stand before you I may be blessed with the Spirit of the Lord, and speak such words to this congregation as the Lord would have me speak. I have rejoiced very greatly in the instructions imparted  by the brethren during this conference, and I feel in my soul that those who have stood before us arid borne testimony to the truth of the great work in which we are engaged, have been directed in their words by the Spirit of the Lord. As a people, we are very strong believers in the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and that man is not able of himself, by the wisdom which he possesses naturally, to instruct 'he people concerning the purposes of the Lord. 

That instruction can only be given to the convincing of the people, and to the building up of the faith and knowledge of the Saints, by the power of the Holy Ghost. In listening to the remarks that have been made by Elder George Reynolds, in relation to the missionaries.some thoughts passed through my mind concerning them. It falls to -my lot in connection with my brethren to meet companies of missionaries very frequently in the annex of the Salt Lake Temple, where they are usually set apart for their missionary labors, and I have observed, as others of the brethren have, that nearly all the Elders that go into the world to preach the Gospel are young men, and very largely men without missionary experience— young men who are going out from their homes for the first time to exercise the authority of the Holy Priesthood in calling men to repentance. I have often felt that it would be a very great advantage to missionary work throughout the world if the brethren who are called upon from time to time to suggest missionaries could mix up with these young men, who labor so zealously and faithfully in the preaching of the Gospel, a few men who have already had missionary experience. 

Since the commencement of this work there have been thousands of men who have operated in the nations of the earth in the labors of the ministry, and today, in the communities of the Later-day Saints, there are a large number of men who in years gone by have labored successfully and through experience have become competent in missionary work. I fear that when the brethren look for missionaries, they feel that men who have already been abroad should not be again appointed to these labors, if there are other men who have not had this opportunity. But I believe it would be a very great advantage to the young men, and a help to the mission presidents, and a benefit to the people of the world, if the young men could be blessed with the companionship and assistance of some of the brethren who have formerly had missionary experience. Therefore, I suggest to the Stake Presidents and Bishops that it would be a proper thing to seek for some experienced missionaries, that those who are without experience may have the advantage of their companionship, that they may receive the encouragement and strength which would naturally come from the help of those who are well established in the faith of the Everlasting Gospel. During the past twenty-five years a great change has taken place with our missionaries so far as the age of the men who are sent to preach the Gospel is concerned. I remember that during my first mission nearly all of my companions were men of experience, and I suppose that was the condition of all the missions. It was the condition, as far as I was acquainted, with all the conferences throughout Great Britain. Here and there a few young men were operating as missionaries, but the great bulk of the Elders were men who had had experience, who had been well trained in the principles of the Gospel, and who were established firmly in the faith. I look back today and thank the Lord that it fell to my lot to have companionship of that character, to be associated with men who related to me circumstances in connection with their experience in the work of the Lord that tended to strengthen my faith, and to give me courage, and hope. There is abundant room today for this class of missionaries. At the present time they are nearly all boys in years; there is only now and then a man who has had the experience to which I have referred. Notwithstanding this, however, these young men possess the authority of the Holy Priesthood; they have gone out by the appointment of our Father in heaven, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and it is a wonderful work that has been accomplished. It will be 

wonderful in the future; for, as in the 

past, God will take the weak things of 

the world to confound the things that 

are great and mighty. I am, however,  convinced that if an experienced' and accomplished missionary, could goout with every half dozen young men. great good would flow from such a combination, both to the youthful missionaries and to the work of the Lord abroad. 

One of the brethren yesterday in his remarks intimated that he waj glad that "Mormonism" had not been established as a result of any disagreement among men concerning any other principle of revealed religion. It wasestablished by divine appointment and revelation. When the brother made the remark to which I refer I remembered a few years ago, in visiting a great Catholic church in the Old World, picking up a tract written by a Catholic, and the .statement upon the cover was'Why I Am a Catholic." In that little tract there was a paragraph which read somewhat to this effect: "When Martin Luther, and Calvin, and Henry VIII commenced their mad career in what you Protestants term the 'glorious reformation,' the true religion wasthen in the world, or it was not. If it was, they committed grievous crimesin making new religions to oppose it. If it was not, they were powerless to create it. It takes a Christ, not a. Luther, to create a Christianity, on either supposition therefore, Protestantism is not the true religion of Jesus Christ." I was greatly impressed with the reading of these words. It certainly takes an immortal being, it takes the very source of religion, to create religion. No man, or combination of men, have the intelligence or authority to create that Gospel which is the power of God unto salvation. I thought how glorious is the foundation upon which "Mormonism" is built; and well might we sing, as we have this morning.. "How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in His excellent word." No division, contention, or quarreling brought into existence the glorious principles we have espoused. Joseph Smith approached our Father in heaven for information concerning his soul's salvation, and I have never come in contact with any person 27"  to "Mormonism" who could find any fault with the statement that Joseph Smith approached our Father in heaven and pleaded with him for information concerning the Gospel  of His Son. What better source could he have gone to than the source of light? When he could not decide for himself where to go to find rest for his soul and the means of salvation, what greater power could he approach than his Father in heaven? In doing 30 he was in strict accord with the commandment of that Father, and in harmony also with the teachings of inspired prophets and apostles. Joseph Smith went to the only source that could lead him in the right path. If the truth was not upon the earth he approached the only power that could reveal and restore that glorious truth. That is the foundation upon which "Mormonism" rests — the foundation of the appearing of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We need no better foundation. We need look to no other source of power for the means of salvation. And this marvelous revelation to which Joseph Smith bears record, and to which we bear record, has come in fulfillment of the promises made through the mouths of all the prophets, and through the promise of the Redeemer Himself, for He predicted that before His second coming the same Gospel should again be proclaimed as a sign of that event. My brethren ana sisters, this Gospel has not come to us in the enticing words of man's wisdom, but in the power and demonstration of the Holy Ghost. We have not been persuaded by the logic of man to receive the truth, but we have been persuaded by the convincing power of the Holy iSpirit. No wonder men do not succeed who proselyte in our midst. We cannot be turned from the wh e at of the word of God, to the chaff that comes from the wisdom of man. We have received that form of doctrine which is the power of God unto salvation, as taught by the Redeemer, and we can be assured and happy in the knowledge that we have set our hands  the plow, and that we have laid hold of the "iron rod!" We need not be moved by the clamor of those who oppose the truth, but we can feel that wehave received that which the Lord intended us to have, and that we are in the same position as the apostles of" old when the Savior asked them, after a number had forsaken him, "Will yealso forsake me?" Their answer was "Where shall we go, for Thou hast the words of eternal life?" Where can. we go to find peace, and comfort, and hope, if we turn from the truth? Nowhere. Think of it, and be faithful and true to that which we have espoused. I joyfully bear my testimony, in connection with my brethren, to thetruth of this marvelous work. It isthe power of God. It is not a delusion, it is not a myth. It is the work foretold by the Prophets, and it will prevail. God help us to do our part and to be true, steadfast, loyal and faithful to His work, and to our convenants with our Father in heaven and witheach other, is my prayer through » Jesus Christ. Amen; 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

Reminiscence of missionary call and experience.— Necessity for preparation to go on missions. — Good and evil monitors always present.— Learn to distinguish influences, and follow the good. 

My brethren and sisters, it is trulya surprise to me to be called to addresb you on this occasion, but I have listened attentively to that which we haveheard so far during this Conference, and can bear you my testimony that what has been said has been true and' guided by the inspiration of the HolySpirit. While Brother McMurrin was speaking in regard to missionaries, my mind reverted to the time when I wascalled on a mission. I had been in poor health for about a year, and was called to go to Scandinavia. My financial circun.istances were very low, I had nomeans with which to purchase transportation, etc., and there was no railroad here at that time to travel on,. so I saddled my horse, mounted it, and started on my mission to Scandinavia w ill) out purse or scrip. On the road I fold my horse for a little money, and I met some friends who further assisted m?. I left here on the seventeenth of May and arrived in Copenhagen on the twelfth of September, safe and sound. 

But that is not the point exactly which occurred to my mind. Speaking of the young Elders who are called upon missions, L desire to say that it is necessary for them to inform their minds while at home. They should attend the Mutual Improvement Asso. ciations, study the Scriptures and the Church works, that they may be prepared for missionary labor when they go to their fields. On my arrival I began to think, What are you here for? Why have you left your home and traveled this distance? The answer cf.me to me, To preach the Gospel and 

lighten those who are in darkness, to assist in gathering scattered Israel, and the honest in heart from among the wicked. The next question I asked myself was, What will you say to them? What are the principles of the Gospel? In less than an hour I had asked myself a hundred questions and could not answer one of them. So I began to study. Once in a while I turned to the man who was presiding, and asked him certain questions, which he answered without hesitation. Says I, "Is that the correct answer to thai question?" "Yes," said he. Well, 1 knew it as well as he did, when I came to think of it. A great many of our missionaries are not entirely ignoranv of the principles of the Gospel, but they do not give them proper thought. They do nqt study the different questions and the proper answers, in order that they may be pepared to meet the opposition of the world and speak intelligently to those whom they are called upon to address. It has been my practice for years to advise young men to sludy, to inform their minds, and be piepared for the ministry when the call comes. 

Often in my official duties, when peo come to me for their blessings, especially young men who are called upon missions, I admonish them to learn to listen to the whisperings of the good Spirit and be guided by it; to seek the Father for the gift of disv cernment, that they may not be deceived by the evil one, for we understand that when we would do good evil is present with us. It is necessary that we should learn to recognize the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, that we may understand the difference between it and the evil one. In my labors, I have often had the two spirits to contend with, and this has taught me to listen, so that when a question is asked I may, through prophetic vision, understand the proper answer. Often when I have asked questions under these circumstances I have heard distinctly, it may be said, two voices, and they are so near alike that it is a hard matter to distinguish between them unless you are acquainted and have learned to be guided by the proper spirit. I contend that every Latter-day Saint has a Monitor within him, and if he conducts himself in such a manner that he himself is truly satisfied with his labors, then he may feel assured the Lord is apt to be satisfied. We can never do wrong unless we are admonished that it is wrong. Before we take a wrong step or do something that we should not do, that Monitor will chide us and will give us a chance to reflect if we will accept the opportunity. There is, therefore, no reason why the Latter-day Saints should do wrong, if they will only be guided by the whisperings of God and the Spirit. 

I don't feel like talking longer. I ask God our heavenly Father to let His blessings rest upon us all, to guide us in the true path, to open the eyes of oui understanding, that we may see aright, that we may comprehend the will of the Father, and have fortitude to press forward filling our missions and accomplishing the work assigned u;-?. That the blessings of the Lord may rest upon all Israel, is my prayer in th<. name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

The leaders in the Church at home necessarily men of business, as well as counselors in spiritual affairs.— In the building up of Zion, temporal matters must receive great attention.— Joseph Smith and Brigham Young notable examples of temporal and spiritual inspiration.— Z. C. M. I. and the sugar industry tangible evidences of the benefit of following the advice of the Church leaders. 

Brethren and sisters, I desire, the few moments that I may occupy, to be guided by the Spirit of the Lord In my remarks, that I may be inspired to say something that shall be edifying to those who are present. This is a verylarge congregation. We have representatives here this morning, I presume, from all the stakes of Zion, 55 in number, and representatives from many of the missions of the world, of which there are 21. We have representatives also from a great number of the 600 or 700 wards of the Church. There are before us a good many of the presidencies of the stakes of Zion, and I would like to say a word in relation to these leading men. They are very practical men, well acquainted with the affairs of life; men of experience, and understanding, occupied in various avocations; men who are called to be spiritual and temporal leaders of the people; men who should be and no doubt are, able by their experience, to give counsel and to direct. Among them are farmers, stockmen, contractors and builders, masons, carpenters, blacksmiths, merchants, lawyers, educators, literary men — and all of them preachers of the Gospel. They are so situated that they must provide for their families and educate their children, and of necessity they have adopted these various callings, either as professional men, tradesmen or mechanics. This is all very well and good, and proper, we think. They do not give their entire time to the Church because they are not situated so they can. I presume there is enough work in the Church to take their entire time, if they could give it, but they cannot give it, and it may be that the Lord does not design at present that they should do so. For this reason they  be practical men, acquainted with the affairs of life and be prepared to give counsel when it is sought. 

Now, brethren and sisters, there is a spiritual side to the Gospel, and there is a temporal side, and it is difficult to find a dividing line. I do not know that there is any dividing line, if so, I have never been quite able to discover it. I suppose we may say firstly spiritual and secondly temporal, and then again, perhaps, firstly temporal and secondly spiritual; for the last shall be first and the first shall be last. These men, by their experience, are qualified to be spiritual leaders of the people, to expound the Scriptures and teach them the way of life; and their experience also qualifies them to be temporal leaders of the people, and to give them counsel in matters pertaining to their temporal interests. We have colonizers among these presidents of stakes — men who can blaze the way in the wilderness and subdue the soil, and in part subdue the elements also; who can build up the country and successfully establish the Saints, by the wisdom of their counsel, in these new countries. There is one president of a stake (I do not know but he reported the fact at one of our conferences) who took hold of a business enterprise that was something like $2 0,000 in debt. It was given into the charge of this president of a stake, this spiritual leader of Latter-day Saints, and inside of two or three years, by his wisdom, experience, and ability, the enterprise was pulled out of debt. The customers were invited to come and trade on a cash basis; the counsel went from that president to his people to do their business on that line.jpay as they went along, and the result was as stated. I take it, brethren and sisters, that such is a part of the Gospel, at least it seems so to me. I hope every president of a Stake, and Counselor, and High Councilor, are teaching this doctrine to the Latter-day Saints, and encouraging them to get out of debt and keep out. That is a part of the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. This practical man has given us a splendid illusGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of this; and if he was able, by the skill and ability which God had, given him, to pull that business out of iits embarrassment, surely he was in a. position to give counsel to others in the, same direction. This is only one case. These other Presidents of Stakes who  sit before us, with their Counselors, are also leading, practical men. They are not one-sided, not narrow-minded, they are not men of only one idea, but they have comprehensive views of life. So it seems necessary, in the provk dence of God, that these men should engage in the affairs of life, and be practical. 

It is much the same with the missionaries whom we are sending out into the world. Some of them, it is true, 

are very youthful, some unmarried; but many of them are men of experience in temporal as well as in spiritual affairs. Our missionaries are not trained theologians, they have no diplomas from theological seminaries; but they are picked up just as we find them. They are taken from the workshop, the store, the farm, thfe. schoolroom, the office, from the various avocations of life, wherever the Lord selects them, and they are sent 

-abroad to preach the Gospel. But many of them, perhaps the majority, 

-are practical men. They are not mentally floating around in the clouds, away "beyond the bounds of time and space," they are in the world, dealing with worldly things, as well as with spiritual things. It often happens that our missionaries sit down and expound the scriptures, and teach the word 01 eternal life, and then, if occasion requites, turn from that exalted employment go into the field, take hold of the plow and turn a furrow, or go to tht cfs-Tcnter's bench and engage in buildins. This is often done by our missionaries when help of that kind is needed, and perhaps cannot be obtained otherwise by those who are interested in the Gospel. In Samoa, on the Sandwich Islands, or on other islands of the aea, if a meeting-house is required the missionaries assist in building it. When it is built and furnished by the  of their own hands, they enter tht, pulpit and preach the Gospel. I call that good, practical religion. It appeals to me, and I admire it. I am happy to know that our Elders are not ashamed of honest toil. I am happy to know that these Presidents of Stakes and their Counselors, the High Councilors, the Bishops of "Wards and their Counselors (who are just as practical every whit as the Presidents of Stakes) are not ashamedto engage in honest labor. What would you think of a President of a Stake with his coat off, clad in overalls, following the plow, turning up the soil, cultivating it, and then, after a hard day's toil, going to a conference, or a meeting, and preaching the Gospel of Christ to the people of his stake? Would you not think it a commendable thing? Could he set a better example to his people than that? I think not. I rejoice in such things. This is Zkm, brethren and sisters; and Zion is not only the pure in heart, but it is a location, also. Zion consists of cities, towns and villages, containing buildings for various purposes; and eventually it will include the holy city ana the mighty temple of God which is to be built. Those are temporal affairs. It means hard work, application, devotion, sacrifice of means and time; and it will require the physical and spiritual strength and power of the people of God. Zion is to flourish upon the nil]?, and it will be made to flourish in just this way. 

Another thing, brethren and sisters. (I am not going to tell you something you do not know, I am simply going to remind you of something that is familiar to you). I have spoken of these leaders in Zion who stand at the head of stakes and wards, and who preside over the people in the church. I have been saying to you that they are practical men of affairs. Now let me say to you that the general authorities of the Church are included among those practical men, and have been so from the beginning. Have they been spiritual men? Yes; the Lord knows they have been and are spirit-ually-minded. Have they been temporal, practical men? Yes; the Lord knows, and you know they are and have been. You take the Prophet Joseph Smith, the great prophet of the nineteenth century. We have been told here, and it is true, that the Father and the Son appeared to him. God spake to him, and gave mighty revelations and glorious manifestations to the Church through him; yea the divine revelations that are published in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and I tell you we have not yet begun to appreciate their depths. I doubt if we can fully comprehend them in mortality. They are all true, .all from the Lord, and have been accepted and adopted by the Church. We understand them in part. We have glorious glimpses of the future through these revelations. Was Joseph Smith a rspiritually-minded man? Yes. Was he a temporal, practical man? Yes. ^Besides his labors of a spiritual character, he engaged in the founding of cities, in establishing the. Latterday Saints in their homes, advising and directing their labors and movements, temporal as well as spiritual. He founded the beautiful city of Nauvoo, and was the mayor thereof. Joseph Smith, the prophet, mayor of the City of Nauvoo! Yes, and lieutenant-general of the Nauvoo Legion, a military man, and he had the spirit and courage of a great leader. He was a leader as a military man, as a temporal man, and as a spiritual man. He was broad and liberal in his views; and if he had not been disturbed and interrupted in his plans, Nauvoo would have been one of the most glorious cities ever founded in this country. The people there are now anxious to have us go back and give them the benefit of some of the practical things, which they see we are doing in this country. President Brigham Young, who succeeded Joseph Smith, was a Practical man. He was a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and he was a linancier and colonizer. There was 3. wonderful combination in President Young's characters He was just the  suited to the times, fitted to the occasion; was right on hand when God wanted him. How intensely practical was Brigham Young, and yet how spiritually-minded! I do not know that we ever had a man in the Church who, in some respects, was more spiritually-minded; certainly no man was ever more practical in his views and counsels. I could not do justice to the Prophet Joseph Smith, or to Brigham Young, if I stood here and talked for 10 hours, the theme is too big for me. But we know many of the things that these men did. One great practical thing that President Young did was the establishment of that' splendid institution near the corner here known as Z. C. M. I. He sought to develop the principle of co-operation among this people. He counseled it, directed it, and gave his soul to the movement so far as it was necessary. He impressed its importance and advantages upon the hearts of the people. And what a terrific struggle Z. M. C. L had! It almost went under during the great panic of those early days, and its stock went down to about 35 cents on the dollar. Where is it now? Why, it is soaring so high that it can scarcely be obtained. It is away beyond par. Erigham Young counseled the Latterday Saints to hold their Z. C. M. I. stock and not to sell it. That is what this practical Prophet said to the people, and those that followed his counsel did well, because the stock has been steadily advancing, and the institution is most powerful and influential today. It has been able to steady the market in this country and to regulate prices. Of course, there are other strong institutions here, not only among the Latter-day Saints, but among our friends in this city; but Z. C. M. I. dates back into the early years, and it was a great movement, in fact, it was ahead of the times. During the past year Z. C. M. I. did a business of about four and a half millions of dollars, and it is giving employment to about five hundred persons, and is paying to these employes about $250,000 every year. In view of these facts you can answer whether Z. C. M. I. is essential to this country and people, whether it is helpful to them, whether it is worthy of their sympathy and support. 

A word in relation to the manufacturing departments of Z. C. M. I., which, it seems to me, are, very important factors. I do not know whether the Latter-day Saints fully understand it or not, but it should be known that it is quite an extensive feature of the business. Last year something like 80,500 pairs of boots and shoes were manufactured by Z. C. M. I. — a product of home industry, made right here! Is not this a satisfaction, and worthy of our attention and thought? Then there is the overall department. I read in the Deseret News last fall, from a report made at the Fair, that Z. C. M. I. had manufactured soniething lilae 216,000 dozen pairs of overalls in the past year. They had taken the denims, cut it up, and made it into overalls, giving employment to the people, helping to sustain their families, as well as adding to the success of . the institution. And this great principle of co-operation and home manufacture was set forth by Brigham Young; but that is only one instance of his practical work and teaching. 

Those who have succeeded President Young have also been practical men. Brother John Taylor, in an early day, under the direction of President Young, brought sugar manufacturing machinery from France, and an effort was made to establish the sugar industry in this country. But the machinery then was very imperfect and could not be used to advantage. Thousands of dollars were expended in its purchase and to bring it across the water and the plains in order, if possible, to establish the sugar industry here. That is a temporal matter. Would you call it commercialism? Whatever you call it, I know it is a glorious thing, and very practical. The motive was to benefit and bless the people, and put them on a self-sustaining, self-supporting basis, so that this would indeed be Zion to them. But this question of manufac sugar did not end with the efforts of President Young and President John Taylor. It was too important, it could not rest, so it comes up again, like Banquo's ghost. Like the Phoenix, it has arisen from the ashes of the past, and has become a settled industry. But few among this great congregation know the effort it cost to establish these sugar factories in the land. Many sleepless nights were given to consideration of this subject by Presidents Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith. This question of manufacturing sugar rested upon them tremendously. It was like an inspiration, they could not get away from it. They called the Presidents of Stakes and their Counselors together (I remember it very well) and appealed to them, and through them to the Church, to give this enterprise heartfelt support and approval. And when it seemed that it must be abandoned circumstances being such that it looked as if the enterprise would fail, and the Church being involved so that it could not altogether render the help needed, a few of the leading brethren would not relinquish it, and the President of the Church said it must not fail. My brethren and sisters, you know the result, you know in general the status of this great industry. I could not speak in detail of all the sugar factories, for they are multiplying on every hand; but I will speak of the Utah Sugar Company, because that is the pioneer company in Utah, and it includes the factories at Lehi and at Garland. Let me tell you something of what they did last year. They manufactured something like thirty million pounds of sugar, from sugar beets grown upon our soil. These beets were not imported from distant countries, they were grown here by our farmers. What a tremendous power that is for good in the temporal affairs of this people! Think of the effort that has been put forth! Think of what it means to the community! It means that something like 450 employes were engaged in this work, and that $178,000 was paid to these employes, to help sustain them and their families, to  food, raiment and education for their children. It means that something like $62 0,000 was paid out in cash to the farmers of this State for beets. Could you put your soil to better use! Could you cultivate it more profitably, you farmers of the State? Here is $620,000 realized by the people to help them, and to build them up temporally. I call that Gospel. The world may call it what they please, I call it a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Twenty-five thousand dollars was Paid to the railroads of this State for the transportation of beets; $36,000 was paid for labor connected with the raising of beets by the factory, making a total that was paid out on the beet account alone of something like $682,000 —all for the good and benefit and blessing of the people of Zion. That is one of the ways Zion is being built up. 

So I say that our leaders of today are practical men, spiritual and temporal men. They are prepared to give counsel to the Latter-day Saints in all matters that interest them in the building up of Zion. I rejoice in it, and it is jusi as much a testimony to me of the truth of the Gospel as any testimony 

1 have ever had. Yet I know that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I know that these practical men who have succeeded him— Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smithhave been inspired leaders of the people, Prophets of God, and they have been and are worthy of pur support, both temporally and spiritually. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, 

We thank thee, O God for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction by Elder Jesse N. Smith. 

Conference adjourned till 2 o'clock. 


