Second Overflow
08 04 1906


ELDER GEORGE C. PARKINSON. 

(President of Oneida Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, in attempting to say a few words this afternoon, I assure you I feel my weakness and inability, and trust I may be sustained by the same good spirit which has characterized this conference from the opening session. The Oneida Stake, ever which I have the honor to preside, is situated in Idaho. It occupies all that part of Cache "Valley which is north of the Utah line. 

In that Stake there are 17 regularly organized wards, with a population of 6,000. The wards, quorums, and auxiliary organizations are all, I believe, thoroughly organized. The people feel well in relation to their duties in tht; Church, and are, as a rule, availing themselves of the privileges and blessings to which they are entitled. The wards of the Oneida Stake are compact, I think the farthest distance across the stake, from north to south-, being about 20 miles. We are engaged largely in agriculture. Our part of the, country is developing and growing nicely. We are interested in the subject of irrigation, and have expended, within the last two years, upwards of $400,000 in the irrigation system, consisting of canals and reservoirs, which when completed, after an expenditure of another $100,000, will bring into a higher state of cultivation between 30,000 and 35,000 acres of good land. These are inducements to the homeseeker, those who are in search of good land at moderate prices; and we extend the invitation to all such to come and make their homes with us. We are  good meeting-houses ana school-houses, as well as other improvements of a public character. Oui people are thrifty. I think I am safe in saying that fully 90 per cent of all the people who reside within the Oneida. Stake are members of the Church. 

Our schools are in a very creditable condition. We have established an academy at Preston, the headquarters of the Stake. Th e home of this institution, a cut stone building, cost the people in the neighborhood of $50,000. It is attended today by about 300 students. The institution is offering courses in High school and Normal work, also manual training and missionary courses. I think it was announced at this conference that the Oneida stake has the credit of heading the list as to the number of young men taking the missionary course in the Church schools. We have 100 young men and young women engaged in the manual training division of the school, and they are doing very excellent work. The spirit of the institution is felt in every ward, and in every home, for good. It is turning out men and women qualified to take up the responsibilities of life, in the school room as teachers, the counting house, the carpenter shops, and young men are going from there into all parts of the world to carry the message of glad tidings to the nations. We have today in the neighborhood of 90 missionaries from Oneida stake in the world preaching the Gospel. This is a record of which we are proud. 

So far as I know, the people are united; they feel well, and are active in the discharge of their duties. The attention of the local authorities is occupied largely with the young people, especially those bearing the .Lesser Priesthood, in teaching, training and educating them along the lines of their duties in connection with the responsibilities of the Priesthood which they bear. It is a joy to me to associate with the Saints of God. I. am very grateful that I am considered worthy of a standing and membership in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that there has come to my understanding a knowledge of the Gospel, a testimony of its divinity, and I have no aim higher than to he faithful, to be constant in season and out in the discharge of duty, leading men and women, and especially the young people in our midst, in the right way. The work of the Lord is growing, it is becoming magnified and stronger day by day. It is not as some people uninterested in its success would make themselves believe, waning, losing prestige and strength in the world. On the contrary the work of the Lord is gaining ground at home in the stakes of Zion, and abroad in the world. I bear witness before this vast congregation that I know God lives. I know that the work in which we are engaged is the work of the Lord. I know that those who are sustained by the prayers and confidence of the Latter-day Saints as the authorities of the Church are inspired of God; they are endorsed by Him; they enjoy the inspiration of His Holy Spirit. It is a pleasure to me to listen to their teachings, to accept their counsel, to reduce it to practice in that which pertains to my interest in life. I pray that the Lord may bless and sustain them, and give them greater inspiration; and that He may bless His people. His cause; that the truth may be made known, and that the Church of Christ may have greater power, greater influence, greater prestige for good in the nations of the earth, as well as at home where it is more thoroughly established. May His peace and blessings be in our midst and abide with us always, is my prayer, in the name of Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM McLACHLAN. 

(President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, in rising before you this afternoon, I desire that the Spirit of the Lord shall prompt the words that I shall utter. I have no desire to say anything to the people in and of myself, for I have found out by  that nothing but the Spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ can enlighten the minds of the children of men, and bless them permanently. 

There is a revelation in the Book of Doctrine & Covenants from which I shall read the first verse, contained in the ninety-third section: 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shrill come to pass that every soul who forsaketh their sins and cometh unto rue and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." 

This is a passage that has interested me very much of late. I have had a constant and increasing desire grow up in my heart to obtain the testimony that is promised unto those who keep the commandments of God, to behold the face of Him who came into ihe world in the meridian of time, and who did so much for you and for me. I desire to live in harmony with the Lord, so that I can receive, in His own due time, this testimony, that shall enable me to bear record of Him in truth. While I know by the revelation of the Spirit of God that this is His work, I also know that it has been promised in His word through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the Second Comforter will come unto the Latter-day Saints who have kept the commandments of God, who have been steadfast in their faith in His work. 

I have never had any desire to criticise or find fault with those who preside over me. On the contrary, I have had a constant desire to yield intelligent obedience to their counsel and instructions, and to follow them sooner than I would follow my own inclinations, sooner than I would do my own will. I desire that this spirit shall increase within me while I live upon the earth, that I may be found faithful and true in every particular, valiant in defending the truth that God has revealed, and in sustaining it by practice in my own life. 

When I was a boy, about 19 years of age, I received a testimony of the  of this work, through obedience to the word of God. That testimony was given to me for my individual benefit, and I have found it a great blessing and comfort all through my life. Had it not been for this first testimony that God gave me in my youth, I do not know where I would have been today; but it has preserved me, it has kept me stable and true to His work, willing to obey and to carry out the counsels of His will; and I feel today more willing than I have ever done in my past life to do the will of the Lord in whatever service He requires of me. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that we will ever strive to overcome our weaknesses, and bring into subjection tu His will every inclination, every desire, every propensity or passion that would hinder the development of the powers He has implanted within us, not only for our own benefit but for the good and blessing . and salvation of the children of men. We have received the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God. That Priesthood twas given to you and to me for a purpose, not to gratify our own desires but to so live that the Priesthood should be magnified in the eyes of the people for the glory of our heavenly Father, the building up 01 His work, and the salvation of His children. That man who does the most good towards the salvation of his fellow men, that carries out the precepts of the Savior in this great and glorious work, is the on e that will be most approved by Heaven, because he hath assisted the Redeemer in accomplishing His purposes relative to His children. 

I do not desire to occupy more time this afternoon. I feel satisfied with my file leaders, with those that have been called to preside over us; I came, here in the days of President Brigham Young. I considered him one of the greatest men that I ever became acquainted with in my life. I see many things in his career, in his counsel, and in his life to admire today. So also those that have followed him, because of their fidelity and integrity and devotion to the work of the Lord. I love  associate with men who are true, who are obedient, who are humble, and who cultivate a spirit that is ready and willing to do the bidding of our Heavenly Father under all circumstances and conditions. 

That the blessing of the Lord may be upon this people, the Latter-day Saints, in all their abiding places throughout these mountain valleys, in all the different stakes in which they are located, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

(President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

It is a great pleasure to me to come up to headquarters and see my friends, and mingle with the Saints of God. I was raised here in Salt Lake, and associated with the people throughout the various stakes of Zion, in traveling and in missionary work, for many years, and now my abode is in Arizona. I have always fraid, it mattered iittle to me where' I lived so long as I could be associated with my people. 

I am happy in my relations with the Saints of God in the St. Joseph stake of Zion, in Arizona. Utah is dear to me, but Arizona today is still dearer. My interests and my home are there. As much as I love the place of my birth, and my many former friends and associates, there is no people so dear to me as the Latter-day Saints with whom I am associated in the stake of Zion where I am permitted to preside, and the good people who are not of our faith, in the territory of Arizona. I am somewhat acquainted with the inhabitants of these great mountain valleys, of the intermountain west, and in some of the states as far east as the Mississippi river; but, in all my travels I don't know that I ever came in contact with people so generous, so highminded and so liberal as are the Arizonians. The Arizona people, I mean those who have come from other sections of the world and now reside there, partake of the influence of that ]«oad country. Their feelings accord with the breadth of the acres in that great, wide territory of ours, and their deep and generous natures resemble the gorges of the grand old Colorado. We live in perfect harmony with the people of Arizona who are not of the religious faith of the Latter-day Saints. 

It was my privilege recently to read a brief history of the territory, and of the settlement of that country, compiled by the Historians' Society, the "Pioneers of Arizona." In every part of the history that mentions the establishment of a settlement or mining camp, or any industry they give the "Mormon" people due credit, and speak of them in the highest terms, which I of course, know that they deserve. We do not always get this recognition, but as a rule, this people, from the governor down, are friendly, broad-minded, liberal and generous to us. I desire to have the people of Utah know that Arizona is only second to Utah in population, resources, surroundings, and environments. Its people are in every way the equal of those in this grand old state of Utah. 

The St. Joseph stake of Zion is increasing. Only recently it was my privilege to organize a ward in the district of country above the canal system, in the Artesian belt, and the quotation came to my mind then, from the Prophet Isaiah, where he said that "water should spring out of the earth, and the desert should blossom as the rose." And here, out among the cactus, the mesquite, the lizards, and the dry sandy soil, where our brethren h£ve driven down iron pipes in the earth, the artesian water comes pure and sparkling, bubbling and pouring up to the surface; and now we have organized a strong ward there. Just before I left home, I went a short distance from this settlement to another one, by the name of Artesia, where we organized a branch and coupled it on to the ward that I have spoken of. A few years ago some colonizers from the east had come in and taken up this land, driven pipes and made wells, and endeavored to build a town  a village, but they couldn't do it. It takes "Mormons" to subdue the desert, the unity and co-operation of "Mormon" people. It seems to me that they are the only people that could ever have subdued this great intermountain desert. In this effort of our friends, they failed; some of them fought and killed each other, and the survivors became disgusted and sold out their holdings to our people. It was my privilege to go and assist them and fix up their affairs. We formed a little branch of the Church there, and they gave five acres of ground to build a meetinghouse on, and another of our Gentile friends offered five acres more, which we did not need. We expect to subdue that land, and we are producing now nearly everything that is necessary for the people. We have ai valley of about forty to fifty miles in length, through which the Gila river flows. That is a river heading out in Colorado and New Mexico, and continuing in its course till it empties into the Colorado on the borders of California. We have been using the land there for raising alfalfa, and other crops that are easy to take care of, but we are endeavoring now to start fruit raising. It was my pleas ure before leaving home to trim 600 trees upon my own place, besides farming, attending to my garden, and fixing up everything so that I could leave for a short time. When we left alfalfa was nearly in blossom, trees were in foliage, and the country was covered with a beautiful carpet of green, livened up here and there by patches of beautiful flowers, with the cacti and poppies on the side hills; everything wa s lovely, -beautiful and thrifty. We have had a wet season, plenty of moisture, and grass and everything in the fields is in a very forward condition. We have suffered somewhat from floods washing out dams, but we are learning how to build new ones better. 

This, we might say, i s the temporal side of affairs, but I attribute the success of the "Mormon" people, in this and other sections of the country, to their obedience to the Gospel of Jesus 

Christ. I have listened to arguments of sectarians, and others who! have endeavored to draw people together and co-operate to build up communities, but I have said to them, and would state it to all the world, they can never succeed in co-operation, subdue the desert and build up homes therein, except by the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the fellowship that comes in love for that Gospel. It can only be done on principles of righteousness, submission and obedience, by subduing ourselves, and bringing ourselves into subjection to the laws of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Our people are united. They have put themselves in order, and have endeavored to obey the laws of the Gospel. This is particularly true of our High Councilors and Bishops; they are progressive, noble men, looking after the interests of the various wards, branches and organizations among the people over whom they are presiding, and we are just like one great family of nearly four thousand people. I feel like I could put my arms around them and love them all; and I strongly think that they love me. If I did not feel that I had their love and their confidence, I would want to move away from Arizona. 

We are united and in harmony in striving to build up, in that part of the world, the kingdom of God. We sustain not only each other but also our Prophet and President, Joseph F. Smith, and the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. We sustain the presidencies of missions by sending our Elders to them to preach the Gospel. I have brought with me from that country on this trip 20 boys and girls who have come up to the Temple, and the boys are going on missions. I never saw such happy responses to missionary calls in my life, and for twelve and a half years I presided over what is now the Middle States mission. The Presidency of the Church called upon our stake for ten missionaries, and in almost less time than it took to get an exchange of mail there were 14 who responded. In nearly all  the call had been answered not alone by letters, but the boys have come and answered in person, and they are here ready to go anywhere that the Priesthood of God desires them. That is the kind of response that I love to witness. I say, God bless the youth of Zion. I am not discouraged in the boys and girls of this Church, for I have found that there is the spirit of patriotism and the love of the Gospel in them. They may not be doing just as well as some older members; they may have fallen into some "foolish habits, which we could possibly excuse under some circumstances; but I tell you there is determination to do their duty when they are willing to drop everything, leave their young wives, their mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters, property interests and everything that is dear to them, not knowing what is ahead of them, taking their lives in their hands, and going to the different nations of the earth to preach the Gospel. That is the kind of people we have in the Church down in Arizona. The climate there is warm; we have genial sunshine, and that has some effect upon the people. They are warm hearted, generous, good, and faithful. I am willing that my lot should continue to be cast with the people of Arizona, and I am willing that my bones should be buried there. I say God bless them, and bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SOLOMON HALE. 

My brothers and sisters: I am afraid that you may not be able to hear me, for since I have reached the city of the Saints, I have been suffering with a very severe cold on my lungs; but I am pleased to make a few remarks and bear my testimony to the Gospel. It nvould be working a hardship upon me if I were to talk very long, but it is an easy matter for me to bear my testimony to the truth of the work. It has been 67 years since I became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When I was in my youth I was acquainted with 

the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I was acquainted with his wife and family. I was also acquainted with the Patriarch, Hyrum, but not so intimately with him as I was with the Prophet Joseph. Since then it has been my happy lot to have been closely associated and personally acquainted with every one of the Presidents of the Church, from the time that the Prophet was martyred in Carthage jail up toi the uresent. I knew Joseph F. Smith in Nauvoo, and his brother, the Patriarch, John. I have been acquainted with them and know their worth, their integrity, their faithfulness, and I pray God to bless them. He has guarded and directed them. Now we have among the leaders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints two more of the Smith family. We had, in my youth, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Now the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of th<> Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Joseph F. Smith, and John Smith is the presiding Patriarch of the Church. I feel well in the Gospel. I bear my testimony to you, my brothers and sisters, in~ humility, that I know the work of God is true. From the early days of my youth I have always sustained the work. God knows my heart, He knows that I never betrayed the Prophet or people of God. I have known them, I have prayed for them. I have traveled with President Young thousands of miles. I know his worth. I know the worth of these two Kimball brothers here, and their father, Heber C. Kimball. I know that he was a man of God and a Prophet of God, as much as any one ever raised up in this dispensation of the fullness of times. May God bless and help us to be faithful and true to one another, be true to the Priesthood, true to God our Eternal Father, that we may claim every blessing He has in store ror us as faithful sons and daughters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

In standing before the Latter-day Saints this afternoon, I desire to say those things that are timely, and to speak under the influence of the Holy Spirit. Notwithstanding the seriousness of the occasion, having met as a part of the great Annual Conference, we need not pull long faces and put on an air of self righteousness, thinking it indicates faith and is more pleasing to the Lord. The Lord has said, "Cease from your light speeches, and excess of laughter," but He surely is pleased with pleasant countenances and a happy people, although wit and humor, may be out of place in houses of worship. I read somewhere the following: "Many persons who never had a bright idea in their heads, or a generous sentiment in their hearts, assuming an air of owlish wisdom, affect to disdain wit and humor, having never heard of the great truth enunciated by Charles Lamb: 'A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any market.' The idea is propagated that mutual dryness is indicative of wisdom." I realize that my reputation for wisdom has been greatly injured by repeating jokes in my public utterances, and that, because of my calling in the ministry, I should, in the estimation of some people, be as solemn as an owl. 

It seems to be the destiny of the children of men to suffer sickness, sorrow, pain and poverty, and to die. With our most perfect organization, Priesthood and authority, we still have troubles, and skeletons in our closets. It is considered a good thing to look wise, especially when not over burdened with information. 

It is my good fortune to be acquainted with some of the unpleasant features of Arizona. My brother Andrew, who has just preceded me, as one of the speakers, has expatiated on the sunshine and splendor of Arizona to so great an extent that I am fearful the good people of Utah will stampede and wend their way southward to that hap land. My brother comes from a sunshiny clime, and to an Arizonan there are no clouds; the truth is, they don't know ' when they are in trouble. He has recited all the good things; he is an optimist. 

Allow me to relate an experience in that far distant land. At a Stake Quarterly Conference, held at Thatcher, we were caught in a windstorm when the sun was shining. My ears, mouth, and eyes and clothing were loaded with sand, and yet my brother said, "I never saw anything like it before." I desire to make a statement here in explanation of something that I said in the conference meeting on Friday. 

I have learned that some of the greatest miracles and most marvelous events have happened to the servants of God when they were placed in jail for righteousness sake. Some of the greatest revelations that God has ever given in this age and dispensation were given to the Prophet of God when he was in jail, in trouble and difficulty. During his time of sorrow and loneliness, God, the Father, came to him, by His Spirit, and he received marvelous revelations. I read in the Bible about Peter being imprisoned, and an angel of God. coming to his rescue. He was taken through the great iron gates, and escaped when his enemies were desirous of taking his life. I read also about the prophets of God in the days of the Book of Mormon history. Prisons were broken down, and manifestations of God were made apparent to the servants of the Most High. An incident happened in the Southern States mission, which I will relate. It transpired in the days of President John Morgan, and occurred at a time when the State of Tennessee passed a law that any man who advocated or preached polygamy was to be arrested and punished. Enemies to the Elders entrapped the brethren into a discussion on this most unpopular subject, and the Elders defended the principle from a Biblical standpoint. A  was filed, and the Elders were arrested. They were short of room inside the jail, so the brethren, two in number, were confined in two steel cages on the outside, near to each other. The imprisoned servants of the Lord were not orators or singers. The people far and near, hearing of Mormon Elders being under arrest, gathered to see these peculiar individuals. The brethren sang hymns and testified of the truth of the Gospel, etc. It is claimed they had congregations of 300, and I have been told that the people had never heard such wonderful preaching and singing. The Elders almost regretted receiving their freedom. So I am almost inclined to advocate putting our Elders in jail once in a while, when they are unable to get a hearing in any other way. 

I remember about the time I was released from the Southern States Mission, we had just commenced to preach in the cities of the South. Two of our Elders were arrested in Birmingham because they were preaching the Gospel Avithout purse or scrip. They were arrested and placed in prison for violating what was claimed to be a city ordinance. Friends came to their rescue and they were released. Had they remained for a short time, in my opinion it would have resulted in much good, although very unpleasant and hard on the Elders. 

I want to ask in all soberness, if you think this Gospel that has been revealed by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith can be advocated and preached among the children of men without serious consequences? I tell you if our Elders go out and advocate the truth of this work, it will bring upon them persecution, and whippings. It may not be the better element who will do that, they never have whipped our Elders; it has generally been the same class as those who are killing the negroes in the South; but the people winked at it. I was almost a witness to the killing of our Elders in Tennessee, on Cane Creek, and I know something about the spirit of mobocracy. 

Now I will read to you to show that there will come sorrows to the Latterday Saints, trials, and tests. Every man in this Church will be tested to the core; they will be proven as Abraham was proven, and when the Lord is satisfied that you love Him and will keep His commandments, then He will come to your rescue. Somebody has said that Heber C. Kimball was a Prophet, and I am going to prove it. He is my father, and I tell you I am glad I am his son. I have the copy of a discourse he delivered in 1867, one year before his death. There were no such buildings here then as this; it was in the old tabernacle. 

"President Kimball opened by stating that there were many within hearing who had often wished that they had been associated with the Prophet Joseph. 'You imagine,' said he, 'that you would have stood by him when persecution raged, and he was assailed by foes within and without. You would have defended him, and been true to him in the midst of every trial. You think you would have been delighted to have shown your integrity in the das's of mobs and traitors. Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and His work. This Church has before it many close places, through which it will have to pass before the worn: of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming [see, they are- to come, they are not behind you, but they are coming] it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of 'this work for yourselves: the difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who r'oes not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right, and call upon the Lord and cease not until you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. That is the word of God to you people. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on borrowed light. Each will have  be guided by the light within himself. If you do not have it how can you stand? Do you believe it' How is it now? You have the First Pres idency, from whom you can get counsel to guide you, and you rely on them The time will come when they will not be with you. Why? Because they will have to flee and hide up to keep out of the hands of their enemies. You have the Twelve now. You will not always have them, for they, too will be hunted and will have to keep out of the way of their enemies. You have other men to whom you look for counsel and advice. Many of them will not be amongst you, for the same reason. You will be left to the light within yourselves. If you don't have it, you will not stand. Therefore, seek for the testimony of Jesus, and cleave to it, that when the trying time comes you may not stumble and fall." 

I ask you, Latter-day Saints who are here, Have you lived long enough to see that prophecy fulfilled. There is not a man, woman or child that has got the least particle of intelligence but knows that has been literally fulfilled. The time came when we did not have the First Presidency, neither did we have the Twelve, they had to flee for safety, every one of them; and the people were left to themselves. ♦ 

In the course of his remarks on the occasion in point, he several times said: "You will have all the persecution you want, and more, too, and all the opportunities to show your integrity to God and the truth that you could desire." 

I will quote to you another prophecy. In 1856, a little group of friends convened in the Endowment House, and were engaged in a conversation on the isolated condition of the Latter-day Saints. 

"Y"es," said Brother Heber, by which name he was so familiarly known, "we think we are secure here in the chambers of the everlasting hills, where we can close those few doors of the canyons against mobs and persecutors, the wicked and the vile who have always beset us with violence and robbery; but I want to say to you, my brethren, the time is coming when we will be mixed up in these now peace valleys to that extent that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy to the people of God. Then, brethren, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time, and many will fall, for I say unto you, there is a' test, a TEST, a TEST, coming, and who will be able to stand?" 

My mother has told me that the last time father took a walk down Main Street, after he was stricken with paralysis, he returned with difficulty back to his home, the residence which still stands on the hill, and he said to her, "OH, THE TEST, THE TEST, THE TEST, who will be able to stand?" Mother said, "What is the test?" He replied, "I don't know, but it is only those that know that Jesus is the Christ that can stand." 

Now, brethren and sisters, it is time for hard thinking. This is not Joseph Smith's church, nor Brigham Young's church; they never made any such a claim. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and the people made him President of the Church. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. It is not President Joseph F. Smith's church, nor the Twelve Apostles' church. They are the servants of the people; they are men called of God, just as our Elders are called to fill missions. They are ordained by divine authority, and have received these great appointments in the Apostleship and in the Presidency of the Church; but it is not their church. As I have said, it is the Church of Jesus Christ; each of us has individual work in it. If the Latter-day Saints do not know that Jesus is the Christ, and that this is His Church, I tell you, in the name of the Lord, you will not stand, you will be among the number that will fall. I remember hearing about a saying of President Young to a brother who was terribly tried. The case came before the High Council, and the council had decided against the man. You know it happens sometimes, when the decision is not in your favor, you feel disgruntled; and some leave the Church because of the actions of men; they  they have been dealt with unjustly. Brother Brigham, on the occasion referred to, said to the brother in sarcasm, "Now apostatize and go to hell." And the brother ejaculated, "I won't do it; this is just as much my church as it is yours, and I am going to stay with it." Well, that is Mormonism; it is our Church, as long as we keep the comandments of God; and we can be put out of it only through apostasy, rebellion, or criminal actions. Now let us stay with it, and, like my brother Andrew, always tell good things about Zion and let other things alone. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN. 

I have felt very much impressed, my brethren and sisters, in listening to the remarks that have been made by our brethren this afternoon. I rejoiced greatly in hearing the testimony of Brother Solomon Hale, who,' as we have heard, was well acauainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. He has been quite closely associated with the brethren who have occupied positions of trust and importance in the Church of Latter-day Saints, from that time to the present. He has borne a very earn-, est and faithful testimony concerning the character and mission of the men who have occupied these presiding positions. More especially in regard to the character of the Prophet Joseph Smith, President Brigham Young, and President Heber C. Kimball. No doubt we have all been impressed with the Words that have been read in our hearing by President J. G. Kimball, that were spoken a long time ago, by his father, President Heber C. Kimball. As has been intimated, we are all wit. nesses, to a greater or less degree, of the fulfillment of the inspired words that were uttered by President Heber C. Kimball so many years ago. I have also been impressed with the disposition manifest by all of the brethren to bear testimony to the mission of the Prophet Joseph. They all testify tha\ he was inspired by our Father in hea\en, and that he was a Prophet of the Lord. I have wondered if there is not a feeling- sometimes on the part 01 those who are not particularly at., quainted with the work of the Latterday Saints, when they hear testimony so frequently that prophets and apostles are in the church; if we are not given more or less to fanaticism. No such testimonies are ever heard in other churches. We are the only people, practically, who believe in living Prophets, and it is evident from the words that are spoken, and from the testimonies that are so frequently delivered, tha; we are very earnest believers in the necessity of prophets to receive tht word of the Lord today. I thought I would like to read a few words tha^ were uttered by the Redeemer of the world, in the great sermon upon th« mount, wherein He says: 

"Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so. every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that brigeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire, Wherefore, by their fruits ye shah know them. 

I take it, that when the Redeemer of the World, in His teaching to the children of men, gave warning against false prophets, He indicated by thost very words, that there ought to be among men true prophets, else He would have said, Beware of prophets. There are many in the world today who no doubt regret that the Redeemer did not say to the people, Beware of prophets. But there is no such declaration or warning; but there is a warning that we should beware of false prophets, and that we should judge by their fruits the men who claim and profess to be prophets of the Lord. "By their fruits ye shall know them." My brethren and sisters, w e ought to be exceedingly thankful to our Father in heaven, that this test can be ap to those who have stood before the people as Prophets of the Lord h, these latter times. The test can be ap. plied in the manner that it has beer* applied, this afternoon by the reading of the prophecies delivered so long ago, showing the complete fulfillment of the predictions that have been made by the modern prophets. It is written in the Scriptures: 

"When a Prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the Prophet hath spoken it presumptously; thou shalt not be afraid of him." 

It is good logic to decide in our minds that if the things spoken by the mouth of a Prophet cometh to pass, then we shall know that he has not spoken presumptuously, but that he has spoken by the inspiration and direction of our Father in heaven. If we scan the prophecies that have been delivered by those who have been raised up by divine appointment, in the age in which »we are living, in the ushering in of the great dispensation of the fullness of times, we will discover that all along the line the predictions of the prophets, even those that have appeared in many instances almost impossible of fulfillment, have been verified. We have abundant evidence, notwithstanding the unbelief of the world, that Joseph Smith was a great Prophet. This evidence is found in the history that has been made by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The inspiration of the Almighty has been abundantly poured out upon His servants, and the future of the Saints has been foreseen by the gift and power of revelation. 

I would like to read another word or two bearing upon his subject, written by one of the ancient Apostles. We profess in the age in which we live to believe in the words of the old Prophets, to believe also in the predictions of the ancient Apostles. If we believe in their predictions, if we believe in the doctrines that they have enunciated, then we ought to be believers in divine inspiration, we ought to be believers in present day Prophets, and present day 

Apostles, for an inspired man of God has made this declaration: "And God hath set some in the Church, first Apostles, scondarily, Prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all Apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles?" No, all men are not Apostles; all men are not Prophets; all are not workers of miracles, but God hath set all of these in His Church, and He has made the declaration that "the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you." The inspired "writer compares the officers in the Church of Christ, with the members of the body, and positively makes the declaration, in the comparison, that all the officers are necessary. The Church without Apostles, Prophets, Teachers, etc., would be deformed like the body without the head, or without an eye, or without a hand. They are all essential, and necessary, they have all been' placed in the Church by our Father in heaven; so declares the Apostle, and so say the Latter-day Saints. The Apostle Paul further declares in this same epistle, "If any man think himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord." O ye believers in the Scriptures of divine truth, if ye think ye are spiritually minded, if ye think ye are Prophets, acknowledge, saith one who was inspired, that the things which he wrote pertaining to the organization of the Church are the revelations of the Lord. They are not the commandments of men. They have not been gotten up by the education or cunning of men. They are great and necessary doctrines that have been revealed. They are true, and without them there can be no Church of God. Truth will work its way in the world, and cannot be staid. Troubles may come, disappointments may come, anxieties may overtake us, but let us not forget that the Lord our God has revealed the truth of the Everlasting Gospel. Let "s not forget that He has planted this  by His own almighty power, and He has said that every hand that is lifted against it shall perish. We know not how. We stand amazed at the promises that have been made by our Father in heaven, but we know within our souls, thank God, that the promises will be fulfilled, and we have but to keep our eyes upon the mark of our high calling in Christ Jesus our Lord. Refrain from evils; be upright in conduct. Watch the authority that has been given, that presides over the Holy Priesthood, and be true to that authority, and all will be well. This is "Mormonism," and it is the truth of God. It is not a myth, it is as God has revealed it. I gladly bear this testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of my Redeemer, even sq. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

My brethren and sisters, as the last meting of this conference is drawing to a close, I desire to congratulate you who have assembled in having been present at the largest attended general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Each year our numbers seem to increase considerably, and while the tabernacle and this building are full, and the Temple block grounds are crowded, the increase is so great that there is now no place in this city large enough to hold the representatives of Zion, who came to conference. 

We will now present the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for your vote, in this final meeting. I desire to say that we hope every man and woman who are members of the Church, in good standing, will vote according to their feelings, whether for or against the authorities of the Church; and we expect that people who are not in good standing, or not members of the Church shall refrain from voting. 

It becomes my painful duty, and it fills my heart with sorrow, to announce to you that, since our last general conference, there have occurred three vacancies in the quorum of the Twelve. Elder Marriner W. Merrill passed from this life on February 6th, 1906. We received from Elders John W. Taylor and Mathias F. Cowley their written resignations, dated October 28th, 1905, of their positions as members of the Quorum of the Twelve, which were accepted by the Twelve and the First Presidency of the Church. These vacancies have been filled, as directed by the Spirit of the Lord through His servant, President Joseph F. Smith. 

Another announcement that also causes sorrow is, that President Christian D. Fjeldsted departed this life on December 23rd, 1905, causing a vacancy in the First Council of Seventy, that has been filled as the other vacancies were. 

Elder Smith then presented the names of the general authorities, the full list of whom will be found in the report of proceedings in the Tabernacle. The brethren named were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Now that we are ready to go from this last meeting, I trust the spirit of this conference may be in the soul of every Latter-day Saint; that our testimonies may have been strengthened by meeting together; that we may return to our homes and feel to be more faithful, more devoted to the service of our Father, in laboring to do good to all His children, wherever they may be on the earth; and that we may be indeed Latter-day Saints, that we may be worthy of membership in the Church of Christ, that day by day our light may so shine that men, seeing our good works, may glorify our Father who is in heaven, which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "But in the last days it shall come to pass." 