19
Overflow
09 04 1899
Elder Rulon S. Wells.
44
54-56

None

None

My brethren and sisters: I also rejoice in the spirit of this conference; and I can say that it has been very enjoyable to me. It is the first general conference that I have had the privilege of attending for three years. Since that time it has been my privilege to labor in foreign lands, among strange people; but I rejoice all the more in coming back into the union of the Church, associating with the Saints, and mingling my testimony with those of my brethern to the truth of the work in which we are engaged. I rejoice in the progress of the work of God. I rejoice in the great advancement made by the Latter-ady Saints. While there is plenty of room for improvement, yet we discover a great deal of progress being made among those who are really in earnest and are keeping the commandments of God — these are marching on toward the goal we all desire to reach.  
  
What does preaching amount to if it is not put into practice by the Latter-day Saints; if we do not profit by the instructions which we receive? Every one who has heard the voices of the prophets of God, the holy apostles, and the instructions they have given during this conference, and has not determined within himself to benefit by them, will receive no good from them. They will simply be as a sounding brass and as a tinkling cymbal, so far as any benefit being derived from them is concerned. But if we will put into practice the principles we have been taught, and if we will yield obedience to the counsels that have been given, and live in accordance with the spirit that has been made manifest in this conference, then we will go onward and progress in the knowledge of God, and will prepare ourselves for the coming of our Savior.  
  
I was particularly impressed with the, remarks of the brethren in regard to the treatment that should be extended to those who are converted, and immigrate to Zion. It has been observed by many, and I have also observed it, that numbers of our new converts do not receive the kind reception they should. They come from foreign lands where they have received the Gospel, and the first love of the Gospel is burning within their hearts; they have been filled with a great warmth of love towards our brethren and sisters, and in their far distant homes the spirit of gathering has come upon them and they have resolved to come to the land of Zion. They have been filled with a desire to cast their lot with the people of God, that they might learn more of His ways; that they might be taught the will of the Lord and learn to do it better, and that they might mingle with Latter-day Saints — men and women of God. Those have been their desires. They have sold out their little possessions in the foreign lands, have forsaken their native countries, bid adieu to the prospects of their youth, and have severed their communications with them in order that they might mingle with us. What has been the reception of many that have come up unto the land of Zion? Instead of receiving that hearty and warm shake of the hand that Brother Kimball has been speaking of, they have not in many instances even received one of those cold greetings that have been referred to. They have felt a lack of that warmth of feeling that should be extended to them, and they have thought that love was not abounding in our midst. I think it is time the attention of the Latter-day Saints was called to their indifference toward each other — they should learn to be brethren and sisters in very deed. I endorse the remarks of Brother Kimball in regard to this matter. I think when our Saints come here attention should be paid to them. I was pleased to hear the remarks of President Snow when he stated that some one would be appointed to look after these matters. It should be done in every ward in Zion, that when they come they may find that they are cared for. I am aware that a great many of the Latter-day Saints have felt the necessity for this, and I am aware, too, that a great deal is being done; but I feel in my heart that a great deal more could be done to make the reception we extend to our Saints more cheerful and warm. It is not always necessary to extend to them financial aid, but they should be made to feel that they are among their friends, their brethren and sisters. A little kindness, a little consideration, a simple visit, or an invitation, will often be the means of making them happy. It is the experience of missionaries in the field to find many of those who have come here to Zion, who have become dissatisfied through a lack of this warmth and affection, writing back to their friends concerning it; and in some cases the letters they write are too true. Of course they have happened to fall amongst those who are not abounding in that love and regard they should have for one another. When our Savior was upon the earth He preached upon this subject, as also did His apostles after Him. They exhorted the Saints then to love one another, to be kind to one another and to be full of consideration one for the other. The first great commandment was that "we should love the Lord with all our might, mind, and strength," and the second, like unto it, was that "we should love our neighbor as ourself.' If that love abounds in the hearts of the people, it will make itself manifest among them. We read in the scriptures that "out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." We should give expression to the kind feelings that are within us, and should cultivate the spirit of the Gospel towards one another. We should learn to profit by these principes that have been revealed to us, for they are the power of God unto salvation. If we simply accept them with our minds, but do not practice them in our lives, they will not save us. If we will practice them, they will purify our hearts and bring us to a knowledge of God, "whom to know is life eternal."  
  
I bear my testimony unto you my brethren and sisters that I do know that this Gospel is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, that it has been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the salvation of the human family. I know that this is the truth by the revelations of God to me through His Holy Spirit; and I will say to the Latter-day Saints, as was said to the former day Saints by one of the Apostles that "if we walk in the light as he is in the light, then we will have fellowship one for another, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse us from ah sin." In order to walk in the light, we must enjoy the light of the spirit of God, for that is the light that should lighten our path, and that should lead us onward to our salvation; and we can enjoy that only as we are yielding obedience to the principles of the everlasting Gospel and listening to the counsels of God through His servants, for we are told that "we should live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God;" and the words of God are those that are spoken through the inspiration of His Holy Spirit by those whom he has called to administer His word unto the people.  
  
May the Lord bless us with noble and worthy ambitions and with a determination to improve our lives; and let the love of truth burn within us, and also the love of our fellowmen. Let us do what we can for the onward progress of the kingdom of God, for it is a great honor that has been conferred upon us, in that we have received the Gospel, and in that we have been chosen of God to be instruments in His hands to disseminate a knowledge of the truth among the nations of the earth. May the Lord help us to be worthy of the trust He has imposed on us; may He help us to improve the time and talents which He has bestowed upon us to tho interest of His kingdom; may we all seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and I promise you, in the name of the Lord, that all other things, prosperity, happiness, comfort, and wealth, will be given unto us, in the name of Jesus. Amen.