23
Overflow
09 04 1899
Elder John W. Taylor.
42
61-62

None

None

Before closing, I wish to bear my testimony to what has been said, and concerning this Gospel. I know that God lives, and that every man and woman can have this testimony if they will devote themselves to God and keep His commandments. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, full of inspiration, and a man that had the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ continually delivered unto him; that the gifts and blessings that were in the ancient Church of Christ exist in the Church of Christ in our day.  
  
I wish to say to my young brethren and sisters, do not be led away by the sophistry of the world, "for straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life eternal and few there be that find it; and broad is the gate and wide is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat." If you will listen to the words of the Prophets of God, and will walk in that straight and narrow path, you can have a testimony of this Gospel. There are a few that enjoy these gifts and blessings, but it is a rare occurrence where a man can go among this people and see these gifts and blessings manifest in their midst. I feel that there is a responsibility resting upon this people. I will read a few verses, before I take my seat — the testimony of Moroni the Prophet:"  
  
"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.  
  
"And whatsoever thing is good, is just and true; wherefore nothing that is good denieth the Christ,.but acknowledged that He is.  
  
"And ye may know that He is by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore I would exhort you, that ye deny not the power of God; for He worketh by power according to the faith of the children of men, the same today, tomorrow and forever.  
  
"And again I exhort you my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the spirit of God unto men, to profit them.  
  
"For behold, to one is given by the spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom;  
  
"And to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same spirit;  
  
"And to another, exceeding great faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by the same spirit.  
  
"And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles;  
  
"And again, to another that he may prophecy concerning all things;  
  
"And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits;  
  
"And again, to another, all kinds of tongues;  
  
"And again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues.  
  
"And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ and they come unto every man severally, according as He will.  
  
"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ.  
  
"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that He is the same yesterday, today and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the unbelief of the children of men.  
  
"Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith, there must also be hope; and if there must be hope, there must also be charity;  
  
"And except ye have charity,ye can in no wise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God, if ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope;  
  
"And if ye have no hope, ye must needs be in despair; and despair cometh because of iniquity.  
  
"And Christ truly said unto our fathers, if ye have faith, ye can do all things, which is expedient unto me.  
  
"And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth, that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief."  
  
I admonish the Latter-day Saints to seek for the best gifts. Although all of the sects upon the face of the earth may say that it is unnecessary to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and that it is not necessary to have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost, I say that the voice of the Redeemer of the world cries out unto all the nations of the earth in His testimony to Nicodemus, "Except ye be born of the water and of the spirit, ye cannot enter the kingdom of God." I testify unto you as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in His name that you will not be prepared for His coming if you do not enjoy the gifts of God. They are as free unto the children of men as a well of living water springing up unto everlasting life, if they will follow the admonition of Brother Kimball this afternoon to "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all other things shall be added unto you." What a grand and glorious promise! Young ladies, how many of you have a gift from God? How many of you have been clothed with the fire of the Holy Ghost, that is as a fire burning within you? How many of you enjoy a knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ? How many of you young gentlemen are seeking after these things? Have you a gift from God? If you have not seek earnestly after these things, for Jesus speaking of His second coming, said that the kingdom of God would be likened unto ten virgins, five of whom were wise and five were foolish, and he said but half of them would have oil in their lamps. What is that oil? It is the Holy Ghost, the power of God unto salvation; it is that spirit that will lead you into the ways of truth; it is that spirit which partaketh of the things of God and reveals them unto the children of men; it is that spirit that makes children obedient to parents. Young people, obey your parents! Parents, let us not permit that commandment of the Lord to go unheeded: "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." Nine-tenths of the mistakes of this people would be corrected in the young if they would listen to the counsels of their fathers and mothers. Fathers and mothers are just as much entitled to the revelations of God for the benefit of their families, as President Snow is for the good of the Church. Young people, listen to the voice of your fathers and your mothers! They love you; you are the fruit of their loins, and they would give their lives for you. And they are entitled to the revelations of the Lord to guide you into the ways of truth. Every father and every mother if they are doing their duty, will have that inspiration they should have, and will have that knowledge, to counsel their sons and daughters to walk in that straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life, and you will not make any mistakes if you will listen to their advice.  
  
God bless you and fill you with His Holy Spirit. This is a time for preparation and not for many words. I rejoice that I am counted worthy to be in your midst at this conference, and I hope that what has been said will be as leaven, and will go forth among the people until the whole lump is leavened, and until the desire of all is to serve God and keep His commandments. I feel to say God bless you and peace be unto you, and to your wives and to your children, and to the land of Zion, and may God temper the elements for the good of this people, that Zion may grow and increase until she shall be the glory of the whole earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.  