26
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
General Superintendent George Q. Cannon
4
72-73

None

Spoke feelingly on the death of First Assistant General Superintendent George Goddard, and paid a glowing tribute to the memory of this Sunday school veteran.  
  
Following are the remarks:  
 
I feel constrained to make a few remarks at the opening of our meeting in relation to our late assistant superintendent and warm friend, Elder George Goddard. I know you will all miss him, as we do who were his co-laborers. His voice, his genial presence, his humorous manner of treating all questions, and the interest that he succeeded in throwing into everything connected with the Sunday School work, will be missed in all these meetings. We look around us and ask ourselves: Who can fill his place? He was unique, warm-hearted and thoroughly in earnest in all that he did for the Sunday school cause. It was dearer to him than his own comfort or convenience. He did an amount of travel that I felt was too much for one of his years; but he was untiring in his labors and took delight in them, and he was sustained by the Lord, for the Lord bestowed blessings upon him and made him the means of doing an immense amount of good. It would be difficult to calculate upon the amount of good that our departed friend and brother has performed in this cause. He will be known and remembered by the rising generation to an extent, probably, unequalled by any other man, because his manners were such as endeared him to all children. They felt he was their friend; they admired and revered him, as well as the parents and all those associated with him. I am sure that you will feel with me that we have had what might be termed in one respect an irreparable loss. It is true that it is a saying among us that there is no man living but what can be spared; and the work goes on after his departure — even after the departure of the most prominent of men. But probably Elder Goddard filled a niche in our affections and work — our Sunday school work — that we shall find it very difficult to fill. But the Lord, of course, we know can raise up faithful laborers. Brother Goddard's example in his efforts and untiring zeal, will, I hope, be followed by all interested in this work, and I hope we will try with greater diligence to carry it forward and to do the work that he would do if he were here in our midst.  
  
I felt to say these few words and I know that in giving expression to these thoughts and feelings, though but feebly, I am also expressing the thoughts and feelings of your hearts. We all mourn his departure. Of course, his departure is for his gain, but it is a serious loss to us.  
  
I pray God that the spirit that he manifested in this work may rest down upon us all to an increased extent, that through our devotion and zeal we may, in some measure, make up for this loss. I ask this in the name of Jesus. Amen.  

