27
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Apostle Heber J. Grant.
10
73

None

None

I have been requested to speak upon the late Sunday school convention held last November in the Assembly Hall.  
  
The convention was held on Monday and Tuesday and there were three sessions each day. It was remarkably well attended, there being but one Stake of Zion that failed to send delegates. I never attended a series of metings in my life where the people seemed to be so interested as in those held during the Sunday school convention. The spirit of the meetings was choice indeed. The people were particularly interested; their faces were lit up with interest, and we had a very enjoyable time, long to be remembered by each and every one present. Brother Reynolds has referred to the fact that the proceedings of the convention have been published in pamphlet form which contains over one hundred pages. The Sunday School Union has the pamphlet for sale, and it can also be found at the Juvenile Instructor office. Of course, you are all well aware of the fact that in reading the proceedings of a convention that you lose much of the inspiration manifested at the meetings; but, at the same time, each and every Sunday school worker and all those interested in the Sunday school work, will be greatly benefited by getting a copy of the proceedings of the convention and perusing it. Very many important items on Sunday school work are contained therein: How to hold Stake conferences, the proper manner of using the Leaflets, discourses on the Word of Wisdom, and many other matters of great interest to all connected with the Sabbath schools. I rejoice that we should have had such a grand and glorious convention with which to crown the public labor of our late Assistant Superintendent Brother George Goddard. He enjoyed those meetings exceedingly. I wish to say in addition to the pleasure we had of listening to the instructions, that the music that was furnished us during those meetings was very pleasing indeed. A half hour was taken up at the commencement of each meeting in singing songs that are rendered in the Sabbath schools throughout the Church.  
  
I trust that we may again have the privilege of meeting in a convention. I feel, on account of the success of the one we did have, that we may be justified in having another in the course of a year or so, and I am sure that it will be even more successful than the one we had last November.  
  
I thank God, my Heavenly Father, for the privilege of being associated with the Sabbath school work, and I am also truly grateful for the increase of over 7,000 pupils since last year's report. It will only be a short time before we will be able to add 10,000 to our Sunday schools every year. Truly Zion is growing. May God bless you and every one laboring for the Sabbath schools, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.