28
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Elder Thomas C. Griggs
281
74

None

None

This immense audience interested in Sunday school work, and the interesting, statistics that have been presented to us on the growth of this Sunday school work are largely the result of an event that occurred nearly fifty years ago, viz: The establishment of the first Sunday school in these Rocky Mountains, which event transpired in the Fourteenth ward of this city, on the second Sunday in December, the 9th day of the month, 1849, by Richard Ballantyne. It is proposed by the Deseret Sunday School Union to celebrate that event. So far the proposition is to have a general celebration on Sunday evening the 8th day of October, in this place. We trust that all the veteran Sunday school workers, those that have been connected with the Sunday school for 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45 years, will be present. In addition to this it is proposed that local celebrations be held in each Sunday school on the second Sunday in December, this year, the 10th day of the month. A suggestive program for the celebration will be published hereafter. Besides this is our record work. Blanks have been sent to every Sunday school for a synopsis of their respective histories and the names of those that have presided in the various schools. For this purpose three blanks have been sent to each Sunday school to be filled out; one of these is to be retained by the school, one to be sent to the Stake superintendency and one to be sent to the general secretary, Brother George D. Pyper. Another matter pertaining to this is the appointment of a special committee, by each Stake superintendency, to act in conjunction with the general committee on the Semi-centennial celebration. The name and address of the chairman of this special committee should be sent to the general secretary that communication may be had with him. This labor of preparing these individual histories is one that will require patience and perseverance to accomplish. This work is immediately before us, as superintendents of schools and Stake superintendents. We trust this matter will be given immediate attention, as it is intended that these reports shall be bound into one volume. We have now, as our statistics show, over 1,000 Sunday schools. The preparation of this history will afford the basis for the celebration of the centennial anniversary; also for the millennial anniversary, which we expect to see in its time.  