29
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Apostle George Teasdale.
43
74-75

None

None

From the Doctrine and Covenants, section 68, page 250, beginning with the 25th verse, we have the following instruction:  
  
"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents;  
  
"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized;  
  
"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands;  
  
"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord."  
  
It is very much to be regretted that children should frequently be in the Sabbath school after they are eight years of age without being baptized.  
  
Now, children have rights as well as the rest of humanity. The Lord has given instruction unless the parents prepare them for this baptism that the parents will be under condemnation. In Sunday schools where they are very strict they will not allow unbaptized children over eight years old to partake of the Sacrament. It would be in harmony with the commandments of the Lord to have the parents taught this duty towards their children at their firesides by our Teachers — not the teachers of the Sabbath school, but the regular ward Teachers. Every child who desires it has a right to be baptized when eight years of age. It is singular to me that fathers do not take sufficient interest in their children to get permission of the Bishop to have their children baptized on their eighth birthday. Many children have looked forward to this event with a great deal of anxiety, and then when the time came they were pushed aside with the remark, "O, well, there are no baptisms today, and you can be baptized on some other occasion." The Lord says His house is a house of order. So it is perfectly natural and perfectly consistent that the Lord should require at the hands of the parents that the children should be prepared for baptism by the time they are eight years of age. Somebody can always be found who holds the Priesthood of Aaron or of Melchisedek, who will very willingly put himself out a little to baptize the children, that they may have that blessed privilege. I know of an instance where a child was very anxious for baptism, but it was put off and put off and by and by the child died without being baptized. "Well, I argue that these dear children should have this privilege. You know we love your children; you know we devote a great deal of time to them. I would advise you, my fellow laborers in the Sunday school, to make this one of your items and see that your children are baptized when the proper time arrives. As you are their friends and instructors, put yourselves out a little to see that this is done, that those dear children may have the privilege of being baptized; that they may be enabled to give the reasons why they are baptized, and of the conditions of baptism. When teaching a Sabbath school class in Nephi — mine was the primary class — we used to sing them the song, "Jesus, Mighty King in Zion," and explain it to them as we went along.  
  
And we explained the different modes of baptism so that they might understand that there are a class of people who baptize by pouring, and another class who baptize by sprinkling; one saying for justification the Lord would pour out an oblation, and the other saying that He would sprinkle many nations. Let us instruct our children, that we may assist the parent in preparing them for this baptism. I consider that this is a part of our duty. Let us respect the children, and let us see that they have their rights. I remember a child of mine whom I baptized here in the font in Salt Lake City. I had him up on a visit from Nephi. With Elder Charles J. Thomas, who kindly assisted me, I baptized him when he was eight years of age and confirmed him, and then I took him to have his likeness taken, that he might never forget it. That was the interest I took in him. In Mexico, when I baptized a little maid of my own on her eighth birthday, I gave it out that I would baptize her on that day, and if there were any children who had been neglected we would attend to them at the same time. We baptized her and several others. I have been particular with my children that this should be done on their natal day. I think of times we are very careless in our records; it is occasionally difficult to find out when people have been baptized. If you will baptize a child the day it is eight years of age the date will always be remembered. It seems to me that a father would delight to do this, and keep his own record and act as the patriarch in his own house. All you have to do is to get the consent of your Bishop and have a proper record made of it.  
  
My beloved fellow laborers. God bless you. Let us always remember that the children have the right to be baptized when eight years of age. I am grateful for having the privilege of being a Sabbath school laborer. I have been so for a number of years, and I delight to be associated with our Sunday school children. I pray God, our eternal Father, that His blessings may rest upon every Sabbath school laborer, that we may be able to set a good example and teach the children to their understanding, through Jesus Christ. Amen.  