31
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Second Assistant Superintendent Karl G. Maeser.
276
76

None

None

The subject given me to speak upon for a few minutes is "Humane Day." It has been customary for the Sunday School Union to have a day set apart during the year on which the Sunday school teacher should pay particular attention to kindness to animals. This day has usually been the last Sunday in February, but the Sunday School Union Board, perhaps, may fix some other day, if so, it will be made public. Kindness to animals has also been enjoined upon us by Holy Writ, for "A righteous man is merciful to his animals." Now, there is too much neglect on this point observable among our people. A letter was received by the Sunday School Union Board, some time ago, from a sister up north, requesting that the brethren take this into consideration and enjoin upon the Sunday school workers the duty of impressing upon the minds of the pupils the necessity of being kind to animals and abstaining from any kind of cruelty. She also alluded to the bad example being set by some in the winter of leaving their animals out in the storm, snow and cold, without any covering or without any regard to their suffering. These dumb beasts were neglected during the stormy weather and received bad treatment at the hands of their masters. That brings to my mind an instance of several years ago, when Heber C. Kimball was with us. He was going down State street with some of the brethren and they saw a man abusing a horse most unmercifully. As intelligent and well posted as these brethren were with regard to handling animals, they could not find out what was really wanted of the animal. The man was beating it unmercifully. Brother Kimball turned to these brethren and said, "brethren, that horse will demand justice of that man some time and will get it. He is making himself a debtor to that animal." There is a sound, glorious principle connected with this. Could I as an intelligent being, place myself in such a position that I would become a debtor to an animal, and place myself under such a condition that that animal could claim justice from me on account of ill-treatment? We may have to slay animals for food and other legitimate reasons, when it is absolutely necessary; but when it is done it should be done with as little pain to the animal as possible. Let us be merciful, as the Scriptures say "A righteous man is merciful to animals." This is a principle we should make a point of in all our Sunday schools. We should enjoin it upon the pupils, not simply one single day in the year, which is set apart for this. I would rather see it urged whenever occasion requires, whenever any one in the Sunday school has been cruel to animals in any way. I know it is displeasing in the sight of the Lord. This should be taught to the children in the Sabbath schools, that the children of the Latter-day Saints may be known for their kindness to animals.  
  
I suppose the Sunday School Union Board will take this matter into consideration some day and make known the day that will be most convenient and proper to be set apart for that purpose.  