32
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Elder Seymour B. Young.
49
77

None

None

"The groves were God's first temples." In one of these temples Joseph Smith sought the Lord in prayer and received a visit from the Father and the Son, and a high commission from them, which called him to his prophetic ministry— the Prophet,Seer and Revelator of the dispensation of the fulness of times. Shady groves have always been considered as a fit and sacred place of holding communion with the Creator of the universe, as well as for other noble purposes. Instance: The old elm tree that stands in the town of Cambridge today, said to be more than 300 years old. Beneath this tree Washington received the command of the Continental Army, in 1775. The subject of planting trees cannot be too deeply impressed upon our young people, and at the approach of every Arbor Day, all the Sunday school children should be encouraged to assist in planting one or more trees around their homes, in gardens or fields and other proper places designated by their teachers and their parents. Cultivation of forests and of the better class of timber has always been a profitable labor and investment to those who enter upon this branch of farming, with a proper understanding, and with perserverance and industry continued their efforts. Some places in Europe, especially in Germany, the small forests are made to yield a large income, supporting very many families by the yield of wood and lumber and the gums that exude from spruce and balsams. Nut-bearing trees are of much importance to the farmers of this country and could be made a source of great profit to all those who would plant a few of these species of forest trees, among the best and most profitable of which is the black walnut. Large farms can be bordered with these trees, and as they grow for ten or twelve years, the nuts produced by them will aid very materially in paying the expenses of the farm and its cultivation. When they become too large and crowd each other in the rows, good sale can be made of them to cabinet makers and furniture producers.  
  
Speaking of trees, I am reminded of a very beautiful story: A traveler returning to his native home after years of absence, saw a man in the act of cutting down a large oak tree, under whose pleasant shade he had played when a boy. He paid the man quite a sum of money to allow the tree to remain standing, and he wrote the following beautiful lines on the subject:  
  
"Woodman, spare the tree; Cut not one single bough;  
 
In youth it sheltered me, And I'll protect it now.  
 
'Twas my forefather's hand That placed it near his cot,  
 
There woodman let it stand; Thy ax shall harm it not."  