33
Deseret Sunday School Union.
09 04 1899
Gen. Supt. George Q. Cannon.
4
77-78

None

None

Made the closing address as follows:  
  
There are only a few minutes left, and I do not wish to occupy but those few minutes.  
  
There are some questions that have been submitted to us, that is, to the Sunday School Union Board, which it is thought proper to answer.  
  
One is, Who shall preside in the Sunday school when all the superintendency are absent?  
  
There should be no question about this: if they are all going to be absent they should arrange for somebody to take charge in their absence, either the teacher who has charge of the Theological class or some other suitable teacher, that the school may not be left without a proper person to take charge.  
  
As to the appointment of Sunday school missionaries, superintendents and officers, all this should be done by consent of the Bishop or with his approval. The question has been asked: Shall the superintendent appoint such officers or shall the Bishop appoint? There should be no conflict with regard to this. There should be perfect harmony between the president of the Stake and the superintendent of the Sunday schools — the Stake superintendant — and both should work together. Of course, it is understood, however, that a superintendent of a Stake has no right to act without the Bishop. The Bishop presides in his ward; the president of the Stake presides in his Stake, and all officers under either of these organizations are subject to them. Therefore, a superintendent should consult with the Bishop or with the president of the Stake; however, a Bishop or Stake president will not appoint without consulting with the superintendent. He will pay respect to the officer that has charge of the Sunday school and will not act, if he is a prudent, wise Bishop, without consulting with that officer.  
  
There are other topics to speak upon, but I cannot take time to dwell upon them. There is one subject, I think, however, that should be taught in our Sunday schools more than it is, and that is courtesy. There is a rudeness about our children that ought to be corrected. There is not respect paid by boys to girls, by young men to women, and there is manifest in our streets very frequently a want of respect to the weaker sex and to aged people, upon which, I think, very profitable lessons may be given to our children. You will notice it during muddy weather. I have seen it many times — a person driving a team and a lady crossing the street — our streets have been seas of mud at times — he drives along and splashes mud over a lady on the street and then laughs at it, as though he had done something smart. Now you will see much discourtesy and rudeness of this kind. We see it constantly; and yet, the boys and men that are guilty of this are not so inclined naturally, but it is for want of proper training, and they ought to be trained. We can train them in the Sunday school. This rudeness will be seen there and at other gatherings. It can be seen at times when children are going out of a car or going out of a door, the strong boys will push forward and crowd the girls and little ones that are weaker than they are, and rush out regardless of the comfort or, indeed, of the safety of the smaller children and girls.  
  
Brethren and sisters, it is a good place in our Sunday schools to teach lessons of politeness and kindness— to teach our boys to be kind and gentlemanly and to teach our girls to be ladylike. Let us try and raise up a generation of gentlemen and ladies. A man raised as a Latter-day Saint is naturally, if he lives his religion, a gentleman, and the girl or woman raised as a Latter-day Saints is naturally a lady, but they do not know how, sometimes, to behave themselves, and they ought to be taught. This rudeness in crossing the streets and splashing mud, no doubt many of you have noticed.  
  
I pray God to bless us and to help us to remember the instructions we have received this evening, which I ask in the name of the Lord. Amen.  