7
Afternoon
06 04 1899
President George Q. Cannon.
4
17-21

None

The great and beneficent physical and spiritual effects brought to the world by the organization of the Church.  
  
We have had at this Conference, so far, some very practical instructions and the Spirit of the Lord has been manifestly in our midst. I have had a good many reflections, that I hope will be profitable to me; and if I can relate some of them, I would like to do so this afternoon. In sitting here and contemplating that which has taken place, and this large congregation, the reflection occurs to me that this is the completion of sixty-nine years since this Church was organized, since the Lord commenced this great work of which we form a part, and there are many interesting thoughts connected with this event.  
 
I could not help but think of pome of the results of this organization of six members into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sixty-nine years ago. What has it done for the world? What changes have been wrought by the establishment of this Church? How much better is the world for its organization! How much better are we, who are members of this Church than we would have been had it not been organized in our day! Sixty-nine years ago but little or nothing was known about God. Communication between heaven and earth had entirely ceased. Every popular minister, and every man of science, every man that made any pretension to education, declared at that time that God had ceased to talk to man; that all communication between heaven and earth had been entirely cut off; that God had spoken eighteen hundred years before and had revealed His will, but since then He had remained silent. No man had heard His voice; no man bad beheld His person; no man had received communication from Him; but all were left to wander as they pleased, to be guided by that which had been written so long before. The personality of God Himself was unknown. Extraordinary ideas prevailed as to the character of our God. That which had been written in the Scriptures concerning Him had been looked upon as spiritual; to be spiritualized and not real. He was declared not to be a personage of tabernacle, not to be able to walk, nor to talk, nor to hear, having none of these organs by which communication was had; but that He was a spirit, diffused through space. The most extraordinary ideas prevailed on this subject. The communication of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ dissipated that ignorance; it gave to mankind a knowledge of God; it restored to the earth the gifts and graces of the Gospel; it removed doubt concerning the plan of salvation; it revealed clearly the ordinances, by obedience to which man could be saved. It has had the effect of bringing the Gospel, the word of God, the salvation of God, to the poorest and to the humblest on the earth.  
  
We heard this morning about class distinctions. No power could have been more effective in leveling class distinctions, and it may be said in destroying them, than the revelation of this Gospel and the establishment of this Church. The thousands who have heard the Gospel in various lands, in lands of oppression, in the midst of poverty and destitution and hopelessness, where there was no prospect before them and their children, only to toil and live lives of drudgery, of poverty and deprivation — the thousands who in this condition have heard the message of salvation have had their hearts gladdened; it has been an emancipation for them, or a means of emancipation to deliver them from these sad and disheartening circumstances, because this brought to them a knowledge that they were the children of God, equally valuable, it may be said, equally esteemed in the presence of God with those who possessed so many advantages over them. The toiler in Europe, the man working in the mines in England or in Scotland, the toiler in Germany and in Scandinavia — these men so low that they were almost deprived of all hope, have heard the Gospel. It has come as a salvation to them and a means of deliverance. I heard one man say, who is now a Bishop in the north, that in Scandinavia, where he lived, he envied the position of the horse, and wished he had been born a horse. Why? Because the horse was cared for; the horse was fed; the horse was carefully housed; he had value; when he died it was a loss to his master; but as to him, the working man, he might die, and what loss would it be to anybody? Not to his master. It might be to his wife, or to his children, but not to his master. He could toil, could go hungry; he could go partly clad; he could go miserably housed and provided for; the animal that possessed value was worth something; that could be cared for, carefully blanketed at night, fed well and kept in a warm stable, and if he were sick taken care of that he might not die. This man's statement concerning his feelings was very strongly put; but his condition was that of thousands when this Gospel reached them. What has it done for them? It has lifted them up; it has made them feel that they are the children of God — peers of every one else on the earth, no matter how rich, no matter how learned, no matter how many advantages others may possess, they are equal before the Lord with all of them. "Mormonism" has done this for the world. It has made every man, that is worthy, a Priest of God; it has had this effect. You have heard talk today about prophets; you have heard talk about oracles; you have heard talk about leaders and men being entrusted with authority; but there is nothing that is said about any one of these that does not apply to every man in this Church. Every man that has embraced this Gospel is raised to this dignity and to this power. Therefore, this Church has been a great blessing to the poor of every land. Those who have heard this Gospel have been delivered by it from their bondage and from their oppression, and they are brought to a land of liberty where they can receive of the benefits that liberty bestows and all of the advantages which the Lord has promised to the inhabitants of this land. These, my brethren and sisters, are some of the blessings that have flowed to us in sixty-nine years.  
  
When I reflect upon all of the consequences that have followed that great and important event, although so little noticed by the world, my mind fails to grasp it in all its details, the benefits are so numerous. They extend in so many directions, not only to us who have received this Gospel, but to the world at large. They feel the effect of it. Contemplate the condition of the world when this Gospel was restored! What was known about heaven? What was known about hell? There are two places, one of bliss, the other a place of torment. How much terror was entertained by the people at large concerning this place of torment. To have to think that this was endless; to think how the hearts of mothers were wrung with anguish at the death of their wayward children, of their loved ones, when they were told by men who assumed authority and to whom they had been taught to look with respect, that they were eternally damned — sent to a place of torment worlds without end! Think of the misery of human souls in contemplating such fearful results! Is it any wonder that men wished they had never been born? They did not know what to do. Suicide brought no relief; they could not get deliverance from the inexorable consequences of living, because their souls were indestructible. They could not hope to escape from the justice of God, go where they might. And this feeling of hopelessness and misery filled thousands of bosoms, millions, I may say; but what did this Gospel do? It brought light from God, the author of our being. Instead of thinking it was a bad condition to be born, it produced a feeling of gladness in the hearts of men and women that they ever had been born; because when they saw the justice of God, that they would get rewarded according to the deeds done in the body, all fear vanished, for they would be dealt with by a just and merciful God and not a tyrant, such as the world described the Lord to be.  
  
Not only this, but think of the glad tidings of salvation that have come to us through the revelations that God has given to this Church respecting the dead and their future fate. Before, the popular idea was that the unnumbered millions of heathen who had died in ignorance of the Gospel had been sent to this endless place of torment; that they were sent to hell without any hope of deliverance through the endless ages of eternity. The feeling of those who would dare think upon this subject, when such thoughts were presented to them, was only to hate, as a monster, the God who would do such things. What could be more monstrous than to send innocent people to hell for not being that which they knew nothing of? No wonder that men revolted at the thought. No wonder that men defied the Almighty under such misconceptions. The Gospel has brought to us revelations concerning this. We see our God in all His beauty; in all His grandeur; clothed with all those attributes that call forth our highest admiration and worship. We can worship Him in spirit and in truth.  
  
What has the organization of this Church done for us in regard to the future? Why, heaven is no longer a place that is vague and indefinite in our minds, or in the minds of the children of men to whom revelation has come. Heaven is something to be desired; not to sit idly and play upon golden harps; but heaven is a place of activity, a place of progress; that which furnishes man his highest enjoyment on the earth; that which develops and calls out his highest and noblest qualities, we are to have in heaven. And this is no new revelation; but it is beclouded and misunderstood by the world. "Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many," the Scriptures say. "What does that mean? That the man who has done his duty in his sphere here on the earth faithfully will have an enlarged sphere hereafter; will have greater power, more opportunities for development; shall have every God-like power; every power and attribute that we have derived from our ancestry— that is, from God our Eternal Father. We shall have room for infinite gratification, unlimited gratification, going on from one degree of power to another, and exercising it as our Father exercises it in the midst of the eternities. Is there not something delightful in this thought, and in the contemplation of such a future? If I have children; if I have a wife, I shall have them in eternity. I shall preside over that family no matter how small it may be, or how large it may extend. They will be my kingdom; for this is the promise of God. What is there that is more delightful in the contemplation of the future than this thought, that those with whom we are associated here, with whom our lives and happiness is entwined; who give unto us the greatest pleasure, because of the love we have for them and they have for us; that that union shall be perpetuated throughout eternity, and that there shall be an increase of that love and of that union and an increase also of that power, because the power of procreation is promised — the greatest power that man possesses on the earth. That is promised unto those who are faithful. I know the world say this is materialistic; that we take wrong views of this; that we are not spiritual enough. Well, I am willing to have that charge levelled against me. I want to be materialistic in this sense. I want to enjoy that which we enjoy here, purified, exalted, and increased beyond my comprehension or your comprehension at the present time; and we are to have this glory and this power; the Lord promises it unto us. Therefore, it can be said of us as it was said of our Lord and Savior, "to the increase of His kingdom there shall be no end." Why? Because of this principle that I spoke of— the principle of procreation. By it, and through that principle the worlds are peopled. The planetary orbs which stud our heavens so gloriously are peopled by that principle— the principle of procreation. God possesses it, and we as His children inherit the power. If we do what is right He promises to bestow it upon us. Our heaven, then, is materialistic in this sense; it is not altogether spiritual. But it is spiritual also. We shall have spiritual joy; we shall have spiritual pleasures such as have been described to us this day, for it is the highest pleasure or joy the human soul is capable of, to worship God, to do His will, keep His commandments and to serve Him. This is the highest pleasure that human beings can attain unto, and we shall have it in eternity, and it shall be the chief source of our enjoyment and of our happiness in the world to come.  
  
These are a few of the blessings that have come to us through the revelation of the Gospel and the organization of the Church sixty-nine years ago today. Think of it! What happiness it has brought to us individually! Each man and each woman in this congregation could tell this for himself or herself. Each one could reflect upon the benefits that have flowed to him or her individually. Contemplate the greatness of the work, the effect of the work upon the whole world wherever this Gospel has been preached, and it has been carried to many lands. It has brought release to many captives; it has gladdened the hearts of the people of the civilized nations. It has reached even the barbarians, and it has gladdened their hearts. It has inspired the hearts of our Indian races with new hope, for they have had presented to them the promises of God made to their fathers, and they look forward to their fulfillment, and they look forward with joy to their redemption. It has been proclaimed to some extent to the Jews, though the time has not yet come for them to embrace it. Still, it comes with the promise,and filled with the hope to these scattered remnants of the House of Isreal, these despised people who are persecuted in lands of civilization, because they are assured that the promises concerning' them and their restoration to their ancient land will be fulfilled. It has brought hope to the islands of the Pacific, to those despised races who have before them extinction unless this Gospel saves them; and it has filled them with hope and anticipation. In fact, it has gladdened the hearts of the people of every land who have heard the glad tidings of salvation. It has had more to do to dissipate ignorance and to save mankind than any other agency that has ever existed among the inhabitants of the earth since the days of the Redeemer. We can well spend money to send our missionaries with such glad tidings as they are to bear. We can do this freely, because the results are such as to gladden us and to make us rejoice that we have the opportunity of doing this. I would like to send every son I have, if circumstances would permit, to the world to deliver the glad tidings of salvation; to relate to the people of the world what God has done in the earth during these many years, commencing as it were in a small place, in a corner, and gradually spreading. "Light broke forth in darkness," as we are told it should do. It has broken forth, and it gradually spreading. As is written: "A light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness." It has broken forth, and it has spread gradually, is spreading gradually and illumining a larger circle, spreading into many lands and will continue until it will enlighten the whole earth. The light of this Gospel, the power of this salvation, the extent and future of this work, and the knowledge of it, will spread from land to land, from nation to nation, from kindred to kindred, until it will embrace the whole of the inhabitants of the earth; and they will see it and understand it and the prophecies and promises of God will every one be fulfilled concerning this work which He has established.  
  
That God may bless us; that we may be true and faithful; that we may have wisdom to do as we should do; that we may continue faithful and forget worldly things, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.  