Morning
09 04 1899



PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS. 

Importance of instruction received— Our Savior's Mission — The life and immortality of men — Advice to young men — New and increasing duties during life — Reference to Tithing — Exhortation to faithfulness, -with blessing. 

Beloved hearers, I arise with a deep sense of the impossibility of any man edifying and instructing such a congregation as this, except he be influenced by the spirit of truth. Certainly, unless he be inspired therewith, he will be unable to feed and nourish the spirits of his hearers, and to refresh and streng them in the way of righteousness. Therefore, I earnestly desire that assistence without which it is impossible to accomplish what is most desirable this morning. 

When we contemplate what the Lord is doing in the earth, it is marvelous beyond human comprehension. When we pass in review our personal experiences, we find all along the path of life occasions for the utmost gratitude to our Heavenly Father for His kind and faithful care in preserving us in the way of life till now. When we have seen so many turn to the right and to the left and forsake the cause of God, because of some trivial affair perhaps, it is all the more wonderful and is occasion for deeper gratitude on our part that the good hand of the Lord has assisted, steadied and sustained us until the present. We have received at this conference such a variety of instructions as has seemed calculated to extend over all the periods of human existence, even to our daily economy, the culture of our gardens, our farms and our orchards. The way of life has been dwelt upon; and if we have been careful hearers and have treasured up the things that have been said, certainly to the tractable they will prove very 4.3 , and to those who fail to be benefited they will meet a great and irretrievable loss. Being surrounded with many cares, with the inconveniences of poverty.sometimes with pinching want, at other times with troubles brought upon ourselves by our indiscretion, we naturally get but part of the benefit which we might receive if we could preserve always that peaceful serenity and that entire composure which belong to those who are the most perfectly devoted to God and His work. 

Having had some little, experience in the sixty years that I have been in the Church, and hearing the brethren talk as they have during this conference, it has seemed to pick up and bring to review much of what I have experienced. 

In large congregations, where the Gospel is preached to strangers, there is a great variety of dispositions present to listen. There are those who receive the words of the Elder and drink them in, because they seem exactly to satisfy the soul, and the whole nature yields accord and acceptance to the things that are taught. Many of us can remember when we first heard the sound of the Gospel. It came to us with a most grateful and satisfying influence, and we embraced it the first time we heard it. There are those whose hearts and consciences are right before the Lord, who are ready to receive the truth, and the Holy Spirit can move upon such and give them testimonies there and then. Others in the congregation who are more of an agnostic disposition, and do not know whether things are true, or whether they want to believe them or not, are there for curiosity, and they cannot accept anything unless it is thoroughly proved from the scriptures. Others again, when anything is proved by the scriptures, are doubtful, skeptical, and of an unbelieving kind — men who have delighted in sin, and their consciences have become seared as with a hot iron, so that they are not sensitive and conscious to the truth. The Spirit cannot work in them, and they are unworthy perhaps of these testimonies. There may be those even who have bloodguiltiness upon them, listening to the words of the teacher. They may be satisfied of their truth, but by their own conduct they have cut themselves  from accepting or taking in, with any sense of benefit, the glorious words of eternal truth that are being spoken to them, and they pass by them like the wind on the prairie or the barren heath, "and they do not see when good cometh." 

The Lord has told us, in one of His revelations, that from the time He gave the Gospel to the human family, so far as they heard its truths and rejected them, they came under condemnation. To reject the truths of the Gospel is a fearful condition. We, who have been led to receive and obey, have the greatest reason in the world to be thankful to Him who has given us the understanding that when we heard the voice of the Good Shepherd we received it, and have tried to follow it, notwithstanding all our staggering infirmities and weaknesses, follies and frailties, and all the allurements of the world that have been around us to draw us away. "We have reason today to be exceedingly thankful to the Lord that we are still blessed of Him and preserved in His favor. 

The Lord, on one occasion, told Moses what His work was. Moses became inquisitive. That is the way we all do when we are brought into the confidence of those who know more than we do. It is natural for us to want to get further knowledge, if we have the spirit of intelligence, which is a little of the glory of God. We hunger and thirst for knowledge. The Savior said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness; for they shall be filled." So we may take courage if we can only keep on and endure to the end. When Moses first enquired of Him, He turned Moses off and told him that the great things which he saw were for His honor and glory. To Him they were all numbered, He said; but to man they were not numbered. Finally, He told Moses that "His work and His glory was to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of men." 

From this it would appear that before the earth was created and father Adam given possession, it was understood that death might be brought into the world through sin and transgression, and that there was a provision made for that. The trial came, the sentence of death was passed, and men began to die. Then it seemed as if the great object for which the earth had been created and man placed upon it was frustrated. The object had been for men to come and obtain tabernacles that they might acquire the knowledge, blessing and power of God in the flesh, and that he might be able to exalt and glorify these tabernacles. When death came into the world, the body and spirit were separated, and this great object seemed to be defeated . But God had provided for this The Lamb of God, "slain from before the foundation of the world," came in His appointed time to correct and restore. How often the Savior told the brethren, when they were together, that the whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. The Son of Man came not to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentence. He came to restore that which was lost, He said. Now, that which was lost was the tabernacle that had been consigned to the grave, and He came to bring to pass the resurrection of the body. That seemed to be the summing up of the saying thaf'His work and His glory was the immortality and eternal life of man"— to restore man, after being lost, to immortality and eternal life. That is what we are after, that through keeping the commandments of God we may be accounted worthy to attain unto that better resurrection, even the first resurrection, to immortality and eternal life, and an abundant entrance into the kingdom of God. The Apostles seemed to understand this. One of them says that life and immortality are brought to light through the Gospel. He seemed to realize that life and immortality were out of sight, except as revealed and made manifest through the Gospel. Thus, the great restoration, is to be brought about. 

Looking on down to our own time, we see that we live in the dispensation of the fulness of times, in which the Lord has promised to gather together in one all things which are in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are upon earth. This is according to scripture, and this is what we are working at. As soon as the Gospel was first preached to the people, they felt the spirit of gathering. When the Presidency, from the Kirtland Temple, sent Elders over to the old country and instructed them not to teach gathering  at present, why the people got to dreaming about gathering and about Zion. It could not be kept from them. The spirit of the work was upon them. Thus the spirit of gathering comes upon the Saints wherever the Gospel is preached to them, and there arises within them an inclination to want to leave where they have become strangers, to go to people whose faith is like their own, with whom they are acquainted in the Lord and have fellowship together. 

In speaking concerning the people at the present time, there is one important feature among us of great concern. That is, there are so many young men and young women who are of marriageable age and who ought to be taking seriously into consideration the importance of uniting themselves together properly, and commencing to build up families and to make homes for themselves, thus becoming persons of value and worth among the Saints in the latter days. If I could speak into the ears of a host of young men, I would say to each one of them, Look around you, my young brother, find a young lady who is waiting for you to come and offer to take her to wife — some faithful girl, who is dutiful and obedient to her parents at home, who has been taught to work and to relieve her mother, and who feels a spirit of ambition and energy to take hold of life. Do not wait till you have got enough money to make a home and to store it with all the comforts of life. You that are studying upon that point, let me cite to you a case that occurred just over the river here a little while ago. A couple had got some land, built a house, had it nicely furnished, cupboards well stocked, a fine cow in the stable, and everything prepared for housekeeping. They went away to get married, and while they were away their home was broken into and devastated, so that when they got back they had no home to go to. 

I want to tell you, if you have no home, ask the Lord to bless you and open up your way to make one. Go out and get a piece of land somewhere. There is plenty of land to be got in different places around. Young men, take this matter into your hearts, and consider how you will feel when you are 70 or 80 years of age, if you are blessed  live that long — and you would feel terrible if you had a witness that you would not. Think how you want to be found when you are that age. You want to see your children and your grandchildren come around you, to bless and comfort you, to eat and drink at your table, and to make you feel that you have a generation planted in the earth. Now, it is going to take some years to do this; but if you will get a good, honest-hearted girl, unite with her and plight your troth at the altar of the Lord, in His holy house, and let Him seal your hearts together, and then go into this labor of life and make a home together, you will begin to be happy. 

I remember, as if it were only last week, when I married and hired a room, in which my wife and I began housekeeping. Our wants were but few; our means very limited; but we had enough to eat, to be comfortable and happy with each other. I remember the first time I bowed down to pray by that fireside that I had hired to live by. I tell you I felt nearer like a man than I had ever done before in my life. When I was a single man, traveling around as an Elder, I had either to find friends or to make them; for it is the business of the Elder to make friends if they do not find them ready made. I used to think sometimes that mavbe I was in somebody's way; and when I was ill or afflicted, certainly I was dependent upon somebody's kindness, and I generally found it. But I did not feel that strange way in my own hired house 

Now, my good young brother, to whom I am talking now, you want to become a man among men; you want to become an Elder among the Elders of Israel; you want to have a wife, and a home, where you can have concentrated all the comforts and happiness of mortal life, and where you can have the fulfillment of the promise that where two or three are agreed as touching anything it should be granted to them. I remember how we used to pray that the Lord would grant unto us that we might have children who would be kind and dutiful and obedient, and who would love Him and walk in His ways. The Lord gave us such children, too. That is the way we felt when we called upon the Lord and asked Him for every blessing that we needed. So we worked  way along as best we could. TheLord helped us and steadied us, until when we had to leave Nauvoo we were able to leave a nice, comfortable brick house, a garden and lot that we had bought and paid for, all fenced and cultivated. 

Then again, when the Prophet Joseph was killed, the question was, how shall we finish the temple? I recollect well that. Elders were sent out through the Churches to gather means for this purpose. I was sent to Michigan. The thing was, that temple had to be finished or we could not go get our endowments and learn the things that had been kept hid from before the foundations of the world. What was to be done? When we got back, the Presidency called us together and told us the thing as it was. I recollect distinctly that one after another came forward and offered everything he possessed to finish that temple, and I was thankful that I could count one among that number. Of course, things are different now to what they were then. But this is what the young man wants. If he has the holy faith of the Gospel, he has within him the elements of a kindred and friends, and be a man among men. A Saint among Saints. Oh! what a blessing it will be to you young men when you get to be old, to feel that you have a righteous race around you, who will try to carry out your will and pleasure after you are gone. You must consider, my boy, that your life is not all of today, tomorrow, this year or next year. You are but making a start here to obtain that life and immortality which is revealed in the Gospel, and to stand at the head of a righteous race. Father Abraham lived to be a hundred years old before he got a boy, and see what the Lord has made of him! His name, his seed and his generations are here, and his blood is in you. The promises that were made unto him and to his son Isaac, and then to Jacob, have been renewed upon your fathers and the faithful in these last days, l^ise up and take hold of them. They await you. 

Speaking of my own case, I recollect well how, as we got along there came a time when we needed some consecrated oil. I took a bottle of oil to President Young in Nauvoo, and asked him to consecrate it. He did so; and said he, "The next time you want a bottle of oii consecrated, do it yourself." This is the way a man develops. He comes to be a father, and he needs to prepare himself to assume the responsibilities of the position, that he may bless his little children as they come along, and consecrate the oil if need be. I remember it struck me all over when the President told me to consecrate the oil. Could I do it? Would the Lord hear me? Well, he told me to do it, and I did it. So step by step we go aTong in the work of the Lord. 

I recollect the first time I went to stop with President Young. When it came to prayer time, he asked Brother Franklin to pray. I was but a boy, and I turned to him and said, "President Young, I would rather you pray; you can oray better than I can." "Oh! well," said he, "you can pray well enough; you try it." So I knelt down and prayed the best I could. Thus we have to prepare ourselves and be ready for every duty as we go along. I wish that some of these boys who are among us, scarcely knowing which way to turn or what to do, would just brace up and do what is right, let the consequence follow; and, as your fathers have done, go and try to be somebody and do something that shall be worthy for both you and your children to remember. 

All these principles are important; and if the young folks sensed their importance I know there would not be so much carelessness as there is. You want to go into this union that I have been speaking of with a determination of purpose to bring to yourselves the pleasures and exaltations of the future life, bring back the pleasures and blessings of the former life, enter into the fulness of that life which is eternal, and take hold on the things of God, as if you meant to be men and women of God. Remember the pathway that some of your fathers and mothers have had to travel to get where they are today. Think of your condition as it is today. The chances for you to get and make homes now, why there is no comparison to what they were when we were in the States' There is/ no possible chance for you to have to pass through the , rugged and trying scenes that many of your parents have had to pass through to git to this place and make Utah what it is today. Then be brave, and daring, and strike out in that which is manifestly your duty to do. 

The first thing we have any account of our Father commanding Adam was to multiply and replenish and subdue the earth, and take dominion. And that same saying is just as applicable now to all good Later-day Saints in this new part of the world as it was when it was first given to father Adam. I really do wish that it could be sensed and acted upon more generally. We should live by every word of the Lord end every principle of truth that is g'ven to us. 

I feel like saying a few words about tithing — that old, threadbare subject, that you have not heard anything new about for a long time. I tell you it looks as new to me as it ever did, because it is the word of the Lord; and unless we can take it in and make it to operate upon us, and we operate in it, we shall never become the people that we want to be. The Lord has told us positively that if we do not keep *he law of tithing this land shall not be a land of Zion unto us. Is not that as straight and as strong as anything we get? On the other hand, He says that if we will do this He will make it to be a land of Zion unto us. What does it mean to be a tithepayer? It means that of all which the Lord gives to us in this life we should devote one-tenth to Him. We should recognize that it is all His till He puts it into our possession as stewards; and when He does this we should remember that one-tenth is not ours. It says expressly in the scriptures that the tithing is the Lord's, and therefore we have no right to appropriate it to our use and say we will restore fit at the end of the year, or at the end of the job. It is the Lord's. We have only right to take that which He gives to us. We must take this course if we want to get the real virtue and benefit of a true and faithful stewardship. You want to so arrange it that the food you eat, and the clothing you wear come to you through that which has been tithed; that your body and all that is  it axe composed of that which is rightfully given you of the Lord, and that you have paid your tithing on — if it is proper to say "paid your tithing." If you have not trespassed and used the Lord's tithing, you can feel that you axe doing in that what the Lord permits and requires. 

It is just so with everything you have around you. Young man, when you get married and secure that farm that we have been talking about, be sure that everything has been tithed before you get it; or, when it is given you with the principles of increase, that you tithe it faithfully while you have it in hand, in order that you may plant yourselves in righteousness on this land, so that wherever you locate it shall become a Zion unto you. That is the way I look at the matter of tithing. I think if we entertain that subject correctly, live on the nine-tenths of what the Lord puts in our possession, and give to Him that which is His (which is never ours), we shall institute the rule and law that the Lord wants us to do. To me it is so simple and plain that a farmer would not have to stop to quarrel with himself to know whether he should reckon out his labor and reckon out this and that before he paid his tithing. If we as a people would thus deal with the Lord in that which is our stewardship, how often we have been assured by the authorities of the Church that that would give enough revenue to meet the general expenses of the Church, and we would not have to be taxing so much and so often for other offerings. 

For my part, this plan of salvation is, as the Lord has pointed out, the way we have to accept; for He says if any bring an offering except as appointed by the Father, it will not be accepted. "We have to come to the Father by the Lord Jesus Christ; and by His principles and instructions, to become like Him. He wants the whole human family to be just as dutiful and obedient as He was. We pray, "Our Father, which art in heaven; hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven." The Lord says, in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, that it is His good pleasure to give to His people the kingdom. He told the early Elders to be of good; "it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom." Now the kingdom of God has come; that is to say, the government, the priesthood, the ordinances and the principles of salvation are revealed to us to build up the Church of Christ, as we may have it to build up until ithe Savior shall come, or until the prophets shall come and reveal to us more than we have already attained to. 

I recollect very distinctly hearing the Prophet Joseph say that the kingdom had come, but the will was not done yet on the^arth as it was done in heaven; and in order that the sisters especially might understand it, he said, "You sisters can understand it by this little similitude. When you scald out your milk pans, you have the milk pan." "Yes." "But it is not full of milk?" "No, of course not." "Now, here the kingdom has come, but His will is not done on earth yet as it is done in heaven. The milkpan is not filled up yet in doing the will of God." We are here to learn and to toil to this end; not only those who are grey-haired and bald-headed, but the boys and girls. It is for all of us to do the works ot righteousness and faith, that the will of God may be done on earth as it is done in heaven, so mat there may not only be a milkpan, but a pan of milk. 1 heard the Prophet make use of this figure in the grove at the top of the hill, just in front of where the temple stood, in Nauvoo. 

My brethren and sisters, we have before us the law of the Lord. We are blessed today as we have not been blessed in a great many years. We axe blessed with the First Presidency fully organized. We are blessed with the quorum of the Apostles, and all twelve of them are with us today. It makes me to feel very joyful and thankful; for as long as I have been in the quorum— now over fifty years— it has been but a very few times that we have had the pleasure of coming to conference with a full quorum of the Twelve present, or coming into our council and talking over the things of God with a full number. The other councils are also generally well filled. We have over a hundred quorums of Seventies! The organization is complete, and the Lord has designed to bless us remarkably with all the facilities to keep His commandments, to covenant with Him, to go into His holy temples and learn how to become saviors for our dead, and labor to bring to pass this restitution of all things which are in Christ Jesus, both which are in heaven and which are upon earth. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be multiplied upon us all, through obedience and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It has to come through obedience, that our faith shall increase. We must draw near to the Lord. We do not ask the Lord so much as He would like us to ask. He has said emphatically that to him that asketh it shall be given; there is none that seeketh that shall not find, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Let us cleave unto the Lord and walk in His ways; strive to serve Him in all things, that we may be able to increase in righteousness; that we and our generations after us may grow up in fear of the Lord, honor Him in the earth, and be counted worthy of that life and immortality which are being brought to light in the Gospel, and which the Savior has died to bring to pass unto us. 

We ought not to forget that this is but the beginning of a people who are to have such a position that by and by the Lord will come and dwell in their midst on the earth. O glorious thought*. We often hear it talked about swords being beaten into plowshares, spears into pruning hooks, the cow and the bear feeding together, the lion eating straw like the ox, etc. All these things, and a multitude more, have to take place, and the sooner or later depends upon our faithfulness and our diligence in keeping the commandments of God and helping to build up righteousness in the earth; for He will weed out and remove the wicked to make room for the righteous as fast as there is necessity for it. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters, in all your varied interests; in your persons with health and faith to overcome your infirmities, and with ability to live and become full of years and ladened with experiences of the goodness of God. God bless you in all your temporal affairs; and you will be if you tithe them properly and then use what you do use to advance the interests of His work. We must  lose sight of the fact that it is our great business to send the Gospel to the people of the earth. That is why we are calling upon you continually for brethren to go in the ministry. We calculate to keep calling. The demand is increasing everywhere. Tou fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, please hear it, and take notice, and beready for the word when it comes for that son, that brother, that father to go and thrust in his sickle and reap, for the harvest is great and the work is increasing wonderfully. 

May the Lord bless and prosper every interest of Zion. May He bless thePresidency, to be full of wisdom, revelation and knowledge; and the Twelve Apostles, that we may be such men as we ought to be, to take the counsels of the Lord and dispense them to the people, and administer salvation everywhere we go. I pray that the Lord will increase His kindness and His affection and love towards us, and increase our kindness and affection and love towards you. 

You that have weaknesses, and perhaps have sinned, do not take it into your heart that the Lord wants to see you afflicted and cut off. He will not that any shall perish, but that all shall come to repentance. Therefore, draw near to the Lord, You who may feel yourselves the farthest from Him, find your way back to Him, that you may walk in His ways, and He will work in you by His Spirit after a while, and will show unto you His good pleasure, and you shall know of His favor, His loving kindness and forgiveness of sins. That we may so live that He may increase His favor and loving kindness toward us, I humbly desire and pray, with all the rest of you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. The Temple choir sang the selection, A beautiful City, the solo being rendered by Sister Maggie Hull. 

ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

The leading object of tithing is to educate the Saints— The necessity of being guided by the Spirit of God. 

If you will give me your attention I will endeavor to speak loud enough that all the congregation may hear what I 4!:)  to say. I regret very much that all of the congregation could not hear the remarks of President Richards, and it is possible that there are many here that will not hear what I have to say; but he has touched upon many valuable points and advanced doctrine that is dear to the heart of every Latter-day Saint; for with all those who have Zion in their hearts, her interests are foremost on all occasions. President Richards touched upon the principle of tithing, and he used these words, as near as I remember, in reference to this principle: "The old theme of tithing; there is nothing new in relation to it particularly, but it is one of the most important principles revealed to the Latterday Saints. If the people dwelling upon this land pay not their tithing, it shall not be a land of Zion unto them." It is very important, it seems to me that we should pay our tithing, for if this be not a land of Zion unto us, then the displeasure of God will rest upon us, for it was so predicted. 

There are many new things connected with this principle that I have heard the brethren speak of. I remember on one occasion, and I have mentioned it from this stand at one of our conferences, that I had a revelation in relation to this principle. The Lord revealed to me, that I needed not to open the book of Doctrine and Covenants and read the revelation on tithing, but to speak on that principle as the spirit should direct, and I obeyed the voice of the Spirit. I was told to say to that congregation, that I had the privilege of addressing, that the principle of tithing was given because the people had rejected the higher law; and this law of tithing was given that they might be in training. It was as the first primer in the system of education to the child, and when the people had adopted that which had been given on tithing, when they had absorbed it and become thoroughly conversant with it, and were acting in perfect obedience thereto, God would give unto them again the higher law; but if a man who paid his tithing did it grudgingly, he was blinding his eyes to his own interests; if he laid his own judgment upon the revelation and paid according to his selfish ideas, and was very strict with the bishop, that he would be dealt  in precisely the same way by the spirit of God. Need I say to you that whenever the spirit of God begins to hew our sides off to straighten them, there wont be much timber left when it gets through with mortal man. That is my opinion, at least, and God has given us this law to perfect us. He has given it to us to bear and meet those expenses mentioned by President Richards, but He has also given it to us for a greater and wiser purpose than this, if possible. We are in training for the greater law; and the man who undertakes to interprete the law of tithing to suit his notions, as I find some of the brethren doing, they will be misled to that extent that they will not be prepared for the higher law when it is revealed. For this is a system of training that God has instituted for the people. I ask this congregation, how many of us are acting under that law of tithing with the free and full spirit of God to direct us? Every man that gives the Lord the advantage is on the safe side. Not like a sister I heard express herself. She had a horse to pay for tithing; she sent it to the bishop, and she put the price on the animal. She said: "This horse is worth fifty dollars, and I want that credit for it." The horse was worth twenty-five, no more; but she wanted a credit of fifty dollars for it or to have it sent back. That spirit operating upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints will becloud their minds to the greater blessings that God has in store for us. 

We, today, are in training by and through the influences of the spirit of God. As our President said yesterday, this people are in training throughout the length and breadth of the land for the glorious work — the redemption of Zion; and the man or the woman who puts his or her price upon articles they have to pay in for tithing, and who are glad to shovel off something that they have no use for in the tithing department, God will reward them according to their just deserts. If my heart is right, every time that I pay tithing, I pay it with this view and this understanding before God: — I am preparing my mind and all that is in me that when the higher law shall come, I may be prepared to receive it, and may be numbered among those who will return GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Jackson County and go into the order which God instituted to preserve His people. This revelation must be looked upon in this light: We are in a school of training and God designs that this people should be educated, that they may be prepared to redeem the earth and make it like the garden of Eden. This is an important part of the great school which the Latter-day Saints are in today and have been in ever since I can remember, and before, too. Think of it, Latter-day Saints, that when you are paying your tithing you are making your minds liberal, spreading out, broadening your ideas, that when the word comes, you can say, I am on the altar in the Church and kingdom of God with everything that I possess, with all that the Lord has given me," that you may inherit everlasting life in the celestial kingdom of our God. If we give all, we shall inherit all. It is a principle which God has laid down, and I exhort the Latterday Saints to be very careful in paying their tithing, because this is the stepping stone to the greater law. 

The principle of revelation to me is the most important principle we have, in one respect. If men were not dual creatures, and could devise means as to how to proceed and act with certainty, we might say revelation was unnecessary. But there is no act of man, perhaps, that is not prompted by the thought that enters the brain. If that be the case, and man is dual, how necessary that we should be directed by the spirit of God, which He sends to lead men in the ways of life everlasting! How necessary it is to receive it and to keep it that the very thoughts of our minds may be directed by Him above, who gives life eternal. The principle of revelation to every man and to every woman is the safeguard that will keep them from becoming entangled in the meshes of the sinful. 

A passage comes to my mind that is found in Sec. 84 of the Doc. and Cov. — A revelation given through Joseph Smith the prophet, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, the 22nd and 23rd of September, 1832, — four years before I was born in that place: 

"And I now give unto you a com to beware concerning yourselves, to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life: 

"For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

"For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is spirit, even the spirit of Jesus Christ; 

"And the spirit giveth light unto every man that cometh into the world; and the spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the spirit." 

This is the spirit that Latter-day Saints are taught to cultivate. That spirit is given; it is yours; it is in the possession of every human being that comes into the world, so far as I know. I see no exceptions. It is the province, and duty of the Latter-day Saints to cultivate that spirit until it becomes as a living fire within them. There is no error, though it may be couched in the smoothest and most beautiful language that can ever entangle the spirits of those who walk in the way of life. Therein is safety. The brightest intellects, the strongest minds, the most powerful men, are swayed like children by the spirits of the air, by the spirits from beneath, if they are not guarded and protected and strengthened by the spirit of God. That spirit is given to them to cultivate it to the extent that it is an armor impregnable to all of the various sects and parties that are trying to drag our people down to destruction. 

"And everyone that hearkeneth to the voice of the spirit cometh unto God, even the Father; 

"And the Father teacheth him of the covenant which he has renewed and confirmed upon you, which is confirmed upon you for your sakes, and not for your sakes only, but for the sake of the whole world." 

Hear it Latter-day Saints — you are cultivating the spirit for the whole world. Not for you and your posterity, but for all of the children of men whom God has placed here. You have come out of the world, not to bring Babylon with you. But people have come here from Babylon, and are among the Latter-day Saints with their sins and filth, and we gather it up by the handfulls,  to the extinction of that power that God has placed in every man. 

"And the whole world liveth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin. 

Who has said it? Jesus Christ said it to His servant the prophet. 

"And by this ye may know they are under the bondage of sin because they come not unto me. 

"For whoso cometh not unto me is under the bondage of sin.  "And whoso receiveth not my voice is not acquainted with my voice and is not of me; 

"And by this you may know the righteous from the wicked, and that the whole world groaneth under sin and darkness even now." 

My brethren and sisters, here is a test for you: 

By these things that I have read you may know the righteous from the wicked. Who is it that will receive that spirit and cultivate it? Who is it that listens to the voice of the men whom God has placed to redeem the world and guide in the redemption of the human family? Who are these men? and what do they say to the people? What have they said to the people during this conference? What has the President and his fellow-laborers said at this conference? They have delivered unto you the words of life and salvation, and as true as God lives, according to the spirit that is in me, we will be judged by the words of these men in the time to come. They have given unto you the words of everlasting life. They have given unto you those things that God has given unto them, to purify you. 

I testify to you that the Church is growing; that the Gospel is here and men respect it and women respect it. But how many more might respect this glad message that God has sent us if they would but seek Him and be earnest and faithful and prayerful and humble and keep the spirit of light within them! 

God bless you and peace be unto you in all of your homes in all of the settlements of the Latter-day Saints. Be faithful that we may have victory, and sing the song of the victorious in the day that is not far distant, which I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen How to overcome temptation— The H Iv^Dlrita,. unerring guide. 3 v 

I have been very much pleased with what has been said this morning, and also during the whole of this confer ence. We certainly have had a very excellent time. 

It struck me while Brother Young was addressing us that there were two very strong temptations that trouble us from time to time, and which sometimes prevent the spirit of light from giving us the information absolutely necessary for our prosperity. One is, what will people say if I do so and so? If I do these things that are now required of me, what will be said of me? I think that every one, at least most of my brethern and sisters who are now before me, will understand what I mean, from the experiences they have had. Such a consideration has affected almost every one. I know that it was the case with me, when the principles of the Gospel were announced and 1 took them into contemplation. It came to my mind; "what will people say if I receive these doctrines, and it is known that I have become what is called a "Mormon?" When such a temptation as this comes before us it should be laid aside, and not permitted to influence us. 

Another temptation is, How much money shall I give? That is a very strong temptation to most of us, I presume. Speaking of tithing as Brother Brigham has, how much of this tithing shall I give? Cannot I reserve a portion to myself? The Lord is very rich and I doubt if He will be troubled at all if I withhold a little for myself; and so a little to oneself is withheld. But that very little that is reserved will trouble that man, if his conscience is like the consciences of most of the Latter-day Saints. It will trouble him more or less in the day time, and also when he thinks of it at night. He does not have that happiness that it is his privilege to enjoy— it goes from him. One of the best things to do under such a temptation as that is to give, so as to be sure, a trifle more than is required; and to think that you have it wholly within yourself to do so. If you do this the temptation is overcome, you have been successful in contending with it; and you are better prepared to battle with the next allurement successfully, though it be stronger than the first. And if you do not then, at some future time you will thank the Lord. 

There is a way by which persons can keep their consciences clear before God and man, and that is to preserve within them the spirit of God, which is the spirit of revelation to every man and woman. It will reveal to them, even in the simplest of matters, what they shall do, by making suggestions to them. We should try to learn the nature of this spirit, that we may understand its suggestions, and then we will always be able to do right. This is the grand privilege of every Latter-day Saint. We know that it is our right to have the manifestations of the spirit every day of our lives. Persons come to me very anxious to receive counsel upon some subject or other. They need nolt come to me always (under some circumstances, of course, it would be highly proper), for the spirit is within them to bring about good and to accomplish the purposes of God. The spirit is in every man and every woman so that they need not walk in the darkness at all, and it is not always necessary for them to come to the President of the Church, or to the Twelve, or to the Elders of Israel, to get counsel; they have it within them; there is a friend that knows just exactly what to say to them. From the time we receive the Gospel, go down into the waters of baptism and have hands laid upon us afterwards for the gift of the Holy Ghost, we have a friend, if we do not drive it from us by doing wrong. That friend is the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, which partakes of the things of God and shows them unto us. This is a grand means that the Lord has provided for us, that we may know the light, and not be groveling continually in the dark. 

I wanted to say these few words, as they were suggested to me while Brother Young was addressing us. God bless you, Latter-day Saints, and my friends who are here, who have honest hearts. God bless you and crown you with His Holy Spirit, that you may know that the time has come when the Lord has  a people to prepare for the coming of the Son of God, who shall appear and be in our midst, and teach us the mysteries of the kingdom. 

God bless you and preserve you all in the holy path of righteousness, exaltation and glory, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, 

"Let the Mountains Shout for Joy." 

Benediction by Elder Joseph W. McMurrin. 


