Morning
07 10 1928

Sunday, October 7, 1928. Every seat in the tabernacle and all available space in the aisles and doorways was occupied by the large number of people who had assembled. Thousands who were unable to get inside of the tabernacle listened to the services as they were broadcast in the assembly hall and on the tabernacle grounds. 

Conference reconvened at 10 :00 a. m. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man." The opening prayer was offered by Elder Stephen L. Chipman. The choir sang, "That sweet story of old." 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I am grateful to my heavenly Father this morning to be permitted to worship with you, as I have been during the preceding sessions of this conference. It is a wonderful thing to live in a land such as this in which we dwell and enjoy the blessings of the free, to be permitted to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience, and to feel that we accord to every living human being the same privilege that we desire for ourselves. 

DIVINE ANCESTRY 

When our Lord prepared this earth that it might be the abiding place of his children, he planned that those who would come to dwell upon it should know him as their Father, they being created in his image, both male and female. He gave to those spirits that he had created the opportunity to have physical tabernacles, that they might enjoy the blessings of the earth that he had prepared for them. 

It does seem strange that so many people doubt our divine ancestry, and that God is the Father of our spirits; yet from the very beginning, from the very earliest period of which we have any record in this world, he has been teaching men and women this fact. 

THE PURPOSE OF OUR EXISTENCE 

I am thinking this morning of the condition that confronts mankind, how many there are who do not know why we live upon this earth, comparatively few who really understand the purpose of the coming of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ; and yet in this great land of America, in this latter day he has restored that knowledge, and fortunately for hundreds of thousands of men and women they have been permitted to receive it. When God created the earth and placed our first parents upon it, he did not leave them without knowledge concerning himself. It is true that there had been taken from them the remembrance of their pre-existent life, but in his tender mercy he  with them and later he sent his choice servants to instruct them in the things pertaining to eternal life. History has repeated itself many times. Refusal to obey the counsels of the Lord has been followed by destruction, and I fear that unless humanity recognizes him as the God of this earth, disaster may come again to the nations. 

A BLESSED AGE 

We live in a marvelous age. No people who have dwelt upon the earth have partaken of so many of the comforts and blessings of life. No people have had such opportunities, as are offered to the children of men in the day and age in which we live; and remarkable as it may seem, you analyze the conditions that exist, every blessing that has come to us has been one that conforms to the ideals of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We do not have to go outside the Church for real blessings; we do not have to depart from the teachings of our forefathers in order to enjoy that which is most precious in life, but on the contrary those who believe most firmly in God, those who know of the divine mission of Jesus Christ and partake of the gifts that come as a result of his teachings are the happiest people that can be found upon the earth. I fear, however, that the prosperity that attends us has a tendency to draw our attention from the most important things of life. I fear that the sins of men blind them to the blessings of the Giver of all good; I am hoping and praying with you that this great and wonderful nation of which we are a part may not succumb to the evils that afflict mankind and forsake the generous offering of our Heavenly Father, of peace and plenty and happiness, while we dwell here upon the earth. 

THE EXPERIENCE OF FORMER CIVILIZATIONS 

I have no doubt that in the days of Noah there were many people who had opportunities to know the truth. I have no doubt that in his day he was very diligent in trying to teach the people the purpose of their being. He knew why they were here. He knew that it wa s necessary to have faith in God. He knew that all that we enjoy comes from a generous Heavenly Father, and for one hundred and twenty years he traveled to and fro in that section of the world and proclaimed the truth, until finally the wickedness of the world became so great that our Heavenly Father directed his faithful servant to prepare to save himself and his household. Then a great deluge swept the earth, and those who had been created in the image of God, who had been alien to the blessings that he offered them so generously, were drowned in order that a new race might come upon the earth, with opportunity to learn of his ways that they might walk in his paths. 

You remember the experience of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. The servants of the Lord were there, anxious to teach the way of our Heavenly Father, yet the philosophies of men turned them aside from the wisdom of the living God, and eventually fire came down from heaven and destroyed those communities, not because they were serving the God of this earth, but because they were serving Baal and other false gods. 

Let us consider America and think of how our Heavenly Father in his mercy, directed the Jaredites at the time of the confusion of tongues, at the tower of Babel, and brought them to this great western land and gave them teachers after his own heart. It was not many generations after they came here until they became alien to the truth. They sought after those things that gratified passions and appealed to their appetites, and the result was that as a nation they were exterminated. Then there were the descendants of Lehi, those who came from Jerusalem six hundred years before the birth of Christ. They came to America and began to settle it. Then there grew up among them those who did not desire to serve the Lord. Those who had been faithful eventually succumbed to the evils of mankind; dishonesty, immorality, intemperance and all those things that have a tendency to break down civilization, resulting in complete destruction of the descendants of Nephi. 

Why? Because they would not serve our Heavenly Father whose children they were. 

Analyze the conditions of the American Indian. He came from a. people who were educated, a people who had enjoyed the blessings of civilization, a people who had been taught by the prophets of the living God; yet because of indifference and carelessness, because of their wilfulness and selfishness, they too lost the power to reason and to think properly, and eventually became the obscure and unlettered and untutored savage that was found here when the white men came from a foreign shore to settle here. These people refused the blessings of the living God and lost their birthright, as did many other races. Each of these nations has fallen from the high estate to which God had permitted it to come, n3s lost its heritage because the people were not willing to humble themselves and acknowledge that our Heavenly Father was the God of this earth. 

A LAND OF LIBERTY 

Think of the blessings that came to America. How Columbus was inspired to go out upon the great waters and find his way to this western land. Then the settlers of Jamestown, the pilgrim fathers, and all those early pioneers who came to America because they desired to serve God according to the dictates of their conscience. The Lord blessed them and finally raised up a nation that is the wonder and the admiration of the earth. Those men who framed the Constitution of the United States were not only wise in the things of this world, but they were inspired by our Heavenly Father who raised them up for that very purpose. This marvelous government that we enjoy in this favored land of liberty, was given to man that it might be a blessing to him. Here men and women are permitted to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience. Our Heavenly Father will not coerce or compel mankind, but in loving kindness has given to them  the age when the world was first peopled until now, opportunity to know the truth. 

THE GOSPEL WHAT IT IS 

What is this gospel to which we refer? It is the only power of God unto salvation, it is the only plan that will enable man to go back into the presence of his Maker and enjoy the celestial kingdom. It Is the only plan that will bring peace and happiness to all the children of men, of every race and creed; and it is the one plan that should give men a desire to serve him and keep his commandments, in order that they might be happy and rejoice in the happiness of their fellows. Faith in God, repentance of sin, baptism for the remission of sins after the pattern by which the Savior was baptized, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost that men may receive increased inspiration from our Heavenly Father to enable them to follow his teachings and know that he lives — these are the fundamentals of the gospel of our Lord. Not difficult to understand but easy if we will but submit ourselves to that feeling that always comes to us when in the humility of our souls we recognize the Creator of all things. In our day the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been organized, not after the wisdom of men. When I speak thus I have no unkindness in my heart towards all these great religious organizations in the world. Men have done their best to give to the world a system of ethics and a desire to live so that the best that is in life might be enjoyed, but it remained for God the Eternal Father, through his Son Jesus Christ, to give to this earth in this latter-day the gospel that he formerly gave to the people in Judea, and to give to us in our. day a more perfect understanding of the purpose of our being. We are privileged to live in the blaze of this glorious century when our Heavenly Father has organized his Church, has placed in it divine authority and has required those who possessed that authority to administer, not in arrogance, not lifted up in their own conceit, but to go to and fro in the world and in humility and love say to his children : "Our Father has again given to the earth the gospel of our Lord, and we come to divide with you this mercy that gives us such peace and such happiness." 

THE DUTY OF PARENTS 

As I think of the conditions that exist, the lawlessness that seems to have grown more rampant throughout the world since the war, I am reminded of some lines of Rudyard Kipling: 

"Lord God of hosts be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget." 

. And you men who stand upon the watchtowers of Zion, you men upon whom has been conferred divine authority, I plead with you that you honor that authority. We have a wonderful Church organization, but the one place where we may have greater influence than any other is in the homes in which we reside. We have our Sabbath Schools, our Mutual Improvement Associations, our Relief Societies, our Primaries, our Church schools and seminaries. All these institutions are intended to develop the best that is in mankind, but we as parents of children in this Church have no right to place the responsibility upon these organizations to establish faith in the hearts of these children that God has placed in our homes. It is your duty and mine to teach the children that come to our homes. It is your duty and mine to exemplify in the presence of our wives and our children those glorious principles that our Heavenly Father has given to us to prepare us for eternal life in his celestial kingdom. And if we fail to do that, then will we come under condemnation, and we will discover when it is too late that we have missed the great blessing that our Father offered to us. He has told us very plainly in this latter-day that those of us who have children in Zion or in any of her stakes that are organized, who fail to teach them faith in God, repentance, baptism, and those things that are essential for their salvation, the sin will be upon our heads. I desire to emphasize this obligation that is upon us, that we cannot shift to anybody else in the world the duty to exemplify in our lives and to teach these boys and girls in our homes, that as they grow up they may develop in the nurture and admonition of our Heavenly Father. 

THE DANGER THAT CONFRONTS US 

We live in a great and wonderful age. The glory of this century is beyond that of any other century; but I feel that we are in just as great danger as were those who lived in the days of Noah, or those who lived in the days of Nephi upon this great western land. We are in as great danger as any nation that has ever lived, because God has given us more than any other nation, and if in arrogance and in pride we turn aside from the Father of us all, and in our carelessness and indifference towards sacred things we spend our lives for the things of this world, it will not be very long until the chastening hand of an all-wise Father may come upon us as a nation, and we be counted as the nations of the past, among those that have withered away. I pray that we may be worthy of our heritage, that the example of the members of this Church in every nation where they live, may be such that others observing their good works may be constrained to glorify our Father in heaven. How I pray that we as the servants of the Lord may have charity for mankind, may have patience with those who err, and in kindness and love go forward teaching the simple principles of the gospel of our Lord to the blessing of every soul with whom we come in contact. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was raised up in this latter-day to bring again the gospel of our Lord. I know that the authority of our Heavenly Father is upon the earth for the blessing of mankind, not to make those who receive that authority arrogant, but to make them humble; not to make those who have received special privileges feel that they are greater than others, but to make us humble in our souls, prayerful in our hearts, and considerate of all men in all that we do, and thus exemplify by upright lives that which our Heavenly Father desires us to teach. 

I know that if we will serve God, if we will keep his commandments, if we will honor the priesthood that has been conferred upon us, if we will sustain those whom he has called to preside over us, with faith and devotion, when the time shall come for us to go hence we will find our names written in the Lamb's Book of Life, and we will receive at the hands of the Master of heaven and earth that glorious welcome home: "Well done thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful in a few things; I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of thy Lord." And I bear witness of it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

One of the tests of worth is the test of time. Whatever has been tried over a long period of time and not found wanting is worthy of our consideration. I have observed with deep satisfaction that since the opening remarks of President Grant the speakers of this conference have reverted to the fundamentals, those principles which have long been in force and effect, and which lie at the very basis of our theology and our philosophy. I sincerely trust that I may be in consonance with these thoughts and expressions as I enter a plea for reverence for God, for sacred places, for sacred establishments and institutions. 

Some one has said that the national characteristic of America is lawlessness. It is a terrible indictment. I hope that it is not warranted. Whether it be so or not, we are all persuaded that there is too much of flippancy; there is too little serious consideration and respect for established institutions and for worthy practices which have been tried and proven over a period of many years. 

REVERENCE FOR GOD 

I am one who believes that morality and righteousness have their inception and bases in religion. I believe that God is the author of all good, and that there is no good which emanates from any source in this world other than from our Father and our God. Respect and reverence for his holy name are essential to spiritual growth and development, and in my judgment they are essential to a proper attitude toward all institutions of society, all our relationships and everything that is worth while in this life. No man can be disrespectful of Deity and have in his heart the proper attitude toward the creations of Deity. A man who properly understands his relationship to God and the endowments which he has received from the Creator, will be filled with reverence and thanksgiving. After all, reverence is an attitude which shows itself in a deferential behavior. 

REVERENTIAL RESPECT FOR THE BODY OF MAN 

God has given us everything we have in life. He has made it possible for us to live in mortality. It is by reason of his beneficence that we enjoy our very bodies. We who believe in the gospel know that God is the Father of our spirits, and that as the Father of our spirits he has permitted them to dwell in tabernacles of flesh. These tabernacles assume a holy significance, and a man with such a conception cannot pollute or defile his body without offering affront to God who gave it to him. So I plead first for a more reverential respect for the body of man. It is a sacred temple wherein dwells our eternal spirit, and it is entitled to our utmost deference and reverence. If we could but teach the youth of the land this high conception that has come to us, they would be more loath to smoke cigarettes, to take liquor into their bodies, and those other poisonous substances which tend to disintegrate and render less efficient and less pure these holy tabernacles. 

THE HOME A SACRED INSTITUTION 

We need more reverence for the sacred institution of home. The home is a religious institution. It has its inception in religious ceremony, and to those of the Church who understand its great significance, it constitutes the very basis^ of our hope of exaltation in the celestial life to come. All the finest of its products are spiritual. It is indeed a sacred institution, and reverence for those who by right exercise authority in that institution in my judgment is indispensable to the inculcation of those characteristics and attributes which are 'essential for good citizenship in the country and a proper attitude toward God our Father. Boys and girls who refer to their parents as "the old man" or "the old woman" are taking a wrong course to bring them into proper attitude toward government, society and religion. There are old sayings in the Bible which support this position: 

"Honor thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee, that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." 

No greater commandment ever came from Sinai than that one. 

"My son, keep thy father's commandments and forsake not the law of thy mother. Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck. When thou goest it shall lead thee, and when thou sleepest it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest it shall talk with thee." 

"A wise son maketh a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother." 

Those principles have been tried; they have been incorporated into the lives of great peoples. They have made possible the establishment of the greatest institution of society — the home. I commend them to the youth of the land, and I commend them to parents. I sincerely trust that there will be such discipline, such loving, kindly, sympathetic discipline in the home that there will be proper and adequate respect for the head of the household. No good woman will ever begrudge to her husband his rightful position as the head of the household, and I am constrained to think that very much of our lack of respect, much of the flippancy and lawlessness arise from the fact that there is no well organized, clearly recognized authority in the home. It seems now to be the attitude of parents, in many cases at least, that a child shall 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 97 

have the liberty and privilege of doing what he wants to do. I have, heard many a parent say : "I want my boy to do what he wants to do." As for me I want my boy to do what he ought to do. I hope that he will want to do what he ought to do. So much of license, so much of so-called liberty prevails that boys and girls are not constrained as I feel that they should be constrained in sympathy and mercy and kindness to take the proper course in life. I rejoice in the fact that the heads of our households are men who hold the priesthood of Almighty God, and I know of no place or no institution in which the dignity, the power and the influence of the priesthood may be more effectively exercised than in the institutions of our homes. 

THE SIN OF PROFANITY 

Men, do not swear. God has said he would not be mocked. "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Perhaps there are few things that tend more to produce an irreverent attitude than this pernicious, vile habit of profanity. What a useless thing it is. What a defilement it is of the pure language which we have. I plead with men everywhere not to use the name of God in vain. I do not see how a man can love God and damn him any more than he could love his wife and damn her. We shall tear down the respect of the youth of the land for the name of Deity if we use that name in profanity. We read the words of the Savior : 

"Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not foreswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths : but I say unto you, Swear not at all." 

When men have the knowledge that we possess and they blaspheme the name of God, I fear for the penalty that may accrue from that sin. God help us to speak pure English, to control our tempers, and to set an example in that respect worthy of the emulation of our juniors. Men of the world blaspheme — I sometimes feel a degree of charity toward them — in ignorance of that which they do. It is not so with us. 

RESPECT FOR LAW 

Respect for the law is an old theme. It is commonly brought to our attention these days. I think that there are two classes of people who are chiefly responsible for the lack of respect which exists for the law and for established institutions of government. One class is those who hold office and the other class is those who do not. I don't mean by that to say that all men who hold office are responsible for the condition which exists; not by any means; nor are all citizens. I have always felt that one of the essential things to breed a wholesome respect and regard for the law of the land and the established institutions of government is the honorable, worthy conduct of the men who are elected to office, and whenever any man who is entrusted with a public duty and public authority abuses his office and attempts to reward himself at the expense of his government and the citizenry, and does not conduct himself with that dignity and propriety which is becoming one invested with his authority, he does more to tear down respect for law and authority than dozens of good men can do to build it up. I want to tell you that the youth of the land are wise in their day and generation. They are sophisticated, they are observant, and when they see men plead in fiery oratorical fashion for the support of the Constitution and in their grandiloquence wildly protest allegiance to the flag of the country, and then come to know that those same men are grafters, corrupt in office, they at once lose regard for the institutions of government and for the officials who stand at the head of government. And too on the part of the citizenry : Men who support such men, men who go around campaigning for them and men who become the beneficiaries of their dishonest practices, are likewise doing more to tear down that attitude which is essential to the preservation of good government than thousands of good people can do to sustain it. It takes honor, real genuine integrity, in order to beget a respect for law and for her institutions. It is such people who today are setting at naught the laws of the country, and such public officers who with seeming ease of conscience are failing to observe their oaths, who are sowing the seeds which may mature some time in the violence of rebellion and revolt against the great principles of equity and liberty and justice which lie at the foundation of our beneficent government. It hurts me, it grieves me every time I see men of influence violate any ordinance, any statue, any law which has been passed and established by proper authority in this country. Enough has been said in this conference on that subject. I here pronounce the recognition of those laws and their observance as indispensable to the creation and maintenance of reverence and respect for the Constitution and for the established orders of society. 

THE FATHERHOOD OF GOD 

Reverence for God, as I said in the beginning, is the fundamental thing. Reverence for God comes of love for God, but love of God arises out of faith in him, and out of an understanding of his greatness, his majesty, his goodness, his kindness and his mercy. My God is my Father, my eternal parent, the giver of every good gift to me, the conservator of my life, my relationships, my family, my blessing. Do I revere him? I bow at his feet. I humble myself in sheer praise and thanksgiving and gratitude for the manifestations of all his kindness to me. There is no question about reverence because the seed and foundation of reverence are in my philosophy, in my testimony, in my soul and in my heart. So it is essential that the gospel of Christ be preached to the people of the world that they understand this fatherhood of God, that they understand that all the progress made in this life is by and with his consent and his guidance. 

God bless us, my brethren and sisters, that his holy institutions, our places of worship, our homes, the sacred ordinances of the gospel, our temples, our families, old age, all sacred things may receive our deference, our undying respect and our reverence, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Truth does not change; it is immutable. This statement has been made in substance several times during this conference; the thought is not original. It has come down through the centuries from the beginning, for even in the days of Adam it was made known by revelation. Truth never grows old, it is always new, because it is that which remains when all else passes away. 

The Lord has given to the Church the best definition of truth that I have ever heard. We find it in one of the revelations : "And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." In other words truth is that which endures forever. 

A WORLD OF CHANGE 

We live in a world of change. Men are born into this world helpless infants. They grow and reach maturity; they gain knowledge and experience, then become old and die. The earth itself is growing old and changing because it too is mortal, as man is mortal upon its face. All things on the earth must pass away. The earth also shall pass away, for it is decreed that it shall die. The whole universe, that is the material universe which we see, is changing. This truth men of science have discovered through their research. Not only this earth and our solar system but the stars of the heavens are changing, if we may rely on the information which comes to us. In fact the Lord has said that they shall pass away, and these changes are going on eternally; "And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words," said the Lord. 

THE PLAN OF ETERNAL PROGRESS 

In observing these changes throughout all nature a man may be led to conclude, without the aid of the Spirit of the Lord and divine revelation, that death is the end of all things; that the universe itself shall pass away and cease to be; but this is not the case. These things which we see changing, growing old and dying, do not come to their end. Death is not the end, neither of man nor of the earth, nor of the, elements of which the earth is composed; neither of the material universe. The Lord created all things for a purpose. Nothing has he created to be destroyed, but that all things might endure forever. This mortal condition with all its changes and eventually death, is part, of the great plan of eternal progress. As it has been pointed out, we lived, before we came here, in the spirit existence and in the presence of God. In his presence we walked by sight, but now we are called upon to walk by faith and pass through the various vicissitudes of life, gaining the experiences which could come to us only through this mortal probation. After death we pass on eventually through the resurrection! and receive the fulness of life in the mansions which are prepared by GENERAL CONFERENCE  Father. Death is a part of the great plan of life, for after the resurrection comes immortality. 

UNIVERSAL SALVATION 

In one of the revelations to Joseph Smith the Lord said to the Church and to all who are willing to receive it : 

"And again, verily, verily, I say unto you that when the thousand years are ended, and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a little season." 

The Lord here is speaking of his second coming, of the millennial reign which shall be followed by a shdrt period of wickedness and then the end. The revelation continues : 

"And the end shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a new earth." 

This does not mean that this earth shall pass away and another take its place, and the heaven thereof shall pass away, and another heaven take its place, but that the earth and its heaven shall, after passing away through death, be renewed again in immortality. This earth is living and must die, but since it keeps the law it shall be restored through the resurrection by which it shall become celestialized and the abode of celestial beings. The next verse of this revelation explains this as follows : 

"For all old things shall pass away, and all things shall become new, even the heaven and the earth, and all the fulness thereof, both men and beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea; 

"And not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost, for it is the workmanship of mine hand." 

So we see that the Lord intends to save, not only the earth and the heavens, not only man who dwells upon the earth, but all things which he has created. The animals, the fishes of the sea, the fowls of the air, as well as man, are to be re-created, or renewed, through the resurrection, for they too are living souls. 

DIVINE GUIDANCE NECESSARY 

Men, when they observe conditions upon the face of the earth — and our knowledge is largely limited to our observations through the aid of our natural faculties — are in danger of reaching false conclusions. It is not enough that men be guided by reason and by what they may discover through the natural faculties of the mortal body, but also by the guidance of the Lord. We are all dependent upon divine revelation to know the truth concerning the destiny of man. Man by searching cannot find out God without the divine direction. The mistake made by many who seek for truth through the channels of scientific research is that they depend solely upon their own natural ability to discover, without taking God into account and seeking for his direction. The fulness of truth can never be obtained by the man who eliminates God and divine guidance from his understanding. I was informed one time by one of our scientific brethren that the scientist does not take God into account in making his investigations, but endeavors to find truth by research and the aid of his natural faculties. I answered him by saying, "More the pity, for if they would only go before the Lord and seek him through his Spirit and ask him for his guidance, they would be more likely to find the truth for which they are seeking." That they discover many truths is true, but divine guidance, the inspiration of the Lord, the knowledge that comes through revelation, would save them from falling into many errors and reaching false conclusions. I believe it to be a mistake to search for truth independently of what the Lord has given through revelation to his servants the prophets. 

A FULNESS OF TRUTH 

Now I must not take more time, but let me read to you one more expression coming to us through revelation from the Lord : 

"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying : He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth; 

"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." 

I have full confidence in this word of the Lord. Surely the Spirit of truth will be bestowed upon all who seek through the proper channels and in obedience to the proper laws. There is no other way. by which the fulness of truth may be known. Man, in and of himself, cannot find it; he may be "ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth." 

The Lord has held in reserve for those who obey him this great blessing of the fulness of truth, and through obedience it is received and in no other way. So with all their searching, with all their delving into the earth and examining of the heavens, man cannot discover the fulness of truth without submission to the principles of the gospel and placing their lives in harmony with the Holy Spirit and walking in obedience to the commandments of the Lord. There is no other way in which all truth may be obtained. It is the destiny of those who keep the commandments of the Lord, through their obedience, to gain all truth. The Lord has spoken it. So I understand the words spoken by the Savior in this revelation and also to his disciples wherein he said : "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." And again, in the same sermon: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." 

May we walk in the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ and let our hearts be so touched by the Spirit of truth that we shall turn neither to )the right hand nor to the left in our investigations, but pursue a steady course, seeking always the light which comes from the Lord. Then will we become teachers of men in truth and able to GENERAL CONFERENCE  the things of God. So I pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

There are a number of visitors here this morning who have come from many parts of the world. We bid you welcome. Though you come from the remote parts of this country or from Asiatic provinces, we are very glad that you are here to join us in the worship of God. It is the Sabbath day and we have come together in his name. 

There are in this congregation followers of Buddha representatives of one of the oldest religions of the world. We bid you welcome and you can add your understanding to ours. One of your great sayings is: "I am the Goddess of Karma! Thine eyes, mine eyes shall meet in the end." You know also that your word Karma means immanent justice. Karma is the immortal entity, which man should follow. According to this thought man's thoughts build his character; his deeds make his environment. What a man thinks, so he becomes. His qualities and natural gifts adhere to him as a result of his ideas. Man is responsible for all that he is. We believe this, my friends from India. We are endowed with free will to work out our destinies. Man is a divine creation, and he is able to set himself free from bondage. 

God holds us responsible for our thoughts and acts in this life. We bear testimony that 'Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, and unto him all must come eventually, and in the end find eternal life in the kingdom of God. May God bless you while you are here and protect you on your journey. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel of love. You are his children. We are all his children, and in an abiding faith in him will we find our salvation. 

There was recently held in New York City the International Congress of Americanists to which delegates from seventeen nations of the world came, to deliver papers and discuss the Origin and History of the American Indians, Among the most noted scientists to take part on the program were Dr. Eugene Q. Oberhummer of the Geographical Society of Vienna; Dr. Jose Medina of the University of Chile; Dr. Max Uhle of the University of Ecuador; Dr. Louis Cozaman of the University of Paris; Dr. Albrecht Penck of the University of Berlin; Dr. William Yhalbitzer of the Danish Academy of Science; Dr. Lidio Cipriani of the Italian Museum of Anthropology; and Dr. Hugo Obermaer of the Royal Academy of History, Madrid. These are only a few of the noted archaeologists of the world who came to discuss a subject that is interesting to every Latter-day Saint. Mexico sent three delegates, and the American delegates included Dr. Alfred M. Tozer of the American Academy of Arts and Science; Dr. John M. Cooper of the Catholic University; and Dr. Walter Hough of the Smithsonian Institute at Washington. Most of the sessions were held at the American Museum of Natural History and Columbia 103 

University. I had the honor of being made a member of the Congress, and for one week, I listened to papers given by these scientists on this important question. 

The results of recent scientific researches on the racial resemblances of the American and Siberian Eskimo to the Indian; and the supposed kinship between the American Indian and 'some of the Asiatic tribes by Russian, Scandinavian, and American anthropologists were given. In all there were one hundred and forty papers read in general and departmental meetings. Dr. A. L. Kreber of the University of California discussed the subject Cultural Relations Between North and South America; Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, Migrations from Asia to America and their Tracers; Dr. J. E. Teeple spoke on The Factors Which May Lead to a Correlation of Maya and Christian Dates; and Dr. Albrecht Penck of the University of Berlin gave a scholarly and elucidating paper on the subject When did the Indians Come to America? These are but a few of the papers that were given, and I assure you that to me, they opened up the subject of the history of the American Indians as no other source has done before. I know what you all wish to ask: Did the papers or discussion show or indicate anything of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon? 

The theory that prehistoric American cultures reached this continent from Asia, not so long ago receives a strong recruit in the person of Dr. Max Uhle. Unlike many theories about America's forgotten past, Dr. Uhle knows at first hand the material of which he speaks. It makes a difference whether one looks at the picture of a bit of prehistoric pottery in a book or digs the jug with one's own hand out of some ancient grave. Dr. Uhle's experiences convince him that the famous ancient civilizations of Central America and Peru took their roots in Asia, instead of growing up germlessly on American soil. China and India or Mesopotamia, he believes, may have been the chief original sources. 

There must be a clear distinction, it grows every year more evident, between the origins of America's ancient people and the sources of their culture. The human material of the pre-Columbian societies probably came from Asia by way of Alaska, the orthodox route long accepted for the American Indians and fully confirmed by the recent investigations of Dr. Ales Hrdlicka. This journey must have taken more than one lifetime. It purged and refined the people far more severely than the wanderings of the Children of Israel in the Wilderness. Among many social belongings abandoned along the route seem to have been most of the things called intellectual. The men and women who peopled America arrived, intellectually, with the clothes they stood in. 

Yet cultures undeniably high soon arose among indubitable descendants of this migration. One theory, still prevalent among prehistorians living in the United States, believes this pre-Columbian science and technology to have sprouted, by internal energy, from societies founded by the Alaskan migrants. Dr. Uhle urges an alternative at GENERAL CONFERENCE  more reasonable and more romantic. Occasional cultured mariners from India, China, Japan or other lands may have landed, he believes, few in numbers, but full of ideas, to bring to the rude American societies, already purged of bodily or mental weaklings by their long migration, just the hint that culture was possible. Small numerically as this source of inspiration must have been, it may conceivably have been the seed from which sprouted the great achievements of Peru and Central America. 

These men of the Americanists' Congress are some of the greatest scholars living, and they are but blazing the trail and pioneering into this new land of archaeology. They are opening up a new country, in which will be able to follow new paths of study and behold new vistas of truth. What archaeologists have done for the Holy Bible in the Holy Land, archaeologists will do for the Book of Mormon in this land of America. We must remember that the Book of Mormon is not a book, but a library; the product not of one mind and age, but of many minds and ages. It is a record of God's dealings with his children at various times, and the actions of those peoples in the many problems that arose before them. Like the Bible, the Book of Mormon "is a record of the unfolding of the divine revelation to a remarkable race of people." This people we believe were the forebears of the American Indians. 

The Book of Mormon is a history of Hebraic institutions of the American Continent as well as an exposition of Judaism. Centuries before Christ the Jaredites and Nephites came to America, the former at the time of the tower of Babel and the latter from Jerusalem. According to the Book of Mormon one Lehi and his family were colonized in this New World about 600 B. C. They had inherited all the old traditions of the Hebraic people, and in their teachings one finds the same beliefs and ideals concerning God and the righteous laws of life as one finds in the writings of Isaiah, Moses, Jeremiah, etc. Religious, social and economic life lie at the very root of the story of the Book of Mormon. The fundamentals of the old religion of the Jews are given; as well as a clear explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for according to the Book of Mormon, Christ visited the people on this continent after his resurrection. Judaism is a religious system. Its fundamental message concerns the One and Holy God and one undivided humanity, with a world-uniting Messianic goal. It is a message entrusted by divine revelation to the Jewish people. Judaism teaches that man is created in the image of God, and its teaching of righteousness is the true pathway of life. All these doctrines are likewise set forth in the Book of Mormon, written by divinely inspired prophets. Jewish writers tell us that faith to the Jew is firm reliance on God and adherence to him. Hence it stresses both faith and faithfulness. The second fundamental of Jewish faith is divine revelation; and the third is belief in a Moral Government of the World, which manifests itself in the reward of good and the punishment of evil. The fourth great doctrine of Judaism is belief in the resurrection of the dead. Judaism holds that the spirit of man 105  from God unsullied by inherent sin or evil. Thus man through the exercise of his free will is capable of attaining an ever greater perfection, by unfolding and developing to a higher degree his mental, moral, and spiritual powers. 

The Book of Mormon idea of immortality is the Christian idea. The Prophet Alma says: "Behold, there is a time appointed that all shall come forth from the dead. Now when this time cometh, no one knows; but God knoweth the time which is appointed. * * * Behold, it has been made known unto me by an angel, that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from this mortal body * * * whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them. * * * Then shall the righteous shine forth in the kingdom of God. * * * The one raised to happiness according to his desires of happiness; or good according to his desires of good; and the other to evil according to his desires of evil." 

The Book of Mormon idea is based on a belief in a supreme personal being, who has revealed himself in the beauty and order of the world to saints and prophets, and finally in his Son Jesus Christ. It sets forth the doctrine of man as a self-conscious moral being, and makes him kin to God. Man is a part of the physical world, in which he works out the purposes of God as a free agent within the limits of a finite being. But he belongs essentially to the spiritual, and the spirit of man and the Spirit of God have relations of dependency and obligations, it is in this relationship to God, who is life, that the Christian idea of immortality has its source and inspiration. The Prophet Alma has made it clear that immortality is existence with God, fellowship with him, which creates the whole interest in a future life. "We shall be like him, for we shall see him even as he is." It has God first in mind, and fellowship implies a likeness of character. The Book of Mormon shows so distinctly that Christianity is more or less the heir of Judaism or the Hebrew religion, and teaches that profound sense of sin which recognizes that it means separation from God. Its ideal is to be perfect "even as your Father in heaven is perfect." 

It must not be supposed that all ideas of immortality are the same. The Egyptian conceptions were far different from the Hebraic; so were the Greek views and the Indian thought. This is clearly shown by a reading of the book so well edited by the Rev. Sir James Marchant of Oxford. For example, the Greek mind held that Gods and men are the same in birth, and evil is metaphysical and not ethical. To the Christian, sin is not so much a breach of the law as a violation of love. The filial relation to God is everything to Christianity. So the Prophet Alma taught clearly that immortality is a restoration to the fellowship of God through Jesus Christ. It all requires the imparting of a new principle of action, or the possession of a new life giving power, a kind of new birth, in short, a Christ likeness. * * * "He that believeth on the Son hath eternal life, and is passing on to fulness of life, to 'more abundance.' " Immortality therefore to the Christian sense and Book of Mormon meaning is not due to any metaphysical GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the soul, but to a personal relationship to God, "Because as 1 live, ye shall also live." 

Like the Bible, the Book of Mormon shows God at work in the life of the human race. Its supreme revelation is of the human heart, and life touched by the Spirit of God. Its power and value is this, and it is from beginning to end a book of life. It becomes in this light, colorful, gripping, vivid, laying its hold on our imaginations and our souls. It inspires, it lifts our minds to God, and herein is its power. 

To your question then : Archaeology and the Book of Mormon. Man has brought to light great cities and temples in this America. Statues, pottery, buildings, and jewelry are discovered almost daily, and today, America is considered one of the richest fields of the world for the student of archaeology. Not yet have scholars found definite remains or ruins that coincide with Book of Mormon history. Yet the scientist, the archaeologist is discovering remains that not only indicate that in the not far distant future may be clearly related to Book of Mormon history, but Semitic origins will be found in this land, and the institutions so well described in the Book of Mormon will be made clearer by archaeologists, as they have done in Mesopotamia, Palestine, and Egypt by finding remains and ruins that absolutely verify Biblical history and life. 

Among the Indians of our continent, both north and south, we have traditions as to their lives in the past, and according to the light of sociology that has recently been given by one of our leading socioligists, no legend or myth or tradition comes down to us from the remote past, but what it shows something of the belief and the lives of the people who gave it. So we have a great work to perform among these American Indians. There are some three hundred thousand of them in the United States at the present time, and over three thousand in the State of Utah alone. They have had fine conceptions of life, and if the truth of God, the principles of the saving grace of Christ can be carried to them as they are elucidated in the Book of Mormon, I firmly believe that the American Indians, the aborigines of this continent will yet be brought to a knowledge of the truth. An old song of the Pawnees is a song to the new day. 

"Day is here! Day is here, is here! Arise, my son, lift thine eyes, Day is here! , Day is here, is here! Day is here! Day is here, is here! Look up, my son, and see the day. Day is here! Day is here, is here!" 

May we become more interested in the American Indian and in his cause, I hope and pray. May the government of the United States come to a fuller realization of how unjustly he has sometimes been treated in the past, and that from now on justice may come to this man, to these people; and that God may inspire us to carry the message of salvation to them all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 107 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire to read a poem recently discovered among the writings of our gifted hymn writer, Elder Parley P. Pratt : 

"Truth eternal, truth divine! In thine ancient fulness shine; Burst the fetters of the mind From the millions of mankind, Set the longing nations free, Give the world a jubilee. 

"Ages past have owned thy sway, Prophets hailed thy joyful day; In thy cause in days of yore Battle-fields were stained with gore, Saints and seers and heroes fought, Men and angels wonders wrought. 

''Truth again restored to earth, Opened with a prophet's birth, Priests of heaven's royal line, Bearing keys of truth divine, Wide o'er earth the tidings flew, Truth into a kingdom grew. 

"Truth shall triumph as the light Chases far the misty night, Hurl the tyrant from his throne, Conquer death, and reign alone, Endless ages own its sway, Clad in everlasting day." 

TRUTH WILL PREVAIL 

I desire in this connection to read the following verses from the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. 

"That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still." 

I desire to add, in connection with these inspired utterances, a word of warning and testimony in connection with that which has been borne by my brethren to the Latter-day Saints assembled in conference this morning. I am happy to find myself in full accord with all that has been expressed. But I do feel in my soul that we have reached the day spoken of by the prophets of old, and by the Lord himself in this generation, when everything will be shaken that can be shaken, and nothing shall remain except that which is truth and is established by the Lord. It was easy, in the dark ages, for a glimmer of truth to attract the attention of men who were in such dense darkness, but it is not easy for a small glimmer of truth to attract attention in an age when the blaze of light is so resplendent as to be seen everywhere. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

A TESTING TIME 

More light and knowledge has come to the earth in this generation than in all ages before — and a religion that can attract the attention of men and can stand the scrutiny of investigation and shine in the presence of light such as the world enjoys today, is an unusual religion. There is nothing so sacred, nor ancient, but must meet the sifting process that presently will be in operation. For it is the age when everything is being questioned. How has Mormonism stood? How will it stand in this period of testing? It has stood the trials of the past. It stands today vindicated in its teachings, even in the presence of science, learning, knowledge and history. It will stand in the future. 

I recognize the foundation upon which it has been established as the truth, and how my heart grows in faith, my understanding increases and my soul is filled with joy to witness the strength and power of this Church, even in this age of doubt and of uncertainty. 

A spirit of doubt and uncertainty is creeping over the faith of the world. We were told in an address by an eminent minister at a gathering of religionists in California during this last summer, that sixty per cent of the people of the United States have no religious affiliation; that twenty-five million young people in the United States are growing up without any religious teaching. 

I confess to you that it is also a time when institutions that God established, that are political, will be shaken, but, thank the Lord, they will stand, for they too are the truth. 

our nation's security 

The Prophet Joseph told us that he saw the day when even the Constitution of the United States would be torn and hang as by a thread. But, thank the Lord, the thread did not break. He saw the day when this people would be a balance of power to come to its defense. The Book of Mormon prophecies concerning the future of America have been referred to in our hearing during this conference, wherein it is stated that this nation, though it becomes a mighty nation, still it can stand in security here only as it serves the God of this land. That conception was in the hearts of the men who founded America. 

I was recently looking over some of the utterances of our fathers who established these glorious institutions. One of the great statesmen of our land, Webster, jsaid : 

"If we abide by the principles taught in the Bible, our country will go on prospering and to prosper, but if we or our posterity neglect its instructions and authority, no man can tell how suddenly catastrophe may overwhelm us and bury all our glory in profound obscurity." 

Washington in his farewell address said : 

"Let it simply be asked, Where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths, which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice? And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. What109  may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle." 

When Benjamin Franklin, eighty years of age, stood before the Congress of the United States, trying to produce an instrument on which they could frame the Constitution, and they being about to abandon that effort, he made this appeal which won these men to God and to the accomplishment of the great purpose of establishing our Constitution: 

"In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayers in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard; and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a superintending Providence in our favor. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the jmeans of establishing our future national felicity. And have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance? I have lived, sir, a long time; and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth — that God governs in the affairs of men; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid? We have been assured, sir, in sacred writings, that 'except the Lord build the house they labor in vain that build it.' I firmly! believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel." 

This was the spirit of the men who established America. May God keep that spirit burning forever in the hearts of the men who continue to lead it. I want to say that I have discovered that that spirit has been in the hearts of the men and is in the hearts of the men who preside over the destinies of America, though it may not be in the hearts of all the people. They announced their faith when they blazoned upon our coin the motto, "In God we trust." They breathed it into their songs when they said: 

"Our fathers' God to thee, Author of liberty, To thee we sing — " r f  "Long may our land be bright 

With Freedom's holy light, Protect us by thy might, Great God, our King!" 

Other nations might boast of their kings, but the King of America, proclaimed by the patriotic fathers who founded it and established it, is the great God of heaven. This must continue to be the sentiment of the people of America if the'se glorious institutions shall be preserved, and in our hands is the sacred keeping of these great and glorious principles. 

THE ATTITUDE OF THE CHURCH 

The Latter-day Saints have taken a very definite stand in reference to their attitude towards the government, and towards the great problems of life. Have we had to shift our position? Has it been assailed successfully? When we have declared our loyalty and patriotism GENERAL CONFERENCE  the Constitution and the government, and that we recognize that the duty of the Latter-day Saints is to uphold and support the laws of the land as faithfully as they do the laws of the Church, were we right? Any people who depart from that will not be able to preserve a civilization very long. Are we right in the promulgation of the doctrine that we have advocated of the single standard of virtue, wherein we require the young man of our Church to be as clean and as pure as the girl he asks to be his wife, the mother of his children? Are we right in our conception of marriage for time and for eternity? Have we had to recede from that position? In the building of this family relationship, of which we have heard, forever and forever we stand upon solid ground and cannot be shaken from it. In the glorious conception we have of the redemption of our dead, extending to those who died and passed beyond the veil without opportunity, that through the vicarious work God has established in his Church, these holy blessings may come to them, are we right? Have we had to recede from that position? In the promulgation of the doctrine of the law of tithing, wherein each man is placed under a certain obligation to the Lord to pay his tenth, whether he be rich or whether he be poor, are we right? Have we had to recede from that position? No, men are growing in numbers who acknowledge the righteousness of the plan. Are we right in our missionary syistem that calls forth these thousands of young men and women who freely give themselves and pay their way to go to the ends of the world to preach this gospel? Are we right or are we wrong? We know we are right. The principle has been acknowledged as the finest plan by which the gospel message may be carried to the children of men. 

Recently an eminent professor said to the General Board of the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, in discussing the question of the ills of modern youth: "The 'Mormon' Church is founded and established very well, better than any other institution in the world, and has opportunities to hold it;s young people, for you give them something to fight for. You put a responsibility upon them and send them forth to champion a cause. You will hold them as long as you have something worth fighting for." And we have. 

I could go through each principle of the gospel that has been revealed to us and show, I am sure, my brethren and Jsisters, that the attitude of the leaders of this Church affecting the lives of the people as to the solution of the great problems of this age is right, and that each principle is right. 

A NEW TEST 

I do not fear all the tests that are before us. I have recognized now for!some time past that a new test is coming to the Saints — the test of peace and of prosperity. The most severe test that has ever come to any people is the test of peace and prosperity. Having survived the troubles of the past I am as sure as that I live that this 111 

Church, the great majority of thi!s people, will stand the test of peace and of prosperity. Though many may fall, though many may hesitate and falter, this work is established to stand forever, and never to fail. It is founded upon the truth. 

A GLORIOUS AGE 

Who wants to hesitate now? Who wants to desert the ranks in such a glorious cause which is presently to be triumphant and victorious? There never has been an age in all the glorious past when there was such an opportunity for the truth as today. This age of questioning is all in favor of truth. Let error vanish, let superstition and ignorance go; it is the age when the truth shall be triumphant. Those who know the truth have reason to take courage and to be affiliated with those who are the champions of truth, for it is the age of truth's victory. It will come. Yes, not only shall the doctrines and the theories of men be shaken, but the very earth itself. This is the age when it too is to be shaken; and this was all understood by the Master who built the earth, the Lord Jesus Christ. Worlds without number he has made, and he knows how they will behave and when they will misbehave; he knows the period of the earth's convulsions. Whatever may be the cause of our present unusual storms, cyclones and disturbances, whether they are caused by sun spots or what not — he who made this world knew when would come the period of its misbehavior, as accurately as the astronomer can forecast the coming of an eclipse. And he knew that this disturbance bore a certain relationship to other great and important events, namely, his coming to dwell among men in the flesh. 

I bear witness to you that God is speaking in the interest of truth and in the interest of the establishment of his work, even by the very elements : and he will speak in an effort to cause men in their mad rush for pleasure to stop, to ponder, to ask themselves whether or not God be in the affairs of men. May men repent, may they save themselves by accepting the principles of the gospel. God himself cannot save them, only as they comply with the rules of eternal truth. If they disregard them they put themselves beyond his power. He can do nothing for them. 

god's promises to be realized 

I bear witness that I know as I know I live that this is God's work and that Jesus Christ did visit the earth. I know that he did speak to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the Book of Mormon is the very truth, and that Mormonism is indeed God's work, founded and established to endure. Let us go home and kindle the fire, where it is burning low, in the hearts of the wayward, the careless and indifferent. There is only one protection for us, and that is to keep the commandments of God. If we will do that I will tell you that the period now before us will be full of blessings, full of promise, full of hope and full of glory for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know that the glorious future is more wonderful than all the past. It is a time for men and women to re-dedicate themselves to God and his service, not to be tired nor weary in well doing. The future is so full of promise, the realization of all that has been promised in the revelations of the Lord to his servants will be realized. I am more grateful than I can express this day for my standing in this Church, in this glorious work. God speed it forward and keep us in its ranks, that we and our children may be counted with the victorious in that day of triumph which is to come. God 'speed that day, I prav in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Awake my soul." The benediction was offered by Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, President of the Deseret stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2:00 p. m. 


