Morning
06 10 1928


PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, notwithstanding there are many attractions in Salt Lake City to engage the attention of the people, . there is still a very large gathering in this tabernacle this morning. I greatly rejoiced in the spirit and teachings of the conference yesterday. I trust that the Lord will continue to be with us today, by the influence and power of his holy Spirit, that it may be a time of rejoicing and thanksgiving. 

A PERPLEXING QUESTION 

I am reading in part from one of the daily papers, a message wired from Glasgow, Scotland, September 10, 1928: 

"The great mystery of the origin, nature and purpose of life, always will remain to tease, stimulate or humiliate mankind. Professor C. Lovatt Evans told the physiology section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science today. 

"Professor Evans is a fellow of the Royal Society, a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, a doctor of science and one of the best known physiologists in the world. His remarks were made in the course of the presidential address for physiology section of the science association. * * * 

" 'Matter, energy, time and space are in the melting pot,' he said, 'and out of it will come, we know not what kind of strange relations, one to another. One thing we may be sure, no final explanation will follow'." 

The position taken by this learned professor is extraordinary. He assumes that man will never come to know the purpose of life. And if that be true, I take it that there would be very little or no satisfaction in living. Man is fearfully and wonderfully made. He is the marvel of creation, he is the noblest work of God. Nevertheless, Professor Evans, by the study of man, could never ascertain the purpose of life. 

THE AUTHOR OF LIFE 

If this mystery is to be solved at all, it would be well for Professor Evans and all others interested in the subject to go back of man, back to the beginning, and there become acquainted with the Author of life. Who is the Author of life? I take it that this is a pertinent question. 

The answer is, God, the Father, the Creator of the heavens and the earth. He is the Author of life. That such knowledge is vital to the consideration of the subject before us, is made clear by the following scripture, a saying by Paul the Apostle: 

"This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." 

How shall we come to know him, that he may reveal to us the purpose of life? We can only know him by rendering obedience to the Gospel, the plan of life and salvation which he has given, and through such knowledge by obtaining the Spirit of God. This is clearly indicated in the following passages of scripture: 

"But as it is writen, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 

"But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 

"For what man knoweth the things of man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. 

"Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God." (1 Cor. 2:9-12.) 

Having progressed sufficiently to get possession of the Spirit of God, our minds will be illuminated so that we can comprehend the things of God. 

WHAT IS MAN? 

The scriptures teach us that mankind are the children of God, or in other words, that God is the father of our spirits, while our earthly parents are the fathers and mothers of our bodies. If this be true — and it is true — it follows that there was a great family of spirits in the spirit world, God himself being at the head of said family. The earth was created then that these spirits might come down and get bodies. This is clearly and beautifully set forth by the following quotation from the 2nd Chapter of Genesis: 

"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul." 

What was the breath of life here referred to? Why, it was the man's spirit that God put into his body. He never was a living soul prior to that first great creative act, but now that he has a body combined with a spirit, it constitutes him a living soul. We begin to see something of the purpose of life. The spirits of men and women came down to the earth to get bodies, and I take it, my brethren and sisters, that this was indeed a great and glorious privilege. 

THE PURPOSE OF LIFE 

Man stands upon the threshold of life. The question might well be asked : Following his birth, what is the purpose of it all ? The following significant language will be found in the Book of Mormon, a record of sacred scripture : 

"Adam fell that man might be and man is that he might have joy." (Book of Mormon, page 54, paragraph 25.) 

Men are here upon the earth then that they might have joy. Is there anything more desirable than happiness or joy? We are all seeking it; we all want it. How is it to be obtained? It can only be obtained through the Church and Kingdom of God. How may one get into this Church and Kingdom of God ? The answer is : he must be born into it. He was born into the world to begin with, and now if he comes into the kingdom of God he must be born into it. 

Christ said to Nicodemus upon one occasion: 

"Except a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of God. "Except a man be born of water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God." (John 3 :3, 4, 5.) 

So that it becomes in a sense a real birth. Baptism by water and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost is the door that leads into the Church and Kingdom of God. 

MARRIAGE FOR ETERNITY 

It might be said of man that after coming into the Church and Kingdom of God the purpose of life could not be fully realized without marriage — marriage for time and eternity. In the beginning, when man was formed from the dust of the earth and became a living soul, he was alone. God said: "It is not good for man to be alone," and he then formed the woman and brought her to the man, and gave her to him in wedlock. Jesus said, speaking of marriage : 

"Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together let no man put asunder." (Matt. 19:6.) 

A man cannot grow to the full measure of a man without a woman, and conversely a woman cannot grow to the full measure of a woman without a man. They were created together and God intended them to be together in wedlock. 

If men and women are to enter into a fulness of joy it must needs be that the family relationship should continue throughout eternity. That it will so continue in the Church and Kingdom of God is the firm belief of the Latter-day Saints. To; be born into the world in the first place, and then to be born again, born into the Kingdom of God, and finally to enter into the eternity of the marriage covenant — these three conditions explain with clearness the very purpose of life. Surely, brethren and sisters, life is worth living. 

I testify to you most earnestly that I do know that the work in which we are engaged is the work of God and that this is the Church of Jesus Christ. It is so denominated. It is called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to distinguish it from his Church in the meridian of time. I know that Christ was and is the Savior of the , that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and the instrument in the hands of God in founding this work, by organizing the Church as he did in 1830. I rejoice in this knowledge. To me it is a glorious testimony, and I am determined, if possible, to hold on to it all the days of my life. 

I pray God's choicest blessings upon you my brethren and sisters, the Latter-day Saints, the general authorities of the Church and the local authorities, that this work may go on and be successful. This is my humble prayer and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I have been deeply impressed, my brethren and sisters, by the splendid instructions of the First Presidency and others who have spoken during this conference thus far. I rejoice with you in the favorable conditions which prevail, and the measure of prosperity and progress in evidence among the Latter-day Saints. I realize the vast work that is before us to do. I appreciate the tremendous responsibility that rests upon the Latter-day Saints, both temporally and spiritually, to accomplish that which the Lord has in view for us. It is incumbent upon every one of us to do our part and to strive to qualify ourselves to accomplish the work assigned us. For the building up of the Church depends, not upon one or two or a few, but upon every one of those who have received the gospel. 

The responsibility is upon each one of us to learn our duty and then endeavor to do it. If we all take part, if we all perform our work, if we all sense that responsibility and endeavor to live up to it, we shall unitedly receive the blessings and the benefits. This great and important work is divine in its nature, and is intended to fulfil a great destiny. It is to prepare the way for the coming of the Son of Man and the establishment of righteousness, to build up Zion, and to do all those things which the Lord has declared unto us. So it means that every one of the Latter-day Saints, both young and old, should seek to prepare himself or herself to do his part, and to achieve the work before us. 

TEMPORAL AND SPIRITUAL AFFAIRS 

I was greatly impressed, as I am sure you were, with the statement ,made by President Grant, at the opening of this conference, regarding the material achievements of the Latter-day Saints, in one respect alone, and that is the building of meeting houses, amusement halls, and stake houses, during the year 1927, and during the nine months of this year. The Latter-day Saints recognize that material progress and temporal affairs are bound up with the spiritual; and we cannot dissociate one from the other; for they both, temporal and spiritual, affect our welfare. We can not live by the material things alone, neither can we live entirely by the spiritual things. In a sense all things are spiritual, because all things which contribute to the welfare and progress of mankind in this life, make for their eternal progress, and are in conformity with the will of the Lord. The Lord has promised the Latter-day Saints that they should enjoy prosperity — material as well as spiritual. If we live in such a way as to merit the blessings of God, he will prosper and bless us. However, the possession or absence of wealth by men does not, of itself, evidence the attitude of the Lord toward them. 

When we think of what is required in the way of the building of these meeting houses, which is only one of the activities of the Latter-day Saints — one of the responsibilities which are placed upon us — we realize that it is the result of a great deal of labor and money. Money, in fact represents labor. So the money spent represents the accumulation of labor previously done in the way of production, and which is now so much capital. In like manner the tithes used for this purpose represent the accumulation of labor by the Latter-day Saints, which have been dedicated to the Lord. The members themselves in their own wards and stakes have given a tremendous amount of labor, and of means, which also represents labor. 

LABOR — A COMMAND OF GOD 

We appreciate the fact that labor is one of the means whereby we progress. It is one of the things every one of us must learn to do. It is one of the great factors of growth. In the early history of mankind, when the Lord sent Adam out of Eden, he declared to him : "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou, return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken : for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return." From that time down to the present time this charge has been binding upon mankind, that we should labor diligently, first, that we may provide sustenance for ourselves and those who are dependent upon us, and, second, that we may also give or dedicate a part of that labor, or the returns therefrom, for the welfare of our fellowmen and for the accomplishment of God's purposes. If we keep these things in mind we shall appreciate the fact that our labor will be profitable. 

You remember many centuries later that the Lord, through his prophet, Moses, gave to the children of Israel the commandment; "Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God." Six days are sufficient each week in order to accomplish the things that are necessary for the sustenance of mankind, and the seventh day should be a day of rest, set apart for the worship of the Lord, for the consideration of things that are of a purely spiritual nature. Nowadays, with the  use of machinery and the consequent greater efficiency and returns of labor, it is coming to be realized that five days of such labor each week will be sufficient to take care of needed production, and will be instrumental in overcoming unemployment. Under such an arrangement the two remaining days could be profitably used for rest, improvement and recreation. 

BENEFITS OF PHYSICAL LABOR 

Now, of the benefits that come to us from labor, there is a distinct advantage that comes from the fact that in the sweat of our face we learn to value the things of life. It brings health to us, it brings satisfaction, it brings an appreciation of our responsibilities. The wise man, Solomon, has declared, with regard to labor: "Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labor shall increase." Again : "He that tilleth his, land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough." Again : "The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much : but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep." These all testify with regard to the benefits that come to us from physical labor. 

SPECIALIZATION OF LABOR 

In the centuries that have elapsed since the time when these men in the early history of mankind pursued a simple, pastoral life* there has been a gradual change until the present time. Particularly in the last century, however, has there been a very marked change in the labor conditions that prevail throughout the world. It is true that the pastoral or agricultural pursuits still prevail in large measure. They are just as dignified and important as they ever have been, if not more so. But in addition thereto there has been a multiplication of industries which have brought ab'out notable changes and great progress in the conditions of mankind. They have produced, especially in this country, a material prosperity that is unsurpassed in all the history of the world. Now, if, along with that material prosperity, produced by improvements in labor conditions through new developments and specialization, we can keep our feet firmly planted on the ground, and not be carried away by the idea that prosperity is the end desired, but only a means to that end, we shall enjoy the blessings which the Lord has promised. 

It is important that every one of our young men and women, and our boys and girls, shall learn, first, to understand the importance of work, and second, to specialize in their labors. It is an age of specialization. That is especially true at the present time. "There is no excellence without labor." There is an old Brahminical saying, something to this effect : "A parent who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to be a thief." Whether that be true or not, the fact remains that it is important that every one of us should learn to do some particular thing well. Every one should learn some trade or profession. The complex conditions of today are such as to practically force us to develop and qualify in, the variety of industries that prevail throughout this country and the world. In the matter of agriculture, for instance, it is recognized that in order to place this great industry upon the proper basis of economical production and distribution, it involves the application of those principles of efficiency in connection with the employment of men and machinery whereby the most profitable results will be secured. Scientific agriculture is a profession and it involves thorough study and practical preparation to insure the greatest success. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT 

Complaint is made at the present time of considerable lack of employment. This is a condition that deserves careful attention on the part of employers and Church officers, and earnest efforts to remedy it as far as possible. This condition, however, is partly caused by those without employment lacking training for particular jobs, and partly, also, by failure to get back to first principles. Many men, out of employment, could largely feed and support their families from the products of the farm, if they would diligently apply their minds and bodies to such work. I know of men living on a few acres of land, not generally considered most fertile, who have produced a comfortable living for their families, through dairy products, poultry, hops, orchards, and kitchen gardens. 

A recent instance of the opportunities open to those seeking progress and independence has come to my attention. I visited recently at the home of a young man, with a wife and two little children, in an outlying section of this state. Two or three years ago he was working, when work was available, at small wages. He determined to start for himself in dairying. He had no home and practically no credit. His wife and he made considerable sacrifice in a very humble home on a farm, which they leased. He managed to get one or two cows as a start. By strict economy hard labor and mental effort he now has a fine dairy herd of about thirty cows, is getting a monthly cream check of about $400.00, and is feeding calves and hogs of good quality. He is living in a comfortable home and has an automobile. He is a bishop's counselor. 

NO CLERGY — NO LAITY ALL TO LABOR 

In connection with this matter of labor the attitude of the Latter-day Saints is vastly different from that of the world generally with respect to the occupations of those engaged in Churc service. With the exception of a very few engaged entirely in 

Church work, the thousands of men in this Church bearing; the priesthood have their individual vocations. Whereas the clergy in other churches are dependent upon the laity for their support, those engaged in the ministry of this Church give a part of their time voluntarily for the service of the Lord while they, at the samo time, provide for their families by their own efforts. Among the advantages of this divine plan are that there is developed in then the spirit of service, self-reliance, sympathy, practicality, a desire for knowledge and brotherly kindness. You remember the statements of the apostles of old, how they labored. Paul, especiall}' declared repeatedly how he had worked for the welfare of the people and yet supported himself. In his epistle to the Corinthian saints, he says : "We labor, working with our own hands;" and again, to the Thessalonion saints, he says: "For ye remember brethren, our labor and travail : for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God." 

MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EFFORT 

It is important that everyone should learn the value of hard work. The Lord commanded Adam, and through him, all his, descendants, that we should eat our bread in the sweat of our face or, in other words, by earnest effort, whether we labor physically or mentally. Mental labor is often just as strenuous, and just as important, if not more so, than physical labor. Ordinarily, whether our vocation is chiefly physical or mental in character, we have occasion to use both powers in that which we have to do. Wellbalanced development involves sustained physical as well as mental efforts. Paul the apostle declared : "Be not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord." 

IDLERS HAVE NO PLACE IN ZION 

Solomon says : "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." The Apostle Paul says: "We commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat." And, again : "Let him that stole steal no more : but rather let him labor, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth." In the revelations which the Lord has given in these times it is declared, "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." 

President Brigham Young on one occasion, speaking on this subject, declared: "The non-producer must live on the products of those who labor. There is no other way. If we would all labor a few hours a day we could then spend the remainder of our time in rest and the improvement pf our minds. This would give an opportunity to all the children to be educated in the learning of the day and to possess all the wisdom of man." Every member of this) Church ought to have some vocation and proceed to do that work with purpose and energy. "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men." We need to learn the benefits of concentrated effort. Our purpose should be to gain sufficient resources to enable us to give more effective, whole-hearted service to the work of the Lord, besides maintaining satisfactorily those dependent upon us. 

DEDICATING OF OUR LABOR AND TIME TO THE LORD 

f would particularly like to stress the idea that we should all willingly and gratefully set apart a considerable portion of the fruits of our labors for the furtherance of God's purposes with respecl to mankind. That is a law established of the Lord for our blessing and benefit. It is not sufficient that we should help only in community activities. That is a proper and appropriate thing. We ought to take part in those movements that really promote the community welfare. As a matter of fact, all the things that we are doing which we consider we do for the Lord, are in reality for the welfare of our fellow-men. The tithing which we pay is actually for the benefit of mankind. We dedicate a portion of our means to the Lord to be used by his servants in the promotion of those things that concern mankind — in the preaching of the gospel of salvation, the building of places of worship for the spiritual training and recreational welfare of all who desire to take advantage of the same, the education of the young people, the help and welfare of those in need, the erection of temples for sacred ordinances, and many other things. 

The apostle declares : "I have shewed. you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." All of these things we ought to do. AVe ought to be diligent in our labors in order to obtain the greatest material and spiritual advancement, keeping in mind always the counsel of the Lord Jesus Christ: "Labor not for the meat which perisheth. but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you." 

I pray that the Lord may guide each one of us to a sense of our responsibilities, whereby we may strive to qualify in the most effective way to be helpful in the building up of the work of God. in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right." 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

President Northern States Mission 

My Brethren and sisters : I deeply appreciate the blessed privilege of being associated with the missionary force of the Church. I bring to you an excellent report of a hundred or more elders and sister mission who are laboring in the Northern States Mission. The blessings of the Lord are attending our labors, and we are receiving progress through conversions and in a chapel-building program. It might interest you to hear a few of the experiences of some of your sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. 

Recently a young elder had an excellent conversation with a gentleman who propounded questions and presented arguments in a very kindly, christian-like spirit, and then invited the young elder to dine with him. After they had dined and visited and exchanged views for an hour or such a matter, the gentleman revealed his identity. He was a minister of the gospel, and it was his first contact with a Mormon elder. Both the minister and the elder appeared to have enjoyed the experience. 

At another minister's home an elder was given the privilege of holding a gospel meeting in the minister's church. 

Another elder was given the privilege of holding a gospel meeting in a large community hall, through the fine impression that the elder had made upon the mind of the gentleman who had the authority to let the hall. 

Two elders were entertained in the home of a mayor of an eastern city who had visited Salt Lake. He had been received so kindly in the temple grounds and had received the hospitality of the people to such an extent that he went home with the resolution that he would extend similar hospitality to the Mormon missionaries when they should come to his home, and this he did. 

Two elders were refused entertainment in a very unfriendly and in fact a hostile attitude at a well-appearing residence, but a change of sentiment came over this man and after the elders had departed he sent his son in an automobile to overtake them and bring them back. He gave them entertainment, something to eat, a good bed upon which to sleep, breakfast in the morning; and when they left him he placed a dollar bill in the hand of each of the missionaries with an invitation to visit him when they should come that way again. This change of sentiment was an immediate answer to prayer by these two elders. 

Recently a good but aged brother died in the State of Wisconsin. Before his death he wrote into his will I a donation of five hundred dollars to the Church for the furtherance of the building of a chapel. In his immediate locality there had existed bitterness and prejudice against our people, and for this reason little if any missionary workhad been successfully carried on. This good brother requested that the elders should speak at his funeral. He died in a few weeks time, and the large public hall of the town was placed at their disposal for the funeral service. Half of the population of eight hundred people assembled in that hall. Of that congregation of four hundred people, less than a score were members of the Church. It was a wonderful incident, for we could verily feel the vanishing and the disappearance of the spirit of prejudice and bitterness that had existed, and a spirit of friendliness and sympathy taking its place. A few Sundays thereafter the elders were invited to return. They went there and organized a Sunday School, and we now have hopes of conversions and finally the establishment of a branch in that locality. 

Intolerance has played its part in the experiences of the missionaries of the past, but it appears now that indifference is our great obstacle. When the minds of the people are aroused, frequently the question is asked of us : "Why devote time and effort and money in such a highly educated and christianized nation as the United States? I answer with a quotation from the Luther Burbank book, "The Harvest of the Years," in which Mr. Burbank says: 

"After more than thirteen centuries of Mohammedanism, twenty centuries of Christianity, twenty-five centuries of Buddhism and Confucianism, and four thousand years of Hebrew religion, we are still greedy, selfish, cruel, short-sighted and ready to go to war at almost any pretext and fritter away the savings of decades, the flower of our youth and the friendliness that it has taken a half century to build up." 

Only the living of the gospel of Jesus Christ can make men better. With only forty per cent of the population of the United States identified with any church or ecclesiastical organization — Catholic, Jewish or Protestant — the answer to that question is clear; the necessity of preaching the gospel in the great nation of the United States. The virtues of courage, generosity, loyalty and willingness to sacrifice are fine. People may be highly educated, but yet be wicked, cruel and ruthless. People may be wealthy and prosperous and yet without that higher level of a spiritual life. And so it is necessary that we preach Jesus Christ and him crucified, and the principles of his gospel. 

May God bless the people of this nation and of our Church. May the kindly blessings of the Lord be showered upon the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve and all the presiding authorities of the Church, upon the authorities of the wards and the stakes, and upon the wonderful missionary forces throughout the world. My dear brethren and sisters, presiding authorities and saints — do all in your power to send your sons and daughters out into the mission field, and may God add his blessings, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

My brethren and sisters : I sincerely trust that the Lord will assist me in making a brief report of conditions in the field of labor to which I have been called. It has been, practically, six months time since I went into that field — a short time more than that. At the present time we have ninety-six missionaries in the Western States Mission laboring in the states of New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming and Nebraska, with a few in the southwesterrn corner of South Dakota, and two elders and two sisters in Council Bluffs, Iowa — a Church popula of about six thousand, six hundred members — with twenty-one more or less well organized branches, and quite a number of scattered families. As you know, the Western States Mission lies close to the Church at home, and in some of our districts, particularly Western Colorado and Wyoming, conditions are about as they are at home, except for the scattered condition of the people. Practically no prejudice to overcome, perhaps a good deal of indifference, but the great task the missionaries have, as I see it, is to teach the people the principles of the Gospel; for many of them are in a receptive attitude. Many of them are friendly and willing to listen to our message. 

The experiences of the missionaries are interesting, to be sure. I want to pay tribute, if I may, to these young men and women who come to the mission field, converted in their hearts to the principles of the gospel, not altogether aware of the fact that they are converted, but genuine and sincere in their desire to do the will of the Father. The principal thing they need is just to be taught, guided and led into the way of their duty, for they are all willing and anxious to learn; and it is a remarkable thing how fast they do learn when they can have competent supervision. I have in mind, for instance, one district in which it so happened that six young men were laboring, only one of them having been in the field longer than a year, the rest of them not longer than six months, four months, and three months. It so happened that the elders formerly laboring with them, the experienced elders, had been released all at once. Fortunately for us we had an elder sent to us as a short-term missionary, the superintendent of one of our seminaries, a wonderfully strong character, humble, intelligent, wise; and it was my privilege to send him into that district for two months time to labor with those young missionaries. Two weeks ago I followed him up and came through there. He had been released, but the transformation in those six missionaries was wonderful. Each of them was able, with considerable ability, to express himself, to teach the gospel; because they had had a competent teacher to give them a start. In other districts experienced elders fill such places, and the young elders and sisters, who come out are laboring under their direction, and they improve themselves very quickly. They are anxious, as I have said, to learn, anxious to teach. 

We came to the conclusion as a result of a conference of district presidents held in our mission, that it would be wise if every elder in the mission could have at least two weeks every year, traveling without purse or scrip, in the summer time. We felt that it would bring them nearer to the Lord and nearer to the people; with the result that I can report every elder in the Western States Mission has had that experience this year, and without exception they come back reporting that they have had a splendid experience. Perhaps not altogether a pleasant one, but they are delighted with their experience. It was their testimony that it was a good thing to do. Two of them started out with great confidence; when they discovered that the Lord was blessing them and raising up friends for them they were over-confident, with the result they had to spend one night in a corn field and eat the green corn, but they were soon humbled and thereafter in response to their appeal they were never without friends. 

Perhaps another interesting experience that has come to the elders in New Mexico might be worth relating. A very unusual thing, and for it I have no explanation. A woman with Lamanite blood in her; veins became interested in the elders and their message. She purchased a Book of Mormon and read it partly through, laid it up on top of her library, put a portable typewriter on top of the book, locked up her house and went away to visit her daughter. In her absence her house burned to ashes. When she came back and was searching among the ruins of her home the spirit seemed to say to her, "Go get your book." She went over to where the library had been and poked among the ashes and found the typewriter burned and twisted. Under the typewriter she found her Book of Mormon, covered with a white paper cover, as we cover the fifty cent edition that we send out. The paper cover was scorched but the book was unharmed. All of the rest of her books were entirely burned. The woman brought the book out and came to the elders in great astonishment and showed them what had happened, how it had been miraculously saved. I saw the woman, I saw the book, and I felt a certain amount of reverential awe when I held it in my hand. We wanted to purchase it from her, but she would, not part with her wonderful relic. She has since become a member of the Church. 

I have to say to you that your missionary sons and daughters who are laboring in the Western States, with two exceptions are all well, enjoying good health. The two who are not well are lady missionaries, one in the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City and the other at Council Bluffs. That you may not be concerned or think it is your daughter, let me say that the mothers of these girls know where their daughters are. The missionaries are happy in their labors and are enjoying their work. 

One thing I would like to say to you is that when you write to your missionary sons and daughters write them encouraging words and do not worry about when they are going to be released. I have noticed in some cases where the fathers and mothers anticipate the release of their missionaries, the missionaries themselves become so interested in their release, about ninety days before it happens they let down in their work and lose to some extent the spirit of their mission. You do them a great, injustice when you make them feel that they should come home, or that you are anxious to have them come home. Write them encouraging letters and tell them you want them to remain as long as they can. If you have any financial worries write to the mission president and not to the missionary. The mission president I am sure will always be sympathetic with you in your troubles, but keep your troubles away from your missionary sons or daughters. 

We have one missionary in our mission who I am told is about ready to come home because he does not get encouragement from home; he feels discouraged. That is very serious and ought not to happen. If you will encourage them you will bless and help them wonderfully. 

I want to testify that the hand of the Lord is over us to protect us and inspire us in all that we do. As long as we remain humble we enjoy a wonderful spirit. We are very happy in our labors and we are trying in our humble way to carry the gospel message as plainly and simply as we can. May God bless you, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the Northcentral States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, it is a joy to me to be able to report conditions in the Northcentral States Mission. We are the youngest mission in the United States, and the smallest mission in numbers. We have been organized only about three and one-half years. Our mission includes the State of Montana east of Great Falls, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Minnesota; then passes over into Canada and takes Ontario west of the Great Lakes, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and part of Alberta. When the mission was organized we numbered only about nineteen hundred people. I should like to say in behalf of the young men and young women who come to our mission that they have been very loyal and faithful in the performance of their duties. I should rather change President Pond's invitation wherein he solicited that you send your boys and girls into the field, I should like to say to you. brethren, come yourselves, we need some more older brethren in the work, to go with these young elders, men who have wisdom and discretion and who can lead out in the work of the Lord. 

Not long ago, during the cold winter months, four missionaries came to our mission. We left headquarters in Minneapolis and traveled five hundred miles north to the city of Winnipeg. We started up the street on a street car. When we got off the car to go to a restaurant just across the road, there was a bitter wind blowing, and the weather was exceedingly cold. These elders, four of them, had a grip in each hand. We had not gotten very far from the street car when every one of them had dropped his grips and was holding his ears to keep them from freezing. I went back to help them along and got them into the restaurant. After we had given our orders for our dinner I said : "I will see if I can get in touch with the elders here." One of the elders turned to a companion and said: "Wouldn't this make you ask for your release?" and he said other things but I don't know what they were. When I got on the train with two of these missionaries to go to Saskatoon (the other two went to Regina) — one of them said : "When you get to Regina that elder will not be there." I said "Why?" He replied: "This country is too cold for him." He was an office man and had been working where it was warm all the time. When I arrived in Regina we held a priesthood meeting, and this young man was given an opportunity to express himself. He arose and said : "I am prepared to give all I have, even to my life, for this work." That is the kind of integrity that is in the hearts of these young men and young women who go out from Zion to preach the gospel. That integrity is not confined to the missionaries only, but it is in the hearts of the parents. Only yesterday I met two parents and I was asked: "How is my boy?" He is a very fine, splendid young man. Not long ago I said to the president of his district: "We must take this elder out and make a president of him." And he said: "Before you do it I want to talk to you. Don't take him away; he is the finest man we have in our district. We can't get along without him." I said to those parents: "How long has he been in the field?" "Two years this month." "How are your finances to keep him longer?" "We haven't any, but we have as much now as we had when he went out;" and then the father said, with tears in his eyes: "Everything we have is on the altar, and you keep him as long as you want him." That is the kind of faith that has permeated this work frdm its inception. That is the kind of faith that will consummate this work. 

Not long ago two of our elders sat in the rear of a building where a meeting was being addressed by the Governor of the State of Minnesota. At the close of the meeting the Governor went down the aisle and said to these young elders : "I understand you are Mormon elders from Utah." "Yes." ' "Well, I received a Book of Mormon, from the headquarters of your mission not long ago, and I want to thank you personally for the teachings of that wonderful book. Whenever you come to St. Paul come in and see me. I would like to have you visit me in my office." The people of Minnesota and those states where we are laboring, are many of them of good old Scandinavian stock, and they believe the gospel when it is properly put up to them. 

We feel encouraged in our work, and are determined to go forth with all the power and zeal that God has given us for the accomplishment of his purposes among men; and our greatest need is more missionaries. We have whole cities with only one pair of elders in them. What can one pair of elders do in a big city, to make proclamation of the gospel of the Son of God ? I pray that God will inspire the people of this Church, that we may look more abundantly to the prosecution of this great and important work that the Lord has given us, in that we will not only send our boys, but that we will break away occasionally and come ourselves. Presidents of stakes, bishops of wards, men of experience, it will make you bigger men and you will be able to render valuable service in the world preaching the gospel. I pray that the Lord will bless you in your finances and in your desires, that you may be able to do this, that we may have in the mission field more of the older brethren. 

I can't speak too highly for the young ladies of our mission, young  who have come into the world to preach the gospel. They can get into the homes of the people and find an opportunity for explaining the gospel where the elder cannot go. Send us more lady missionaries. We have had no trouble with a single lady missionary in our field. I was not wholly in favor of lady missionaries when I first went out, because I thought they would cause so much trouble; but now I am always glad to see them come, because my experience has taught me that they can do a great work. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the work of God, that he has established it and that he will carry it on, through his servants and handmaidens in the earth. The faith of this people, both at home and abroad, is sufficient to carry this work successfully through, and the Lord's purposes will be brought about and his righteous designs established among men. I am grateful in my heart for the privilege of laboring in the ministry of the Lord. I would like to be able to perform the duties devolving upon me in a manner that shall be acceptable and pleasing to him. May God grant us his Spirit and his influence and power in the preaching of the Gospel, and in the building up of his kingdom, both at home and abroad, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

god's work and man's 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a wonderful organization. And it ought to be, for it is the work of God and not of man. It used to be said that the "Mormon" Church was the most perfect organization in existence — excepting the German army. In rhetoric this would be called an anti-climax; in common parlance a letdown. As if one were to say, The sun is the brightest luminary in the heavens — except the moon. 

There is no possible comparison between the work of God and the work of man. The German army at its best represented, perhaps, the quintessence of military wisdom, drawn from the experience of the ages — but it was man's wisdom. The Church of God is a product of Divine Wisdom, and there is nothing like it in all the world. 

THE CHURCH ON EARTH AND IN HEAVEN 

I believe, and think I have good reason to believe, that this Church, so far as it has been developed, is a replica or duplicate of a Church in the heaven of heavens, a Church presided over by the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, the great First Presidency over the Universe. Joseph the Seer, having beheld in vision that heavenly Church, undertook by divine command to reproduce it on earth; and did so as far as possible amidst the crude and primitive conditions under which he labored. It had a humble beginning, this infant Church; but it has been growing and developing ever since, approximating nearer and nearer to the perfection it is destined finally to attain. Some day wc shall have in the midst of mankind the fully matured and perfect Church of Christ, and the will of God shall then be done on earth even as it is done in heaven. 

STAKES AND MISSIONS 

President Grant, in his opening address yesterday morning, drew attention to the fact that the Church today comprises one hundred and one Stakes of Zion and twenty-seven outside missions. The stakes extend through the Rocky Mountain region from Canada to Mexico, and to parts of the Pacific Coast; while the missions cover the various States of the Union and most of the countries of the globe. These constitute in area, membership and organization, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

INDEPENDENT AND DEPENDENT 

Each stake is officered and equipped in such a way as to constitute almost a church in itself. The stakes, are all independent of one another, yet subject to the stake authority — the spiritual "binding pole" that makes of them one stake. Even so with the missions and their subdivisions; each is subject to the authority above it — the branch to the district, the district to the mission. And the missions, like the stakes, are all under the General Authority which holds them together and makes of them one Church. 

THE EASTERN STATES MISSION 

I have recently returned from visiting the Eastern States Mission, presided over by Elder Henry H. Rolapp, in whose company I traveled through nine States of the Union and the District of Columbia, holding conferences in seven of those commonwealths and preaching the Gospe! in the principal cities, including Washington, Baltimore, New York, Philadelphia and Boston. I greatly enjoyed my travels in that very interesting region — the land of the Sacred Grove, where Joseph the Prophet beheld in vision God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and received from them instructions relative to the opening of this Gospel dispensation; the land of the Hill Cumorah, where the record of the Nephites was unearthed by divine direction, that the world might know the truth concerning the glorious past and yet more glorious future of America; the land where Zion, the New Jerusalem, is to rise, and where a work has already begun that will prepare the way for the coming of the Lord in his glory. In that great mission also is the town of Palmyra, where the Book of Mormon was first printed; and the little village of Fayette, where the Church was organized on the sixth day of April in the year 1830. 

I enjoyed my association and labors with President Rolapp, as I previously enjoyed the companionship of President Callis in the' Southern States, and of President Quinney in Canada — all zealous and honorable men of God. 

WORLDLY AND HEAVENLY THINGS 

What most impressed me during my travels was not the beautiful and sublime scenes through which I passed, not the many objects of historic interest presented to my view. New York, with its towering sky-scrapers — that busy Babel of many tongues, where modern men, like their ancient prototypes, seem trying to get to heaven in some other way than the God of heaven has appointed — "The Great White Way," for instance; the spacious and splendid railroad depots, where one is almost lost in the multitudinous concourses of people crowding to or coming from the outgoing and incoming trains; the glittering palaces, stately monuments, magnificent public buildings, and all the other evidences of wealth, power and civilization that are to be seen on every hand — these were not the things that most impressed me. For I thought, with Shakespeare, as I gazed upon them: 

"The ckmd-capt towers, the gorgeous palaces. The solemn temples, the great globe itself — Yea, all that it inherit, shall dissolve, And like the baseless fabric of a vision, Leave not a rack behind." 

god's GREATEST GIFT 

In that day one thing will remain. What is it? Eternal Life, God's greatest gift. That will abide when all else has passed away. 

The millennial reign of Christ will sanctify the earth, and help to prepare it for celestial glory; but it must first undergo a baptism of fire, in which its elements will "melt with fervent heat," and all the dross of its mortality be consumed. Then, by the power of the resurrection, Mother Earth will rise again, changed into a glorious sphere, a heaven; and the righteous will inherit it eternally. 

WHAT MOST IMPRESSED 

What most impressed me was the love of Truth, the love of the Gospel, in the hearts of the Elders, our boy and girl missionaries; in the hearts also of the scattered Saints; and manifested to a degree by the honest investigators of our doctrines and claims, those who attend the meetings of the Saints and listen respectfully and appreciatively to the testimonies of the servants of the Lord. Their love for the Gospel and their reverence for those who preach it, beamed from every face and lingered in every hand-clasp. 

I don't wonder that they love the Gospel. I love it. We all love it. It is the greatest, grandest and most glorious thing under the sun. 

THE GOSPEL OF COMMON SENSE 

Next to the beauty and sublimity of the Gospel, I appreciate it for its plain, sound common sense. It satisfies the cravings of the soul; answers every question that needs answering and solves every problem that ought to be solved. It makes clear life's meaning and purpose, and reveals to man his origin, duty and eternal destiny. It tells the truth about God and enables one to comprehend the things of God. 

THE TRUE GOD 

The God we worship — who is he? What is he? He is the God of the Bible, the God of Adam, of Enoch, of Noah, of Melchizedek, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; the God who made man in his own image. He is our God; but he was not the God that the churches were teaching and their congregations worshiping when Joseph Smith and "Mormonism" came forth. The Christian world had conjured up an impersonal god, a bodiless deity, a spirit that : 

"Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze, Glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees, Lives through all life, extends through all extent, Spreads undivided, operates unspent." 

A very beautiful description — of something, but no correct portrait of the true and living God. There is indeed a spirit that proceeds forth from him and is immanent in all things. It is the power by which the grass grows, the flowers bloom, and the trees bear their fruit. It is the light of the sun, moon and stars, and the lamp of the human understanding. All men and women have a portion of it, are born into the world with it. It is the principle of life and light throughout all creation. 

But that is not our Father in Heaven; no, nor our Savior, Jesus Christ; nor the Holy Ghost as a personage; it is not even the gift of the Holy Ghost, which is the exclusive possession of members of the Church of Christ. It is not God, but a spirit sent forth from God, not Divinity, but an emanation from Divinity; and it was what the Christian world was worshiping, or what Christian teachers were teaching, when Joseph Smith and the restored Gospel came. 

Joseph knew God, ior he had seen him, had conversed with him, and received from him instruction. He declared God to be in human form, an exalted, glorified Man, and that was his first great service to humanity. He brought back the lost knowledge of the true and living God. 

MAN IN THE DIVINE IMAGE 

And how reasonable, how logical it is. What simple, plain common sense. For if God made man in his own image, then God must be in the image of man. And if men and women are indeed God's children, his sons and daughters, what more reasonable than the conclusion that we have a Mother as well as a Father in Heaven, in whose likeness we are, male and female? 

NOT CREATED OUT OF NOTHING 

The churches were also teaching that God made this beautiful earth and all that it contains out of nothing. Why, a ten-year old boy  to reject such a dogma as that. How can something be made out of nothing? Think of it a moment! God never gave such a doctrine; Jesus never taught it; neither did his apostles. Neither did Joseph Smith. In the Book of Abraham, translated by him, the Lord is quoted as saying, "unto those who were with him" on the morning of creation : "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." 

That is "Mormon" doctrine and it is plain common sense, true philosophy, in perfect accord with true science. Science declared long ago that it is impossible to create or destroy an atom of matter; and divine revelation proclaimed it long before science did. The elements  are eternal; matter as well as spirit is uncreatable, indestructible. Out of the eternal elements God created the earth spiritually and temporally, with all that it contains. 

life's purpose 

And this earth is for God's children, for you and me and all the rest of the race. We are placed here as spirits to take bodies and thus become souls, capable of endless increase and eternal progression; to be tested in this our second estate, as we were tested in our first our spirit estate. Here we walk by faith, whereas in the spirit world, we walked by sight. We kept the first estate and won the privilege of coming into this second estate, with the promise that if we manifest equal integrity here, we shall have glory added upon our heads forever and ever. 

WHERE WE SHALL SPEND ETERNITY 

What is the Lord going to do with this beautiful world? Did he create it merely to destroy it? No. He is going to change it into a heaven, a home for the righteous. I picked up a card on a railroad train one day, a card on which was printed this question: "Where do you expect to spend eternity?" A very interesting query; and a very difficult one for some people to answer. But "Mormonism" answers it, and it is the only religion that can answer it consistently. "Mormonism" says that when we pass out of the body we are in the spirit world, and will remain there, the righteous resting from their labors — not in idleness, but in doing, working without weariness, without pain, while awaiting a glorious resurrection, when they are to have the privilege of coming back to spend their time on this planet, when it is celestialized and converted into a heaven. 

HOW SHALL WE SPEND ETERNITY? 

About the time that I picked up that card and read the question thereon, a similar question was going the rounds of the religious magazines. Thus: "How do you expect to spend eternity?" This question caused quite a discussion. One reverend .gentleman answered it in these words: "How do I expect to spend eternity? I expect to spend the first million years gazing upon the face of the Savior. And then," he added, somewhat facetiously, "I might take a sidelong glance at my wife." 

Poor lone woman, waiting a million years for that sidelong glance! Is it not plain that her loving husband did not know how to answer the question? If he had known he would have told, and made himself famous; but. he did not know, and so passed it off as a joke. But it is no joke, this problem of life and death and resurrection and the hereafter. It is a solemn and sublime reality. 

But assuming that he was serious and really meant what he said, let us consider for a moment the gentleman's reply. Does any sane man or woman believe that an all-wise God would create an earth like this, and place his children upon it to become expert and skillful as farmers, as artisans, as engineers, bankers, merchants or what not, and then whisk them away to some distant part of the universe, some world "beyond the bounds of time and space," where they would sit down and twiddle their thumbs and stare somebody out of countenance for a million years? Is it reasonable? Is it sensible? 

A MORMON REPLY 

How would a Latter-day Saint answer such a question? One who understands his religion — an intelligent, thoughtful Latter-day Saint, if asked : "How do you expect to spend eternity," would be very apt to reply : "I expect to spend it in doing there the things I have learnecK to do here." That is common sense. It is logical, economical. Else were this all wasted time. No, we are not going to sit down through all eternity and gaze upon the face of the 'Savior. I don't believe he would want anyone to look at him that long. It would be bad manners. We shall do in eternity the things we have learned to do in time, but we will do them better there than here. We will be better fathers and mothers, better husbands and wives, better in every way; and every faculty exercised and developed here, will find full play and employment in the Great Hereafter. 

I do not mean to say that the farmer will have to plow and sow, in heaven as he does on earth, in order to produce a harvest; nor that the good housewife will have to cook pancakes on a red-hot stove. But I do say that all the occupations of this life that are proper and legitimate are typical of and lead up to and prepare us for the higher occupations of the life to come. We will do there the things we have learned to do here, but we will do them in higher and better ways. For instance, when man wants light, he strikes a match or presses a button, or turns a switch, and lo there is light. When God wants light he says : "Let there be light!" and there is light. Nay, God himself is Light, and would need but to appear and all darkness would flee away. 

Nor is there anything contrary to law in all this. God works by law. But there are greater laws and lesser laws, and sometimes the greater suspend the action of the lesser. Miracles are not contrary to law; they are simply extraordinary results flowing from superior means  methods of doing things. When Elisha the Prophet raised the sunken ax from the bottom of the Jordan River, he might have done it in a commonplace way — might have laid aside his robes, taken off his sandals, and plunged in like a diver and brought the ax to the surface. But he knew a better way. Plucking a sprig of green from, a bush growing on the bank of the river, he cast it upon the water and commanded the ax to float. "And the iron did swim," says the sacred record. I believe it. The prophet's act was not contrary to law, but in accordance with law, a higher law than the law of gravitation which, had not its operation on that piece of iron been suspended, would have kept the ax at the bottom of the stream until raised by some other process. 

In conclusion. The Gospel explains all such problems, and will solve for us in due season all mysteries. We know some things now. We know where and how we will spend eternity. Revelation has made it clear, and good old Dr. Watts, author of the hymn, "Sweet is the Work, my God, my King," had a glinting of light upon this great subject when he wrote concerning the Hereafter : 

"Then shall I see and hear and know All I desired and wished below, And every power find sweet employ In that eternal world of joy." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have received a telegram from President L. G. Kirkman of the Twin Falls Stake, reading as follows : 

"Regret I cannot attend conference Friday morning. Services could be heard very plainly over the radio. Afternoon services could not be heard so well." 

I have received a telegram from President Richard C. May of the Minidoka Stake, which says : 

"We have enjoyed today's conference services. Reception good." 

President Joseph W. McMurrin has a very sick wife, which accounts for his absence from this conference. 

President J. Golden Kimball is confined to his home, suffering from a very severe cold. 

As you all know, Elder John A. Widtsoe is presiding over the European Mission. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, let us anew." Elder Joseph Quinney, Jr., offered the closing prayer. The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 