Afternoon
06 10 1928 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

This, my brethren and sisters, I regard as a tremendous responsibility as well as a wonderful opportunity. As I have anticipated this call and have meditated on what I might say that would be proper, my mind at times has been illumined by the Spirit, to see and feel the truth of this work in a way that if presented in the same light to others might be profitable; and then the vision of these things would in a measure fade away. By this I have been made to realize my dependence upon the Lord on such occasions. 

I realize that it is quite possible for those of superior minds to profit more by the thoughts which may arise in their minds as a result of what is said by the speaker than from just what is said. The mind goes out farther and brings in material relative to the same subject and is edified thereby. I hope that all my hearers may, by the aid of the Holy Spirit, enlarge upon that which I may say and that to their profit. I also realize that it is impossible for me to make you feel what I do not feel myself. It is my desire at this time by my remarks to cause you to see and feel the beauty and the truth of this great latterday work. 

THE NEED OF REVELATION 

The world had no greater need than that of the revelation given through a fourteen-year-old boy in the Spring of 1820, a revelation of God the Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. At that time spiritual darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people; and that deplorable condition continues, except where people have accepted what was revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We have but to refer to the creeds of the different denominations to be convinced of this fact. I would refer you to the "Confession of Faith" of the Presbyterian Church, which church has a following, I presume, of millions of people; and these members of the church have by their membership subscribed to the things which are written in the "Confession of Faith" as follows: 

"In the unity of the Godhead there be three persons of one substance, power and eternity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost." 

Quoting from "Shorter Catechism," I read this: 

"There are three persons in the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory." 

The question is asked in the Catechism: "Are there more Gods than one?" j And the answer is: "There is but one only, the living and true God. 

"We must not conceive of him as being like, in form, any thing in either heaven or earth." 

Those who wrote this part of the creed of the Presbyterian Church did not know God the Eternal Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, as they are. The world at that time was in need of new revelation of God the Eternal Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. 

We have also in the first Article of Religion of the great Anglican Church, the headquarters of which are found in Great Britain, which church also has a following of many millions of people subscribing to a creed, a professed belief, very similar to that which I have read. It is as follows : 

"There is one living and true God everlasting, without body, parts or passions, of infinite wisdom, power and goodness; the maker and preserver of all things visible and invisible, and in the unity of this Godhead there are three personages of one substance, power and eternity, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost." 

Coming down to a later date, let me read you what the Bishop of Liverpool of that Anglican Church had to say about conditions. This was on March 21st, 1912, as reported in the Lancashire Daily Post, and is as follows : 

"The Bishop of Liverpool performed the consecration ceremony at Holy Trinity Church, Southport, yesterday. In his sermon he said; one of the great needs of the Christian Church was power. They were living in an age of great material power; they had covered the land with new and restored churches; they had spent great sums of money on colleges and ecclesiastical buildings; they had improved and enriched their services; they had planted new -missions in foreign lands, and their settlements in all the great towns. Religion today was wearing silver slippers, and moving in high places, and yet he ventured to think, there was a strange want of power about the Church of God, not only in their branch, but about every other branch. 

"The Church at present seemed almost overmatched by the power of darkness. Sometimes it seemed as if the darkness was gaining on the light. What was the cause of the strange paralysis that had befallen the Church?" 

An admission that a paralysis had befallen the Church : 

"He believed that the Church needed today a re-discoveryi of God; he believed the Church was weak today because God was so distant, so unreal, so dimly seen. Today they saw the results of that dim vision of the distant God. They saw on all sides unsettlement in the faith, slackness in the spiritual life, men losing their grip on those great and vital truths which had made Christendom what it was, refusing to face the spectre of the mind, content to drift and to leave things in suspense, and this weak unworthy spirit was beginning to affect our whole national life." It is an admission of the importance of having a correct understanding or conception of God the Eternal Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. The world I say was in need of the revelation that came from heaven through a fourteen-year-old boy in 1820, as well as all the other revelations that were given subsequently to that same individual, the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was a wonderful revelation, the vision of the Prophet Joseph, wherein the Father and the Son appeared to him, and the Father, speaking to him, introduced his Son, who answered his questions satisfactorily. He saw that God the Eternal Father is a personage, having body and parts like unto man, or in other words that man is really and actually in his image and likeness, but that God is an immortal being, a glorified and exalted being, and that his Son Jesus Christ is like him. There was no removing this testimony from the mind of Joseph Smith, although it came to him as a mere boy. 

"a marvelous work and a wonder" 

We read in Isaiah, 29th chapter, a prediction of the coming forth of this great work. The Lord speaks to his servant Isaiah, saying: (If you read the context you must be convinced that it refers to this particular time when the gospel is restored. ) 

"Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men : 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder : for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

This one revelation — the vision of the boy Joseph — marked a fulfilment of this prediction. As we see the Church as a whole today, the wonderful effective work of this organization with the gospel and its principles and ordinances, scriptural appealing and true, we are led to the conclusion without a doubt that it is "a marvelous work and a wonder." 

Men and women outside of this Church have been able to see this and they have wondered at it. The thing that is a wonderment to me is that when they have given this consideration to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the gospel which we have received and which we are teaching to the world and have done for more than a century, and which we are trying to live, that they should consider it the product of the mind of man and not give God the glory. It is a wonderment to me that the Bishop of Liverpool, after nearly b, century had elapsed after God had given this great vision and revelation to the world, should not be able to see the truth, to understand the light that has come unto us. as many, many others are not able to see and understand. 

appreciative of light and knowledge And this makes me individually appreciative that I have been able  see the light and that I have received the light, that I do not only believe in God the Eternal Father as a personal, an exalted and glorified being, but that I do know that he lives and that he is the God of this world, the very eternal Father of the spirits of all men, and that Jesus Christ, who was with him in the appearance to Joseph Smith, is the firstborn of the Father in the spirit, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. 

We as a people, my brethren and sisters, should rejoice in this light and knowledge that has come unto us and the testimony our Heavenly Father has given us concerning these things. 

CHOSEN BEFORE BIRTH FOR SPECIAL MISSION 

Joseph Smith was chosen, as we believe, from before he was born for a special mission, the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times. We read in the third chapter of the Book of Abraham that the Lord showed to his servant Abraham intelligences, the spirits of men. He told Abraham that they were among his noble ones whom he had chosen to be his rulers; and said he, "Thou, Abraham, art one of them." They were to be rulers in the sense that Abraham was a ruler in his day, a servant of God and of the people. It is just as easy to believe that Joseph Smith was one of those noble spirits, that he was reserved of the Lord to come forth in this last day, to be used as a mouthpiece of the Lord, his prophet, in the establishment of his Church and Kingdom anew upon the earth, and the restoration of the everlasting gospel. So we Latter-day Saints believe and so we testify. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I do know of the truth of this work. It is God's work. It is his plan instituted in heaven from before the foundation of the world, the only plan that God has instituted, the only plan that has in it the power of God unto salvation unto those who obey. I pray God that he may help us, for we need his help on every hand, that we who have embraced the gospel may remain true and faithful. 

SERVE THE LORD 

We heard yesterday a message, an impressive message, in three words : "Hold the faith," and that reminded me of what I heard just a few days ago in attending a conference at Ogden. A little story of a cobbler who was asked what his business was. He answered, "My business is to serve God. I mend shoes for a living." 

Serve the Lord! A three word message worthy of our remembering; and if I were to add another three word message, my brethren and sisters, it would be this: Live your religion. And I will make this promise, that if we do live our religion it will mean for us joy and happiness in this life and eternal life and exaltation in the world to come. I bear you my testmony to this end in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

"The Glory of God is Intelligence." These words of the Prophet Joseph Smith have been adopted as the motto of the Mutual Improvement Associations. I desire to apply these words to two of the world's great educational movements. 

EDUCATION, ANCIENT AND MODERN 

Why did people of olden times know so much about eclipses, the stars, their distances and their orbits? Why were they so intensely interested in these and other technical mathematical problems before they knew how to build a wagon wheel? The reason is that in those days the people were divided into two classes, aristocrats and slaves. 

As soon as education was given to those who had to toil, as well as to those who were aristocrats, this marvelous mechanical age in which we live had its beginning. Toilers with trained minds found little interest in astronomy. What did they care about eclipses? They were not concerned with theoretical mathematical problems, but with devising methods of lightening the burdens that were resting upon their backs. As a result of this change in the application of learning, we live today in an age of scientific miracles, which the mental efforts of these toilers have made possible. Today machinery can do almost anything. One of the latest achievements is the flight of Lindbergh from New York to Paris. 

In 1880, when Louis Pasteur, a French scientist, a French toiler, who had arisen from poverty, put forth the mental effort necessary to discover the relation that exists between disease and disease germs, he gave to mankind the greatest human-welfare contribution of all time, arising from scientific investigation. 

SCIENCE APPLIED TO SANITATION 

I have returned this morning from the city of Chicago. The Sanitary District of Chicago includes the city of Chicago and fiftynine other municipalities. I was invited by the district officials to inspect and make a report on their recently completed North Side Sewage Treatment Plant. This project is the largest, the most scientific, the most modern institution of its kind in the world. In this District there are 3,500,000 people. The Sanitary District was created by act of the legislature of the State of Illinois in 1889. Its purpose is the disposal of the sewage and other wastes of that District. The special aim was and is to avoid contaminating the waters of Lake Michigan — the only source of water supply for the city of Chicago and other municipalities in the Sanitary District. 

Back in 1893, when the World's Fair was held in Chicago, engineers from every country looked with astonishment and admiration at the tremendous undertaking of changing the direction of the flow of the Chicago River. From flowing into Lake Michigan it was changed, by means of a deep cut, to flow out of the Lake through the  of Chicago, into the Des Plaines, the Illinois, and the Mississippi rivers, and thence into the Gulf of Mexico. Thus, through this canal, by the dilution method, the most modern then known, they had their sewage carried into the Gulf. 

But it was in 1895 that the first great modern hydro-electric power plant was constructed at Niagara Falls. This brought to the water of the Niagara river a new value, and at once the power interests began to raise objections to the diversion of the water from Lake Michigan. Led by these power interests, cities located on the shores of the Great Lakes and states on their borders, have waged a long and fierce battle against this diversion. So intense have been these objections that leading citizens have been led to think it has lowered the water surface of the Great Lakes, to the serious injury of shipping. In fact many citizens suppose that the diversion has caused most of the difficulties of commerce on the Great Lakes. As a matter of fact, the water taken through the Chicago drainage canal has lowered the water surface but 5 inches; and by use of comparatively simple regulating works constructed at the outlets of the Lakes, fluctuations of level can be largely prevented and the water surfaces can be held at the highest desirable levels. Such works will protect all interests involved, greatly improve harbor conditions, allow water for power to be used more efficiently, and will make possible the restoration and perpetuation of the beauty of Niagara Falls. 

THE MODERN OUTLOOK OF MEN 

In this modern day, when the men who labor have been trained and educated, they have brought and they are bringing their minds to bear upon problems of practical value. The work of reverising the flow of the Chicago river was hardly completed in 1900, when the officials of the Sanitary District began, by experiment and by use of other scientific methods, to' devise more recent, better, and more efficient ways of treating the wastes from the District than the dilution method. 

The purification works they now have constructed, and those for which they have completely designed plans, will mean, when completed, an investment of $300,000,000. For the welfare of mankind, not on astronomy or on theoretical mathematics, but on the practical things of this practical age of miracles the District has already expended $182,000,000. Modern works like these are coming into the world because we are educating those who labor. 

FOR PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC HEALTH 

I was at the formal opening last Wednesday of one unit of the?c great works. This unit alone has cost $32,000,000. State officials, city officials, and eminent sanitary and civil engineers of the whole land were in attendance.  

Were the preservation of the public health of Chicago a local problem only, I would not here refer to this project. But since Chicago is a center through which practically all east-bound and westbound traffic of our country passes, all citizens may be affected by the health conditions of this Sanitary District. 

For the purpose of establishing, in and about Chicago, the best possible conditions for public health, a veritable army of civil, electrical, and sanitary engineers are making scientific experiments and are studying the results of similar investigations wherever they are being performed. By holding this extensive organization together in entire freedom from politics or other prejudices, qualified men are given positions and are retained in them solely because of their merit. This is one of the reasons why the District has been able to design, construct, and formally to open the North Side Sewage Treatment works. I have said that up to this hour, it is the greatest accomplishment of its kind in the world, for the promotion and preservation of public health. 

MAGNITUDE OF CHICAGO'S WORKS 

It has been charged that Chicago was not putting forth reasonable efforts to purify and dispose of its sewage and similar wastes. You will be interested to know that there are but 23 other cities in the United States with a population greater than 100,000 which have sewagedisposal plants. All of these 23 combined have expended in this line of work but $149,000,000, while Chicago has expended for this purpose $182,000,000; that is, $33,000,000 more than have all these other 23 cities. 

The citizens of Chicago exhibit a real American spirit. It is the same spirit that actuated our soldiers in France. It is said that when the Germans blew out a bridge at night, they were surprised the next morning to find that the Americans had replaced it and were across the river. 

RECENT ELEVATION OF WOMAN 

That is the fir! st of the two phases of the historic educational problem that I desire to mention. The other is the education of women. 

The time is short, even today, since women were admitted into educational institutions; and just as the education, in years past, of those who had to toil, has transformed the world into this marvelous scientific age, so the education of women is destined to produce further marvelous transformations in human welfare. 

There are still many educational institutions that do not believe in co-education; that is, they do not admit women. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there is no educational opportunity provided for men that is not open also to women. Side by side with the women, high priests and patriarchs do their studying each Sunday morning. Young men preparing to go into the mission field get their training alongside of young women, many of whom are also being trained for missions. You heard it said this morning by one of our  presidents, that he wants us to send more young women into the mission field. Thus we give to the women of the Church, as we have always done, the same educational opportunities that we give to men. 

A GREAT CHURCH SCHOOL 

A great school, to which women are freely admitted, has been instituted by the Church. For this purpose we have set apart the best period of the best day — Sunday morning from 10 to 12 o'clock. In this school we teach theology to all the people. Side by side in this great Church school men and women listen to the instruction. Will not this equal educational opportunity now provided for women, not only in the Church but in nearly every part of the world, yet produce another profound change in the welfare, the conduct, and the development of the human family? 

THIS BOOK OF PUPIN's 

As part of the course of instruction, our Committee on Adult Recreation has recommended for our reading course this year a book entitled From Immigrant to Inventor, written by Michael Pupin. This book portrays a picture and cites an example of the far-reaching influence that a mother may exert upon the character and accomplishments of her son. While in this instance the mother was .not versed in the learning of books, she nevertheless had the wisdom to perceive the value of education and the gift to impress upon her son the benefits that come from a trained mind. 

At the age of fifteen Michael Pupin came to the United States. Today he holds the chair of electro-mechanics in Columbia University. The long-distance telephone was made possible by his inventions; the radio is due largely to his genius. We recommend to all people in the Church the reading of this book. Those who have read it appreciate the strength and uplift of the message it carries. It will tell you something of the spirit of our Mutual Improvement organizations. It will teach you to value in the lives of men the development that can come to them from women, especially the training that can come from mothers. 

HOW HIS MOTHER GUIDED HIM 

Michael Pupin received his inspiration from a mother in Serbia —  a mother who was not able to read or write. In his boyhood he surmised that reading, writing, and arithmetic were methods of torture that had been devised by the teacher in order to punish students, especially boys who had appointments with their chums and playmates. 

"But," says the inventor, "my mother soon convinced me that I was wrong. She could neither read nor write; and she told me that she always felt that she was blind, in spite of the clear vision of her eyes; so blind, indeed, that, as she expained, she. did not dare to venture into the world much beyond the confines of her native village." 

She would say to him : "My boy, if you wish to go out into the world, about which you hear so much, you must provide yourself with another pair of eyes; the eyes of reading and writing. * * * Knowledge is the golden ladder over which we climb to heaven; knowledge is the light which illuminates our path through this life and leads to a future life of everlasting glory." How closely these words approach the words of the prophet : "The Glory of God is Intelligence." 

INFLUENCE OF MOTHERS 

What think you of the power that comes into the life of a boy who has the right kind of mother? I urge all the people in the Church, especially those who are and those who expect to be mothers, to study this remarkable book. It proves how powerful is the influence that a mother has in the ambition, in the success, and in the spiritual values, in the life of a man. God bless the mother who whispers such messages of inspiration into the soul of her son. She might have said : "My son, if you live, I expect to see you realize in your life many of the ambitions and many of the hopes that I myself have not been able to achieve." So changed was his mind, so aroused was his determination, that in a short time he had the delight of convincing his mother that he could read and write as well as any boy. 

Later, when the teacher had observed the change in the boy's attitude toward study, the teacher was so much astonished that he fancied a miracle had occurred. The mother told the teacher that in a dream she saw a Saint lay his hands upon the head of her son; then the Saint, pointing to her, said : "Daughter, your boy will soon outgrow the village school. Let him go out into the world, where he can find more brain food for his hungry head." She told this to the teacher in the presence of her son. It was like a message whispered into his ear. It brought higher ambitions to his soul. The words of his mother aroused him to action. 

A DECISIVE STROKE 

Next year the teacher selected this boy to give the recitation at their annual celebration. The teacher wrote the speech. While the mother was not able to read or write, she had a memory. She knew many of the psalm's and took delight in reciting them. She amended and amplified the speech and had the boy rehearse it again and again. The success of the address, Pupin relates, was overwhelming. His chums — unruly boys — did not giggle; they looked interested, and thus encouraged the speaker. Pupin writes: "My mother cried for joy." Heaven bless the mothers who cry for joy at the successes of their sons. In the great training-school of the Church, where theological work on Sunday and activity work on Tuesday night, are undertaken,  have a course of training that continues from the cradle to the grave. We trust that, under divine guidance, this training will prepare mothers who can lead their sons as the mother of Michael Pupin led him. 

He had heard of Lincoln during the war. His mother appealed now for him to be sent away to school — fifteen miles to a high school. 

a father's doubts 

Notwithstanding objections raised by the father, the mother had her way; and the son, who had outgrown the country school, was sent to the higher educational institution. Here the boy learned of Benjamin Franklin and of electricity. The father had looked upon Franklin as an idle boy playing with a kite, and was indignant when the boy intimated that this American might possibly be wiser than the wise men of their country village. Womanlike, the mother took the boy's side; and soon the father was himself convinced that wisdom might be found in America. To train the mothers so that they shall exert on the lives of their sons the same fine influence and awaken the same stimulating ambition that swelled the heart of Michael Pupin, — this is an aim of the Church. 

THE YOUTH'S RESOLVE 

So much had the boy heard about America, that he sold his heavy coat, his books, his warm clothing, for money with which to buy his ticket to America; for he hoped here to achieve the success his mother had laid out for him. Leaving his school, he started for America without returning to his home. A letter to his mother, in affectionate terms said that, having outgrown the school and the teachers, he had departed for the land of Franklin and Lincoln. He assured her that "with her blessing and God's help" he would certainly succeed. He promised that he would return rich in rare knowledge and in honor. The story is thrilling. Will you read it ? No woman can do so without receiving new inspiration, the kind of inspiration that we are aiming to give to all the women of the Church. 

And so he sold his clothing and his coat, got his fare, and started for America. He did not know that he would have to provide his own mattress and blanket; therefore he almost perished. He said he had seen pictures of the American Indians. They did not seem to have much clothing. He sat by the smoke-stack during the night to keep from freezing. He landed in America at the age of fifteen, and no human soul was here that he had ever seen. When by an interpreter he was asked: "Don't you know somebody in America?" he answered that he had no relatives here and knew of nobody in the country but Franklin, Lincoln, and Harriett Beecher Stowe. The emigration agent at Castle Gardens said: "You showed good taste when you picked your American acquaintances." pupin's search for "light" 

During all of his early days as a student and many of his years an an investigator, Michael Pupin went from library to library, from school to school, yes, even from country to country, endeavoring to find an answer to the question: "What is Light?" It was his lifelong search for an answer to this question that gave him the power of concentration, and laid the foundation for his later inventions. He was searching for Light — the light that illuminates the universe, the true nature of which men did not understand. His question stirs in me a desire to know what light in a spiritual sense truly is. John, the beloved Apostle, says that Jesus "was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world and the world was made by him, yet the world knew him not." (John 1:9, 10.) The prayerful life of righteous living apparently brings into human hearts a something we refer to as a testimany — a satisfying feeling that enables one to speak as did Job when he said, "I know that my Redeemer liveth." 

CAN PSYCHOLOGISTS EXPLAIN:? 

I am looking for some psychologist or some other student of human nature who can explain how it is and why it is that this prayerful life of righteous living specified by our Lord and Savior brings this satisfying knowledge into human hearts, — knowledge which hearts can feel and souls can know, but rarely can explain. It is a seemingly unexplainable conviction, which those who have not gone through this religious experience, have difficulty in understanding. Satisfied with the conviction that comes as a result of living in accordance with the teachings and example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the human soul rises to such a height of feeling that there is hardly any sacrifice in time, money, or effort, which those genuinely converted will not undergo for the advancement of the cause. I ask, "What is this light, which prayerful, righteous living brings into human hearts ?" 

THE REVELATION ON LIGHT 

The language of a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the 6th verse, refers to Jesus Christ the Son of God as "The Light of Truth; which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. 

"As also he is in the moon, and is in the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made; 

"As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made; 

"And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand. 

"And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him . who  your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; 

"Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space — 

"The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things." 

SCIENCE CORROBORATES REVEALED TRUTH 

Just as the physical light of the sun illuminates the globe and all the dark planets; and just as this light and its lesser form heat are necessary physical conditions of all animate life of the globe, all animal and vegetable life being dependent upon the heat from the. sun, so the inner light, the light of the spirit, the illumination that comes to the dark souls of men, is derived from One who is the true Light which lighteth every man that comes into the world. The spirit and testimony of Jesus is the light of the soul — the light of the world. This true Light was in the world, and the world was made by him; yet the world knew him not till he revealed himself to those who were able to understand him and know who he is. So the physical light which, in another sense, is the life of animate nature on the globe, was in the world and the world of life was made or sustained by it, yet men do not now, even the most learned, understand its exact nature. 

I probably cannot give to the question, "What is Light?" an answer that would satisfy the scientific intellect of Michael Pupin. Nor have I been able to find anyone who can answer the question, "What is the light that comes into human hearts as a result of the gospel of Jesus Christ?" 

Do the words of the Prophet, above quoted, answer these queries ? Is Jesus Christ "The light of truth," the source of all the light of which I am speaking? 

READ THE BOOK 

Mutual Improvement Organizations recommend to the Church a reading course. This Pupin book, From Immigrant to Inventor, is one of the books recommended. Read it, I pray you. Study it; for the book impresses me as being filled with the gospel spirit. You women are to train up a generation of strong, noble, and Christian men, are destined to produce a generation of women who can teach the gospel to all the people in all the world — a preparation for the coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This great educational institution that the Church has established for men and women, for old and young, will help to prepare for this great work. May we succeed in it; and may we have the power, the influence, and the testimony, that "to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people" (Rev. 14:6) we may effectively preach this gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been restored here and now by the power of God. ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

Elder McKay referred to an admonition given by the Apostle Paul to his son, in the faith, Timothy. That message was to hold the faith. While he was giving expression and explanation of that glorious message, I thought of another message which the same apostle sent to that same valiant servant of the Lord, Timothy. I presume that he felt a fatherly interest in Timothy and probably noted that even that valiant servant of God had become somewhat derelict in the observance of his duty; and so he admonished him to "stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands." And I thought that if we or any of us are to hold and keep the faith the means by which it can be done is to stir up within us that glorious gift which we have received by the laying on of hands of the elders of this Church. I refer to that priceless gift, the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

There is an absolute necessity on the part of Latter-day Saints, if they are to grow in a knowledge of God and in good works, day by day, that they have the help of their Heavenly Father, which he is more than willing to bestow upon them by transmitting or giving to them this wonderful and priceless gift, the Holy Ghost. It is a privilege that we have, a promise that has been made unto all of our Father's children who will comply with the necessary conditions, that they may have the benefit of that great and wonderful gift. Those conditions are in the first place: Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who was chosen of God to be the Savior of the world, and "God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." Therefore, my brethren and sisters, in the exercise of this faith we must turn to God. 

How are we to maintain and to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost? That was very clearly pointed out by the great apostle, Peter, in his sermon on the day of Pentecost: 

"Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

"For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." 

So this gift, wonderful and precious though it is, may be realized and enjoyed by all the children of God to whom this call may come. Missionaries are sent out all over the world to make the call unto the inhabitants of the earth to comply with those conditions that will enable them to receive the wonderful gift by which alone they may know the things of God, that they may grow in the knowledge of him whom to know is life eternal. 

President Grant, in his opening address, quoted from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants some very precious words. I am going to repeat two paragraphs from Section 121, which he quoted : 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

We have no doubt read those wonderful paragraphs time and time again, and sometimes we are disposed to say that they are very beautiful words. That is a literary gem, although it may not in all particulars comply with all the rules of rhetoric; yet to me it is one of the great literary gems. Nothing more beautiful can be found in holy writ. But it is much more than that — more than a literary gem. 

Here we have, it seems to me, a wonderful exposition of how to retain the gift of the Holy Ghost, to have the knowledge of the truth, to keep the faith. There are two things that are stated in those paragraphs which are essential and upon which are predicated the most wonderful blessings that we can possibly conceive of. What are they? 

First : "Let thy bowels be full of charity towards all men." Well, that is a great commandment, the one that is like unto the first, which is to "love thy neighbor as thy self." It is to let your hearts go out, and especially to the household of faith, in love, sympathy and charity unfeigned, to all men. 

And second: "Let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly." If we would garnish our thoughts with virtue unceasingly there would be no room for sin. We need not concern ourselves so much as to what we may do, every act for which we are responsible is preceded by our thoughts, and if those thoughts are pure and holy, if they be garnished with virtue, the act will correspond, and we will not wander into bye nor forbidden paths. We will not go to the right nor to the left; we will not fall into sin and iniquity, but we will walk in the straight and narrow path that leadeth unto life eternal. These two things will bring salvation to our souls; for we read that if we do them: "Then shall our confidence wax strong in the presence of God." That means faith; that means that we will hold the faith and it will grow strong. We shall ask and receive, we shall seek and find, we shall knock and the door will be opened unto us. What a wonderful faith we may have if we will comply with those two conditions. 

And then we read further : "And the doctrine of the priesthood," — and that is the power of God — "shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." Not with any great bombasting, not with any great manifestation, but just quietly and without any assuming, as the dews fall from heaven. What a glorious promise that is, to be able to exercise the powers of the priesthood to which that same section refers so very greatly, and to exercise them in love unfeigned and in longsuffering and in patience. What a glorious thing it is if we can exercise those powers of the priesthood. Yet if we will do these two things, this doctrine shall distil upon our souls and shall fill our whole being from the crowns of our heads to the soles of our feet. 

And then we read on further : "And the Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion." Latter-day Saints, we know how we received that wonderful gift. It is essential for all mankind to receive it, and the promise has been given to them all if they will comply with the conditions. Now the important thing is to retain it. , Do those two things. That means to practice faith in God and repentance from sin, garnish thy thoughts with virtue. That is the great gospel of repentance. Let your faith and your confidence "wax strong in the presence of God," receive these glorious blessings, let your heart go out in love and sympathy for your fellow men; and these blessings and these powers shall be yours and will lead you eventually, just as true as we live, into the presence of God to receive the reward of the righteous. For we read on still further that if we do these things our "scepter" — that is the weapon that we may use to combat the powers of evil — "shall be an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth." That is the sword of truth, a two-edged sword. Learn how to wield it, young men who are going out into the mission field. It is the weapon whereby you may combat the powers of evil and bring converts to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ — "an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth." If you will only do these two things, that will be the weapon that you can use effectively in the saving of human souls. 

And then comes the climax of all blessings that will accrue to those who will comply with those conditions. It reads like this : "And thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion." That is our salvation, that is our exaltation, that is wherein we become like unto our Father in heaven, exercising divine power in having bestowed upon us a dominion; and it shall increase. This dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, "and without compulsory means it shall flow unto us forever and ever." That is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

We read these two paragraphs and do not realize how much we could find within them. The President admonished us to study the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Last year we had for our slogan — the young people of this Church : "We stand for a fuller knowledge of the Book of Mormon and a testimony of its divine origin." I feel like proposing as a slogan for some future consideration: We stand for the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and for a testimony of its divine origin. The books are full of just such passages as these I have quoted, and they have upon them the impress of divinity. 

Let us study the word of God, his revelations; for his Church has been built upon that solid foundation which brings us into communion with our Heavenly Father. May we grow in the knowledge of the truth and in good works day by day, and realize the glorious promises that have been made to us, conditioned upon our compliance with the" laws upon which they are predicated, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. , 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

It is one thing to give advice and counsel and it is another thing to take it. A great many of the members of the Church have sought counsel at the hands of the General Authorities of the Church, but they have not all taken the counsel that was given them. It is the privilege, however, of the officers of the Church to give counsel and advice when the opportunity affords itself. I am sure the Latter-day Saints will have much to take home from the results of this conference, from the fruits of the testimony of the Spirit, and the experience of the brethren. The members and officers, I am sure, have been wonderfully blessed during this conference. 

I wish to express my appreciation for the kindness of the Lord to me, for the blessings which I have received since I last had the privilege of standing before this congregation. I am very grateful for the strength I possess to stand here today, although I am not free from suffering while I do so. 

I know there are many people in the Church who are suffering today from lack of employment — from the lack of employment to provide the necessities of life — and a word of encouragement sometimes helps. I am very happy to know that a word of encouragement and prayer, if you please, occasionally helps those who are discouraged. I have in my office a collection of testimonies from individuals all over the Church, relative to their gratitude for the blessings they have received — the result of a word of encouragement in an hour of need; and I am grateful that it has been my privilege to perform my part in this sacred service. I regret that I am not able to do more of it. I wish to take this opportunity to admonish the people generally to take the advice and the counsel given them in this conference. 

I have been asked many times concerning a promise that is frequently given in blessings to the effect that the person would be guided by the influence and promptings of his guardian angel. These people have said : "Brother Smith, who is our guardian angel ?" The spirits of our departed loved ones, as well as other spirits, may be appointed to act as our guardian angels, but they are special and come by appointment, while the Holy Spirit yields a constant influence over our lives for our guidance and protection. Brother Whitney has explained the Spirit of the Lord that is in all things. There are many passages in our scriptures which explain the fact that the Spirit of God is in all things, for they were created spiritually before they were created temporally. Every living thing upon this earth was created spiritually before it was created temporally; therefore, everything that is upon this earth or ever has been, has had a spirit, and that spirit has had a guide for its protection. And so we Latter-day Saints, members of the Church of Christ, having been especially given this spirit, having it pointed out to us by special notice, it is an important thing in our lives to guide us. And I have admonished and advised a great many of our saints that if they will only hearken unto those "sweet and peaceful promptings" they will know the truth, they will know how to decide upon matters for their safety and success in temporal and in spiritual affairs. I know this is the truth, because I have tried it myself, and I believe it, that it is the prompting of the Spirit of the Lord in its influence over our lives. I think, too, that as long as we are conscious of our activity and know what we are doing we never do wrong but that we know it is wrong; because we have been previously warned, whether it is right or wrong, if we will only listen. So I am prepared, my brethren and sisters, to further admonish you and further advise you to pay attention to those "sweet and peaceful promptings," and if you will listen to them and act wisely, you will make fewer mistakes and enjoy more peace and safety in life. 

President Woodruff advised that we listen to our first impressions, and that too I am prepared to endorse and add to my list of advice. As a rule the first impression is the right one, and if we will listen to it, it will guide us in the ways of truth and righteousness and safety, in our journey through mortality. Referring again to the late President Woodruff— this principle became to him a daily guide in all of the affairs of his work; a wonderful example to us all. In many instances he and his loved ones were spared from destruction through immediate response to his first impression — the promptings of that Still Small Voice that whispered to him and guided him in the performance of his duty and in the ways of safety. He has left us some very interesting little stories for our benefit regarding this principle. 

I pray the Lord to guide you, my brethren and sisters, safely in your work, that you may be further obedient to those whisperings for your protection and guidance in the Church. I thank the Lord for your faith and for your prayers for my personal welfare; and in turn I pray God to bless you, that he will continue to bless the authorities of the Church, President Grant and his associates — I know that the Lord has blessed them, for he has blessed me in being associated with them. I am grateful indeed for the prayers and blessings of my associates in the ministry, and am very grateful for the faith and the prayers of the saints, for I know that they have prevailed for my blessing. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless this Church, and all those who are working in it, whether at home or in the mission field. I pray the blessings of the Lord upon those who may be disturbed in their feelings and do not know how to decide upon what they ought to do. If they will listen, and then act when the prompting comes, I predict that they will receive comfort and blessing for their relief. May the blessings of the Lord attend us throughout the remainder of this conference, and when we go home may we take with us the advice and counsel and blessings which are given for our benefit, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

"After all that has been said, the greatest and most important duty is to 

preach the gospel." 

That was said by the prophet of the new dispensation in a council meeting of the priesthood in Kirtland on the 6th day of April, 1837. It was a meeting of the Apostles and a number of other brethren holding the priesthood, at which the Prophet had been speaking and setting in order the quorums of the priesthood and teaching them its doctrine, also straightening out some difficulties that had arisen in some of the quorums. He dwelt at great length upon these doctrines of the priesthood. He spoke on that occasion for nearly two hours, part of the time in severe reproof of some of the actions, of the brethren, and then afterwards in setting forth great doctrines pertaining to the priesthood, he uttered the words I have just read : 

"After all that has been said, the most important duty is to preach the gospel." 

The trend of thought in the several meetings we have held in this conference has been largely in the direction of giving encouragement and admonition to go on in the work of preaching the gospel, that has been restored in this great and new dispensation of it. And so this passage came to my mind from the history of the Church, and I have asked myself several times during the conference if there has been any change in respect to this matter mentioned by the prophet. Is it still true that "after all that has been said the most important thing is the preaching of the gospel"? 

In a number of the early revelations that were given in the Church about the time of its organization and the publication of the Book of Mormon, there is answer given to a number of personal questions, to brethren who had rendered some assistance to the Prophet in bringing forth the Book of Mormon. They saw his preparations being made for the organization of the Church, and they began to wonder what their relationship to the forthcoming work would be, what it would mean to them. The Prophet's brother, Hyrum, came making such inquiry; so did Joseph Knight, the grandfather of our "Uncle Jesse Knight," as we knew him here in our pleasant relations with him. The Prophet's father came to know what would be his lot and part in the forthcoming of the great work, and the Prophet by means of the Urim and Thummim, which he still had in his possession, made inquiry and told them what would be their lot and part; and there is this singular thing in all the answers that were given at that time through the divine instrument of revelation, through the inspired Prophet, that there was no promise made of material welfare and prosperity, no office promised to them, no honor among men, nothing that the heart of man naturally craves. The type of the answers in those several revelations, and there are some eight or ten of them, was the one given to Oliver Cowdery. The Lord said to him in the revelation given unto him as to what he should do in the new dispensation : 

"Many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which shall be of .most worth unto you is to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father. Amen." 

It was the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. 

Again to David Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery conjointly this was said : 

"Remember, the worth of souls is great in the sight of .God , 

"For behold, the Lord yotir Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

***** 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!" 

I take it that there has been no change in these principles; that it still holds good that great is the joy of the Lord in the soul that is brought to repentance: that it is still true that if one should labor his whole life and succeed in bringing only one soul to a knowledge of the truth and into the kingdom of God, great will be his joy in the kingdom of our Father; and that it is still true that the most important work in which man can engage is to declare repentance unto this people, that the ministry of this Church may bring souls unto God. Therefore, it is eminently fitting in this conference that our brethren should be inspired to emphasize this work of "preaching the gospel," and what the Prophet said in 1837 is still true, that "after all that has been said the most important thing is the preaching of the gospel." 

The strength and power of our Church and the progress it has made in the world and the great things that have been accomplished by it have been in due proportion to our adherence to this missionary spirit that prompts us so willingly to preach the gospel. 

Preaching the gospel is the dissemination of God's revealed truths, the messages of God, to the woflH. In the nature of the thing itself there could be no more important thing than to impart knowledge and wisdom of God unto the children of men, that it may save them to the uttermost. What could be more important than spreading abroad a knowledge of those enlightening truths which God has sent into the world through his appointed and inspired prophets? And I think I may say, for I feel it to be true, that in all the responsibilities and labors that have been placed upon the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, our people have not been more faithful in anything than they have been in this thing of preaching the gospel. I think the Lord is  pleased with his people for the responses they have made to this, call of his to send forth his messages of truth into the world, and I am delighted to see that the Church has responded also to the great spirit of the message that was to be delivered to the earth in the hour of God's judgment. St. John describes it as he saw it in vision when he declared that he had seen "another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, saying," and saying it with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who created heaven and earth, and the seas, and the fountains of water." 

It was God's call to the world to come to the worship of the trueand the living God, and it was to go to all people. And it was particularized so that there should be no mistake — it was to go to "every nation and kindred and tongue and people"; and the Church has responded to that splendid universal spirit and mission given to our Church in having the gospel restored to it. We have been practically to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. I have marveled sometimes in my own heart that we should remember the undeveloped peoples in the islands of the sea, even in the early decades of our history; that we should remember people with whose race and with whose national life we have little in sympathy. Yet, under the inspiration that goes with this work of preaching the gospel, the elders of the Church have been sent everywhere, and almost every land and race and nation has given up of its sons and daughters to be gathered to Zion to stand as witnesses unto God and to the world, that there is virtue and spiritual power in this gospel that has been restored in these days; and that it has taken hold of the splendid spirit of the fatherhood for the human race; and by our universal proclamation of the gospel we have borne witness to the world that God is interested in all humanity, that he is no respecter of persons. In that spirit the Church has labored. 

I rejoice greatly in the report of President Grant in regard to the building program of the Church, by which in very many of the missions, almost in all of them, there have been churches erected to the name of the Most High God. I have a thought in relation to that work which came to me while we were dedicating some of the chapels which were builded in the Eastern States Mission while I was its president; and we never dedicated a church, however humble it was, but what I felt and said, that here we were erecting an altar, not unto the unknown God, but to the known Father of the human race, the God of heaven, whose Son Jesus Christ is. And all through the land where we build these chapels we are erecting altars to the known God, to which the people may come and find the truth and be instructed therein. I rejoice in every chapel that is builded, another altar to the known God, a center to which the people may come and receive the truth. In this spirit we are erecting these chapels as altars to God in the midst of the people. The Savior said that the kingdom of heaven was like unto leaven that the woman hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened, filled with life. And so in this blessed land of ours, the land of Zion, these chapels, meeting places, these temples, are so many altars unto God, calling the inhabitants of the earth to the worship of the true and the living God. For it is the plain implication in the vision of St. John on Patmos that the whole world had departed from the worship of the true God and must needs be called back to the worship of the true and living God. 

Whenever I pass this temple, walk alongside of it and contemplate its towers, its architectural beauty — of course I remember primarily that it is the House of the Lord wherein the sacred mysteries of heaven are revealed for the instruction of men, and holy ordinances for the living and for the dead are performed — but I hold it as sacred in my heart as I look upon it; and I have another thought in connection with it, and that is that it is a mass testimony of a whole people, a testimony to the world that God has spoken, and that he has revealed his truths once more for the salvation of men and has ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times. It is a mass — a community testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and becomes a witness wherever even the counterfeit presentment of its architectural beauty is published to the world. I love the temple as a testimony to the world of God's great new dispensation of his gospel, and the other temples also partake of the same glory and power and spirit. 

Now, I am taking too much time on these things. There is something else I wanted to say, and it is this: We have been abundantly admonished in this conference to give attention to the preaching of the* gospel and to the living of its principles; but I am emphasizing the matter of preaching it to the world. Since, however, we are so admonished in this our latest conference to regard this part of the work of the Lord, what is necessary on our part to get imbued with this spirit of preaching the gospel? 

In the early decades of the Church there were existing conditions that contributed mightily to the spiritual life and upholding of the zeal and hopes of the people, but things that are not so prevalent now in our midst. For example, in the first years of the existence of the Church, the fact that we were proclaiming that God had spoken again, that a new revelation had been given — the truth of that was immediately challenged. Ministers of the gospel set themselves to work to prove that the volume of scripture was completed and forever closed, and, therefore, there was no room for the Book of Mormon, and there was no occasion for the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The awful voice of prophecy had ceased. There were to be no more prophets. The volume of scripture was completed and forever closed. Well, we won that victory. It was not difficult to do so. The evidence of the scriptures and the genius of the gospel of Jesus Christ itself demanded a continual revelation if the spiritual life of the Church was to be maintained; and so our early elders obtained an easy victory over those who assailed us on that point. But the thought of a new revelation was a novel one; it attracted the attention of the world; it 

ELDER BRlGHAM H. ROBERTS 87 

became a center of interest. We were witnesses of it. Well, I say that battle was easily won, and we hear little today of objection against the idea that God's power is just as great in modern times as in ancient times, and there are very few who will undertake to disprove the possibility or even the probability of continuous revelation. 

Also in those early decades we had in our minds the idea of finding and establishing Zion, and afterward, through the revelations of God, we found where the center place would be and could bear witness of that; and some of the saints from the East gathered into Jackson County and founded the city of Zion, where a temple was to be built, the plans of which were revealed to the Prophet. Then came on persecution and expulsion from Jackson County. 

Then the great point of interest for a number of years was "the redemption of Zion" and the re-establishment of the saints upon their lands and the building of the city and the temple. Well, that does not now play so important a part in the message we have for the world in the preaching of the gospel. 

Also we had revealed to us the doctrine, the great doctrine, of consecration of all our possessions and the receiving back of a stewardship from our consecrations. We had a desire to see the wealth that should be created by the hands of the people more justly distributed, so that there would be less distinction of rich and poor in the Church, and that there might be a community of interests and a community of resources from which the welfare of the people could be provided. That occupied our attention for a number of years. But we are not saying so much about that now. It is in the background of things, a part of the new dispensation, just as the redemption of Zion is. But what I wish to say is that these several things are not at present what you would call live issues with us. We are not giving much attention to those things now. 

Again in the early decades of the Church the people were led to believe almost in the immediate coming, the glorious coming, of the Lord Jesus Christ in power and great glory, and that the time was near at hand. Indeed there were many who fixed upon about the time when he would come. Well, we still believe in the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but we do not very often refer to it in these days, and it is not so particularly influencing our actions and our faith as it did in times past. The Lord will come when he will come, and that he will come we are assured. The time of it is in his hands, where we feel that we can safely let it rest. Indeed, we must needs leave it there because it is part of the revelation of God unto the world that no man knoweth the day nor the hour of his coming, no, not even the angels in heaven. So I say we leave that in the hands of God. 

Also we looked in those times past to a rather wonderful and dramatic gathering of the Ten Tribes of Israel, with mountains of ice flowing down before their presence and their coming in great numbers, with the everlasting hills trembling at their presence, and all that. Perhaps we have not always attributed sufficient importance to the imagery of poetry and revelation in giving interpretation to these scenes. Well, the Ten Tribes of Israel, if they are to come in that manner, will come when they will, and the Lord will bring them. 

But now, what is the situation that confronts us in the matter of preaching the gospel ? Why, we are reaching more fundamental things than these. We have discovered from the remarks of the brethren in this conference that the world is ignorant of the nature of God the Father, ignorant of the nature of the Lord Jesus Christ. Few Christians believe that the resurrected Redeemer is today what he was at the time of his resurrection, a union of spirit with his beautiful personality of body, and the two united in an immortal, indestructible, foreverliving Son of Cod. They believe rather that the splendid personality — splendid as it is represenated in the New Testament to be — had been dissolved into some indefinable essence, such as the rose, as it decays, dissolves and gives off a beautiful perfume with which it dies, and which to produce it must needs die. And so the Son of God has become an indefinable presence, merely; while the splendid personality which stood before his apostles when he gloriously said as a resurrected personage : "All power is given to me in heaven and earth. Go now and preach the gospel to every nation, and lo, I am with you to the end of the world," for many Christians has passed out of tangible existence, and God has become a diffused essence through the world. Well, they don't know the truth about God and Jesus Christ, whom to know is declared to be life eternal. 

We have heard from some of the brethren here and have read that men do not know and may not hope to know the purposes of God in creation. Men confess that they do not know whether the resurrection is to bring to pass personal immortality or whether men, too, are going to pass off into something like an essence, or be dispelled into ordinary elements of some kind or other about which they know little or nothing. 

These great fundamental truths in relation to God and man and the resurrection from the dead; and "how we shall spend eternity," and "what we shall do there" — they are ignorant of these things. And so the Lord God, early in the history of this new dispensation, told his ministers, (years before the Prophet announced that the most important thing was to preach the gospel) what it would be necessary for them to do in order to be prepared to preach the gospel. The Lord said to them: 

"I give unto you a commandment — " 

These were elders waiting for the time to go out into the mission field— 

"I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; 

"Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things  have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." 

And now, why invite this group of elders into this very extended field of knowledge and admonish them to be faithful in their studies in all these things that go back into the past, that deal with the present, which extend into the future, a knowledge of kingdoms and governments and countries and laws of men, things in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, which embrace all possible fields of knowledge? Why did God give this admonition to these elders? Listen to the answer : 

"That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you. 

"Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who has been warned to warn his neighbor." 

And also in that sermon of the Prophet's wherein he told the elders that the greatest thing was to preach the gospel. "All," said he, "are to preach the gospel by the power and influence of the Holy Ghost." "None can preach the gospel without the Holy Ghost." 

So now, there is our work of preparation set before us, and that is the immediate duty and work of the priesthood of God, to make preparation, to constitute yourselves an intelligent ministry, operating and testifying in the power of the Holy Ghost. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

A vocal solo, "Lord, remember me," was sung by Arnold Blackner. 

The congregation then sang "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." > 

Elder James Duckworth, President of the Blackfoot stake, offered the closing prayer. 


