Overflow
04 04 1920


An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m., Sunday morning, April 4, presided over by Elder Richard R. Lyman, of the Council of the Twelve. 

The singing was furnished by the Ogden Tabernacle Choir, Professor Joseph E. Ballantyne, conductor. 

The choir song, "Come Unto Me," solo, by Agnes Warner. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Antone Christensen. 

The choir sang, "O, Love Divine," solo by Mildred Ware. 

ELDER JAMES DUCKWORTH 

(President of the Blackfoot Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters. I feel very keenly my responsibility in being invited to make a few remarks to this splendid body of Latter-day Saints; and I realize that without the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, it will be impossible for me to discharge acceptably to the Lord this great responsibility. I therefore crave an interest in your faith and prayers, to the end that there may be no impediment whatever in the enjoyment of that Spirit today, to which we are entitled on all such occasions, and that always leads and guides into all truth. 

I have been profoundly impressed by the large attendance, not only in this building but in the larger tabernacle, in spite of the inclemency of the weather, and I have been asking myself the ques, What does this mean, that so many people are gathered from far and near upon these grounds? I call to mind that which you no doubt have already thought of, that it is one hundred years ago, this spring, since the Prophet Joseph Smith received that wonderful manifestation of the Father and the Son, at which time the great Latterday work was ushered in. He was blessed more than any other man that we have knowledge of in seeing the Father and the Son, both personally before him, one of whom, the Son, told him in reply to his query, that none of the sects of the earth then extant were right; and he became the instrument in the hands of the Lord in establishing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are not all privileged to enjoy the same manifestation which he enjoyed, but through the establishment of that work, the Church of Jesus Christ, there has been placed within the reach of all of our Father's children, a knowledge of the divinity of the work that the Prophet Joseph Smith was instrumental in establishing upon the earth; and I have been thinking seriously of that phase of the great Latter-day work. 

The question has been raised in outside quarters, what is it that holds the Latter-day Saints together? What is it that gives strength and stability to "Mormonism?" Because, contrary to the expectation of those who hope for the failure and the downfall of the latter-day work, with the growing years and the advancement of time, it seems to gather in strength and stability with promise of perpetuity for all time. 

I recall an incident in the life of the Savior, familiar to all of you, found in the 16th chapter of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, which reads: 

When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of man, am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him. Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 

As it was in those days, so it is in these days, flesh and blood cannot reveal unto men and women a knowledge of the divinity of the personality of the Lord Jesus .Christ, or of the existence of God our Eternal Father and a knowledge of his character and attributes. Men, by human learning and human seeking, cannot find out these things which pertain to divinity. There is a way provided, however, in the divine providence of the Father whereby men may come to a knowledge of the truth, and know these things for themselves, and that way is open to the Latter-day Saints and to all men and women. Flesh and blood cannot give to men and women a knowledge of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith; man-wisdom alone cannot bring that knowledge to our Father's children. But there is a way provided whereby a knowledge of that great truth can be brought within the reach of every man and woman, and that way is pointed out in .the incident to which I have called attention : "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." He is my Father in heaven, and if we will do right today, he is just as willing- to bless us with the knowledge of his divinity as he was willing to bless the Apostle Peter with a knowledge of the divinity of the Savior. 

So, in answer to the query, wherein does the strength of "Mormonism" lie? my answer would be this, that it lies in the individual testimony that is given to all Latter-day Saints who will honestly and prayerfully and righteously live for that same divine testimony. That testimony does not depend upon our learning, nor upon our education. That testimony does not depend upon family relationship nor worldly possessions. It depends upon conditions that every man and woman can comply with. If we will exercise faith in God the eternal Father, if we will repent in all sincerity of our shortcomings and our transgressions, if we will go down into the waters and receive baptism by immersion, by one having authority, for the remission of our sins; if we then shall receive the imposition of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and live in such a way that his influence shall be with us and abide with us, we shall know for ourselves whether or not this work is of God the eternal Father, and whether the Savior has spoken in divine right, and is indeed the Savior of the world; and no power of man can take this knowledge from the Latter-day Saints. We may know these things for ourselves, and we are not dependent upon any other man or any other men in all the world for a knowledge of these things; and if there is one thing that we should prize above another, it is that testimony which our heavenly Father has promised unto us. We need it; we are not safe without it, in this day of contending creeds and conflicting opinions, with reference to matters religious. It is of the utmost importance that our feet should be planted upon a foundation that cannot be moved, that is safe and solid beyond all question; and that is the foundation of this great Latter-day work, that is the foundation upon which your faith and mine is placed, and until it rests upon that foundation it is not secure. It is given unto every man and every woman and to every boy and girl, for the Lord is no respecter of persons, and "in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." Thus, when our elders go into .the nations of the earth, they make the promise to all nations, that that testimony is within the reach of our Father's children; and in our testimony meetings, as they are held throughout the length and breadth of Zion, the Saints from England, from Scotland, from Belgium, from any and every other part of the world in which the gospel has been preached, bear record of the same truth, that in the land from which they came the Holy Ghost is enjoyed by those who have accepted the truth. They all bear the same testimony of the goodness of God to them' in o-rving to them a knowledge of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the divinity of the great Latter-day work that he was in in initiating upon the earth. And so long- as we enjoy that testimony we shall never be led astray; for this is God's work, it is not the work of man. It is the work of the Almighty, and he will take care of it, and it will never fall, no matter what its enemies may hope and pray to the contrary. 

Upon another occasion, the Savior was confronted with a defection in the ranks of those who had been his professed believers, and turning to the Twelve, he said to them, "And will ye also go away?" And Peter, that same apostle that was so impetuous on all occasions, said, "Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words 'of eternal life." So it is today. Outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where shall we go? For in this work is found the words of eternal life, for it is indeed the work of God, and it has to deal with everything that is essential to the growth and the happiness of our Father's children, in temporalities as well as spiritualities, for the Lord is interested in all that concerns your happiness and mine. He is our Father in very deed, and in the establishment of his work upon the earth in these days he has in mind not only the spiritual welfare of his children, but also their temporal welfare; and through his servants from time to time he gives unto us his mind and will. 

And here I want to bear testimony to the character of his servants as they have been placed in the Church in the past, and as they exist in the Church today. I know that these men are men of God. I know that they give to the Latter-day Saints the revelations of the Lord, the mind and will of God, the Father, and that in so far as we will abide by the counsels which they are inspired to give unto us from time to time we shall be continually in the path of eternal life; that we shall enjoy real happiness in this life and prepare ourselves for that which is greater in the life to come. I do not know of the divinity of the Latter-day work by what any man has said to me; but I know as I live that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, and that his successors in the presidency have been and are prophets of the living God, for the inspiration of the Almighty has given into my soul that knowledge, to my complete and absolute satisfaction. I pray the Lord that he will bless the Latter-day Saints, that he will help us to be true to the opportunities we enjoy, that his Spirit will ever be with us through- our lives, and that in the end we will all receive that welcome plaudit, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Ogden tabernacle choir sang : "Lead, Kindly Light." 

ELDER OSCAR A. KIRKHAM 

(Executive Director of the Y. M .M. I. A.) 

It is certainly an inspiration to look out upon this great sea of faces. I sincerely trust that God will bless me with his Holy Spirit for the few minutes that I address you, and that you in turn may know what I am talking about. 

The great teacher, Karl G. Maeser, said : "It is not what is said so much that counts, but how it is received." It is how you receive what shall be spoken here this morning, and what has been spoken, not so much the words, but how they are received, and how they pour virtue into our lives, that counts. 

I want to make an appeal for the people that are dearest and nearest to your hearts, the boys and girls of this Church. This wonderful story has come from the great world war: When the Hun came knocking at the gates of Belgium, and tore into that wonderfully fortified city of Liege, the word went rapidly out to France, that every Frenchmen must take his gun and hurry to defend his fatherland. There was no time to go to training camps; there was no time to go to splendid places like our boys have had an opportunity to go to, and study for a time and prepare themselves. But every Frenchman must take his gun at once and hurry to the front. Away down in Southern France, a father met this call, said good-bye to his wife, Marie, and his only boy, a lad of 16 years, Noal; The Hun came tearing on through Northern France, until finally he had driven the armies to the river Marne. Then there arose that great leader Joffre, who spoke these wonderfully inspiring words, "They shall not pass!" And every Frenchman's heart was thrilled, and each was determined that he would give his last drop of blood, if need be, to hold that land. In the midst of this terrible conflict, this father, with many other fathers, fell. The line was held, the great battle was over, and when this father came from the hospital his ami was gone, and through his body bullets had torn a terrible hole. He went back to his humble home in Southern France. At the gate he met his wife, Marie, in tears, and yet they resolved that they would fight anew. 

And then the father said, "Yes, but where is Noal, where is Noal!" 

And the mother replied : "O, when you went away he became a law unto himself. He would not listen to me. He went off into the city; he spent the money, and there he is now, in the hospital, the result of his sin and riotous living." 

Then that French father said these wonderful words: "My God, what have I been fighting for?" 

What did 50,000 American men give their lives for, and millions in Flander's field, and thousands of them, of our splendid American youth? For something that we call liberty? For something that we call the privilege of men to go and come, a statute on a book, a written page, the understanding of nations? It was for the youth. It was for them we bled, for whom the world indeed bled and suffered; your boys and your girls. Who shall reap that harvest of peace and progress which God has in store for this world, in years that are before us, in the preparation for his personal coming to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords? That day is coming, and there is a marvelous day preceding it, the day of preparation. There is not  man or a woman in this audience today but who would give help in this important preparation, and the help is just so simple: it is just taking care of the boy that you are going to meet when you go back home, and the girl that you are going to meet there. And if every father might get it deep into his heart, the absolute necessity of knowing where they are and what they are doing, he'll make a real contribution, not only to the honor of his name but to the citizenship of this splendid Church and Nation of ours. 

Now, I am very much interested in some definite programs that have been prepared for the boy scout work, that this uniform represents, for I happen to be the representative of some couple of thousands of boys in Salt Lake City as well as in other parts. An excellent program! Have you got it in your wards? Do your boys follow that program ? A person told me the other evening that the program of seeking out boy scouts increased the efficiency of priesthood quorums in his ward; it had meant an increased attendance from 4 to 48; that it had increased attendance at Sunday schools; that it made a real contribution not only to the boys themselves but to the great work of the Church and its auxiliaries. It may be said by some bishops: "We do not want any scouting among our boys; our boys are well enough." Well, these bishops do not understand. We called at a meeting where the boys of- such a bishop were, and, they were tearing up the benches. He, in his despair cried, "Sit down!" This good old bishop, after what he said about not wanting this program, finally planted a number of those boys down on a bench. I took a rope out of my pocket, and tied a knot, and I said, "Can you tie that knot?" And one rough fellow said, "Ah, nuts! What are you going to do?" and never took any interest in it! I took no notice of it, but tied another knot, a more complicated one. And then another fellow said, "Can you tie that again?" I said, "Sure." And I got another piece of rope. It wasn't two minutes until every boy was so quiet you could hear the old clock tick upon the wall, and the bishop was just as anxious as he could be to get hold of a piece of rope himself! 

Yes, we cannot just say, "Be good," to Johnny and Mary: we must think out many things for them to do. The busy boy is an interested boy, he is a safe boy. We have had 800 of them up at the University of Utah this week. -My, you should have seen them, as they went to the swim, and how they were taught to save life. They enjoyed these things as many, many boys do now in this Church. One boy in Arizona dug his father from under a load of hay, and taught him a better method of respiration, and when a doctor came, and saw what the boy had done; he said, "You have saved the life of that man, your father, my boy." Their hearts were all bent on doing that type of thing. 

You say, the youth of the land are becoming wayward; the girls go out in automobiles in the summer time, and many of them fall, and the boys are a law unto themselves. Let me say this, in all the sincerity of my soul, that it is not "Lost, a Boy," but "Lost, a Leader." The responsibility is ours; it belongs to us; and when God opens the book of life we will be astonished and surprised to know that our hearts were bent on things that we thought were bigger, and we left undone and uncared for the greatest responsibility that God gave us, the keeping of our children. 

May God help us to remember when we look into their faces that they are ours, that God gives them to us not only to clothe and to school and to discipline as we meet them at the table, perhaps, but they are ours to walk with, ours to play with; they are ours to pray with, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER S. NORMAN LEE 

(President of the Box Elder Stake of Zion.) 

I think it very fitting, at this time, to refer to the resurrection of the Savior; in fact, to the atonement; and I wish to express myself concerning the fitness of these very modest decorations upon the stand. I had forgotten all about this being Easter — it was snowing outside- and I saw these flowers; that reminded me of the great work done in the meridian of time for the human family, the light of which has reflected even unto our day. I have no notion of saying very much about the atonement at the present time, except to use it as an introduction to the restoration of the gospel through the medium and instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I remember very well the story of the interest the Prophet took in the propaganda of various religious denominations in the vicinity of his home town, when he was a boy about 14 years of age, and the concern that he felt about allying himself with one sect or another. And I recall very particularly the words of the Savior to him at the time of the vision in the sacred grove, that he was to join none of the sects in the world at that time, because they observed only a form of godliness; that they drew near unto him with their lips but their hearts were far from him. 

I have heard one of the authorities of the Church in this day remark that we do not say prayers. Now, I think perhaps that he was anxious to impress upon us the futility of words; that if we observe to speak our prayers only, we are as the people in that day, who drew near unto the Lord with their lips, but their hearts were far from him. What this brother desired to impress upon us is that prayers come from the heart, and are acted out. This lesson has remained with me, but I do not think that it excludes the utterance of the fulness of the heart because there is a danger of forgetting the Lord, except with our mouths. I think that the utterance of the prayers that are in our hearts should not be excluded for that reason. I regard prayer as one of the most important observances of the people of the Lord, and I cannot understand, after twenty-five years as a servant of the Lord in active service, how Latter-day Saints can be content to go about their daily duties without the expression of the fulness of their hearts in prayer. I cannot understand how people expect to make  progress in this Church without prayer, which is the key to the Father's heart. 

In Box Elder we are detached from the busy world, which the people in the center stakes of Zion - are subjected to, and I think we live a simpler life. I believe we live a more simple life than that which I discover in my visits to the larger cities of Salt Lake and Ogden. We are more simple as a rule in our dress — with some few exceptions. Of course, we have imitators among us, just the same as we have imitators everywhere; and some of them make monkeys of themselves in trying to imitate, because that is the particular function of a monkey or an ape. So those who do that do not imitate, exactly. Our stake numbers about seven thousand. We are mostly farmers and fruit growers. We talk simply to one another and directly. When I have occasion to say to a bishop in the stake that he is not doing quite what he is required to do, I say to. him: "Bishop, you are not toeing the mark, you are not up to the scratch," instead of saying, "Bishop, we have a great work to perform in the Church. We require all of the force available. We must all work together, and do the very best we can. Now, you are doing splendidly in this ward. You are a very fine bishop. The people love you, and the authorities of the Church love you; but now, bishop, in this department here, there is something that is not quite right. I do not suppose you are to blame for it, it probably has escaped your notice," etc. We do not do that sort of thing up there. Although I am a very young man comparatively, I say, "Bishop, buck up, and see that that thing is attended to." And we said to one a short time ago, "Now, bishop, we expect you to bear the responsibility of the progress of your ward, and we do not expect you to come to us and complain about any officer you have in your ward. That is your business, do not bother us with it. But we hold you directly accountable." Well, at first some of our bishops said, "Do not come and interfere with any of our meetings, if you are going to hold us responsible. Do not bring speakers of the general authorities, especially on a night when our officers are supposed to be attending to that we are responsible for, and thereby interrupt things for which we are responsible in our ward." 

Now, I am just endeavoring to get at a point I wish to make in reference to prayer. I probably have gone a long way around to it; whereas, my habit is to go directly to the point. But I believe in the simplicity of the utterance of the prayer that is in our hearts. I do no think we need deal -with the Lord in forms of generality. I think the Lord understands what is in our hearts. In fact, the scriptures say so. He understands what we need before we ask it, but he requires that we ask for the things that we need, and therein lies a line of development. We learn to know thereby the things that are good for us, and that are not good for us. We learn to draw near unto the Lord, and also learn what would estrange us from the Lord and erect a barrier between us and him. 

And so in our teachings in the Box Elder stake, we have directed our people to be quite simple in their expressions and utterances of what is in their hearts; and, to set an example to the stake, the presidency do that. And when something com.es up regarding the conduct of some one in the Church — say a high councilor, or bishop, — because that makes the matter more effective, they being more prominent than others — when one of them becomes hard to control, or insists upon doing something he should not do, we go before the Lord and say: "Father, help us that we may be able to reach that man, and set him right. He is wrong, we know that. But in our wisdom and intelligence and ability, we are unable to set him right. We have tried it, and we have not been able to succeed. Now, Father, we would like to have you help us in this matter. It is not a matter of selfishness; it is a matter of the welfare of the Church. We do not desire to be set up before the people as great men. We want to be known among thy people here in this stake where we live as the most serviceable and democratic of all. Now, Father, if you will help us do this, we shall do all that we can do." 

And then, instead of waiting for a miraculous manifestation in answer to that prayer, we use all the judgment that the Lord has blessed us with, and we go about our work, and the testimony that T want to bear is that it has. resulted in good. We do not wait until we are urged, but we go ahead and use our intelligence and the wisdom God has blessed us with, but we do not wish to use that intelligence independently of the Lord. That is the point I wish to make. 

Now, the Prophet Joseph was simple. The Savior used simplicity in prayer. One of the things that I think has discouraged young people in reference to prayer is that in our wards we find almost half of our people who do not observe family prayer. A few years ago it was thought an achievement to be eloquent in prayer, to repeat high platitudes, something that had been memorable in the Church, and it took a long while to use these things, and the young people grew tired. I remember in a family I belonged to that I dreaded to have a certain one called upon to be "mouth" at prayers in the morning, because I was very sure to be tired, and by the time it was over I would perhaps be found sitting upon the floor instead of kneeling. One thing T admire is simplicity in prayer. Indeed, I think it is very necessary. I do not understand how parents can expect to have the influence over their children that they should have if they do not- engage in family prayers. Now, I am not authorized to speak authoritatively upon this point, because we are advised not to shout until we are safely out of danger. My family is just growing up, but they have grown up far enough so that I know, that without family prayers I should have lost much of the grip upon them that I have. I know there is a way to prevent young people from breaking away, and even if they should get loose, there is a way whereby one may regain control of his children, through the medium of prayer. I have seen many incipient quarrels nipped in the bud, or quarrels stopped after they had begun, by the family prayer in the morning or in the evening; and ill feelings in the family have been stopped, and not been started again, because who can fall down and direct a prayer to the Lord with hard  in his heart? His heart may feel s'ore and hard when he kneels down, but those feelings are sure to be banished, and he is sure to displace those feelings by the feeling that he is in communion with his Father in heaven. 

I wish I could preach this sermon on prayer to the Saints everywhere, that men might be induced to turn from their carelessness and enter seriously into this form of devotion which has been established in the Church. I have written of it for many years past, in an ordinary newspaper. I have written of it in Church periodicals where I have had an opportunity, because it is close to my heart. I believe with all my soul in the effectiveness of sincere, simple prayer, and I believe after three years of experience in the Box Elder stake, that we can go into any part of the stake and receive evidence there, beyond question, of the loyalty arid faithfulness of the Saints. That is a testimony to me that our prayers have been answered, because we never attempt to pray before the Saints without having prepared ourselves -through the medium of prayer. And we do not think prayer alone is sufficient. 

The Lord has said, Take no thought what ye shall say, for it shall be given unto you in the very hour what we shall say; but lay up continually the words of life that you may have something to draw upon. 

I wish to say, in conclusion, that there is .not anything that I desire for myself that I do not desire for every member of this Church, and for that matter, for every member of the human family. I have spent some years in carrying the message of truth to those who sit in darkness. I have seen some of the fruits of my labors, and there would be nothing dearer to me than to spend all my days in preaching the truth to those who are ready to receive it. May that spirit take hold of this people, because, in my opinion, there is going to be such a call for missionaries as the Church has never experienced before, and we are going to be sent into every part of the world. A great many of us are going to know the truth of the work from actual experience, and a great many are going to suffer one way and another for the testimony of the truth; and I am preaching to the people to make reservations for a few years to be devoted to the work of the ministry among those who are in darkness; and may God bless this people and all who are active in the work of the Lord, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir, with Myrtle Higley and Mildred Ware, sang, "Now Jesus Loved Martha and her Sister and Lazarus." 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK 

(President of the Cassia Stake of Zion) 

This conference marks the 90th year since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I feel very happy to be present and partake of the spirit that is always present with the Latter-day Saints when they assemble together for the purpose of being - instructed in the work of the Lord. 

I have listened with very much interest to the remarks of the previous speakers, and see in them very much food for reflection, and they should be a means of valuable suggestion to all present that have listened to them. 

This passage of scripture came to my mind while Elder Kirkham was addressing us upon the importance of our boys and our girls, "What doth it profit a man, though he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul, and what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" This sentence was uttered by the Redeemer, after he had ima'dse a survey qf the conditions then existing in the world, and I think, looking down the stream of time to the age in which we live, and viewing ambitions and aspirations, aims, and means and ways adopted by the children of men for the accumulation of wealth, realizing that where their treasure is shall their hearts be also, this sentence comes to us not only as an interrogation, but it comes as a very strong warning. It comes to us bearing with it its own answer. There is no person who can read that sentence, and not receive the answer in the same spirit in which the question is written; and the thought that came to my mind in this connection was with reference to us as parents in Israel — what shall it profit us, though we gain honor, renown, popularity, and place, and means to gratify our vain ambitions, and lose our sons and our daughters? And what shall we give in exchange for their souls ? 

The Lord has told us in one of the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the responsibility of the early training of the boys and girls rests upon the heads of the parents; and that if we fail in that responsibility, and our children should go astray later on in life, the condemnation will be ours. I think that is an inevitable, definite law. I remember the remarks made by our Father in heaven to Enoch, when he told him of his work and of his desires, they were summed up in a very few words, the work that the Lord had gone to in the' firmament and in beautifying the earth, in making the trees to grow and providing grain for food and means for the manufacture of wearing apparel of the people, and all that we wish and have around about us.. The Lord in forming all these, and in creating man, placing him on the earth, and giving him laws, commandments and precepts, made a history of the past that is a great criterion for man to follow. It resolved itself into these words: "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." Now, I take it from that sentence that all this that the Lord is doing and all that he has so far accomplished in the earth, in the great fall, in the bringing to pass of the immortality and the eternal life of man, that the plan would be a failure, be fruitless indeed, and esteemed for naught, if parents do not do their duty. I see parents who, when their children become a little reckless, get hold of the false spirit that everything is natural. I think it has come to us in an old tale, from away back in the mystic history of the early days of Greece. When 

Hercules was a boy, just reaching the period of life when there was a question in his mind which path he should pursue, he went forth by himself, and sat down and meditated. There came to him the temptation pictured to us in the form of a beautiful young woman. She came to him and said, "Hercules, I know what you want; the path that I will point out to you will bring pleasure, will bring you constant place in society, will bring the choice things of life, to eat and to drink and clothing to wear, and you shall be popular in the society in which you shall move, arid your whole life will be one constant round of pleasure." But he said to her, "What is your name?" And in reply, she said, "My enemies call me vice, but my friends call me pleasure." Then there appeared to him another beautiful woman, and she said to Hercules, "I shall not deceive you; the path that I shall point out to you will be a path of labor, a path of toil, a path of selfsacrifice, a path in which you will have to devote a great deal of your effort and energy; you will have to forget yourself; you will have to serve your friends; you will have to serve the people of Greece; but if you will take this path and pursue it, although it may bring to you much sweat and toil and much privation and many self-sacrifices, you shall become immortal." Then he said, "What is your name?" She replied, "My name is duty." 

Now, I think this same spirit comes into the lives of many of our boys and girls during the age of adolescence; so I say, when parents see a disposition among the young people to go their own way, to do as they please, as they express it, parents should not give them the lines, so to speak, relinquish to them all of their parental care, and permit the boys, like a wild team, to run away. I wonder how many of our fathers, when they have a team which tries to run away, let loose the lines and let them go. Not many. I think our common sense would suggest the importance of taking a similar course to prevent the running astray of some of our boys. I have always believed that if our parents are honest in their religion; if they have their conscience in the work that they are doing, and if they will go before the Lord, as has been stated here by President Lee, in constant supplication; though their sons and daughters may go wild and recreant for a time, the Lord will always bring themi back, and will save them. If we have taken our part in teaching them the principles of the gospel and in training them in the ways they should go, I believe that the Lord will take hold and help us by his divine power, and will bring them back; and our glory will be materially increased in the future. If we are successful in this life, it seems to me, in the rearing of an honorable family of boys and girls, men and women who are instruments in the hands of the Lord in helping to bring about his work, and helping to bring about his purposes in the earth, that will be accounted successful. Our success will not be counted by our public show or our popularity among men, but there is more in the fact of the proper rearing of families, the exercising of a righteous and wholesome influence all our lives upon those who are round about us, that our lives may radiate the spirit and the impression that will make the young people better men and women in the future than they have been in the past, and will be a credit to us in the future. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the truth and in the opportunity that has been given to the Latter-day Saints to live acceptable lives before the Lord. If we are successful in this, and especially during these times through which we are passing, I believe that the few words expressed through the Prophet Daniel, by the Lord, after the Lord had shown him the great vision of war and turmoil that were coming into the world and through which we are passing at the present time, will apply. He makes this simple statement, conveying a volume of thought to ever - Latter-day Saint, that those who are faithful during these times among the Latter-day Saints shall shine with the brightness of the firmament, while those who turn many to righteousness shall shine as the stars for ever and ever. 

May we devote our lives to this work that these blessings may come to us, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Earth and Heaven." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles B. Stewart. 


