Afternoon
05 04 1920


ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"Even so, I have sent mine everlasting covenant into the world to be a light unto the world and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it, and to be a messenger before my face to prepare the way before me." 

AN ENSIGN TO THE NATIONS. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was scarcely one year old when that declaration was made through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph. He himself was but twenty-six years of age. It is a marvelous declaration, great in its pretension, comprehensive in its scope: "Mine everlasting covenant" (the gospel), is sent into the world "to be a light unto the world, to be a standard for my people and for the Gentiles to seek to it." 

On Bedloe Island, at the entrance of New York harbor, there stands the Statue of Liberty, a light to the nations. What it has meant to thousands and hundreds of thousands of the down-trodden of Europe has been most graphically expressed by Israel Zangwill in that impressive production, The Melting Pot. I shall read a few words. David the emigrant, the little Russian Jew, is speaking: 

All my life America was waiting, beckoning, shining, the place where God would wipe away tears from off all faces. To think that the same great torch of Liberty which threw its light across all the seas and lands into my little garret in Russia is shining also for all those other weeping millions of Europe, shining wherever men hunger and are oppressed, shining over the starving villages of Italy and Ireland, over the swarming, starving cities of Poland and Galicia, over the ruined farms of Romania, 115  the Shambles of Russia. When I look at our Statue of Liberty, I just seem to hear the voice of America crying: "come unto me all ye who are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest, rest." 

What inat Statue of Liberty symbolizes to the oppressed and down-trodden of Europe, the gospel of Jesus Christ is to the world. "Mormonism," so-called, has reared an ensign to the nations and, with words as comprehensive as those I have read in the revelation, invites the 1 world to peace, to rest, to contentment. 

TO WHOM DOES THE ENSIGN NOW WAVE? 

High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; Ye nations, now look up; 

It waves to all the world; In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land — On Zion's mount behold it stand! 

Then hail to Deseret! 

A refuge for the good, And safety for the great, 

If they but understood That God with plagues will shake the world Till all its thrones shall down be hurled. 

And to whom does that Ensign now wave? To what sort of world does the beacon-light of the everlasting gospel extend its invitation? A mew world, or rather a world struggling to make itself new. The terrible war that has just passed was but the birth-pangs — and now the world is ready to be reborn. "We stand at a creative moment in human history," says Sherwood Eddy. "Never before has the whole world had the chance to make all things new, old customs and contentions, old rules and ruts, old traditions and enslavements have been broken forever. We are living in the birth-pangs of a world struggling to be reborn, and the issues of our time will reach into eternity." 

I believe that mankind today is earnestly seeking after the truth. I believe, notwithstanding some of the terrible conditions that prevail across the sea, and even here in our own United States, that the efforts men are putting forth are but the results of yearning souls desiring to know the truth. The truth is the child that is to be born, and I believe that most of these men are honest in their desires to claim it as their own. 

MANY HONEST SEEKING FOR TRUTH BUT CANNOT FIND IT. 

Leading thinkers and statesmen are calling upon mankind everywhere to get back to the religious ideals, and yet when men come back to the churches they find that when they ask for bread they are given only a stone. Doctor Joseph Post Newton makes this startling declaration, regarding the ineffectiveness of the churches to reach these struggling souls: "Twenty per cent of. the pastors, who were with us before the war, have resigned to enter other occupations. Of the one hundred and ten million people in the United States, not more GENERAL CONFERENCE.  forty-four million attend services in any religious denomination." And the editor of the World Outlook thinks this: "A very liberal estimate. There are today," continues Dr. Newton, "three million fewer children attending Sunday school in the United States than before the war." And then the editor of the paper quoted makes this significant remark : 

If anything is evident it is that Protestantism is going to pieces faster than the tale can be told or the figures be compiled. The great majority of people, and of intelligent people, have lost all confidence in existing churches and have washed their hands of them for good. If religion is to be saved a revolution in thought and methods and organization must take place, no less complete than that of the Protestant reformation. The times are ripe for a second Martin Luther to do to Protestantism today what the first Luther did to Catholicism yesterday. 

WHERE THE TRUTH MAY BE FOUND. 

On the face of that condition, we have this declaration, made ninety years ago, that "the Everlasting Covenant, the gospel, is to be a light to the world and is to be a standard for my people and for the Gentiles to seek to it." If this is truly the light for which the world is seeking, it is well to realize that never before has there been such a responsibility upon you men, upon you women, who assume to declare that already in the world is the truth for which the world is struggling. What you claim must be substantiated by facts. The tree must be judged by its fruit, and mankind today are ready to test the fruit and act accordingly. The responsibility of showing to the world that the gospel of Jesus Christ will solve its problems rests upon the men who make the claim, who believe that the declaration made by the Prophet Joseph is true. We heard this morning from my brother, Stephen L. Richards, that the Church is so constituted that every human need may be supplied. I believe in his statement. I believe, too, that every world problem may be solved by obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

AN EMINENT STATESMAN'S SUGGESTION. 

An eminent statesman of our own nation, one who has won national and international eminence, not only as a great leader in the political world, but as a speaker and writer on religious topics, gave to the world, in February, some of his views regarding the solution of the difficulties which the churches now meet in answering the needs of humanity. That eminent statesman is here today. I intended to quote him. I am sure that I should not hesitate now to say in his presence what I was going to say in his absence. In an excellent article entitled : "In the World, of the World, and for the World," Col. William Jennings Bryan, in the World-Outlook, of February, in giving suggestions on how the churches can make the world a better place to live in, proposes first a change of attitude toward amusements. He writes : 

The tendency has been to prohibit amusements which are hurtful rather than to encourage those which are healthful and wholesome. AmuseELDER DAVID 0. McKAY. 117 

ments are necessary; and if those which uplift are not introduced, harmful pastime will be resorted to. This explains why so many young people are drawn away from the Church just at the age when they ought to be drawn into it — they are influenced by the worldly minded with whom they find amusement during their leisure hours. * * * My suggestion, therefore, is that an effort should be made to set up a Christian standard for Christian communities and to create an environment that will be helpful to the Church and the spiritual things for which the Church stands. 

HELPFUL ENVIRONMENT IN THE CHURCH OF CHRIST. 

The "Mormon" Church has always encouraged legitimate amusements; in this respect, at least, it has set a worthy example to the world. That "helpful environment" mentioned by Mr. Bryan has been in the Church of Jesus Christ ever since its organization. Away back in the days of Nauvoo we find the drama introduced by the Prophet Joseph. We find acting in that drama men who later became prominent leaders in the Church. Among them was the man who succeeded the Prophet Joseph, Brigham Young. He, imbued with the necessity of influencing the people in their amusements and of using their recreation as a means of instilling virtue, integrity, and honesty, brought to these valleys that spirit. Why, even on the plains, after a day's march, the wagons were drawn up in a circle, a man with the violin would take his place by the campfire and there on the prairie the sturdy Pioneers would join hands in a dance, opening it by prayer, and participate in amusement that fostered the spirit of the gospel. Two years had not passed after their entrance into the "Valley" before they built the "bowery," and there presented, undoubtedly, the first drama that was ever given in the West. Later they built the Social Hall. Perhaps, there are those in the audience today who, after listening to the opening prayer, joined hands in the cotillion, dancing in a spirit best understood by the remarks of President Brigham Young, who once said, in substance : "The atmosphere of the dance should be such that if any elder be called from the party to go to administer to a sick person, he could leave with the same spirit that he would go from his elders' quorum meeting." All over this land, today, in the excellent community centers established by those early pioneers, you will find the amusements characteristic of the spirit of the community, fathers, mothers, boys and girls, mingling together in the dance, in the drama, and in other social functions, the modifying and uplifting influence of the Church permeating all gatherings. And here, I add that the Latter-day Saints Church was the first Church in the world, I am informed, to give approval to the Boy Scout movement. So, the world, in order to get into their churches the spirit of proper amusements which our eminent visitor suggests, and which I accept with all my heart, need only to accept the ideals of the Latter-day Saints. 

ANOTHER EXAMPLE— HELPING THE POOR. 

To quote further from Mr. Bryan: 

Another matter which, to my mind, needs attention is provision for the needy of the Church. Is there any reason why a member of the church GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be compelled to pay cut-throat pawnshop rates, for short loans, or loans made on chattel-mortgage security? It seems to me that there is imperative need for a church corporation financed by church members which will make loans to other members at a rate sufficient only to cover actual risk, and the risk ought to be very small in such cases. 

We have in the Church of Christ a condition which has been operated ever since its organization, which will supply the needs of every worthy person who happens to be financially unfortunate. It is a simple little thing, but in its power, in its comprehensive benefit it smacks of the divinity with which this Church is impregnated. I refer to the Fast offering that every Latter-day Saint is asked to contribute on the first Sunday of each month. It is suggested that all shall fast once a month. The requirement of the Church is that all members shall observe the first Sunday of every month as Fast day. Back of that, however, is this, that after abstaining from eating, from the evening meal on Saturday to the evening meal on Sunday, the value of those two meals shall be given to the bishop for the purpose of alleviating the needs of those who require substantial assistance. Now, at first thought, that does not amount to much, and yet I find that when the principle is applied to the largest stake in the Church, this is the result: That stake last year found it necessary to expend $6,256.09 for the relief of the poor. If the members of that stake had placed a value upon each meal only at 10c per capita the bishops would have had at their disposal, $21,190, sufficient to meet not only all the demands of their own stake, but the needs of the poor in other stakes in which the fast offerings might have been insufficient. It applies to the smallest stake just the same. In the smallest stake in the Church, with a population of 1,070, they expended, last year approximately, only $100 for the need of the poor. It is a rural community in which there are practically no poor. Had they placed upon each meal the value I have named, the bishops in that stake would have had at their command fifteen times more than the actual amount needed to supply their needs. Such application may be multiplied by eighty, the number of stakes in the Church. You may multiply it by eight hundred or more, the number of wards in the Church and you may extend the plan over all the world and the application of that simple principle will supply the wants of every needy person. It is God's way. You say people don't like charity? Why, it should not be administered as charity; but as a co-operative plan of mutual service adopted for the benefit of all. 

So we might go on with other propositions on applied Christianity named in the article from which I have quoted, and we should find that the solution of the great world problems is here in the Church of Christ. Ample provision is made not only for the needs of individuals, but for the nation and groups of nations. 

"MORMONISM" THE APPLICATION OF GOd's PLAN TO SOLVE WORLD 

PROBLEMS. 

I realize that it is a great claim. I grant you that we may seem to be arrogating to ourselves superior wisdom, but we are not. It is 119  the application of God's plan to the world problems. I said you who hold the Priesthood have greater responsibility today, now that you live in this creative moment in the world's history, than ever the Church has had before. I repeat it. If we make the claim to hold the truth it is obligatory upon every Latter-day Saint so to live, that when the world comes, in answer to the call, to test the fruit of the tree, it will find it wholesome and good. 

O may we be able to say truthfully, to the world, in the words of Thomas Nixon Carver: 

Come, our way of life is best, because it works best. Our people are efficient, prosperous and happy because they help one another in the productive life. We waste none of our substance in vice, luxury or ostentation. We do not dissipate our energy in brawling, gambling, or unwholesome habits. We conserve our resources of body and mind and devote them to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, which is not a mystical but a real kingdom. It is a body of people dominated by ideals of productivity, which is mutual service. We do not strive for the things which satisfy but for the moment and then leave a bad taste, we strive for the things which build us up, and enable us and our children to flourish and to conquer. We strive to make ourselves worthy to receive the world by fitting ourselves to use the world more productively than others. We believe that obedience to God means obedience to the laws of nature which are but the manifestations of his will and we try by painstaking study to acquire the most complete and exact knowledge of that will in order that we may conform ourselves to it. * * * We offer you hard work, frugal fare, severe discipline, but a share in the conquest of the world for the religion of the productive life. 

The Lord help us to be able to prove to the world that we possess just what these great thinkers desire, just what the world today is longing for, and when they see it, may they know, as you know, as I know, that the everlasting gospel is a light to the world. May it ever be upon the hill a light to the nations, a savior to them, and solution of all the world problems, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

THE TRUE AND LIVING GOD. 

Joseph Smith's first great service to humanity was in bringing back the lost knowledge of the true and living God. What do we mean by that ? Who and what is the true and living God ? He is the God of the Bible, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of Adam, of Enoch, of Noah, of the Patriarchs and Prophets and Apostles of old. He is the God described by Moses in the first chapter of Genesis, thus : "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." This is equivalent to saying that God is in the form of man, and that we have a Mother as well as a Father in heaven, in whose image or likeness we are, male and female. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ANCIENT IDOLS. 

The world had need of this instruction, for they were worshiping all sorts of deities at that time. They had forgotten the God of their fathers, the God of Adam and of Abraham, and were bowing down to idols. In the days of Moses, fifteen centuries before Christ, there were three great centers of religious thought and philosophy. One was among the Phoenicians or Canaanites. They worshiped the sun and the moon, ascribing to them the powers of creation — worshiped them with licentious rites suggestive of creation. This was the worship of Baal and Ashtoreth, against which the children of Israel were especially warned. Down in Egypt they adored beasts and reptiles, such as the crocodile, the bull, the goat, and the beetle. The gods were supposed to be enshrined in such bodies, and if a goat died, it was buried with costliest ceremonies, amidst the mourning of a nation. Away off among the Hindus the seasons were deified — spring, summer, autumn, winter. These were thought to be the divine sources of life. The passions of the human heart — love, hate, fear, anger, revenge, and so forth — were also revered as deities. Then came Moses, a man who had seen the true and living God, had conversed with him face to face, and had received from him the Decalogue or Ten Commandments unto Israel. The first of those commandments reads : "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." Is it any wonder that this commandment was given, and given first, under such conditions ? 

THE FATHER'S "EXPRESS IMAGE." 

The world of Joseph Smith's time did not worship the sun and moon, nor the beasts, nor the seasons, nor the passions. Nevertheless, they had turned away from the true God; they ignored or misinterpreted what Moses had taught, that man is in the image of God, and therefore, inferentially, logically, that God is in the image of man. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, whom the Scriptures declare to be "the express image" of his Father's person, came down from heaven and walked as a man upon the earth, plainly showing what kind of a being God is. Moreover, wtfen Philip, his disciple, said to him : "Lord, show us the Father," Jesus replied : "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." But this teaching was lost upon the modern Christian world. 

THE CHRISTIAN DEITY. 

What kind of a God was Christendom worshiping when Joseph Smith and "Mormonism" came forth? Let Christian theology tell. Therein it was written, and it stands to this day, that God is a being without body, parts, or passions. The Church of England Articles of Religion so declare. The Presbyterian Confession of Faith so affirms. And this was the popular concept of Deity throughout the Christian world at the opening of the Nineteenth Century. In line 121  that tenet and teaching, the English poet Pope, who figured in the Eighteenth Century, represents God as a spirit or "soul" that 

Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze, Glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees, Lives through all life, extends through all extent, Spreads undivided, operates unspent. 

A very admirable description of what might be termed a spiritual emanation from God, that universally diffused essence that proceeds forth from the Divine Presence, and is the power that enlightens in greater or less degree every man that cometh into the world. It is indeed the light of the sun, moon and stars; the light also of the human understanding; in it we live, move, and have our being, for it is the principle of life throughout creation. But that is not the God who made man in his own image. That is not the Father, represented by the Son, in whom "dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily." It is not even the personage of the Holy Ghost. 

DIVINITY AND ITS EMANATION. 

There are Three that bear rule in the heavens, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, three distinct personalities, but the Father and the Son, according to Joseph Smith, are personages of tabernacle, having bodies "as tangible as man's," while the Holy Ghost "is a personage of spirit." From this Eternal Godhead proceeds a spiritual power or essence, omnipresent and immanent in all things; and this is what the poet was describing when he portrayed God as a "soul" that "warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze, glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees," etc. This is what the Christian sects were worshiping — not Divinity, but an emanation from Divinity. They had turned from the truth "unto fables," as did the ancients; and it devolved upon Joseph Smith to shatter the false doctrine of a bodiless, passionless Deity, and bring back the precious knowledge that had been lost. 

Joseph's vision. 

We are all familiar with the story — how a boy of fourteen years went into the forest and prayed; how he wrestled with Satan, and was delivered; how he saw a light above his head brighter than the noonday sun, and in the midst of it two glorious beings in the form of man, One of whom, pointing to the Other, said : This is my beloved Son, hear him." From that hour, there was one person, at least, upon this planet who knew what kind of a being God is. It was a virtual reassertion of the first commandment in the Decalogue, v "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." 

WHAT CONSTITUTES IDOLATRY? 

To worship anything that God has made, is to practice idolatry. It matters not What it is. If we turn from the Creator to the creature; if we forget the Giver and adore the gift; if we forsake God and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  an emanation from God, we are idolaters, just as much as if we worshiped the sun and moon, or bowed down to goats and crocodiles. The man who loves money and makes it his main object — makes it an end instead of a means — is an idol-worshiper. Wealth is a blessing from God, and so is the gift to acquire it; and if men, when they become rich, use their ridies in the way God designed, he approves of them and blesses them more abundantly. But the man who adores his possessions, and forgets that they were given for a good, a wise, an unselfish and an altruistic purpose, is an idolater, akin to those ancient peoples, who in their spiritual blindness worshiped things that God had made and given, instead of the Maker and Giver. 

THE FINAL DISPENSATION. 

Joseph Smith's next great service to the race was in opening this gospel dispensation — the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. What does that mean ? To dispense is to distribute or deal out in portions, as when the sacrament of the Lord's Supper is dispensed to a religious congregation. In a larger sense, it signifies the opening of the heavens and the sending forth of the gospel and the powers of the Priesthood, as a boon and blessing to mankind. The term- "dispensation" also defines the period during which these saving and exalting principles, thus sent forth, continue operative in pristine power and purity. There have been many dispensations of the gospel, though men know little concerning them. The gospel of Christ is more than "the power of God unto salvation;" it is the power of God unto exaltation, and was instituted as such before this earth rolled into existence, before Adam fell, and consequently before man had need of redemption and salvation. It is the way of eternal progress, the path to perfection, and has been upon earth in a series of dispensations reaching like a mighty chain from the days of Adam down to the present time. The great difference between this dispensation and all others is, that this is the last and the greatest, virtually all dispensations rolled into one. God has decreed to bring together all things that are Christ's, both on earth and in heaven, and the first part of the divine program is the gathering of scattered Israel and the building up of Zion, preparatory to the coming of the King of kings, the ushering in of the Millennial Reign, the sanctifying of the "earth, and its eventual glorification, when it will be converted into a celestial sphere, an abode of the righteous forever. 

NOT AN ACCIDENT. 

It was no accident, no chance happening — Joseph Smith's going into the grove that spring morning, one hundred years ago. It was an event predestined, heaven-inspired. I once thought that any good boy who prayed in faith could see just what Joseph saw. But I have put away that childish notion. I have learned that all boys are not Joseph Smiths. God hears and answers the prayers of the humblest of his children; but he answers them as seemeth him best, 123  not always in the same way. He gives according to the capacity of the one who receives. 

PROPHET AND SEER. It was no ordinary man that went into the woods that morning to pray. It was a Prophet, a Seer. Joseph Smith was not made a prophet by the people who held up their hands for him on the sixth of April, 1830, when this Church was organized. He was already a prophet, chosen, as Abraham had been, before he was born; ordained, like Jeremiah, before he was formed in the flesh. The people merely "sustained" him in that position, manifesting by the uplifted hand that they were willing to follow him as their leader, and' to accept of his ministrations in that capacity. He was already a prophet, already a seer; God had made him such in advance. But all men are not Joseph Smiths. He was a man like unto Moses. He was the rarest human being that has walked this earth in the past two thousand years. And why did he go into the grove that morning and pray for wisdom and light? It was because the time had come. The Hour had struck, and The Man was there — the man whom God had provided. 

THE WORLD'S SATURDAY NIGHT. 

We are living in the Saturday night of the world's history. Earth has labored six days, and will rest upon the seventh, her period of sanctification. This is the significance of "Mormonism," of Joseph Smith, and of the work that he inaugurated — the lifting of the Ensign for Israel's gathering upon this the land of Joseph, the land of Zion, to build the New Jerusalem, and prepare the way for the coming of the Lord in his glory. Earth has labored six days but they are not days of twenty-four hours each. Joseph taught that there is a great planet named Kolob, nearest the Celestial Throne, and that it revolves once in a thousand years. That is a day with God. It was such a day that Adam was warned of when told: "The day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die; for Adam, after eating of the forbidden fruit, lived to the age of nine hundred and thirty years. It was such a day that Peter had in mind when he wrote: "A day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day." According to our Prophet's teachings, God gave to this planet, Mother Earth, seven thousand years as the period of "its temporal existence;" and four thousand years, or four of those great days, had passed before Christ was crucified, while nearly two thousand years, or two more days, have gone by since. Consequently, we stand at the present moment in the Saturday Evening of Time, near the close of the sixth day, at the week's end of human history. Morning will break upon the Millennium, the thousand years of peace, the Sabbath of the World. 

HOUSE-CLEANING IN PROGRESS. 

Marvel not, therefore, that all things are in commotion. War, famine, pestilence, earthquake, tempest and tidal wave — these are among the predicted signs of the Savior's second coming. Earth must GENERAL CONFERENCE.  freed from oppression and cleansed from all iniquity. It is God's House, and he is coming to live in it, and to make of it a glorified mansion. House-cleaning is in progress, and Saturday's work must be done and out of the way before the Lord of the Sabbath appears. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right, let the consequence follow." 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

I need not tell you, my brethren and sisters, that this is something of a surprise to me to be called on this afternoon. However, I learned in the early days of my experience in this Church that obedience is the first law of the gospel and I know that we should always try to comply with the requirements of our brethren who preside over us. 

A WONDERFUL ATTENDANCE OF MEN. 

It has been a great pleasure to me to sit in this conference during its different sessions and listen to the remarks that have been made by the brethren, and to see this great audience day after day. Yesterday the building was even more crowded than it is today, yet so far as I can see every seat is taken. This 16 an inspiration of itself. I don't know where you will go anywhere in the world to find a religious congregation such as this. In most religious gatherings we find the women predominating, but here I see extending clean back two-thirds of the way a great body of men, sturdy, strong, hard-fisted, hard-working, intelligent, well clad, good men. And also a large number of the most splendid women in all the world. It is marvelous. It is an evidence that you are in earnest, that you believe what we have heard, and that which we do hear is ih very deed the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

THE CENTENNIAL OF A GREAT EVENT. / 

We have heard over and over again the story of the boy prophet, which has been the general theme of this conference, since it is the centennial of that event: that great event which occurred, as Elder Whitney has just told us, because the great clock of time had struck the hour when the gospel was to be restored. The prophet was there, the fore-ordained prophet; the place was prepared, everything was in readiness for the greatest spiritual manifestation that the world has seen; the greatest event indeed that has transpired in the world since the days of the Savior of mankind, that is, since he lived in the flesh. Of course, other manifestations followed in due time, giving instruction, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, until there grew under the guidance of the young prophet this 125  wonderful organization named by the Lord, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

WHAT ARE THE FRUITS OF "MORMONISM ?" 

Now, one of the two things we can say must 'be true. That vision, that manifestation, the beginning of this great work, the very inception of it, the first word that we ever heard of it is right there. Now that word was true or it was false. It must be one or the other. We accept that fully and finally. Was it true ? How shall we measure it ? How shall we prove it? The Savior of the world said a tree is known by its fruit. Men do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of thistles. We know that doctrine to be true. Now what are the fruits that this tree called "Mormonism" has produced? In the ninety years that have passed since the Church was organized or in the one hundred years since that great spiritual manifestation, what are the fruits of this tree? Well, let me call your attention to two or three little items that are more material than spiritual. The Savior himself stated to those who could not believe his doctrine that they might at least believe the works, for they were patent, they were self-evident. Any person might believe them because there they were. So we say, if you cannot believe our doctrine you must believe the works for there they are manifest. Now was it a good work? Has it been a good work to preach the gospel to the poor of the world ? For we can say with one of the apostles of old, "Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called." No, they turn from it, the sacrifice is too much for them. But not so with all of the poor of the world. Some have believed. They have answered the call. The Savior's call was, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." There never was rest for the body, but rather hard work, labor, industry. Now has that been a good work to gather these people from every nation under the sun and bring them to this goodly land, to teach them industry, sobriety, honesty and to colonize them in the way that has been done? Was it a good work to teach them the cooperative spirit that has been manifested throughout the building of our colonies in every part of this intermountain country : in the fencing of fields, in the digging of irrigation ditches, in the building of canyon roads and bridges ? Is all that good or bad? If it is bad, then the tree has brought forth evil fruit and we should denounce it : if it is good, then the works speak for themselves and we should accept it. 

THE MISSIONARY SYSTEM OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

"Mormonism" has sent out, and continues to send out, its young men and young women by the hundreds and thousands, making the sacrifice of their time and their means, paying their own way in the world, going to preach the gospel. They believe with all their hearts that here in this Church rests divine authority which was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith under the administration of John the Baptist who conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic GENERAL CONEERENCE. 

Priesthood; and also the administration of Peter, James, and John under whose hands Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the authority of the holy Apostleship. Not the authority of man, but divine authority. These young men who go out as missionaries, go into the world and deliver the message in their own simple way; many of them not very well learned and many of them educated. And they gather up those who will listen and obey. They would be glad to have the great and the mighty listen to their messave but as a rule they will not. The sacrifice seems to be too great. "Oh, to be called a 'Mormon,' " they say; "we could never stand to be connected with that despised people." My own mother was an outcast from her family because she joined this Church, and her people were not wealthy people, far from it, but even in their poverty those of her people who would not receive this message would have nothing whatever to do with her, because, forsooth, she had joined this discredited, unpopular religion which 'was denounced as a fraud, a delusion and a snare. 

These elders have gone forth in that way, without purse or scrip, so to speak. It is true, they cannot become public charges on the communities and so they have taken their own means, because there are no salaries. They have not asked, "What is the salary or what are you going to pay me ?" Not at all, never once. They receive that call and that authority under the hands of the priesthood, the servants of the living God who hold that Priesthood today; the same Priesthood which was committed by Peter, James and John to the Prophet Joseph Smith is held here today by President Heber J. Grant and his brethren. The same authority, divine authority, is conferred upon these missionaries and they go forth and gather up these people and they inspire in their hearts faith in God, repentance of sin, baptism for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. And they also teach them virtue, honesty, industry, and that they must love one another, love the Lord with all their heart and their neighbor as themselves. These people come from afar and produce what we see. Is that missionary work a bad work? If it is, then "Mormonism" is bad. But who shall say that that is not the best, the very best work that any man could possibly do, to bring the poor of the earth here and plant them in this land and make them independent ? Is it desired that they shall work for and enrich the Church ? No. But they shall enrich themselves so that they shall own their own homes. Is it a bad thing for people to own their own homes? You know the cry of home building that we hear now on every hand. Well, the Latter-day Saint communities own their own homes in larger number than any like number of people in all the world. Is that evil? Is that bad? If it is, then "Mormonism" is bad. 

THE RESULTS OF THE "MORMON" COLONIZATION POLICY. 

Wherever our Elders have gone, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, in their colonization schemes that has always been the result : orderly communities containing meetinghouses, schoolhouses, 127  halls. These you will see on every hand. If that one hundred years had been spent by the "Mormon" people in Mexico and the people of Mexico at the end of the one hundred years were as degraded and wretched and superstitious and in so many ways undesirable as we see them today, then you might know that "Mormonism" could not be from God. But not so, the very reverse has been true with the Latter-day Saints. Not only so, but our social life, our amusements that you have heard about this afternoon from Elder McKay, our education and our progress in every way show that the fruit has been good. President Grant read here yesterday a statement of the different expenditures that have been made from the tithings of the people during the year 1919, showing that over $2,300,000 had gone back to the Latter-day Saint communities for their numberless activities; among these expenditures was an item of $687,000 for church schools. Now remember we pay taxes for the district schools, for the high schools, for the agricultural college, for the University, taxes galore these days, no end of taxes, but in addition to that we have paid out $687,000 from the tithing of our people for the one item of education of the children of the Latter-day Saints; and, indeed, the children of others who choose to come to our schools, for we welcome them all. Is that bad? If it is, "Mormonism" is bad. 

We have built meetinghouses and churches all over the land. These stand as evidences of our work. I remember when I was a boy only twenty years of age, over there in the old Social Hall, in 1869, I met with some brethren who were called by President Brigham Young to go out on missions and he said to us in these words, "I do not want you to tell the people that we have a rich country and that they can get free land, free this and free the other; do not entice them by the promise of wealth and riches. I want you to promise them hard work and persecution." That was what President Brigham Young instructed us in those early days to promise the people among whom we labored as missionaries. 

A VITALITY IN "MORMONISM" NOT FOUND ELSEWHERE. * _ 

On the announcement of the Prophet Joseph Smith that he had received a vision, if, instead of reviling and denouncing and persecuting him, the people of the world had risen as with one acclaim and shouted "Hosanna," and had been thankful for that vision, I would have been, I think, in serious doubt myself as to its truth. Why ? Because the people of the world never before received a message from the Lord in any such spirit. The Master himself had to say to them : "Which of the prophets have not your fathers stoned and persecuted ? That is the way the message from the Lord has been received now and always. So if the people today should rise up and say, These Mormon" people are just what they claim to be, it would be very different indeed from what we have reason to expect fom the history of the past. We do not receive that kind of plaudit. But on the contrary as a rule we are reviled and scorned. However, I will say that this truth this gospel truth, is making its way in the world' and thinking people here and there, men whose opinions are worth having, the judgment of one of whom, as Hamlet says, must in our opinion outweigh a whole theatre of others, such men begin to think and realize that there is a force, a potency, a power and a virility in "Mormonism," a life-giving spirit that we do not find anywhere else. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS ARE MULTIPLYING AND REPLENISHING THE 

EARTH. 

In these days when the nations of the earth, France in particular, and indeed all the nations are encouraging the rearing of large families of children — a principle which this Church has taught and preached and practiced from the beginning, and even now, when plural marriage is prohibited by law, and has been for about thirty years, yet the practice and the preaching and the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is that we shall multiply and replenish the earth and make the desert blossom as the rose. That has been our practice and our teaching. Is that bad? Will any man rise up and say that that is bad teaching and that this tree has brought forth bad fruit? No, he will not. That is, any sensible man will not. It is good. It is what the world is going to call for. 

ENTERTAINMENT AND ORGAN RECITALS FREE. 

Right here on this block we see 300,000 people a year, tourists, coming and going every year. There is something a little different right here. It is only a small thing but it is worth noting. I have traveled and many of you have traveled, for you are the most traveled community, you Latter-day Saint elders and sisters, of any community in all the world, and you have learned by travel as well as by study, as this book of Doctrine and Covenants, which contains the revelation of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith, tells us to seek knowledge by study and by faith and to seek learning from all good books. You have been over the world and I have, and I have never gone into any cathedral or scarcely any place of note, especially in the Old World, but what there has been somebody around to hold out his hand and ask for money, or a place would be pointed out to you, where you could go and put your money, or in some way or other your money would be extracted from you. Here on this block the 300,000 or more tourists who come and go receive our entertainment and free organ recitals and not a cent is taken from them in any shape or form. Freely we have received and freely we give. < Our employees here would not dare to receive one cent in remuneration for their work from the tourists who come here. Now is that bad, think you ? The tourists do not think so. They think it is pretty good. 

HONESTY AND LOYALTY OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

As to loyalty to country, so far as it applies to the "Mormon" people, we challenge comparison. We have been taught from our in129  that this is a favored nation. Right here in these revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith you can read in one of them these words, that the Lord raised up wise men for the very purpose of framing the constitution of this great country, so we have the word of the Lord which we accept implicitly that this nation was brought into existence by the Divine Power and not altogether by the power of man. It is the best government in all the world, the freest, and with all its imperfections, of which there are many, it is the very best, the best that the Lord could get the people to accept. He could not have given the people anything better because they probably would not have accepted it. St. Paul tells us that the gospel of Jesus Christ is a perfect law of liberty. And this same gospel that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believe in is in advance of the law of the land. It is supplementing it. It does not act in contradiction to it; not at all, but is upholding it, fostering it, and going a little further in the way of perfect liberty. Let me relate one little incident. I remember being up in Bear Lake county, Idaho, a good many years ago. A brother in the Church owed a debt to a man who was not a member of the Church. The late President William Budge, whom most of you knew, was then alive and presiding there. This brother could not pay his obligation for some time after it became due and the note was outlawed according to the law of the land. It was the best law that man has been able to devise, and according to that law of the land this brother was free from that. debt. No law of the land could touch him. But there was a higher law that could supplement the law of the land and reach him, and that was the Church law, which says, "Pay your ' honest debts; if you do not you shall not have fellowship with us." Is that bad doctrine ? That is the kind of fruit that this tree is producing. You think it is bad? I think it is mighty good. So this brother was brought up by President William Budge. The debt was proved. He had to admit that he owed the obligation, but it had been outlawed and he thought nothing more of it. However, he was compelled, so far as the rule of the Church could compel him, to pay the debt. Of course, the Church could not take his property fromi him, but it could say and did say, "You shall have no fellowship with us unless you pay that honest debt. We do not care if it were outlawed a hundred times. It is an honest debt and you must pay it." And he did pay it. That is what I mean when I say there is a higher and better law. 

Now, believing as we do, that this government is an inspiration from the Almighty, ought we not to be more loyal to it than those who do not so believe ? The Church itself in this respect has done what no other Church that I know anything about has been able to do, for the Church by the vote of its general conference of all the people, authorized the purchase of one million dollars in government bonds to assist the government in its time of stress and when it needed the help. Do you think that was a bad thing for the Church to do ? Could it be charged with disloyalty in doing that ? Show me any other church that has done as well. The law of the Church insists that I shall love my neighbor and that I shall not hate him. But the law of the land GENERAL CONFERENCE.  allow me to go on hating my neighbor with intense and bitter hatred if I choose to do so. 

THE CHURCH IS THOUGHTFUL OF THE POOR. 

The law of the land does not ask me to fast on the first Sunday in the month but the Church asks me to fast and to give the equivalent of the two meals to the poor. My doctor tells me that I am better if I do fast; that the food thus consumed would be wasted on my system and that I am really benefited by the fasting. So I have not lost anything; I have actually been benefited physically and I give, say only twenty cents once a month, figuring that meals would not cost over ten cents each. I give the twenty cents for the benefit of the poor. That simple law if it were practiced by the one hundred ten million people in the United States would mean twenty-two million dollars a month or two hundred sixty-four million dollars a year, which if wisely used would be more than sufficient to provide for the poor abundantly, and leave means to spare. Now I call this doctrine of fasting and giving to the poor, a mighty good, sound doctrine. Surely no man could say there is anything bad about it. 

THE SPIRIT THAT IMPELS TO SACRIFICE AND WORK. 

There is one other thing, greater than all; greater than all I have mentioned; greater than our industry, our colonization and all the splendid works that people can see, and it is that which they cannot see nor can they comprehend, the spirit that impels us to these works. That is a different thing. The wind bloweth where it listeth. We cannot hear the sound thereof; you do not know whence it cometh or whither it goeth. So with everyone who is born of this Spirit. You received of that Spirit when you believed what the elders said, that God had spoken, that these revelations had come to Joseph Smith and that they were true. You believed it and you obeyed it according to these commandments. Is there anything wrong about faith, about repentance, about baptism, about the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost? Who will say that that is bad? With the compliance of that law and faith has come what we call a testimony, a sure knowledge of God, or, as the Scriptures of olden times said, you shall grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, and if you abide in the truth the truth will make you free. Now, no sane man will say that that is bad doctrine. Do you think it is ? That spirit is what upholds "Mormonism" and sustains it. The knowledge in the hearts and souls of its members that God has spoken; that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the son of the living God; that Joseph Smith did see the vision one hundred years ago. If he did not, if it was all a lie, would the fruits that I have mentioned be apparent? Why, the logic of the case is irrefutable. It cannot be gainsaid. It must stand. It is true. There can be no mistake. It is of God and this spirit has gripped the heart and soul of you, true believers, so that you know of the doctrines, as the Savior said, "Whether they be of God or 131  I speak of myself." And in consequence of that knowledge you have been willing to make great sacrifices. That is what this spirit has brought greater than all else that I have mentioned, the spirit of sacrifice in the heart. 

May we learn to keep that first and greatest commandment of God, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and might and mind and strength." The Lord says to us, "Son, give me thine heart." That rich young man mentioned in the Scriptures could not do it. He was an acceptable, good worshiper, very good. He was an acceptable man and a very good citizen. When he asked the Savior, "Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" the answer was, "Keep the commandments." Well, but which commandments? The Savior repeated a number of the Ten Commandments to him, and that young man, a good citizen, clean, virtuous, good man, could say, "All these I have kept from my youth up." Now you would say that was a first-class young man. He was truly an acceptable citizen. Nobody could ask any more. But was he willing to sacrifice and give his heart to God? No. As a matter of fact, he had not kept the first great commandment which I have repeated to you, but the Savior could look right through him, and to put him to the test told him to sell all that he had and give it to the poor and then "come follow me." The sacrifice was too great for the young man; he could not give his heart to God and could not make the sacrifice. 

THE TREE OF "MORMONISM" HAS BORNE GOOD FRUIT, NOT BAD. 

You have made sacrifices, our parents have made sacrifices for these truths. We have lived in poverty — I myself in the direst poverty here in the early days in northern Utah. As a young lad I lived in a dugout with a quilt for a door, not even a window, not even a board floor, just dirt for a floor; lived without sufficient nourishing food; sometimes I did not have enough to eat, but the spirit that was in my father and in my mother was to stay by this truth, to be loyal to this people and to this Church. They could say: "Whither they go I will go; where they stay I will stay, their people shall be my people and their God my God." That was the sacrifice they were willing to make, and they did make it. Shall I now, shall our people after us, now when they have made these great sacrifices, not give our hearts to God? If we are asked to go on a mission shall we not go? If it is to be a teacher on the block or to teach in the Sunday School or any work however simple, shall we not answer with our whole heart, "Tell me what you wish me to do; show me my work and I will try to do it." For the work is good, the work is true, the work has produced results that no other institution or organization in all the world can produce. This spirit has taught us honor, virtue, integrity, and loyalty to country and all that is good and that makes for righteousness This spirit of sacrifice has been planted in our hearts by the power of the Holy Ghost. By that we live, by that we magnify this work by that power we stand by these brethren and uphold the Priesthood of the Son of God. As to the principles of virtue and honor, no GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in all the world sets such a high standard for its adherents, for there is no double standard of morality taught in the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The man indeed is more the criminal than the woman. That is what is taught, that is what we try to practice. Now is that bad or is it good ? If it is bad, then the Prophet Joseph Smith may have been a deceiver. If it is all good, and we know it is good, all of it good and righteous; then it must follow as the night the day that the Prophet Joseph Smith did see the visions one hundred years ago. These are the fruits of "Mormonism." The young man, Joseph Smith, was not a falsifier. This tree which was planted one hundred years ago has borne good fruit and not evil. Then there can be no mistake; his testimony must be true, it cannot be gainsaid. As I said, the logic of the case is irrefutable. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: "Now let us rejoice," and the conference adjourned until Tuesday morning at 10 a. m. 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Hart of the Rigby stake of Zion. 

THIRD DAY 


