Third Overflow
04 04 1920

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(President of the Canadian Mission) 

One Sunday afternoon last December I spoke in the Queen's Square Theatre in St. Johns, New Brunswick. At the close of the meeting a good Irish business man invited me to spend the evening at his home. I accepted the invitation and passed two delightful hours with this new found friend, talking about religion. My host was an old man, who had never joined a church. In fact for a number of years he had taken pleasure in detecting indications of the derth of spirituality in the popular churches. In the course of our conversation he told a story of a good Christian woman who had the misfortune of breaking her arm. She believed in the old faith and requested one of the pastors of St. John to come and pray for her recovery. A reverend gentleman went to her~ room and looked through his prayer book for a prayer suitable for the occasion. After some fruitless search, he shook his head and said, "I can find a prayer for rheumatism, and a broken leg, but I cannot find a prayer for a broken arm. I am sorry that I cannot pray for you." (Laughter.) 

When I heard this story I was reminded of what Bill Nye wrote in his comic History of The United States about the religion of the first settlers of New England. He said, "The Pilgrims came to America because they did not believe in elocutionary prayers." I am thankful that I belong to a Church that does not believe in. "elocutionary prayers," or "sermons." 

Our religion commenced with the sincere prayer of a boy. God's own hand rocked its cradle, and his inspiring Spirit has unfailingly guided its destiny until it has become a mighty power for human purification and ennoblement. 

I am deeply thankful for the opportunity of coming home to participate with you in the celebration of the glorious centennial anniversary of Joseph Smith's first prayer. The day that boy first prayed openly is one of the holiest days in the history of the human race. His intense faith-cry to God that day was the noblest act of the noblest soul except One. It marked the beginning of one of the greatest epochs in the history of religion. It started the real modern spirit renaissance. For that day the true meaning of prayer was discovered for modern man. 

True prayer is the soul of true religion. It distinguishes religion from superstition. As long as men pray from the heart with real faith they will retain some actual assurance of the existence of the true God. 

When the Christ taught men how to pray the simple, undoubting prayer of faith, he gave to the human race its mightiest instrumentality. But alas, man lost this key to actual communion with his Maker. In the middle ages paganism drove truth from the altar and living faith from the human heart. The simple religion of prayer and "worship in spirit and in truth," was turned into a gaudy show. Superstition killed living belief, and dead formalism drove out of the sanctuary the simple heart-yearning prayer that seeks and finds, asks and receives. 

Joseph Smith, the great modern prophet, discovered the lost meaning of prayer. With a heart that did not stagger at the thought of trusting the invisible God, he cried to the God of heaven for wisdom, and he received what he asked for. By the power of his mighty faith he called to earth the Father of all, and his Son Jesus Christ. Because he trusted implicitly in the words : "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God," he was privileged to hear the awful Voice that had stilled the storm and stayed the wave. 

The story of that boy's all-conquering faith is the most thrilling incident in modern annals. There is light, life and hope in it. It is the beacon that lights the way across the dark chasm which centuries of ignorance and superstition have placed between God and man. Because that boy asked and received, thousands who have come after him have been able to ask and receive. 

We are the legatees of the faith and truth that Prophet bequeathed to the modern world. Many of us have followed his example and have sought and found the soul-satisfying knowledge of God. I have asked and received. Without the slightest hesitancy I can say that I know God answers prayer, as certainly as I know that light is light. 

Men come from afar and witness what the Latter-day Saints have accomplished in this intermountain region, and go away deeply impressed with these achievements. Often when these men" are approached on the subject of "Mormonism" they say, "I care nothing about your religion, but I am greatly interested in what you people have accomplished." This is a very superficial commentary upon the history of the Latter-day Saints. For, apart from the living faith taught and exemplified by our Prophet, the Latter-day Saints would not have been able to accomplish any more than any other people. 

It was living faith in a living, personal God that gave them fortitude to sacrifice all that they might be true to him who was their All in All. It was not mere human ingenuity that selected this place, which is now secluded from the industrial turmoil of the rest of our country, as a resting place for modern Israel. It was true inspiration which first said, "This is the place!" It was not a mere sense of the strength in unity that sent this people out in concert to make roads, build bridges, construct irrigation canals, and erect splendid temples and tabernacles. A deeper spirit was the inspiring cause of all these achievements. "God has spoken again :" This was the all-impelling thought that banded the Saints together as the heart of one man in their great enterprises. All that the Saints have risked and suffered, all that they have ventured and accomplished, all that they have sacrificed for the salvation of mankind, has been suffered, accomplished and sacrificed in the name of and by the power of the faith that Joseph Smith discovered one hundred years ago. 

This vital faith puts man in actual contact with God. It is the one thing the world most needs today. Everywhere I find pathetic proof of the lack of this inspiring belief in God. I detect it in the insipid singing in the sectarian churches. I notice it in their hollow prayers. I discover it in their old sermons that speak of a distant God in high sounding theological phrases. 

Last Sunday afternoon I was more than usually impressed with the sectarian lack of the power to get in contact with God. I attended a Pentecostal meeting in Winnipeg, Canada. At this meeting I saw an audience of several hundred people, who have discovered the hollowness and coldness of modern religion. These people were honestly but vainly striving, in song and prayer and sermon, to get close to the Father of All. In their hearts they sincerely desired to "touch the hem of his garment." But alas, they could not. They were compelled to look across nineteen silent centuries for a real palpable instance of the manifestation of the power of God. When they tried to look up trustingly, the doubting thought, "God has not done anything during all these centuries," would drive faith from their hearts. And so they "cry aloud, and the only answer that comes is the wail of their echoing cry." 

But how different with the Latter-day Saints! They are able to look up with undoubting trust in the God who not only did great things many centuries ago but who has made bare his arm to the nations in the day and time in which we live. In our hearts we can say, "I cannot doubt God, for in our own time he answered the prayer of the boy Joseph Smith. He has sent holy angels to the earth with truth, graces, powers and authorities. He has indeed "proceeded to do a marvelous work and a wonder, among this people." 

The world today socially and politically is rocking. It is sitting upon a volcano. God only knows what tomorrow will bring forth. And why is there so much unrest and instability all over the world? Why is every man's hand raised against his neighbor? Why has the world with the two thoughts "money and fun" turned the world into a fool's paradise? The answer to these questions is found in a very short sentence: — The world has lost faith in God. With the loss of faith, it lost the sense of moral obligation. 

The great philosopher Emanuel Kant said, "Two things inspire me with awe, the starry heavens and human accountability." This sense of "human responsibility" to God is the only thing upon which enduring civilization can be built. The world more than anything else needs  intensified consciousness of its responsibility to Almighty God. Nothing but the living, vital faith that our Prophet discovered one hundred years ago can bring back to the human race the awful thought, "There is a great final Judge to whom we are. responsible for all our thoughts, aspirations and acts." Only this thought will bring peace to the nations. 

So let us be thankful, my brothers and sisters, that we are the legatees of the riches of faith and truth that the great Prophet of the latter days received from God. Let us remember that a testimony of these things is the only sure anchor of the soul. Let us remember that outside of this testimony all is uncertainty, all is doubt, all is despair. But with this firmly rooted testimony in our hearts our souls can be calm, for we can endure as seeing the Divine Weaver behind the tangled web of life, making all things come out right for those who do right. 

God help us to treasure this testimony, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

 _ 

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

The thought expressed by President Jensen that the world, today, politically, socially, and religiously, is rocking, I will beg the privilege of stating just a little differently, and emphatically. I believe that it is so rocking because it is not founded upon the rock of revelation, as is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, concerning which foundation the Lord himself said; "the gates of hell cannot prevail." 

The time is now here, predicted of old, when all that can be shaken will be shaken, and, truly human institutions are being shaken and will fall. 

This morning President Lund called our attention to the fact that the so-called Christian denominations, in convention, have ruled us out of their society, as un-Christian, because we are not believers, say they, in the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. If we are not, I would like to know who are! That thought suggested to me two very significant articles I recently read and happened to copy a few excerpts from. These notes, with your permission I will read with such comments as I may be led to make. 

In the Literary Digest of December 20, 1919, the following article appeared under the heading of "The Church in a Looking-Glass :" 

An inquiry which seems to test the results of religious education of the last half century in day schools and Sunday schools has been made in England. The Y. M. C. A., desiring to ascertain the attitude of young men of the army toward religion, undertook an exhaustive inquiry among the chaplains who were with the young men at the front The result of this inquiry appears in a book called The Army and Religion, but an excellent summary of the evidence is given by Dr. Frederick Lynch in The Christian Work, from which we quote. 

Questions were asked of them concerning their attitude toward religion, their faith in a Supreme Being, and those things fundamental in religion. To these queries the following responses were given: 

"There is a universal belief in God among the young men of England, but it is the product of natural religion. There is little atheism, but there is little evidence that the knowledge of God comes from Christian teaching." 

What a fearful indictment of Christian teaching. This knowledge like their conviction of the immortality of the soul, and their instinctive turning to God in the hour of danger, is an organic instinct, and in spite of teachings to the contrary concernig the true character of God. They have deeply rooted in their soul instinct a belief in the true God. In the Church of England prayer book we have these words, "We believe in one living and true God, of infinite goodness, wisdom, and power, without body, parts or passions." In other words, an incomprehensible, immaterial being! Thomas Jefferson expressed himself in a letter to his distinguished friend, John Adams, in this wise, "When we speak of an immaterial existence, we speak of nothing; when we say that God, angels, and the human soul are immaterial, we say there is no God, no angels, no human soul." I cannot reason otherwise. At what age of the Christian church this heresy of immaterialism or veiled atheism crept in, I do not know, but heresy it truly is. Christ taught none of it. True, he said, "God is a spirit!" but he had not yet defined what spirit is, nor hath he said that it is immaterial. And the Fathers of the first four centuries believed it to be material — fine, and etherial, in very deed, but nevertheless material. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that spirit is matter, that it is pure and elastic, fine and etherial, but it is matter. Hence they found Christianity teaching an incomprehensible, immaterial, impossible God. Their belief in him is not founded upon the teaching of the past half century. 

Concerning the equally vital question of belief in the Redeemer of the world, Jesus Christ, this is said : 

When it comes to thoughts about Jesus Christ, answers are quite full and explicit. There is universal respect for him, though the heroic side of his character s'eems largely unknown. There is little knowledge of him as the Son of God, the atoning sacrifice, or as the source of living power. The men seem seldom to think of him until questioned. He is remote from their daily life. Very many letters said his doctrines were womanly and his character as presented in church sentimental. The "living Christ" is merely a name, and means little to the man. Christ is a historical figure, not a present Redeemer. The practical religion of the great mass of men seems to be a vague theism entirely disassociated from Christ. 

He has not yet been introduced into their religious teaching effectively, and they are coming to realize that serious fact. 

The same question has been discussed by another, and an eminent one, in these words : 

Present day attitude of the general public toward the churches was expressed by Father Bernard Vaughan. "I grieve beyond everything," he said, "to have to say how my country-folk in bulk do not accept the divine personality of our Lord, that is to say, they do not give wholehearted belief in the Apostles' Creed. And Christ they only know as a  always to reverence and sometimes to swear by. Do not for a moment think that I am making this statement without foundation — on the contrary, what is thrust before me more and more every day is that not even the language and terminology of Christianity is understood by the people. 

"Read the latest book on the subject, The Army and Religion, An Inquiry and Its Bearing on the Religious Life of the Nation. It is compiled out of 300 memoranda resting on the evidence of many hundred witnesses. 

"When you have put that book down you will find that there is hideous reason, lamentable reason, for believing that Christ, to 85 per cent of our beloved countrymen and countrywomen is today only one name among others, like Plato, Sophocles, or Marcus Aurelius. 

"To this growing section of the community Christ is not a living force, inspiring their lives and Christianizing their conduct. 

"Must I say it," he continued, "that we are living upon the afterglow of Christianity, which before the great religious revolt in the sixteenth century was woven not merely into the religious, but into the legislative, philosophic, social and dom stic life of 'Merrie England' for 1,000 years? 

"To convert England to Christianity we must start like our Catholic missionaries among the heathen — with the children. Alas, parents to whom Christianity is nothing and its dogma worse than nothing will refuse to have their children respond to. the Divine Master's call, 'Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not.' 

"Somebody will ask me, Is this neopaganism due to the war? Not a bit of it. The war has been the occasion of revealing it, that is all. 

"If you want to know what has de-Christianized the country, I point my finger to the provided school from which Christ has been turned out and the door slammed in his face. , 

"The thought of it makes me bury my face in my hands and sob with sorrow and shame." 

Our conception of Christ, his relationship to us as a mediator between our Father and his children upon the earth, is to be found in the memorable words of Paul the apostle, who, though possessed of great wisdom and learning, above that of mostly any other man of his time, did not devote his time to the preaching of higher ethics or of any other problems, but declared to the Corinthians, "When I came to you, I came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified." Why? Because no message the world needed then, nor today, nor in any age of the world, equals in importance that sublime, glorious message which you and I have had vouchsafed unto us through the revelations of the Almighty. 

Paul said, "Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." Christianity has recently been declared by eminent divines to be a miserable failure in the world. But the gospel of Jesus Christ "is the power of God unto salvation" and cannot fail. 

Our idea concerning that great Character whom our Christian friends say we do not believe in, is expressed in these sentiments emphasized by Paul, in his Epistle to the Hebrews : 

God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high; being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, 1 will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son? And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands. 

If there be any doubt as to the identity of this glorious Character herein described — let this testimony of John the beloved disciple of the Lord set it at rest, wherein he said : 

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that comeh into the world. He was in the world and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own leceived him not. * * * And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth. 

What? The helpless babe of Bethlehem's manger, the despised carpenter of Nazareth, the sorrowing man of Gethsemane, the crucified hero of Golgotha, who prayed heaven's forgiveness for his bloodthirsty murderers — he the creator of heaven and earth? Yes, so say the scriptures, and so we believe, and so we testify that we know. 

Unto us he has said, "Be ye, therefore, perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. Was he an immaterial being? Was he other than a glorified, celestialized man? To his disciples, after his resurrection, he appeared, and bade them behold him and the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet, and come and thrust their hands into the wound in his side. "Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bone as ye see me have." 

He occupies a glorious position on the right hand of our Father, and has pointed the way and made plain the path, and commanded us to walk therein, unto his companionship and glory — "For to him that overcometh will I give to inherit all things," said he. 

Paul added, "Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus : Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God * * * and was made in the likeness of men." We, too, are made in the image of God, children of God. We believe literally in the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man — not as a  pulpit platitude, but as an actual reality; and we know, because he has been seen, as the testimony was borne this morning. Great and glorious is our privilege! "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word!" Men living in this dispensation have looked into the face and heard the voice of the Redeemer of the world. 

This is our testimony to the world, this is the message of the hour, the only one that will save the world. "Christianity" — so called, "has failed." The gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. It is the perfect law of liberty. The Prince of Peace is the one who ordained it for the peace of the world; and they may cry, "Peace, peace," but it will not come except through the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, which is being delivered by his servants, who bear his Priesthood, is" my testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The chorus sang, "Boys of the Old Brigade." 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission) 

I rejoice very greatly, my brethren and sisters, in having this privilege of meeting with you here, and I have listened with great appreciation and interest to the testimony of the brethren that have spoken this afternoon. Also, I was very greatly interested and edified by the remarks of President Grant and President Lund in our session in the Tabernacle this morning. 

I am thankful to the Lord for these gatherings; for the privilege that we as a people have of coming together and being instructed, and listening to the teachings and the testimonies of men whom we know are inspired by our Father in heaven. I am thankful to the Lord that my lot is cast with the people of this Church; and though I have many, many things to be thankful for, and for which I, day by day, thank my Heavenly Father, I think there is no thing that I so genuinely thank him for as I do for the gospel that has been restored in these days in which we live; for the gospel, in very deed, as has been referred to this afternoon, and as defined by the Apostle Paul, is the power of God unto salvation, unto all who will believe, as, of course, those who believe will obey it. 

I am thankful to the Lord for the testimony and the knowledge concerning our Father in heaven that came into the world about one hundred years ago, when the boy prophet, with a keen desire in his heart sought to know which of all the sects of the day was the church that Christ recognized. The greatest revelation that has come to the world, in all the history of it, was given to Joseph Smith, when be discovered that our Father in heaven was in very deed a perfect, tangible being. The Christian world had gone astray, and believed in the kind of God defined in the English prayer book; and other religious peopies worshiped the creations more than the Creator, not knowing who God is. But, through that glorious vision, the truth has been borne in upon the world that God is, in very deed, our Father in heaven, and that we are made in his likeness. 

It is a very strange thing, coming at the time when it did, and a very hard question to answer : Why should Joseph Smith, had he been a mere reformer not inspired of God, have conceived of the great things that he revealed to the world? Why was he not like other reformers have been, ever since men have taken it upon themselves to reform the religious thoughts and creeds of the world? Why should Joseph Smith have been singled out to have announced this all important and great truth to the world, if he had not been what we claim that he was, inspired of the Lord, arid if he did not receive — as we testify that he did receive — this glorious vision of the Father and of the Son? I am thankful for these things and for the restoration of the Gospel through this mighty prophet that the Lord raised up in these the latter days. 

There are a great many things connected with the coming forth of the truth and the life and the prophecies given to Joseph Smith, that to me are wonderful. I challenge you, brethren and sisters, to imagine any young man being able to say what Joseph said that the angel told him concerning himself, under similar circumstances, and see it so literally fulfilled as it has been in his case. When the angel came, in answer to his prayer to, our Father, that he might know his standing before him, after some years had intervened after the first vision — when the angel came and taught him, that heavenly messenger quoted ancient Scripture to him and outlined to him the mission that the Lord had called him unto; he told him about the history that through him would be made known unto the world, of the ancient people of this land, and he said to him: "Your name shall be known for good and for evil among all men everywhere." Now, just keep in. mind the fact that he was an obscure boy, away back in a New England town; but O, how literally has been fulfilled the word of the angel, as Joseph said it was told unto him! 

At dinner today, I was in conversation with a man who has spent four or five years in South America — in Bolivia, in Peru, in Chile, in Brazil, and if I mistake not, I think he said he was "over in Argentine. He says that away down there, there is no place that you can go that the name of Joseph Smith and the fame of the "Mormons" is not known. True it is, that in many places it is known for evil, but even in that, it fulfils the prophecy of the Lord. It is a fact that we have never put forth any very great effort to carry the message of "Mormonism" into South America. One mission was established there, the. land was dedicated to the preaching of the gospel, but missionaries have never labored in South America. I know of but very few copies of the Book of Mormon that have been sent into that land. They would have had to be in the Spanish language, to have reached the peoples of most of those countries, and I am pretty well conversant with all that has been done with regard to the distribution of Spanish  for a number of years, and I know that it has not been sent there; but still, this man, who is by the way, not a member of our Church, testifies that away back in the Indian towns, away back from the centers, away back where the Spanish language is scarcely spoken, but where the native languages of those South American Indians is spoken, the name of Joseph Smith is known. 

To me, it is a wonderful thing, and I thank the Lord for the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith that there is in my heart. 

I was particularly struck this morning with the testimony of President Grant. He testified that he knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the gospel has been restored in these the last days. He said, there will be some of you who will say that you cannot accept it, that you cannot believe it, but all the disbelief and all the ridicule and all the denial of those who cannot believe cannot take that testimony out of the hearts of thousands of people — from the land of the midnight sun in the Scandinavian countries, to South Africa, and from the north of North America to South America, in this land, among men and women everywhere upon the face of the whole earth (though it is true in sections they are few in number). The testimony of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith in the earth as a prophet of the Lord, is being borne daily throughout the world, everywhere; and I have heard men testify until it seemed that their testimony pierced the very center of my soul, here from the stand in the Tabernacle; I have heard them testify in the stakes of Zion, I have heard them testify in the wards of the Church; and I have heard them testify in the mission fields, here in the United States and in Mexico and all over and up and down the land; but the testimonies of the leaders of the Church do not differ in sincerity or in genuineness, from the testimonies of the humble members of the Church everywhere. For, as my heart has been touched here by the testimonies, those unmistakable, spiritual testimonies that carry conviction to the hearts of men, so has my heart been touched by the testimonies of the simple natives of the land where I have been called to labor for so many years. 

I recall now having held meetings in their little dwellings, built perhaps of corn stalks and thatched over with banana leaves, and in the night time, when we have gathered together, after these same people had worked during the tropical heat of the day and nearly worn themselves out we have gathered together, and with the light of a mere tallow candle, scarcely enough to see to read by, I have seen them stand up and I have seen their countenances brightened by the same spirit, and heard them bear the same strong testimony that carries conviction to the hearts of men, that I have heard from- our brethren here; and I want to bear to you this afternoon, my testimony that I know that this is the Lord's work; I know that it shall go on triumphant, and shall spread and shall be established in all the earth — and ultimately the time will come when all men everywhere will acknowledge that this is the truth. Just as I expect to see the day come, some time, somewhere, when every knee shall bow to Christ, and every tongue confess that he is the Savior of the world, so do I expect to see the time come when every tongue will confess this great truth, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. Men may not confess it because they want to. All men that will confess it, perhaps, will not repent of their sins; but conditions will be brought about by the calamities that the Lord will send upon the world and his punishments meted out to men, until men cannot deny, but will confess, even though they will not repent, that these things are true. 

It is a wonderful thing to know that this is the truth. We are a remarkable people in that respect. I have attended testimony meetings in many churches — only the other day, when I was stopping off a few hours at Trinidad, over in Colorado, I saw a little hall lit up, and went in to the service that was held there, and it was a testimony service, and I listened attentively. I listened anxiously, and I wanted to hear somebody say that they knew that they had the truth, and while many testified, none testified that they knew, and never have I heard anybody outside of the membership of this Church, stand up and say that they know that the gospel that they have embraced is the truth and is the power of God unto salvation. 

This Church, brethren and sisters, has been built upon the rock of testimony. Joseph Smith, when he came home from this remarkable vision, brought down upon himself, by a recital of what he had seen, the hatred and the persecution of all the world, it seemed, and he was never free from it from that day until he gave his life, sealed his testimony with his blood; and he tells us in this book, The Pearl of Great Price, in the Writings of Joseph Smith, that he was given to understand that if he would only forsake that testimony or forsake that story and say that he had been deceived, he would end all the persecution that had been heaped upon him, and that he would be received as all other men again; and that his sorrows should not continue in that regard; but, he said. How could I? I knew that I had seen a light and I knew that within the light I had seen two personages, and I knew that I had heard their Voices, and I knew that they had spoken to me, and further than that, I knew that God knew that I knew those things, and who am I that I might withstand God ? 

My brethren and sisters, his testimony was faithful and true to the end of his life; and the same has been the case in regard to many of the members of this Church, some of them in obscure circumstances, and some perhaps that will never be heard of, but were in their sphere and in their place just as valiant in their testimonies and in their defense of the truth as was the Prophet Joseph Smith. And that is one blessing in this Church, we do not all have to be prophets, in the sense that he was, in the Kingdom of God, but we do all have to have faith, we do all have to repent, we do all have to live right, and we must, each one of us, have the same testimony that he had, or we cannot be saved in the Kingdom of our Father in heaven. Heroism is not confined to those alone who are great in the eyes of men. 

I recall an incident just now that I shall beg your indulgence  speak of, that happened away down in the land of Mexico, where I have been laboring. In the year 1913, conditions became so bad in Mexico that upon the advice of President Smith, we decided to leave the mission for a time and move out of the country, and with my family and the seven elders that were left with us then, we were making preparations to go. I sent word to the branches round about. We had been preparing them for it for two years. We had every branch, as we thought, that could be organized into a branch, fully organized, and we had told the people that perchance we might be called upon to leave them for a time, but wanted them to be in a condition to take care of themselves; but just in the afternoon of the day upon which we were to leave in the evening, a young man, who only two months before had been baptized a member of the Church with his two sisters and a little later his mother and his wife and a young friend of the family and, I think, one or two more in that particular locality, came into the mission house, and there was sorrow in his face, and as he clasped my hand, he said : "Brother Pratt, is it true that you are going away? Is it true that the missionaries are going to leave us?" I said, "Yes,- Brother Monroy, it seems that that is the wisest thing to do." And he said: "Well, I have been around and visited the other conferences and branches some, and I know that they have their branch organizations and their conferences and the Priesthood of the Lord, and they can get along in some sort of way; but what is going to become of us? We have no branch. Who will teach us? Who will guide us? Who will carry us forward in this great work?" 

Well, it seemed to me I could not do other than I did. I said, "Dear brother, please sit down in that chair;" and I called the secretary of the mission into the room and said, "Brother Young, we will ordain .this good brother an elder and set him apart to preside over the branch in San Marcos, though there are perchance only ten people there members of the Church. And we set him apart as branch president, after having ordained him an elder in the Church; and I said, Brother, you go back up there and gather your little branch of people together, and tell them of this. We have not time to go and tell them about it. And I gave him a letter. And I said, you take care of them as best you can; put your faith and trust in the Lord and he will bless you and magnify you, and you will be an instrument for good in that community. 

That night we left, and he took the train back to his home. For two years during the troublous times that followed, I received letters from him, and they are among the things that I treasure most in life, for they are full of faith and they are full of devotion to the Lord, and they are full of love toward his fellow men. He went to work and gathered his people together and began to hold meetings; and from that humble beginning, it was not more than a year until from seventy-five to one hundred people were meeting there regularly, and in the two years that he presided over that little branch, something like sixty people were added to the Church as a direct result of his humble and faithful labors. But in the events that have swept over Mexico like a scourge, the revolution came to his town, and the opposing factions from the north and south were contending, with the little town of San Marcos between them, the Saints living virtually and literally upon the firing line, and day after day the conflict raged, and the Saints one Sunday held their meetings while the shells from either side were falling over their meeting house, but they continued with their services. 

Finally the faction from the north were driven out, and the men from the band of Zapata came in, and someone said, "There is a man over there who has been assisting the people of the other faction, he has been a colonel in the other army. These people from the south are infinitely fanatic. I never saw anything like it. They go to war with an image of the Virgin Mary tied around their necks; and everybody who will not believe as they do, they think they have a perfect right to exterminate. They arrested this dear brother of ours, and they asked him if he had a store of arms, and he said no. It seemed to be a habit of his from the time he was converted, always to carry in his pocket the Bible and the Book of Mormon, and he drew them out and said, "These are my arms, and I have carried, and I carry them to benefit, not to destroy my fellownnen." And they took him and a young man who was in the same house, a member of the Church also, to a big tree and put a noose around their necks and strung them up until they had fainted, and then let them down and revived both of them again and gave them another chance if they would only tell where their arms were and say that they would renounce their strange religion — for among the accusations brought against him was this, that he was teaching a strange religion and strange gods and carrying the people of the community after him. 

He said, "I cannot do it, for I know that what I have received is true and I cannot renounce my religion." 

His two sisters, on learning what had become of him, went up and asked the general to release him, but they were thrown into prison with him. Instead of sorrowing, he took his Bible and Book of Mormon and among the other prisoners tried to teach the gospel. About eveningtime the good, old, widowed mother sent a little basket of food to the little adobe house where they were confined. And this brother, before they prepared the supper, out in that little humble place, asked the guards to give him some water. He said he wanted to wash himself, his neck was chafed where the rope had been. And he carefully washed himself and combed his hair, and then when they spread the food out, he said to those present, "If you have no objections, we would like to ask the blessings of the Lord upon this food." In a voice that all could hear, he asked the Lord to bless that food, but in a voice that only his sisters could hear, he said, "I will not eat tonight, I am fasting and praying to the Lord." 

It was not ten minutes before they said they wanted these two men outside. The girls stopped eating, of course, and the two men were taken out. It was then just dusk, and they were backed up against a great ash tree — I can see it just as plainly as if it were here; for I  seen it and I have heard the mother and the daughters recite the sad experience — and six men were lined up to shoot them, and another said, "Now, as one last chance, we tell you if you will renounce your religion and confess before the Virgin Mary, we will forgive you and we will spare your lives." 

He said, "Gentlemen, I cannot, for I know that what I have taught and what I have accepted is the gospel of Jesus Christ." 

They said, "All right, then prepare yourself, but have you anything to say before you are executed?" 

"Yes," he said, "I will make one last request, that I be permitted to kneel here and pray." And he knelt there and prayed. He prayed first that the Lord would bless his widowed mother and provide for her, and bless his wife and little child, who would be left a widow and orphan; then he prayed for the little branch, and he said : "Lord bless this little flock that they may not go astray, but that someone will be raised up to lead them." And then he turned and said : "Lord, forgive these men, for they know not what they do," and as he arose from the ground, he folded his arms and said: "Gentlemen, I am at your service." 

A moment or two later, the daughters in that little adobe room, and the mother a quarter of a mile further on, heard the sound of the guns that killed their brother and their son. 

Brethren and sisters, what was it that took that man smiling and with faith like that to his execution? It was none other than the same testimony that Joseph Smith bore to the world to the very day that he sealed his testimony with his blood. And I would rather be in their class and give up, if the Lord required it at my hands, my life, than to be the owner of all the world and not have that testimony with it. 

Brethren and sisters, we are not all privileged to die in that way for the work of the Lord, but it is required of each and every one of us to live each day in fulfilment of the principles of the gospel and to bring our lives into harmony with this great scheme of the gospel, for only as we do so, will it be unto us "the power of God unto salvation." 

The Lord bless you. Amen. The Chorus sang, "The Palms." 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Ensign Stake of Zion and of the Western States Mission) 

There is only a few minutes remaining and I sincerely pray for the inspiration of this occasion, and desire the same good spirit that has accompanied the remarks of the former speakers, for my heart has been touched by their fervent testimonies, and the words of exhortation and counsel they have given. 

It was not my good fortune to be in attendance at the morning service in the tabernacle, as I did not arrive until the noon hour. I GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that I missed something, for the opening sessions of our conferences have always been a wonderful inspiration to me. Usually the key note of the conference is sounded by the prophet of the Lord, the doctrines of the Church are expounded to the understanding of the Saints, and where reproof is needed, it is given. 

I have listened with much interest to the remarks of my brethren. The conditions they find in their various fields of labor are much the same as prevail in the Western States mission. My heart is filled with joy when I meet the Saints in the various branches of the Church, and also with isolated families far removed from any Church organization, and listen to their fervent testimonies, a band of faithful, self-sacrificing Latter-day Saints into whose lives has come a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, men and women who not only welcome the elders, but pray for their coming. 

Elder Pratt's remarks with reference to Trinidad interested me. I recently visited our Church members there, for we have a few honest-hearted people there who have accepted the gospel, and who tread unswervingly the pathway of duty, undeterred by doubts, singleminded, and straight forward. There is rejoicing in their hearts and a feeling of salvation has come into their lives. They, like Job of old, testify, "I know that my Redeemer lives." Christ to them is the very Redeemer of the world, and Joseph Smith is his prophet. 

The gospel taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the power of God unto salvation. Joseph Smith came not as did Luther, Calvin, Knox, Wesley and many other reformers, whose lives have influenced so many people in various parts of the world, and whose teachings have done so much to break the shackles that bound the people throughout the dark ages, but he came as a restorer of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and gave unto the world the gospel in its fulness. 

The tendency in the world is to humanize religion, eliminating all Divinity out of it. One of the so called "Advanced" churches of New York City, according to Leslie's Weekly, has resolved to abolish all reference to "sect, class, nation, or race," and has a new bond of union to be signed by all its members. To do this it deems it necessary to adopt a new "statement of purpose" from which mention of Christ and Christianity is omitted. Public announcement is made that the "church has dropped Jesus." 

We have people in Denver who follow the teachings of the Marlein Bible, written by Rev. Marley, the head of the church, in which men are forbidden to mention God or Jesus in their prayers, and to do so would be considered heresy and sufficient cause for excommunication from the church. Indeed, sample prayers for all occasions and the blessing for food are given without a single reference to our Father in heaven or his Son Jesus Christ. It may interest you to know that their church government is planned after our own, with a president and twelve apostles, six of whom are women. Also a high council of twelve persons, half of whom are women. The leader con be is acquainted with the doctrines and organization of the "Mormon" Church. Truly, they have a form of Godliness but deny the power thereof. 

How different with our people, the Latter-day Saints, who have implicit faith in God and his Son Jesus Christ. They believe that be really is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, that through the Holy Ghost they may know him. Paul the apostle writing to the Corinthian Saints, (I Cor. 12) declared, "Ye know that ye were Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led. Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed : and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." Latter-day Saints receive this witness, and many of them would sacrifice their lives, as did the Mexican brother referred to by Elder Pratt, rather than deny the truth that had become a part of their lives. The beauty of it all is, God is no respecter of persons, and all men everywhere are invited to partake freely of these wonderful gifts. In Doc. and Cov. 1 :35 it is recorded : 

And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, for I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; and also the Lord shall have power over his Saints, and shall reign in their midst; and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same; for behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. 

I rejoice in the opportunity that has come into my life to bear witness of these things to the people of the earth, it brings peace and satisfaction to my soul; and I pray that so long as I have power to lift my voice, it may be in defense of this great Latter-day work, known to the world as "Mormonism." It is bound to succeed. It cannot be overcome by the powers of darkness. God has so decreed. We meet with a great deal of opposition from certain quarters, and I am rather glad of it, it not only advertises us, but it puts the missionaries on edge, makes them aggressive, and more determined to deliver their message to the people. The elders of the Western States mission are crying repentance unto the people, and inviting all to come unto Christ. I thank God for them, and for their faith and devotion to this great cause. I pray that the spirit of peace may abide in your hearts, that God will abundantly bless you, with the Holy Spirit that you may have implicit faith in this great Latter-day work, and power given you to live its principles, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

The chorus sang ."Do What is right." 


