Afternoon
04 04 1910

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(Pres't of Southern States Mission) 

I earnestly pray that the spirit of my remarks may be in harmony with the spirit that has accompanied the remarks of my brethren during this conference. 

When the angel Moroni appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, to deliver his message to that boy, to reveal the place where the plates were hidden, from which the Book of Mormon was translated, he told Joseph that God had a work for him to do. To that work the Prophet Joseph consecrated his life and all that he had, until his days closed in martyrdom. It was the performance of that duty, his devotion to that work, that made Joseph Smith great; and it is the Gospel, restored under his administration, that has given this people the commanding position they occupy. We have not made this Church great; we have not shed any honor or lustre on the Gospel; the Father hath done that,  we are working to glorify His holy name. It is the Church, the Gospel, that has made us great, and it has magnified us in the eyes of all honorable men and women, and by it we have found favor with God. It is the kind of work we engage in that forms our characters. If we engage in dishonorable work, we shall be dishonorable men; but if we are engaged in a great and glorious work, such as this gospel is, we become great and honored in the sight of God, and in the sight of all good men and good women. We ought to be grateful to the Lord for the marvelous opportunities that He has given unto His people. We are a peculiar people, but. we should be a people peculiarly zealous of good works. Look at the organization of the Church, so complete and perfect. The opportunities it affords to every man, woman, and child, to develop their characters, their spirituality, to make them great in the service of the Almighty, and to be of service to their fellow creatures are many and invaluable. As we realize our loftiest ideals of citizenship through this great government of ours and its institutions, so through the Church organization may our spiritual ideals be realized, and our labors find a profitable and legitimate expression. 

One of the good things in the  world today, one of the signs which indicates that the Gospel is being favorably received, is the ready sale which the Book of Mormon is finding. Men and women are purchasing that sacred record, arid they are prayerfully perusing its pages. In many places in the Southern States mission, where, a few years ago, we could not give it away, we are today selling large numbers; and that book is the best missionary, the best friend-maker in all the world. Before I left Chattanooga a few days ago, a lady came to me and said, "Brother Callis, I want to be baptized; I am converted to the Gospel." I said to her, "Sister, I haven't seen you at our meetings very much." "No," she replied,"that is true, but I have been reading the Book of Mormon, and I am converted to the truth. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, through reading that book, and I know that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation." I love the Book of Mormon because it contains the fulness of the Gospel as taught by Jesus to the people on the western hemisphere. It contains plain and precious things that have been left out of the Bible, which we love and in which we believe. 

Paul, in discoursing on charity, said, "Though I speak, with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal," and the Apostle goes on to say that though he gave his body to be burned, and all his goods to feed the poor, yet if he had not charity it profited him nothing. Then he continued, "Whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away." And he closes that remarkable chapter with these words : "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." It is not clearly defined in the foregoing just what the Apostle means by "charity," and to get the definition of the term we appeal to the Book  Mormon. On page 599 of the sacred Nephite record, Moroni, in expressing his admiration and love for the Lord, said: "And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the children of men, is charity;" and the same Prophet said that, "Charity is the pure love of Christ." The Apostle Paul and Moroni spoke and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost; hence there is harmony and beauty in their teachings. - Wherever truth is found, though it be separated by oceans, it agrees; it is harmonious, because it was given by the same Spirit, by the same Lord who sendeth every good and gracious gift unto the children of men. But how is charity expressed? I hold and firmly believe that of all the people on the face of the earth, the Latterday Saints, taken as a whole, have more charity than any other people. The love of God is greater than all other gifts, because God is love, and love is eternal. The love of God is expressed in the redemption of His sons and daughters. It is beautifully declared in the Gospel of Saint John : "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, . that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." That is the true love; that is the true charity which moves us, not to distribute gifts needlessly, not to bring up our children in idleness and pleasure-seeking — not to extend to our children that false kindness that gives them everything they ask for, but to use the love we have for them to persuade them to do right, to teach them the word of God and to keep His commandments. 

You know it is said in the same glorious book — the Nephite record — and by the way, I might say that  verse that I am going to quote gives us a glimpse into eternity — it shows us, in a measure, at least, what our future life or course will be; and I want only a glimpse. I believe with Emerson that, "all that I have seen teaches me to trust God for what I have not seen." "For," said the Lord to the faithful Nephi, "my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man; neither from that time henceforth and forever." What! The Lord God at work? Yes — and I believe that it is this work in which He is engaged that accounts for His greatness, and I do not mean to be sacrilegious in saying that. Oh! that every man who has a desire to withdraw from active duty in the Priesthood would read this verse and ponder it over in his heart. There are too many men who feel that the cares of this life should absolve them from active duty in the ministry. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that when a man asks for retirement, before the authorities of this Church see fit to release him, it smacks too much of a surrender — a surrender to indolence, a surrender to the wrong influence. I believe we should stand as firm as these granite mountains in the defense of truth. When the United States was at war with a certain nation one of her war vessels was commanded by a young man, and his name was Joseph. His father worked in the navy department. One day the message was flashed to the seat of government that Joe's vessel had struck its colors to the enemy. But the old man knew what his son was made of; he had confidence in his integrity, and he bowed his head and wept, and in a voice broken with grief, he said: "Joe's dead, then." Sure enough, when  details of the battle were received the fact was disclosed that Joe had met his death in the discharge of his duties, before his ship was surrendered to the enemy. 

Now, what is this work in which God is engaged ? Let Deity himself answer. He said to Moses, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, "And this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality, and the eternal life of man." Oh! it if enough to make our hearts burst with joy, to think that the great Creator is doing work to elevate you and me, to exalt us in his kingdom, by persuading us, in loving kindness, to do our duty. Then,, too, He has chosen his obedient children to do this glorious work, to work with Him as it were — for be it known unto all of us that God does use humanity to further His purposes in the earth. He uses men and women to preach the Gospel, and in the preaching of the Gospel we can exercise this charity and show the love of God, that is in our hearts. Who will look at that glorious temple, and the other temples in the valleys of the mountains, and say that this people have not charity or the love of God in their hearts. Only a few weeks ago, an old man, a Latter-day Saint, living in Mississippi, donated a thousand dollars for temple work. He is living in the shadow of death, in the evening of life, but so filled is his heart with the love of God that he is willing to sacrifice for the good of those who will come after him. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to say unto you, for I believe it with all my heart, that the road to exal- . tation and eternal progression lies through sacrifice and work. Jesus said, "Be ye perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfeet." He did not limit the attainment of perfection to time, degree, or state. Eternal progression will be along the lines of orderly knowledge, and of law, because the Gospel will be in force in eternity as it is here. It is impossible for a being, mortal or immortal, to progress without a due regard for law and without obeying the mandates of the Almighty. "The heavens declare the glory of God." So does the history of His Church the marvelous work it has accomplished and is accomplishing demonstrate and declare that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. In the early days of the Church, in the midnight of its history, when the prophet Joseph declared that all the powers of the evil one were combined to overthrow the Church, God revealed to him, in Kirtland, that something must be done for the salvation of His Church. Did that mean for Joseph to sit down in idleness, or to lose heart ? No, never! He organized that great missionary expedition to Great Britain. He sent Heber i C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, and others to preach the Gospel to the people in England and 'm Europe. As a result of that expedition,countless thousands have been converted to the truth. I am one individual among those countless thousands who bless God that Joseph the Prophet was inspired to send those missionaries over there — for they and the men who came after them converted my mother. My mother taught the Gospel to me, and she received it from the servants of God. I would like to mention one incident here. I like to acknowledge the goodness of the Lord. When President Joseph F. Smith was presiding over the European mission, I was a little child. I was very sick,  sick that the doctors had given me up; they had told mother there was no hope for me; but she was filled with faith; she sent for President Smith. He came and laid his hands upon my head and blessed me, and promised mother that I should live, and by the goodness of God I am here today — =the desires of my heart being that I may be of some little use in the kingdom of God. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that President Smith is a prophet of God. Strong and convincing are the testimonies that people receive when they embrace the work of God. Their hearts are turned to their fathers, and the hearts of the fathers are turned to the children. The gift of healing, the gift of prophecy, the gift of tongues are manifested among those who believe; and these gifts, and blessings,these testimonies could not come, through a counterfeit ministry. The Elders go forth, and by the power of the Holy Ghost declare the word of God, and that power carries their words to the hearts of the children of men. I testify unto you that the authorities of this Church are men of God, the right men in the right places; and when we build them up we build ourselves up. No wonder the devil is striking at them. It is no new thing. The infamous Clark at Far West said to the Latter-day Saints, "Do away with your presidents, do away with your apostles; do away with your bishops, and be like other people." But we cannot do that, brethren and sisters. The man who declares he has no faith in the Priesthood has no faith in the Gospel — because they are inseparable. I believe in the priesthood; I have faith in the servants of God; and if  Saints will uphold their hands, they will have more influence for good in their homes. The man or the woman who maligns the Church authorities, who- finds fault with"the president of their stake, or the bishop of their ward, that man and woman have not the influence with their children that they would have if they were loyal to their leaders, and thus please God. 

I bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel. It is my testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that the leaders of the Church are men of God, and that our prophet and leader today is a prophet of God; and I bear this testimony in the fear of the Lord, and in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. E. C. Rodone sang the baritone solo, "Conversion of St. Paul." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Responsibility of parents for conduct of children. — Evil effects of reading pernicious literature. — Importance of Church School education and influence. — Benefits of practical training in Religion Classes. 

Of the several themes spoken upon by our president, in the opening session of this conference, intimating that the same might be enlarged upon, during the succeeding sessions, by other speakers, there are none of more importance than that of the responsibility resting upon the Latter-day Saints with respect to the proper bringing up of their children and the proper care of them. Next to our own salvation, of interest to us, is the salvation of our children. Psychologists have said that there are three important means or agencies potent  the education of the child: the home, the school, and the church; the home first of importance. Nature has laid the responsibility upon parents to care for their offspring until they are able to care for themselves; the law also demands this of the citizens; and not the least important, in the care which is exacted is that of the proper religious and moral education, as well as the secular education that should be given to the child. God our Father has also exacted of us that we dq properly teach our children. He has said, in His revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as recorded in the 68th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." 

This is a law unto Zion forever; and we are commanded to teach our children to pray- and to walk uprightly before God. This great responsibility rests upon us, and the love which parents ought to have for their children of itself ought to be sufficient incentive and inducement for them to put forth their best endeavors, and use their influence with their children, and properly teach them in the way that they should go. Perhaps the most effective means at our command, as parents in Israel, for properly influencing and bringing up our children, is that of example in the home. Children learn by imitation  that which they see, thev naturally undertake to imitate. Parents who know the Gospel is true, if we have accepted it as a reality, we must know that it is calculated to make us what the Lord would have us be — Christ-like in every respect. If we are consistent Latter-day Saints, we are trying to live by the precepts of the Gospel; and if we are doing this in our homes, our children will come up in the way they should go, without a great deal of preceptive teaching. At any rate, our example before our children should harmonize with our precepts. . A danger which confronts the children of the Latter-day Saints, I am impressed, is that of reading dime novels and literature of that caliber. I read, from a Salt Lake daily paper, a few days ago, an account of a band of boys, ranging from fifteen to seventeen years, who had been misled in this way. When they were discovered, and the place of their rendezvous was disclosed; it was found that the interior of the place was lined with arms and furnished with a library of dime novels. It was learned, by confession of these young boys, that they had broken into stores and residences on nu- < merous occasions, that they had stolen from their neighbors. One young boy admitted that they had contemplated robbing his mother, and when the question was asked, "What would you have done had she resisted?" the ready response was, "We would haye killed her." This, I take it, is largely the result of reading such literature as was found in the dugout which they frequented. We are told in proverbs,' "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." James Allen, treating this subject, tells us that "character is the entire sum of our thoughts." I desire to read one or two of his sentiments along this line; he says : 

"As the plant springs from and could not be without the seed, so every act of a man springs from the hidden seeds of thought, and could not have appeared without them. This applies equally to those acts called spontaneous and unpremeditated, as to those which are deliberately executed. Act is the blossom of thought, and joy and suffering are its fruits. Thus does a man garner in the sweet and bitter fruitage of his own husbandry. A noble and godlike character is not a thing of favor or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the fruit of long cherished association with godlike thoughts." 

Brethren and sisters, I think it is of the utmost importance that we choose for our children the books which they read; and that we choose for them as far as lies in our power the associations that they keep. The public schools, maintained as they are by public taxation, are by law forbidden teaching religion in those schools. The result is an exclusively secular education, an education godless in its character; and such an education is most imperfect. What, then, are the schools going to do for us in the proper education of our children ? Who has not looked upon his little boy or girl, five or six years of age, the child approaching the years when he or she will be expected to enter the district school, but experiences a great deal of concern and anxiety, fearing that the morals of that child may be weakened, instead of being stimulated and encouraged, by attendance at the district schools. The restrictive influence in the schoolroom is scarcely sufficient to overcome the unhallowed and unwholesome environment often encountered on the playground. The church, then, has something to do as also the home, for they are to supply the entire moral needs of the . The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has undertaken to do this mighty work for those who have gotten beyond the grades and have reached the high-school period. We have established Church schools throughout the land, some thirty in number, accommodating something like eight or ten thousand boys and girls, principally sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints; there are some exceptions, and those schools are making converts of some of these exceptions. It was but a few days ago I learned of one young man here in Salt Lake being baptized into the Church as the result of his attendance at the Church school, having come from abroad and of non-Mormon parentage. Such is the influence, in part, that these schools are exercising upon those who attend them. 

At a recent convention of educators, held in the East, Professor Horace H. Cummings, the superintendent of our Church schools, made a statement before that body that, of the four hundred teachers engaged in the Latter-day Saints' Church Schools, not one of them is a user of tobacco. Those educators were staggered by this statement, but not so much, perhaps, as by the statement which followed that of the ten thousand students who are attending these academies and colleges of the Church school system, not above one per cent of them were using tobacco. This statement found its way into the Associated Press and has gone out to the world, and the whole educational world wonders at conditions in Zion. What Brother Cummings said in regard to tobacco, I have no doubt, could be said with equal truth with respect to the use of alcoholic drinks of every form. 

They are practically eliminated from use by teachers and students; and so many other virtues are taught and practiced in these schools, that we feel that those who have the opportunity of attending, and who do attend, are well looked after, and are receiving an education of which their parents may justly be proud. But there are a host yet who have not this opportunity, and as we have not sufficient funds to increase the number of schools, and place them where all our children of the high school grade can have access to them, we are extending the Religion Class work into some of those districts, teaching the advanced grades; and we expect to do more in that line. 

But what about all those who are being taught in the grades of the district schools, who are numbered, perhaps, by hundreds of thousands ? What is the Church going to do for them? I answer that the Same inspiration which has brought forth the Church school, which is doing such a mighty work among the Latter-day Saints, the fruits of it being seen on every hand, at home and in the mission field abroad, that same inspiration has established an organization for small children, which I feel will be, eventually, as far reaching as are the present Church schools; I refer to the Religion Classes. It is designed, in the organization of these classes, that there shall be a religion class taught at the conclusion of each day's district school work. At present we are advocating the holding of onlv one session a week. We will be glad when we have accomplished this in all the wards of Zion; it hasn't been fully accomplished yet. We desire the Bishops and their counselors, and the presidents of stakes, to join us in this very important labor. We feel that no presidency of a stake should be satisfied until every ward in the stake has a religion class, so that the children may have equal privileges with others throughout the land. When this is attained, we will all the time be working along the line of proficiency, the best methods of prosecuting our work; we will be teaching, in our Church schools, educators who will labor as instructors in the Religion classes. We will make steady progress, and the time will come when we will have a Religion class, practically, in each of the organized wards of the Church, conducted five days of every week during the district school terms. This is our aim, our object, and purpose; assuredly it is a laudable and praiseworthy one I do not see how any father or mother in Israel can help but see the necessity for this organization, and for their supporting the same, placing their children where they can enjoy its benefits. 

We have other auxiliary organizations in the Church — the Primary association, which is of wider range at present than the Religion classes, and has greater numbers; and we have the Sunday School, which numbers many more. I desire to say ,to you that progress is being made in the Religion class work, and I think I would not be mistaken in my assertion that during the past year our increase in percentage of enrollment will exceed that of any other of the auxiliary associations of the Church. We are making headway. These other organizations teach the theory, theology if you please, while the Religion class teaches religion. Faith comes from hearing, but knowledge comes from doing, and in the Re classes we are teaching the children how to do. I heard one of the mission presidents state, in a meeting held with the members .of the Council of the Twelve, just recently, that our boys who go out into the mission field are not sufficiently familiar with the ordinances they have to perform. They need more training in the Religion classes and other organizations of the Church. That is the very work we are undertaking to do. We teach the children how to ask a blessing upon the food, how to pray in the family, how to open or close a meeting, to repeat the exact words that should be used in asking the blessing upon the bread and the water in the administration of the sacrament, and how to administer the ordinance of baptism. These things are taught to them -practically, and we teach them to live the Gospel. I will read just two or three maxims from our outlines, showing the character of the work that we design to do: 

"The aim and object of this work is not so much to teach pupils to knowas to lead them to do and to form proper habits of life; and there should be constantly in the mind of the teacher this thought: Each of these lessons has for its purpose the forming of some religious habit. To encourage proper application of these lessons, review, at the beginning of each session, the assignment of outside work given at last meeting. All work outside of class should consist not in the preparations of lessons but in the practical application of truths learned. Teachers remember that this course is a training in practical work and habits, and not merely the teaching of Gospel lessons. Training in practical religious habits is the work of the Religion class. Habits depend on many successive repetitions of the same act." 

There are other maxims that are beautiful and worthy the considera of the Latter-day Saints, but time will not permit me to read them on this occasion. I invite the support of the Latter-day Saints to this very important movement — the Religion classes — and bespeak your interest in the education of the right kind that is given to your children therein. May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and bless those who are engaged in the important labor in this and all the other organizations of the Church, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

Tf there is anything that would strengthen the testimony of an Elder in the Church, outside of the mission field, it would be to see this vast congregation here today. It is a testimony to me that the Lord knew what He was doing, when He delivered His message unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that the time had fully arrived when the Gospel of His kingdom should be again established in the earth. 

In the mission field where I labor we are close to many places of interest, connected with the organization of the Church and the early travels of the Saints, especially in the state of Missouri. We are on the ground where the Prophet Joseph Smith once lived with the people, where he labored, and preached. Over there in the city of Independence, Missouri, I scarcely everpass the court house, but what I think of the time when he was brought down from Far West and , almost like a wild beast, for the people to look at who desired to see the Mormon prophet. I had the privilege of meeting a lady, once, whose father was one of those mobbers. She told me she remembered that, when she was a child, her father carried out coals from the fire-place to light the cigars of those men who brought the Prophet Joseph from Far West. She also told me that her father was one of the men who tarred and feathered Bishop Partridge at Independence. We questioned her about this and asked her what she thought of such a proceeding. She said she did not think it was right, but that they were all excited over this new religion. It had caused more or less excitement, especially in the section where she lived. 

My testimony is the Lord did reveal unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the everlasting Gospel, as we read in the writings of Saint John: 

"I saw another angel fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell upon the earth, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come." 

My testimony is that that angel has flown, that the Gospel contained in the Book of Mormon is the Gospel that the angel delivered here on the earth; again, that the Gospel that was taught by Christ the Lord was restored to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and is the same, in the Book of Mormon as in the New Testament. As a result of that teaching, many thousands of men and women have accepted the Gospel through the testimony proclaimed by the Elders who -have gone out and borne that testimony fearlessly among the children of men. Personally, there has been nothing that has ever given me so much joy and satisfaction, or paid me better, than the time I have expended in the mission field traveling among the people. There is nothing that could purchase that experience. I have walked and carried my grip from house to house, in the mission field, visiting the people and bearing my testimony unto them, proving unto them that the Gospel is again on the earth, together with the power to teach it. When I have seen men and women, whom I personally visited, go down into the waters of baptism, and afterward living the Gospel of Christ to the be.st of their ability, gathered together in little bands,or in hundreds, teaching their children to observe the laws and commandments that were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, it has paid me more than anything else I could have been engaged in. There is nothing to equal it upon the earth. 

I am thoroughly convinced that this is the Gospel of Christ. The Lord has revealed it unto me by the power of His Spirit. I know that He does live, and that His authority is here in the earth today. This authority has been with the people from the beginning. The Church which Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet, presided over, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the Church of God. He never ordained, or set apart, or delegated any man in this dispensation to preside over any other Church than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The Prophet Joseph Smith died the president of it; he died the Prophet of the, Lord, the  of the institution that the Lord gave him the authority to organize. When a man finds the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he finds the authority and Priesthood of God on earth, a^id the power to administer in the ordinances thereof. He will find this authority in no other j I know this is correct. This testimony that has been imparted unto us has made us strong, and this strength and unity has made the world admire us. We do not now meet the prejudice today that prevailed just a few years ago, even in the beginning of my own experience. Men and women are beginning to look more favorably upon the principles of the Gospel that we proclaim. This constant work that is being carried on by the Latter-day Saints is having its effect upon the minds of the thinking people of the world. Elders who travel here and there, two by two, canvassing in a systematic manner, visiting the people in their homes, in the cities and in the towns, in the country everywhere, bear their testimony, and it is having its effect upon the minds of the children of men. 

The Lord has said that this Gospel of the kingdom should be preached in all the world, as a witness to all nations, before the end' shall come. The Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. President Smith said that "Mormonism is the power of God unto salvation," and it is true, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ and Mormonism are the same. I love the word; it gives prestige wherever I go; it is the biggest thing in the world; there is nothing to equal it. I know that it is right, and I know that salvation is obtained by a continual observance of the principles and doctrines of Christ. A man can be saved no faster than he gains knowledge, Joseph Smith told us so, and it is correct. It is my testimony that a man  who serves the Lord will gain salvation, and that salvation will bring for him an inheritance in the kingdom of our God. I trust that the Latter-day Saints may be faithful; that their treasure shall be the principles and doctrines of Christ, that their hearts may be with that treasure; and that we may value it sufficiently, for there is nothing to equal it under the sun. The man or woman who goes through this life without having a knowledge of the Gospel has missed an experience that is priceless. We go through this life only once; I never expect to travel this road in mortality again. 

I trust that I shall be faithful all the days of my life; that I shall never utter a word that will cause a man younger or older than myself to mistrust or criticize the presiding authorities of the Church, in the wards, in the stakes of Zion, or anywhere. I endorse, heartily, the remarks of Brother Callis along this line. A man that will sustain his Bishop, that will go to him first and not go over his head, is one of the best men in that ward, his influence for good will be felt as he travels along in life. 

I pray the Lord to bless this body of people, to bless all Israel, to bless the missionaries in the world. I ask the prayers of the Saints upon the Elders of Israel, and I say unto you, write them good letters; fill them full of faith, and encourage them. You are able to do it. Many of them are boys, and they need your assistance : they need the as of every man and woman in the Church, to make them equal to the occasion. The Lord is the author of this work; He is behind it; He is with those Elders, and He makes them strong; but we can ourselves help them very materially by giving them good counsel from home. May the Lord bless us, I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

A gathering, not a scattering, dispensation. — Man's ways not God's ways. — The strength of Mormonism. 

Many years ago, on a hot and sleepy day, President Daniel H. Wells was speaking from this stand, and right behind him, fast asleep, sat President Heber C. Kimball. As soon as Brother Wells had concluded his discourse, President Young tapped Brother Kimball on the shoulder, woke him, and asked him to be the succeeding speaker. President Kimball arose, and the first words he uttered were : "I bear testimony to the truth of all that Brother Wells has said. I did not hear it, but I have full confidence in the man." 

I would not have you infer, brethren and sisters, that I have been asleep while others have been speaking; I have not, but it fell to my lot on yesterday to take charge of an overflow meeting in the Assembly Hall. Consequently, I was not here to listen to the remarks made from this stand at that time, but I believe they were all true, I have confidence in the men who spoke to you. I know we had a good time in the Assembly Hall, and T believe you had a good time here. 'In fact, nothing has been said during this conference that I cannot say amen to, and echo from the depths of my heart. From the opening address by President Smith, my soul has been fed and benefited by what I have heard. 

I was particularly impressed with the remarks made by the President, wherein he reminded us that, this is a gathering not a scattering dispensation. There have been times in the history of the house of Israel, when it was necessary that God's people should be scattered. There was a divine purpose in their dispersion. That nation was martyred for the sake of all other nations. But the scattering of Israel is an event of the past; these are the days of the gathering of Israel. 

There is nothing so broad and comprehensive as the Gospel of Christ. My soul rejoices in the height and depth and breadth of the mission of the Savior. At the same time, I recognize that we must practice concentration, or our work will be in vain. We cannot expect to save others unless our own feet are firmly planted on the rock. We cannot afford to spread abroad until we have the necessary numbers and strength to make such movements effective. It would defeat the purpose of this work if we were to scatter to the four winds and try to leaven at once the whole lump, while the lump is too large to be leavened, or we are too small to leaven it. Some things grow thinner and weaker the more they are spread, and concentration as well as comprehensiveness is necessary in the work of the Lord. Some may think the proper policy for the Latter-day Saints to pursue is to scatter their forces, in order to fulfill their destiny. But the man at our head knows, and all Latter-day Saints ought to know, that these  must be done in wisdom and prudence, and according to the will of the Lord. 

Before the days of the great Napoleon, it was customary in military tactics to charge with lines drawn out, fronting the whole van of the enemy. Napoleon inaugurated a change. He invented charging in column; forming his troops into a mighty wedge and thrusting it irresistibly into the ranks of the foe, splitting them asunder, and then beating them in detail. I believe that to be the proper method of fighting the adversary of all righteousness — to make our ranks close and compact, form them into ia wedge to be driven against the. enemy, instead of spreading too far, and allowing ourselves to be divided and scattered to the four winds. 

"As the heavens are higher than the earth, so the ways of God are above the ways of man." So said one of the ancient prophets, and the proverb has found many exemplifications. The latest illustration of it to me came during a recent conversation on a railroad train, in the state of Idaho. A gentleman, who had sat with me in the diner, and heard me say that I was a native of Salt Lake City, 'after I had resumed my seat in another part of the train, rejoined me, and said, "I infer that you are a Mormon." I answered in the affirmative. He then continued : "I have conversed with many of your people and with some of your leading men," and he mentioned, particularly, Rulon S. Wells, with whom he had had business relations. He went on to say, "I have often thought I would like to bring to the attention of your leaders an idea that has occupied my mind for a long while. I am a student of sociological questions, and am much  in colonization work. I recognize that the Mormon people have been more successful in this direction than any other people I know of, and have often wondered, while witnessing your struggles, the hardships and privations of your people and your missionaries, why you did not get some of the wealthy philanthropists of America or other nations, to help you. There is Baron Hirsch. He has been trying to colonize the poor Jews, the surplus population of large cities, upon farms. He has expended millions of dollars in this direction, and has measurably failed; but you Mormons have succeeded without his millions. I have wondered why you did not form some sort of combination with such men; let them furnish the millions; you do the work, and make it a stipulation that these people whom you gather out from the cities and set to tilling the soil shall all become Mormons. In this manner you could build up your church much more rapidly than you are doing now." 

It reminded me of that scene in Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice," where the Jew, Shylock, convicted of conspiring for the death of Antonio, finds himself confronted by the judgment, which takes half his property for the state, gives the other half to Antonio, and adds the sentence, that the Jew "shall presently become a Christian." As if, forsooth, Christians could be made by judicial decree, or legislative enactment. I thought it equally strange, — and yet, not strange, from the standpoint of this gentleman, — that it should be thought Mormons could be made in that manner, that we could manufacture converts by taking the surplus population of large cities, placing them upon , and exacting from them in return the promise that they would be Latter-day Saints. 

I answered the gentleman to this effect : "You remind me, Mr. Davenport" — for that was his name — "of a conversation I once had with a gentleman in the Eastern States. He had noticed just what you have observed, and wondered why we preached the Gospel to the poor and lowly. 'Why not fly for higher game,' he asked. 'Why not convert the leaders of , rociety ? Why not convert a Henry Ward Beecher? His whole congregation would follow him into the Church — and see. how you could augment your numbers and increase your power?' I explained to him the dispersion and gathering of Israel, quoting the words of the ancient prophet: 'Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him and keep him as a shepherd doth his flock." "I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion and give you pastors after mine own heart." I expounded to him the Gospel of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, showing that men and women become Latter-day Saints, not to better their temporal condition, not for the wealth of the world, nor the honors of men, but for the love of God, the love of truth, and righteousness; that every man, woman, and child converted to Mormonism has a conviction that it is God's truth, God's work; and that this is the real strength of the Church. That we preach the Gospel to all men, rich and poor, high and low, and promise a personal testimony to all who will embrace it." 

I am not optimistic enough — if that is the right word to use— to imagine that a Gentile can take a Mormon view of this subject. Views differ according to the standpoint from which they are taken. Down here, among the mists and vapors of mortality, we cannot hope to see as clearly and fully as God sees, who sits upon the summit of wisdom and intelligence. We must not expect too much of the unenlightened world; but from those whom God has touched with His finger, upon whom He has conferred the gift of the Holy Ghost, — from them we may reasonably expect that they will take God's view, rather than man's. 

It is thought by the world that the strength of Mormonism, lies in the fact that a few shrewd and sagacious men have misled tens of thousands of poor, simple-minded people, having no minds of their own, who have come into the Church because they thought they could better their material condition, or because of some influence, hypnotic or otherwise, that great minds exercise over small ones. This is a human view. It is a human view that it would be better to convert holus bolus, on the flockfollowing-the-shepherd principle, instead of taking one of a city.two of  family, and bringing them to Zion in God's appointed way. The strength of this work does not consist in the fallacy that a few leaders, however shrewd and sagacious, tyrannize over the people, pushing and holding them together. That is not the cohesive power of Mormonism; rather is it that in the heart of every man, woman, and child that has received the Gospel of Christ, there burns a personal individual testimony that this is God's work; and against this power, the rockbuilt principle of revelation the gates of hell cannot prevail. Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith read an announcement concerning the approaching visits of the representatives of the government among the people for the purpose of taking the census. He said the people should answer the questions of the authorized census takers,who would show their authority for doing the work. 

The choir sang the anthem/'From afar, gracious Lord, Thou didst gather Thy flock." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis Anderson. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a.m. Wednesday, April 6th. 